CMYK Tata Consultancy Services Limited 9th Floor  Nirmal Building  Nariman Point  Mumbai 400 021 www.tcs.com IT Services Business Solutions Consulting   02  Board of Directors 03  Highlights 04  Memories of the Year 05  10 Years since the IPO 06  Our Leadership Team 07  Letter from the CEO 09  Digital Opportunity 10 Digital Talent Building 11 Digital Employees 12 Digital Society 14 Management Team 15 Notice 28 Directors’  Report 58 Management Discussion and Analysis 94 Corporate Governance Report 114 Business Responsibility Report Consolidated Financial Statements  132  Auditors’  Report 136  Consolidated Balance Sheet 137  Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 138  Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 140  Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial  Statements Unconsolidated Financial Statements 174  Auditors’  Report 178  Balance Sheet 179  Statement of Profit and Loss 180  Cash Flow Statement 181  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 216  Statement under Section 129(3) of the  Companies  Act, 2013 in Form AOC-1 relating to  subsidiary companies (Standing - Left to Right) V Thyagarajan Director R Sommer Director P A Vandrevala Director A Mehta Director I Hussain Director O P Bhatt Director (Seated - Left to Right) C M Christensen Director N Chandrasekaran Chief Executive Officer  and Managing Director C P Mistry Chairman Aarthi Subramanian Executive Director V Kelkar Director 02 I 2014-15  TCS Annual Report  Employee Count Women Employees (33%) 1,00,000+3,15,000+  Total Employees Nationalities 122 15.7% Dividend  for FY 14 - 15 per share including 79  as final dividend* 24  Net Profit    19,852 crore Net Margin 21.0% Revenue    94,648 crore 19.7% Market Capitalisation    5,00,249 crore * Proposed TCS Annual Report 2014-15 I 03  First company in India to have 1,00,000+ women associates With a gender diversity ratio of approximately 33%, TCS crossed the milestone  of employing more than 1,00,000 women during FY15, making it one of the  largest employers of women in the world.
Today, TCS is proud to have a senior  woman leader on the board of directors of the Company, several leaders who  are playing an active role in business, women managers who are taking the organisation to new  heights across the globe as well as many young engineers who are starting their careers with TCS.
This provides the platform for more women to take up the mantle of leadership to make this  Company even stronger and more diverse.
From hiring the first woman engineer from campus back in 1982 to having a women workforce  that is larger than the population of more than 25 countries in the world, TCS has pioneered the  cause of gender diversity.
Debut edition of the TCS New York City Marathon Attracting 50,000 runners from across the world every year, the TCS New York  City Marathon is among the biggest and most prestigious endurance running  events in the world.
The inaugural edition of this race with TCS as the premier  partner was run in 2014.
This long-term partnership presents a great way for  TCS to elevate its brand beyond the business community and accelerate our  engagement with communities across North America to raise awareness about  health and fitness.
This initiative is symbolic of our continued investment and  commitment to North America.
Hon’ble Prime Minister Modi drums up support for India at TCS Japan TCS was honoured to welcome the Honorable Prime Minister of India,  Shri Narendra Modi, the Chief Guest at the inauguration of the TCS Japan  Technology and Culture Academy, aimed at enhancing the technology knowledge  and cultural understanding between Indian and Japanese IT professionals.
Images  of the Hon’ble PM’s spontaneous playing of ceremonial Taiko drums went viral on  social media, signalling the increased partnership between India and Japan.
TCS Japan was formed in 2014.
It is a unique venture formed in partnership with  the Mitsubishi Corporation that aims to build a new global scale player with local  knowledge in the Japanese IT industry, with TCS having a 51% stake in the new  venture.
04 I 2014-15  TCS Annual Report  Over $80 bn in market cap (Market cap as  of March 31, 2015:  $80,285 mn)  our market cap (Market cap as of March 31, 2015:  5,002,493 mn*) 1st Indian company to cross this landmark 2nd our rank among  global IT employers oneTCS our revenue in FY05 In FY10, it tripled and in FY15 it is almost 10 times ( Revenues as of March 31, 2015:    94,648 cr) 9,748 cr 5 Trillion the price per share  when we went public Today, it is approximately  (Return on investment of over 1100%) 850  10,000 *As per NSE TCS Annual Report 2014-15 I 05 R Gopinathan Chief Financial Officer N Chandrasekaran Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director A Mukherjee Executive Vice President and Global Head - HR Aarthi Subramanian Executive Director 06 I 2014-15 TCS Annual Report  The fiscal year 2014-15 has been a year of  milestones and memories for TCS.
Your  Company has continued to deliver strong  performance and further strengthened its  position in key markets.
This industry-leading  p e r f o r m a n c e  w a s  a c h i e v e d  i n  a n  environment of currency headwinds and a  fast changing industry landscape, even as we  move into an economic and societal  landscape where the Default is Digital.
The past year also marked 10 years since the  IPO of your Company.
To celebrate our  journey in the past decade, the board of  directors announced a special Dividend of  `40 per share on this occasion.
This has taken  the total dividend paid in FY15 to `79 per  share including `24 proposed as final  dividend.
The giant strides your Company has taken  since our listing would not have been  possible without the energy and dedication  of over 319,000 TCSers.
The company  announced a special one-time bonus of  `2,630 crore for all TCSers with over one year  of service in appreciation of their efforts.
During the year, your Company grew annual  revenues by 15.7% to `94,648 crore, while  profit after tax grew 14.3% to `21,912 crore,  excluding the impact of the special one-time  employee bonus.
This further underscores  the management’s focus on financial  management and operating discipline.
As a  business, your Company continues to  develop deeper, more strategic partnerships  with global customers by playing the role of a  full stakeholder in their business.
Our ability  to align our teams to the customer’s business  goals, together with our extensive domain  and technology knowledge, has helped us  remain relevant to our customers.
During the  year, we added 5 clients to the $100m+  category, taking the total to 29 clients, while  customers in the $50+ and $20+ million  bands grew by 15 and 26 respectively.
This  underscores our ability to build long-lasting  partnerships where we add value to the  customer’s business chain on a sustainable  basis and reiterates our preparedness in  newer services like Digital.
D u r i n g  t h e  ye a r,  yo u r  Co m p a ny  h a s  continued to elevate its position in key  markets like North America, the UK, Europe,  and Australia.
Your Company continues to  expand and strengthen its presence in new  g e o gra p h i c a l  m a r k e t s.  A  s i gn i f i c a nt  milestone this year was the creation of Tata  Dear Shareholders, Consultancy Services Japan Ltd. as a strategic  joint venture with Mitsubishi Corporation.
Japan is the world’s second largest IT market  by spend and a very important component of  our integrated global strategy.
TCS has  strengthened its presence in Japan with  3,500 local associates, new customer  relationships, and a partner with shared  strategic vision and common values.
India  continues to show enormous future potential  with the government embarking on several  digital and e-governance initiatives, but like  other emerging markets, the nature of  demand continues to be volatile.
We are at the beginning of a new age where  the Default is Digital – an interplay of a  phenomenon called “Consumerisation of IT”  fuelled by a set of technologies commonly  referred to as Social, Mobile, Big Data &  Analytics, Cloud, and AI & Robotics.
Like the  internet revolution and the PC revolution  before that, this began as a technological  change but is rapidly transforming into a  sociological change, driving and impacting  practically every facet of our lives and work.
Today’s systems are being shaped by  technologies like machine learning and  automation; manufacturing is moving to  customised 3D printing; commerce is moving  TCS Annual Report 2014-15 I 07 online.
Such transformative changes are the drivers of  today’s global economy, disrupting many traditional firms  and indeed industries, driving businesses to change and  adapt.
Your Company has been at the leading edge of the Digital  revolution since its inception and has been investing  steadily across the spectrum of technologies and domain- led solutions.
We anticipated Digital as being a significant  transformation opportunity for all our clients across many  dimensions of their business.
Going forward, new  concepts like service-as-a-software, agile platforms and  artificial intelligence will play a bigger role in enterprise IT  and your Company is well positioned to play a significant  role in this journey.
With over 319,000 professionals across 60 countries to  achieve this, we are building a Digital organisation that is  always learning.
I am proud to report that on average an  employee of your Company spent 10.3 days on training  over the last twelve months.
Over the last one year, TCSers,  including the 23,875 graduates hired, have undergone  2.59 million days of online training in technologies and  domains and over 72,000 new certifications were granted  to them.
Our simplified processes have empowered  employees in their ability to control more aspects of their  working lives.
At the same time, your Company continues  to use real-time analytics to track behaviours and impact  and make changes as needed.
The Digital theme is beginning to dominate what is  happening across all facets of society.
In some of the  following pages, we have attempted to provide glimpses  of the type of impact these Digital technologies like  mobile and social are having on the manner in which we  engage with and hire talent from universities and how we  use technology to serve our customers.
Digital is also  having a big impact on applications that help alleviate  some of society’s pressing problems.
FY 15 was also a year of memories for your Company and it  is my pleasure to share some of these achievements  with you.
- Your Company was proud to become one of the few  organisations in the world employing more than  100,000 women.
Our talent pool’s gender diversity  ratio of 33% is something we are all proud of and we  hope to see more successful women leaders emerge in  the future.
- Your Company created a record on the Indian bourses  by becoming the first Indian company to cross five lakh  crore or five trillion rupees in market capitalisation  in 2014.
- Your Company’s contribution to the communities  where TCSers live and work is also increasing in scope  and scale - micro-projects in education, health and  skills development in cities and communities in India,  USA, the UK, Australia, and many others.
I am proud to  say that your Company contributed approximately  `20 crore, including a generous voluntary contribution  of `4.5 crore by TCS employees, to relief operations in  natural disasters like the J&K Floods relief operation  and the HudHud Cyclone relief in Andhra Pradesh.
On a national scale, your Company has pledged `100 crore  to the ‘Swachh Bharat, Swachh Vidyalaya Abhiyan’ to build  dedicated sanitation facilities for girl students in adopted  government schools.
The program is being rolled-out in a  phase-wise manner, with 860 schools targeted in Phase-1.
Internationally, our action agenda focuses on STEM  education in developed markets - where there is a lack of  skilled talent in areas like math and engineering - through  policy initiatives, technology platforms and school  outreach activities.
We are also focused on health as well  as wellness in society through your Company ’s  participation in marathons across key global cities like  New York, Amsterdam, Chicago and Mumbai.
We are  extending popular TCS programs like Fit4life to the  community by organising campus and corporate running  programs.
As an organisation, your Company continues to be driven  by a strong performance ethic and a strong set of values  and behaviours and is committed to delivering excellence  to its stakeholders.
Our investments in our people,  capabilities, technology and infrastructure continue to  ensure that your Company remains relevant to our  customers and close to their business.
I look forward to your support and encouragement to  help your Company scale newer heights in the coming  years.
Lastly, I would also like to thank all TCSers for their  professionalism and focus that have made these  achievements possible.
With warm regards N Chandrasekaran Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director May 21, 2015 08 I TCS Annual Report 2014-15 SOCIAL  MEDIA MOBILITY &  PERVASIVE  COMPUTING ANALYTICS  & BIG DATA CLOUD AI &  ROBOTICS The Self-Optimising  Supply Chain Complete and real-time  visibility on the supply  and demand sides Agility in responding to  changed circumstances Resilience to disruption Customer  Experience Location and context  awareness to enhance  customer experience Predicting problems  and taking timely action  to pre-empt them Personalisation  at Scale Location sensing  technologies and 3-D  printing to enable  “make-to-order”  capability at “make-to- plan” cost Security and  Compliance Product Track and  Trace for stronger  brand protection and  narrower recalls Compliance with  regulatory e-Pedigree  mandates TCS Annual Report 2014-15 I 09  EngiNX is a niche contest conducted by the Engineering and Industrial  Services unit for students from engineering and technological institutes.
In 2014, over 18,500 students registered for this contest, which resulted in 11  offers and 16 internships to the winners and finalists.
It is a platform not only  to create awareness and mindshare among students about the need to  innovate constantly in terms of technology to help improve the quality of  life, but also a chance to showcase their engineering talents.
The Assurance Services unit, to nurture talent, create awareness about  careers in assurance and lay a strong foundation for students in the testing  space, conducts an annual contest called TESTimony.
Through this contest,  students can jump-start their career in software testing and assurance, a  relatively new career stream in the IT industry.
Over 22,300 students  registered in 2014, and 16 offers were made to the winners and finalists and  20 internships to participating students.
Research shows that from high school onwards, students are leading a lifestyle where the Default is Digital.
Spending more than an hour on  the internet every day with nine of ten students present on social networks, tomorrow’s professionals are digitally savvy and expect their  future employers to understand and adapt to their digital frame of mind.
Taking cognizance of these trends, your Company has started using social platforms, gamification programs and other interactive methods  like contests, to create new methods of engagement for students from engineering and other disciplines so that they are able to become  high performing IT professionals in the future.
Co d e v i t a  i s  a  u n i q u e  co d e -w r i t i n g  a n d  programming contest conducted for students  from across the world to promote the concept of  “Programming-As-A-Sport”.
This annual contest  attracted over 1,30,000 registered teams of two  each from 19 countries across six continents.
Established as a platform for learning in a highly  interactive and productive environment,  students globally can use this contest to  showcase their programming talent to earn  recognition and honour.
In 2014, at the Global Finals held in Mumbai, the  winning team was from the UK, with teams from  India and Peru winning the Silver and Bronze  respectively.
This contest also allows TCS to spot  top programming talent, and more than 400  students who participated at the continental and  global finals were offered employment and  internships.
With membership of around 7,50,000 students from over 1,500 institutions  across the world, Campus Commune is the flagship social network built by  TCS to give students an online platform to learn about technology, and  connect with like-minded students and teachers through peer-to-peer  learning programs.
It also uses interactive aspects like contests and quizzes  for experiential learning exercises.
Campus Commune, which is being  extended globally, acts as a real-time interface between students, the  academic community and TCS, thus building a continuously evolving,  symbiotic eco-system of learning and sharing for the future.
Engineering for Next Generation  10 I TCS Annual Report 2014-15 Today’s digital enterprises have to align with the work-styles and culture of a new generation of professionals.
At your Company, this begins  from the way TCSers are inducted into the organisation and trained, to the way they continue to learn and grow in their careers over the  long-term.
To improve the joining experience of new hires into the organisation and help them settle into their roles quickly,  iBegin, the Pre-Joining Digital Platform, is designed to provide an enriching engagement experience from the time a  prospective employee accepts employment until he or she joins the organisation.
The platform enables your Company to be ready for candidates by providing essentials like laptops, phones and mail  ids from day one.
It is also a tool to connect and collaborate with new employees and the concerned internal  stakeholders as well as with internal systems and processes.
By providing a uniform platform across all countries to complete pre-joining formalities, iBegin strives to make the  joining process more streamlined, leading to greater candidate satisfaction.
The programme has had a positive impact  on the entire recruitment and joining process.
- Close to 5,000 offers rolled out since its inception in March 2015 Mentoring in its myriad forms is an important facet of holistic career progression and planning.
iConnect is a platform  that helps TCSers at junior to middle career levels connect with senior leaders in order to help them prepare their  career plan in line with the organisation's growth goals.
Online virtual platforms help young TCSers connect with  experts across career streams and business units, to get information, insights and guidance for career and personal  growth.
It also helps prepare senior and middle level managers to become better people managers and become  comfortable and conversant in shaping young careers and creating a sustainable mentoring culture.
- 33,000+  employees registered on iConnect till date In line with your Company’s commitment to learning in the organisation as well as its desire to re-imagine what TCSers  learn in a digital world, iEvolve was launched as the backbone of the new Learning and Competency Management  System.
iEvolve is a more streamlined and dynamic platform, offering an enriched user experience and improved  learning across multiple mediums through an anytime-anywhere model.
All employees are encouraged to use the  platform to continuously learn and acquire the right competencies to drive growth in their career and realise their  potential.
- Close to 4,00,000 courses completed.
1,20,000+ competencies acquired Knome is an enterprise social collaboration platform that uses best of breed social networking patterns blended with  gamification elements to unleash the collective wisdom of an enterprise.
It is built to promote participation and  collaboration and enable serendipitous discovery of knowledge.
- 2,50,000+ active users on Knome.
11,000+ communities where cross-functional teams collaborate iBeginiConnect TCS Annual Report 2014-15 I 11 Social Platform for Million Women Mentors In the United States, while women comprise 48% of the US workforce, just 24% are in STEM (Science, Technology,  Engineering and Mathematics) fields, a statistic that has held constant for nearly the last decade.
To spur interest  and bring more women into STEM careers, TCS has partnered with Million Women Mentors, a national effort aimed  at increasing the number of girls who opt for STEM degrees at college, with a special focus on minorities and  underserved populations.
In 2014, TCS built and launched a new web-based platform to help MWM build a  stronger pipeline of STEM professionals from school classrooms all the way to corporate boardrooms.
The  initiative, launched on January 8, 2013, has already recorded more than 1,70,000 pledges to mentor with a goal to  establish one million mentors by the year 2016.
As the technology partner and proud founding sponsor of MWM, TCS is pleased to have deployed the MWM 2.0  web-portal that enables volunteers to connect with women and girls organisations.
Those organisations in turn  will connect these mentors with student and professional mentees in a safe environment.
Smart Fitness Tracking Applications for Marathons As a partner to many well-known marathons and races in the world, TCS is committed to promoting a healthy lifestyle  amongst its employees and in the communities it operates in.
To further help athletes and runners in honing their  skills and their timings, TCS has deployed a smart-phone based app that helps runners in leading marathons track  their performance across the duration of the race.
The app is a significant improvement on existing performance tracking apps and was extensively used in the recent  TCS New York City Marathon.
It was downloaded over 2,58,000 times during the 2014 race and received favourable  reviews from runners and their families who used it.
The same platform is being used in other prominent running  events across the world including the Singapore Marathon, the TCS World 10K Bangalore and the Mumbai Marathon.
Mobile App for Fisherfolk In partnership with US telecom major Qualcomm, your Company developed the Fisher Friend Mobile Application  (FFMA) - a smartphone application for the fisherfolk living on the eastern coast of India.
FFMA provides critical  information about weather and ocean conditions up to 100 kilometers (about 62 miles) from shore including disaster  alerts.
It also highlights rich Potential Fishing Zones (PFZs) and current market prices of fish, helping the fishermen  make the right sale decisions as well as improve their catch and their income.
It is a simple to use application, developed on the popular Android platform and is available for users in English,  Tamil and Telugu languages.
FFMA is a unique, single window solution for the holistic shore-to-shore needs of the  fishing community, providing vulnerable fishermen immediate access to critical, near real-time knowledge and  information services.
The rapid devolution of digital technologies driven by mobile phone adoption, cloud technologies and apps is permeating to all sections of  society across the world.
While public projects like the Passport Seva Kendra highlight how these technologies are making citizen services  easier, the trend is permeating into communities and spaces where technology was not extensively used in the era of desktops and servers.
12 I TCS Annual Report 2014-15 Cyrus Mistry (Chairman) N Chandrasekaran (CEO and Managing Director) Aman Mehta V Thyagarajan Prof. Clayton M Christensen Dr. Ron Sommer Dr. Vijay Kelkar Ishaat Hussain O. P .
Bhatt Phiroz Vandrevala  Aarthi Subramanian (Executive Director) Company Secretary Suprakash Mukhopadhyay Statutory Auditors Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP IFRS Auditors Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Registered Ofﬁce 9th Floor, Nirmal Building Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 Tel : 91 22 6778 9595 Fax : 91 22 6778 9660 Website : www.tcs.com CIN : L22210MH1995PLC084781 Corporate Ofﬁce TCS House  Raveline Street, Fort  Mumbai 400 001  Tel : 91 22 6778 9999  Fax : 91 22 6778 9000  E-mail: investor.relations@tcs.com Registrars & Transfer Agents TSR DARASHAW Limited 6-10, Haji Moosa Patrawala Industrial Estate 20, Dr. E. Moses Road, Mahalaxmi Mumbai 400 011 Tel : 91 22 6656 8484 Fax : 91 22 6656 8494 E-mail: csg-unit@tsrdarashaw.com Website: www.tsrdarashaw.com Board of Directors Annual Report 2014-15 Management Team14  Management Team Function Name Corporate Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Managing Director N Chandrasekaran Executive Dir ector Aarthi Subramanian Finance Rajesh Gopinathan Human Resources Ajoyendra Mukherjee Company Secretary and Treasury Suprakash Mukhopadhyay Marketing John Lenzen Communication Pradipta Bagchi Research & Development K Ananth Krishnan Legal Vishwanathan Iyer Geography Heads North America, United Kingdom and Europe Surya Kant Shankar Narayanan Amit Bajaj Akhilesh T ripathi Sapthagiri Chapalapalli Heinz Gehri Amit Kapur K.Kumaranarayanan Latin America Henry Manzano India, Asia Paciﬁc, Middle-East and Africa Ravi Viswanathan Ujjwal Mathur Varun Kapur Girish Ramachandran Japan AS Lakshminarayanan Industry Service Units Banking and Financial Services K Krithivasan Ramanamurthy Magapu Susheel V asudevan Insurance and Healthcare Suresh Muthuswami P Syama Sundar Life Sciences, Energy Resources and Manufacturing Debashis Ghosh Jayanta Banerjee Milind Lakkad Telecom, Media, Hi-Tech and Utilities N Sivasamban V Rajanna Kamal Bhadada Nagaraj Ijari Raman Venkatraman Sudheer Warrier Retail & CPG and Travel & Hospitality Pratik Pal Sudhakar Gudala S Sukanya Government Tanmoy Chakrabarty Strategic Growth Units TCS Financial Services NG Subramaniam iON V enguswamy Ramaswamy Platforms Raj Agrawal Service Units Global Consulting Practice and Enterprise Solutions Krishnan Ramanujam Engineering & Industrial Services Regu A yyaswamy Infrastructure Services P R Krishnan BPO Dinanath Kholkar Assurance Services Siva Ganesan Digital Solutions Satya Ramaswamy Notice 15  Notice Notice is hereby given that the twentieth Annual General Meeting of Tata Consultancy Services Limited will be held on  Tuesday, June 30, 2015 at 3.30 p.m. at Birla Matushri Sabhagar, 19, Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Marg, New Marine Lines,  Mumbai 400 020, to transact the following business: 1.
To receive, consider and adopt:  a. the Audited Financial Statements of the Company for the ﬁnancial year ended March 31, 2015, together  with the Reports of the Board of Directors and the Auditors thereon; and  b. the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for the ﬁnancial year ended March 31,  2015, together with the Report of the Auditors thereon.
2.
To conﬁrm the payment of Interim Dividends (including a special dividend) on Equity Shares and to declare a  Final Dividend on Equity Shares for the ﬁnancial year 2014-15.
3.
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Cyrus Mistry (DIN 00010178), who retires by rotation and, being eligible,  offers himself for re-appointment.
4.
Appointment of Auditors  To consider and if thought ﬁt to pass with or without modiﬁcation(s) the following resolution as an Ordinary  Resolution:  “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Section 139 and all other applicable provisions, if any,   of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules framed thereunder, as amended from time to time, the Company  hereby ratiﬁes the appointment of Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration   No.
117366W/W-100018), as Auditors of the Company to hold ofﬁce from the conclusion of this Annual General  Meeting (AGM) till the conclusion of the twenty-ﬁrst AGM of the Company to be held in the year 2016 at such  remuneration plus service tax, out-of-pocket, travelling and living expenses, etc., as may be mutually agreed  between the Board of Directors of the Company and the Auditors.” 5.
Re-appointment of Mr. N. Chandrasekaran as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer & Managing Director of the  Company  To consider and, if thought ﬁt to pass with or without modiﬁcation(s) the following resolution as an Ordinary  Resolution:  “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Sections 196, 197 and other applicable provisions, if any, of  the Companies Act, 2013, (“Act”), as amended or re-enacted from time to time, read with Schedule V to the  Act, the Company hereby approves the re-appointment and terms of remuneration of Mr. N. Chandrasekaran   (DIN 00121863) as the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Managing Director of the Company for a period of ﬁve years  with effect from October 6, 2014 upon the terms and conditions set out in the Explanatory Statement annexed  to the Notice convening this Annual General Meeting, (including the remuneration to be paid in the event of  loss or inadequacy of proﬁts in any ﬁnancial year during the tenure of his appointment) with authority to the  Board of Directors to alter and vary the terms and conditions of the said appointment in such manner as may be  agreed to between the Board of Directors and Mr. N. Chandrasekaran.”  “RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board or a Committee thereof be and is hereby authorised to take all such steps  as may be necessary, proper and expedient to give effect to this resolution.” 6.
Appointment of Ms. Aarthi Subramanian as a Director of the Company  To consider and if thought ﬁt to pass with or without modiﬁcation(s) the following resolution as an Ordinary  Resolution:  “RESOLVED that Ms. Aarthi Subramanian (DIN 07121802) who was appointed by the Board of Directors as an  Additional Director of the Company with effect from March 12, 2015 and who holds ofﬁce upto the date of  this Annual General Meeting of the Company in terms of Section 161 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) and  in respect of whom the Company has received a notice in writing from a Member under Section 160 of the Act  proposing her candidature for the ofﬁce of Director of the Company, be and is hereby appointed a Director of  the Company.” Annual Report 2014-15 Notice16  7.
Appointment of Ms. Aarthi Subramanian as an Executive Dir ector of the Company  To consider and if thought ﬁt to pass with or without modiﬁcation(s) the following resolution as an Ordinary  Resolution:  “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Sections 196, 197 and other applicable provisions, if any, of  the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), as amended or re-enacted from time to time, read with Schedule V to the  Act, the Company hereby approves the appointment and terms of remuneration of Ms. Aarthi Subramanian   (DIN 07121802) as an Executive Director of the Company for a period of three years with effect from   March 12, 2015 upon the terms and conditions set out in the Explanatory Statement annexed to the Notice  convening this Annual General Meeting, (including the remuneration to be paid in the event of loss or inadequacy  of proﬁts in any ﬁnancial year during the tenure of her appointment), with authority to the Board of Directors  to alter and vary the terms and conditions of the said appointment in such manner as may be agreed to between  the Board of Directors and Ms. Aarthi Subramanian.”  “RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board or a Committee thereof be and is hereby authorised to take all such steps  as may be necessary, proper and expedient to give effect to this resolution.” 8.
Appointment of Branch Auditors  To consider and if thought ﬁt to pass with or without modiﬁcation(s) the following resolution as an Ordinary  Resolution:  “ RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Section 143(8) and other applicable provisions, if any, of the  Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), as amended from time to time, the Board be and is hereby authorized to appoint  as Branch Auditors of any branch ofﬁce of the Company, whether existing or which may be opened / acquired  hereafter, outside India, in consultation with the Company’s Auditors, any person(s) qualiﬁed to act as Branch  Auditors within the provisions of Section 143(8) of the Act and to ﬁx their remuneration.” Notes: 1.
The relative Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) in respect of  the business under Item Nos.
4 to 8 of the Notice, is annexed hereto.
The relevant details as required under  Clause 49 of the Listing Agreements entered into with the Stock Exchanges, of persons seeking appointment /  re-appointment as Directors under Items No.
3, 5, 6 and 7 of the Notice, are also annexed.
2.
A Member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) is entitled to appoint a  proxy to attend and vote instead of himself and the proxy need not be a Member of the Company.
The instrument appointing the proxy, in order to be effective, must be deposited at the Company’s Registered  Ofﬁce, duly completed and signed, not less than FORTY-EIGHT HOURS before the meeting.
Proxies submitted  on behalf of limited companies, societies etc., must be supported by appropriate resolutions / authority, as  applicable.
A person can act as proxy on behalf of Members not exceeding ﬁfty (50) and holding in the aggregate  not more than 10% of the total share capital of the Company.
In case a proxy is proposed to be appointed by  a Member holding more than 10% of the total share capital of the Company carrying voting rights, then such  proxy shall not act as a proxy for any other person or shareholder.
3.
The Register of Members and Transfer Books of the Company will be closed from Tuesday, June 9, 2015 to  Saturday, June 13, 2015, both days inclusive.
4.
If the Final Dividend, as recommended by the Board of Directors, is approved at the AGM, payment of such  dividend will be made on Tuesday, July 7, 2015 as under:  i.
To all Beneﬁcial Owners in respect of shares held in dematerialized form as per the data as may be made  available by the National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and the Central Depository Services (India)  Limited (CDSL) as of the close of business hours on Monday, June 8, 2015;  ii.
To all Members in respect of shares held in physical form after giving effect to valid transfers in respect  of transfer requests lodged with the Company on or before the close of business hours on Monday,   June 8, 2015.
Notice 17  5.
Members holding shares in dematerialized form are requested to intimate all changes pertaining to their bank  details, National Electronic Clearing Service (NECS), Electronic Clearing Service (ECS), mandates, nominations,  power of attorney, change of address, change of name, e-mail address, contact numbers, etc., to their Depository  Participant (DP).
Changes intimated to the DP will then be automatically reﬂected in the Company’s records which  will help the Company and the Company’s Registrars and Transfer Agents, TSR DARASHAW Limited (TSRDL) to  provide efﬁcient and better services.
Members holding shares in physical form are requested to intimate such  changes to TSRDL.
6.
Members holding shares in physical form are requested to consider converting their holding to dematerialized  form to eliminate all risks associated with physical shares and for ease of portfolio management.
Members can  contact the Company or TSRDL for assistance in this regard.
7.
Members holding shares in physical form in identical order of names in more than one folio are requested to  send to the Company or TSRDL, the details of such folios together with the share certiﬁcates for consolidating  their holdings in one folio.
A consolidated share certiﬁcate will be returned to such Members after making  requisite changes thereon.
8.
In case of joint holders attending the Meeting, the Member whose name appears as the ﬁrst holder in the order  of names as per the Register of Members of the Company will be entitled to vote.
9.
Members seeking any information with regard to the Accounts, are requested to write to the Company at an  early date, so as to enable the Management to keep the information ready at the Meeting.
10.
Transfer of Unclaimed / Unpaid amounts to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF):  Pursuant to Sections 205A and 205C and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 1956, all  unclaimed  /  unpaid dividend, application money, debenture interest and interest on deposits as well as the principal  amount of debentures and deposits, as applicable, remaining unclaimed / unpaid for a period of seven years from  the date they became due for payment, in relation to the Company and erstwhile TCS e-Serve Limited, which  has amalgamated with the Company, have been transferred to the IEPF established by the Central Government.
No claim shall be entertained against the IEPF or the Company for the amounts so transferred prior to   March 31, 2015.
Members who have not yet encashed their dividend warrant(s) pertaining to the Final Dividend for the ﬁnancial  year 2007-08 onwards for the Company and erstwhile TCS e-Serve Limited are requested to make their claims  without any delay to TSRDL.
It may be noted that the unclaimed Final Dividend for the ﬁnancial year 2007-08  declared by the Company on July 1, 2008 can be claimed by the shareholders by June 30, 2015 and unclaimed  Final Dividend for the ﬁnancial year 2007-08 declared by TCS e-Serve Limited on December 18, 2008 can be  claimed by the Members by December 17, 2015.
Members’ attention is particularly drawn to the “Corporate  Governance” section of the Annual Report in respect of unclaimed dividend.
11.
The Notice of the AGM along with the Annual Report 2014-15 is being sent by electronic mode to those Members  whose e-mail addresses are registered with the Company / Depositories, unless any Member has requested for  a physical copy of the same.
For Members who have not registered their e-mail addresses, physical copies are  being sent by the permitted mode.
12.
To support the ‘Green Initiative’ Members who have not registered their e-mail addresses are requested to  register the same with TSRDL / Depositories.
13.
In compliance with the provisions of Section 108 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules framed thereunder  and the clause 35B of the listing agreement, the Members are provided with the facility to cast their vote  electronically, through the e-voting services provided by NSDL, on all the resolutions set forth in this Notice.
In  order to enable its Members, who do not have the access to e-voting facility to send their assent or dissent in  writing in respect of the resolutions as set out in this Notice, the Company is enclosing a Ballot Form with the  Notice.
Instructions for Ballot Form are given at the back of the said form and instructions for e-voting are given  here in below.
Resolution(s) passed by Members through Ballot Forms or e-voting is / are deemed to have been  passed as if they have been passed at the AGM.
Annual Report 2014-15 Notice18  14.
Mr. P. N. Parikh of M/s.
Parikh & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries (Membership No.
FCS 327), has been  appointed as the Scrutinizer to scrutinize the voting and remote e-voting process (including the Ballot Form  received from the Members who do not have access to the e-voting process) in a fair and transparent manner.
15.
The facility for voting, either through electronic voting system or ballot or polling paper shall also be made  available at the meeting and Members attending the meeting who have not already cast their vote by remote  e-voting or by ballot form shall be able to exercise their right at the meeting.
16.
The Members who have cast their vote by remote e-voting or by ballot form prior to the meeting may also  attend the meeting but shall not be entitled to cast their vote again.
17.
Members can opt for only one mode of voting, i.e., either by Ballot Form or e-voting.
In case Members cast their  votes through both the modes, voting done by e-voting shall prevail and votes cast through Ballot Form shall be  treated as invalid.
18.
In case a Member is desirous of obtaining a duplicate Ballot Form, he may send an e-mail to investor.relations@ tcs.com by mentioning their Folio / DP ID and Client ID No.
However, the duly completed Ballot Form should  reach the Scrutinizer, Mr. P. N. Parikh of M/s.
Parikh & Associates at 11th Floor, Air India Building, Nariman Point,  Mumbai - 400 021 not later than Monday, June 29, 2015 (5:00 p.m. IST).
Ballot Form received after this date will  be treated as invalid.
19.
The instructions for e-voting are as under:  A.
In case a Member receives an e-mail from NSDL (for Members whose email addresses are registered with  the Company / Depositories):   i.
Open the e-mail and also open PDF ﬁle, namely, “TCS e-voting.pdf” with your Client ID or Folio No.
as password.
The said PDF ﬁle contains your user ID and password for e-voting.
Please note that the  password is an initial password.
ii.
Open the internet browser and type the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com   iii.
Click on Shareholder – Login   iv.
If you are already registered with NSDL for e-voting, then you can use your existing user ID and  password for casting your vote.
v. If you are logging in for the ﬁrst time, please enter the user ID and password provided in the PDF ﬁle  attached with the e-mail as initial password.
The Password Change Menu will appear on your screen.
Change to a new password of your choice, making sure that it contains a minimum of 8 digits or  characters or a combination of both.
Please take utmost care to keep your password conﬁdential.
vi.
Once the e-voting home page opens, click on e-Voting> Active Voting Cycles.
vii.
Select “EVEN” (E-voting Event Number) of Tata Consultancy Services Limited which is 101783.
Now  you are ready for e-voting as Cast Vote page opens.
viii.
Cast your vote by selecting the appropriate option and click on “Submit” and also “Conﬁrm” when  prompted.
ix.
Upon conﬁrmation, the message “Vote cast successfully” will be displayed.
x.
Once the vote on a resolution is cast, the Member shall not be allowed to change it subsequently.
xi.
Institutional shareholders (i.e.
other than individuals, HUF, NRI, etc.)
are required to send scanned  copy (PDF/JPG format) of the relevant Board Resolution and / or Authority letter, etc., together with  attested specimen signature of the duly authorized signatory(ies) who are authorized to vote, to the  Scrutinizer through e-mail to tcs.scrutinizer@gmail.com, with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.co.in.
xii.
In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) and e-voting user  manual for Shareholders available at the Downloads section of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on toll  free no.
: 1800-222-990.
Notice 19   B.
In case a Member receives physical copy of the Notice of the AGM (for Members whose e-mail addresses  are not registered with the Company / Depositories):   i.
Initial password is provided in the enclosed ballot form: EVEN (E-voting Event Number) + USER ID and  PASSWORD   ii.
Please follow all steps from Sl.
No.
(ii) to Sl.
No.
(xii) above, to cast vote.
C. Other Instructions   i.
The e-voting period commences on Saturday, June 27, 2015 (9.00 a.m. IST) and ends on Monday,  June 29, 2015 (5.00 p.m. IST).
During this period, Members holding shares either in physical form or  in dematerialized form, as on June 23, 2015 i.e.
cut-off date, may cast their vote electronically.
The  e-voting module shall be disabled by NSDL for voting thereafter.
Once the vote on a resolution is cast  by the Member, he / she shall not be allowed to change it subsequently or cast vote again.
ii.
The voting rights of members shall be in proportion to their shares in the paid up equity share capital  of the Company as on cut-off date.
A person, whose name is recorded in the register of members or  in the register of beneﬁcial owners maintained by the depositories as on the cut-off date only shall  be entitled to avail the facility of remote e-Voting, voting through ballot form, as well as voting at  the meeting through ballot.
iii.
Any person, who acquires shares of the Company and becomes a member of the Company after  dispatch of the Notice and holding shares as of the cut-off date, may obtain the login ID and  password by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in.
However, if you are already registered with  NSDL for remote e-voting then you can use your existing user ID and password for casting your vote.
If you forget your password, you can reset your password by using “Forgot User Details / Password”  option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
iv.
The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion of voting at the general meeting, would  count the votes cast at the meeting, thereafter unblock the votes cast through remote e-voting in  the presence of at least two witnesses not in the employment of the Company and make, not later  than three days of conclusion of the meeting, a consolidated Scrutinizer’s report of the total votes  cast in favour or against, if any, to the Chairman or a person authorised by him in writing who shall  countersign the same.
v. The results declared along with the Scrutinizer’s Report shall be placed on the Company’s website  www.tcs.com and on the website of NSDL www.evoting.nsdl.com immediately after the result is  declared.
The Company shall simultaneously forward the results to BSE Limited (“BSE”) and National  Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”), where the shares of the Company are listed.
By Order of the Board of Directors SUPRAKASH MUKHOPADHYAY Vice President and Company Secretary Mumbai  April 16, 2015 Registered Ofﬁce: 9th Floor, Nirmal Building Nariman Point Mumbai 400 021 CIN : L22210MH1995PLC084781 Tel: 91 22 6778 9595 Fax: 91 22 6778 9660 E-mail: investor.relations@tcs.com Website: www.tcs.com Annual Report 2014-15 Notice20  Explanatory Statement (Pursuant to Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013) As required by Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), the following explanatory statement sets out all  material facts relating to the business mentioned under Item Nos.
4 to 8 of the accompanying Notice: Item No.
4 This explanatory statement is provided though strictly not required as per Section 102 of the Act.
Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP (DHS), (ICAI Firm Registration No.
117366W/W -100018), Chartered Accountants, Mumbai  were appointed as the statutory auditors of the Company for a period of three years at the Annual General Meeting  (AGM) of the Company held on June 27, 2014.
As per provisions of Section 139(1) of the Act, their appointment for the above tenure is subject to ratiﬁcation by  members at every AGM.
Accordingly, ratiﬁcation of the members is being sought for the proposal contained in the Resolution set out at   item no.
4 of the Notice.
The Board commends the Resolution at Item No.
4 for approval by the Members.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) or relatives of Directors and KMPs is concerned or interested  in the Resolution at Item No.
4 of the accompanying Notice.
Item No.
5: At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on July 2, 2010, the Members had approved the appointment  and terms of remuneration of Mr. N. Chandrasekaran as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Managing Director (CEO & MD)  for a period of ﬁve years from October 6, 2009.
The Board of Directors has re-appointed  Mr. N. Chandrasekaran as CEO & MD for a further period of ﬁve years, with  effect from October 6, 2014, subject to the approval of the Members.
A brief proﬁle of Mr. N. Chandrasekaran is given below:  Mr. Chandrasekaran holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Applied Science and a Master’s Degree in Computer Applications.
He joined the Company on January 27, 1987 and has over 28 years of experience in the software industry and business  operations.
Prior to his elevation to the position as the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Managing Director of the Company on October  6, 2009, he held the ofﬁce of the Chief Operating Ofﬁcer and Executive Director of the Company from September 6,  2007 till October 5, 2009.
He has held several key positions within the Company including the position of Executive  Vice President and Head, Global Sales and Operations.
Under his leadership, the Company has maintained its industry leadership position.
The revenues increased from   ` 30,029 crore in 2009-10 to ` 94,648 crore in 2014-15 at a compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of 26%.
The net  proﬁt during the same period increased from ` 7,001 crore to ` 19,852 crore at a CAGR of 23%.
The employee base  increased from 1,60,429 as on March 31, 2010 to 3,19,656 as on March 31, 2015.
During his tenure, he formulated and successfully executed the Company’s global strategy and several key strategic  transitions.
He was responsible for formulating and deploying TCS’ full services strategy, expanding the plethora of  Company’s service offerings, including IT services, IT Infrastructure, Consulting, e-Business, Enterprise Solutions, Remote  Infrastructure Management, Business Process Outsourcing and Assurance Services across various industry verticals such  as BFSI (Banking, Financial Services and Insurance), Energy, Government, Healthcare, Life Sciences, Manufacturing,  Media and Information Services, Resources - Metals, Mining & Construction, Retail, Telecom, Travel, Transportation &  Hospitality and Utilities.
He also spearheaded the Company’s geographic expansion strategy by launching TCS across  Europe, Latin America, China and Japan and pioneered the concept of Global Network Delivery ModelTM (GNDMTM),  under which TCS has set up software development centres across the globe in Budapest, Montevideo, Sao Paulo,  Santiago, Mexico and Hangzhou.
Under his guidance, the Company has reﬁned its corporate sustainability program to focus on education, environment  and wellness.
The Company has created healthcare solutions for charitable hospitals to help them effectively to improve  the level of patient care and use their resources to treat more patients who cannot afford healthcare.
Through his  active support of major marathons in Boston, Berlin, New York, Chicago, Amsterdam, Mumbai and Bangalore, he  has helped in spreading a message of health awareness across the Company’s employees globally as well as in the  communities it operates in.
Notice 21  Mr. Chandrasekaran is recipient of several awards and recognition in business and academic communities.
In 2014-15, he was voted as one of CNBC TV 18 - ‘Indian Business Icons’, awarded CNN- IBN Indian of the Year 2014 in  business category and the “Best CEO for 2014” by Business Today for the second consecutive year.
He was conferred  with the Honorary Doctorate by JNTU, Hyderabad, India (2014).
He has received Honorary Doctorate from Nyenrode  Business University, Netherland’s top private business school in 2013.
Mr. Chandrasekaran has also been conferred  honorary degrees by many Indian universities such as the Gitam University, Vishakapatnam, Andhra Pradesh (2013),  KIIT University, Bhubaneswar, Odisha (2012) and the SRM University, Chennai, Tamil Nadu (2010).
Further details of Mr. Chandrasekaran have been given in the Annexure to this Notice.
The main terms and conditions of appointment of Mr. Chandrasekaran (hereinafter referred to as “CEO & MD”) are  given below: A.
Tenure of Appointment:  The appointment of the CEO & MD is for a period of ﬁve years with effect from October 6, 2014.
B.
Nature of Duties:  The CEO & MD shall devote his whole time and attention to the business of the Company and perform  such duties as may be entrusted to him by the Board from time to time and separately communicated  to him and exercise such powers as may be assigned to him, subject to the superintendence, control and  directions of the Board in connection with and in the best interests of the Company and the business of  one or more of its associated companies and  /  or subsidiaries, including performing duties as assigned to the   CEO & MD from time to time by serving on the Boards of such associated companies and / or subsidiaries or any  other executive body or any committee of such company.
C. Remuneration:  a.
Basic Salary:   Current Basic Salary of ` 15,00,000 per month; upto a maximum of ` 25,00,000 per month.
The annual increments which will be effective 1 st April each year, will be decided by the Board based on the  recommendations of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) or by the NRC on authority  of the Board and will be performance-based and take into account the Company’s performance as well,  within the said maximum amount.
b. Beneﬁts, Perquisites and Allowances:   Details of Beneﬁts, Perquisites and Allowances are as follows:   i. Rent-free residential accommodation (partly furnished or otherwise) with the Company bearing the  cost of repairs, maintenance, society charges and utilities (e.g gas, electricity and water charges) for  the said accommodation or house rent, house maintenance and utility allowances aggregating 85%  of the Basic Salary (in case residential accommodation is not provided by the Company).
ii.
Hospitalisation and major medical expenses, car facility, telecommunication facility and housing loan  facility as per Rules of the Company.
iii.
Other perquisites and allowances subject to a maximum of 55% of the Basic Salary; this shall include  medical allowance, leave travel concession   /  allowance and other allowances   /   personal accident  insurance / club membership fees.
iv.
Contribution to Provident Fund, Superannuation Fund or Annuity Fund and Gratuity Fund as per the  Rules of the Company.
v. Leave and encashment of unavailed leave as per the Rules of the Company.
c. Commission:   In addition to Salary, Beneﬁts, Perquisites and Allowances, the CEO & MD would be paid such remuneration  by way of Commission, calculated with reference to the net proﬁts of the Company in a particular ﬁnancial  year, as may be determined by the Board of the Company, subject to the overall ceilings stipulated in  Section 197 of the Act.
The speciﬁc amount payable to the CEO & MD will be based on his performance  as evaluated by the Board or the NRC and approved by the Board and will be payable annually after the  annual accounts have been approved by the Board.
D. Minimum Remuneration:  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein contained, where in any ﬁnancial year during the tenure of  the CEO & MD, the Company has no proﬁts or its proﬁts are inadequate, the Company will pay remuneration  by way of Salary, Beneﬁts, Perquisites and Allowances and Commission subject to further approvals as required  under Schedule V of the Companies Act, 2013, or any modiﬁcation(s) thereto.
Annual Report 2014-15 Notice22  E.  Other terms of Appointment:  i.
The CEO & MD shall not become interested or otherwise concerned, directly or through his spouse and / or  children, in any selling agency of the Company.
ii.
The terms and conditions of the appointment of the CEO & MD may be altered and varied from time to  time by the Board as it may, in its discretion deem ﬁt, irrespective of the limits stipulated under Schedule V  to the Act or any amendments made hereafter in this regard in such manner as may be agreed to between  the Board and the CEO & MD, subject to such approvals as may be required.
iii.
The agreement may be terminated by either party by giving to the other party six months’ notice of such  termination or the Company paying six months’ remuneration in lieu thereof.
iv.
The employment of the CEO & MD may be terminated by the Company without notice or payment in lieu  of notice:   a. if the CEO & MD is found guilty of any gross negligence, default or misconduct in connection with  or affecting the business of the Company or any subsidiary or associated company to which he is  required to render services; or   b. in the event of any serious repeated or continuing breach (after prior warning) or non-observance  by the CEO & MD of any of the stipulations contained in the Agreement;  v. Upon the termination by whatever means of the CEO & MD’s employment:   a. the CEO & MD shall immediately cease to hold ofﬁces held by him in any holding company,   subsidiaries or associated companies without claim for compensation for loss of ofﬁce by virtue of  Section 167(1)(h) of the Act and shall resign as trustee of any trusts connected with the Company;   b. the CEO & MD shall not, without the consent of the Company, at any time thereafter represent  himself as connected with the Company or any of the subsidiaries or associated companies.
vi.
All personnel policies of the Company and the related Rules which are applicable to other employees of  the Company shall also be applicable to the CEO & MD, unless speciﬁcally provided otherwise.
vii.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the CEO & MD also include clauses pertaining to adherence  with the Tata Code of Conduct, non-solicitation and maintenance of conﬁdentiality.
viii.
If and when the Agreement expires or is terminated for any reason whatsoever, the CEO & MD will cease  to be the CEO & MD, and also cease to be a Director.
If at any time, the CEO & MD ceases to be a Director  of the Company for any reason whatsoever, he shall cease to be the CEO & MD and the Agreement shall  forthwith terminate.
If at any time, the CEO & MD ceases to be in the employment of the Company for any  reason whatsoever, he shall cease to be a Director and CEO & MD of the Company.
The Board commends the Resolution at Item No.
5 for approval by the Members.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) or relatives of directors and KMPs except Mr. Chandrasekaran  is concerned or interested in the resolutions at Item No.
5 of the Notice relating to his re-appointment.
Item Nos.
6 and 7: The Board appointed Ms. Aarthi Subramanian, as Additional Director with effect from March 12, 2015.
The Board has  also appointed her as an Executive Director (ED) effective the same date, for a period of three years, subject to the  approval of the Members.
As per the provisions of Section 161(1) of the Act, she holds ofﬁce of Additional Director only up to the date of the  forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company, and is eligible for appointment as Director.
The Company has  received a notice under Section 160 of the Act proposing her candidature for the ofﬁce of Director of the Company,  along with the requisite deposit.
A brief proﬁle of Ms. Aarthi Subramanian is given below: Ms. Aarthi Subramanian holds a B.Tech in Computer Science from the National Institute Technology, Warangal, A.P.
(India) and a Masters Degree in Engineering Management from University of Kansas (USA).
She started her career as a graduate trainee in TCS in 1989.
In her previous role as Global Head – Delivery Excellence,  she was responsible for overall Service Quality, Customer Satisfaction, Service Improvements and all Standards and  Certiﬁcations across the Company.
Prior to this role, she was the Head of Delivery for seven years with the TCS Retail  & CPG Business Unit, where she was responsible for several strategic accounts and major clients.
She led the team to  achieve excellence in customer services through relentless customer focus, rigour in service delivery and pro-active  value addition.
She has played a key role in setting up SAP Center of Excellence in Chennai.
She took over as the Head  of the Governance, Compliance and Risk Management in October 2014 to take care of HR and Legal compliances and  Internal Controls.
Notice 23  With over 25 years of experience, she has worked in diverse roles in India, Sweden, US and Canada and has rich  experience in Account Management, Delivery and Large Program Management.
Further details of Ms. Aarthi Subramanian have been given in the Annexure to this Notice.
The main terms and conditions of appointment of Ms. Aarthi Subramanian (hereinafter referred to as an “Executive  Director”) are given below: A.
Tenure of Appointment:  The appointment of the Executive Director is for a period of three years with effect from March12, 2015.
B.
Nature of Duties:  The Executive Director shall devote her whole time and attention to the business of the Company and shall  perform such duties as may be entrusted to her by the Board from time to time and separately communicated to  her and exercise such powers as may be assigned to her, subject to the superintendence, control and directions  of the Board in connection with and in the best interests of the business of the Company and the business of  one or more of its associated companies and  / or subsidiaries, including performing duties as assigned to the  Executive Director from time to time by serving on the Boards of such associated companies and / or subsidiaries  or any other executive body or any committee of such a company.
C. Remuneration:  a.
Basic Salary:   Current Basic Salary of ` 3,81,500 per month; upto a maximum of ` 6,00,000 per month.
The annual increments which will be effective 1 st April each year, will be decided by the Board based on the  recommendations of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) or by the NRC on authority  of the Board and will be performance-based and take into account the Company’s performance as well,  within the said maximum amount.
b. Beneﬁts, Perquisites & Allowances:   Details of Beneﬁts, Perquisites and Allowances are as follows:   i. Rent-free residential accommodation (partly furnished or otherwise) with the Company bearing the  cost of repairs, maintenance, society charges and utilities (e.g gas, electricity and water charges) for  the said accommodation or house rent, house maintenance and utility allowances aggregating 85%  of the Basic Salary (in case residential accommodation is not provided by the Company).
ii.
Hospitalisation and major medical expenses, Car facility, Telecommunication facility and Housing  loan facility as per Rules of the Company.
iii.
Other perquisites and allowances given below subject to a maximum of 55% of the Basic Salary; this  shall include medical allowance, leave travel concession / allowance and other allowances / personal  accident insurance  /  club membership fees.
iv.
Contribution to Provident Fund, Superannuation Fund or Annuity Fund and Gratuity Fund as per the  Rules of the Company.
v. Leave and encashment of unavailed leave as per the Rules of the Company.
c. Commission:   In addition to Salary, Beneﬁts, Perquisites and Allowances, the Executive Director would be paid such  remuneration by way of Commission, calculated with reference to the net proﬁts of the Company in a  particular ﬁnancial year, as may be determined by the Board of the Company subject to the overall ceilings  stipulated in Section 197 of the Act.
The speciﬁc amount payable to the Executive Director will be based  on her performance as evaluated by the Board or the NRC and approved by the Board and will be payable  annually after the annual accounts have been approved by the Board.
D. Minimum Remuneration:  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein contained, where in any ﬁnancial year during the tenure of the  Executive Director, the Company has no proﬁts or its proﬁts are inadequate, the Company will pay remuneration  by way of Salary, Beneﬁts, Perquisites, Allowances and Commission subject to further approvals as required  under Schedule V of the Companies Act, 2013, or any modiﬁcation(s) thereto.
E. Other terms of Appointment:  i.
The Executive Director shall not become interested or otherwise concerned, directly or through her spouse  and / or children, in any selling agency of the Company.
ii.
The terms and conditions of the appointment of the Executive Director may be altered and varied from  time to time by the Board as it may, in its discretion deem ﬁt, irrespective of the limits stipulated under  Annual Report 2014-15 Notice24  Schedule V to the Act or any amendments made hereafter in this regard in such manner as may be agreed  to between the Board and the Executive Director , subject to such approvals as may be required.
iii.
The Agreement may be terminated by either party by giving to the other party six months’ notice of such  termination or the Company paying six months’ remuneration in lieu thereof.
iv.
The employment of the Executive Director may be terminated by the Company without notice or payment  in lieu of notice:   a. if the Executive Director is found guilty of any gross negligence, default or misconduct in connection  with or affecting the business of the Company or any subsidiary or associated company to which she  is required to render services; or   b. in the event of any serious repeated or continuing breach (after prior warning) or non-observance by  the Executive Director of any of the stipulations contained in the Agreement;  v. Upon the termination by whatever means of the Executive Director’s employment:   a. the Executive Director shall immediately cease to hold ofﬁces held by her in any holding company,  subsidiaries or associated companies without claim for compensation for loss of ofﬁce by virtue of  Section 167(1)(h) of the Act and shall resign as trustee of any trusts connected with the Company;   b. the Executive Director shall not without the consent of the Company, at any time thereafter represent  herself as connected with the Company or any of the subsidiaries or associated companies.
vi.
All Personnel Policies of the Company and the related Rules which are applicable to other employees of the  Company shall also be applicable to the Executive Director, unless speciﬁcally provided otherwise.
vii.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Executive Director also include clauses pertaining to  adherence with the Tata Code of Conduct, non-solicitation and maintenance of conﬁdentiality.
viii.
If and when the Agreement expires or is terminated for any reason whatsoever, the Executive Director will  cease to be the Executive Director, and also cease to be a Director.
If at any time, the Executive Director  ceases to be a Director of the Company for any reason whatsoever, she shall cease to be the Executive  Director, and the Agreement shall forthwith terminate.
If at any time, the Executive Director ceases to be in  the employment of the Company for any reason whatsoever, she shall cease to be a Director and Executive  Director of the Company.
The Board commends the Resolutions at Item Nos.
6 and 7 for approval by the Members.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel or relatives of directors and KMPs except Ms. Aarthi Subramanian  is concerned or interested in the resolutions at Item No.6 and 7 of the Notice relating to her appointment.
Item No.
8: The Company has branches outside India and may also open / acquire new branches outside India in future.
It may be  necessary to appoint branch auditors for carrying out the audit of the accounts of such branches.
The Members are  requested to authorize the Board of Directors of the Company to appoint branch auditors in consultation with the  Company’s Auditors and ﬁx their remuneration.
The Board commends the Resolution at Item No.
8 for approval by the Members.
None of the Directors or key managerial personnel or relatives of directors and KMPs is concerned or interested in the  Resolution at Item No.8 of the Notice.
By Order of the Board of Directors SUPRAKASH MUKHOPADHYAY Vice President and Company Secretary Mumbai  April 16, 2015 Registered Ofﬁce: 9th Floor, Nirmal Building Nariman Point Mumbai 400 021 CIN : L22210MH1995PLC084781 Tel: 91 22 6778 9595 Fax: 91 22 6778 9660 E-mail: investor.relations@tcs.com Website: www.tcs.com Notice 25  Details of Directors Seeking Appointment / Re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting Particulars Mr. Cyrus Mistry Mr. N. Chandrasekaran Ms. Aarthi Subramanian Date of Birth July 4, 1968 June 2, 1963 June 26, 1967 Date of Appointment April 2, 2012 September 6, 2007 March 12, 2015 Qualiﬁcations x Graduate degree in  Civil Engineering from  Imperial College, UK x M. Sc.
in Management  from London Business  School x Bachelor’s degree in  Applied Sciences  x Master’s degree in  Computer Applications x B.
Tech in Computer  Science x Masters Degree  in Engineering  Management Expertise in speciﬁc  functional areas Wide business experience  across a variety of  industries Wide experience in  Information Technology Wide experience in  Information Technology Directorships held in  other public companies  (excluding foreign  companies and Section 8  companies) x Tata Sons Limited x Tata Industries Limited x The Tata Power  Company Limited x Tata Teleservices Limited x Tata Global Beverages  Limited x Tata Steel Limited x Tata Motors Limited x Tata Chemicals Limited x The Indian Hotels  Company Limited x C-Edge Technologies  Limited x CMC Limited x CMC Limited Memberships  /   Chairmanships of  committees of other public  companies (includes only  Audit Committee and  Stakeholders’ Relationship  Committee.
Nil Nil Nil Number of shares held in  the Company 41,63,526 88,528 2,800 Annual Report 2014-15 Notice26  To,  TSR Darashaw Limited Unit: Tata Consultancy Services Limited 6-10 Haji Moosa Patrawala Industrial Estate,  20 Dr. E. Moses Road, Mahalaxmi, Mumbai 400 011 Updation of Shareholder Information I / We request you to record the following information against my  /  our Folio No.
: General Information: Folio No.
: Name of the ﬁrst named Shareholder: PAN: * CIN / Registration No.
: *  (applicable to Corporate Shareholders) Tel No.
with STD Code: Mobile No.
: Email Id: *Self attested copy of the document(s) enclosed Bank Details: IFSC:   (11 digit) MICR: (9 digit) Bank A/c Type: Bank A/c No.
: * Name of the Bank: Bank Branch Address: * A blank cancelled cheque is enclosed to enable veriﬁcation of bank details I /  We hereby declare that the particulars given above are correct and complete.
If the transaction is delayed because  of incomplete or incorrect information, I / we would not hold the Company / RTA responsible.
I / We undertake to  inform any subsequent changes in the above particulars as and when the changes take place.
I / We understand that  the above details shall be maintained till I / we hold the securities under the above mentioned Folio No.
/ beneﬁciary  account.
Place: ____________________________ Date: Signature of Sole /  First holder          Directors’ Report 27  Directors’ Report Separator  Annual Report 2014-15 Directors’ Report28  Directors’ Report To the members, The directors submit annual report of Tata Consultancy Services Limited (the “Company” or “TCS”) along with the  audited ﬁnancial statements for the ﬁnancial year ended March 31, 2015.
Consolidated performance of the Company  and its subsidiaries has been referred to wherever required.
1.
Financial results (` crores) Unconsolidated Consolidated 2014-15 2013-14 2014-15 2013-14 Revenue from operations 73,578.06 64,672.93 94,648.41 81,809.36 Operating expenditure 52,549.86 43,139.21 70,166.70 56,656.57 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and  amortisation (EBITDA) 21,028.20 21,533.72 24,481.71 25,152.79 Other income (net) 4,466.73 3,114.71 3,229.91 1,636.74 Finance costs 79.57 23.41 104.19 38.52 Depreciation and amortisation expense 1,393.77 1,080.55 1,798.69 1,349.15 Proﬁt before exceptional item and tax 24,021.59 23,544.47 25,808.74 25,401.86 Exceptional item 528.38 - 489.75 - Proﬁt before tax (PBT) 24,549.97 23,544.47 26,298.49 25,401.86 Tax expense 5,293.01 5,069.55 6,238.79 6,069.99 Proﬁt for the year before minority interest 19,256.96 18,474.92 20,059.70 19,331.87 Minority interest - - 207.52 168.00 Proﬁt for the year (PAT) 19,256.96 18,474.92 19,852.18 19,163.87 Adjustment for amalgamation of acquired subsidiaries 71.78 2,375.22 - - Balance brought forward from previous year 36,420.45 24,602.85 39,504.51 29,529.97 Amount available for appropriation 55,749.19 45,452.99 59,356.69 48,693.84 Appropriations Interim dividends on equity shares (excluding tax) 10,772.92 2,349.87 10,772.92 2,349.87 Proposed dividend on equity shares (excluding tax) 4,700.95 3,917.46 4,700.95 3,917.46 Dividend on redeemable preference shares (excluding tax) - 28.76 - 28.76 Tax on dividends (interim and proposed) 2,591.54 788.96 2,635.69 795.68 Write back of tax on dividends of prior year (20.97) - (20.97) - Capital redemption reserve - 100.00 255.57 157.12 General reserve 1,925.69 1,847.49 1,953.64 1,883.41 Statutory reserve - - 46.24 57.03 Balance carried to balance sheet 35,779.06 36,420.45 39,012.65 39,504.51  (` 1 crore = ` 10 million) 2. Dividend Based on the Company’s performance, the directors are pleased to recommend for approval of the members a ﬁnal  dividend of ` 24 per share for the ﬁnancial year 2014-15 taking the total dividend to ` 79 per share (previous year   ` 32 per share), including a special dividend of ` 40 per share.
The ﬁnal dividend on equity shares, if approved by  the members would involve a cash outﬂow of ` 5,640.86 crores including dividend tax.
The total dividend on equity  shares including dividend tax for the ﬁnancial year 2014-15 would aggregate ` 18,065.41 crores (including special  dividend and tax thereon), resulting in a payout of 93.81% and ` 8,877.98 crores (excluding special dividend and tax  thereon), resulting in a payout of 46.10% of the unconsolidated proﬁts of the Company .
Directors’ Report 29  3.
Transfer to reserves  The Company proposes to transfer ` 1,925.69 crores to the general reserve out of the amount available for   appropriation and an amount of ` 35,779.06 crores is proposed to be retained in the proﬁt and loss account.
4.
Company’s performance  On consolidated basis, revenue from operations for the financial year 2014-15 at ` 94,648.41 crores was   higher by 15.69% over last year ( ` 81,809.36 crores in 2013-14).
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and  amortisation (EBITDA) was ` 27,109.62 crores excluding a signiﬁcant adjustment for one-time employee reward,  registering a growth of 7.78% over EBITDA of ` 25,152.79 crores in 2013-14.
The reported EBITDA aggregated   ` 24,481.71 crores.
Profit after tax (PAT) for the year was ` 21,911.85 crores excluding the said one-time  adjustment for employee reward recording a growth of 14.34% over the PAT of ` 19,163.87 crores in 2013-14.
The reported PAT aggregated ` 19,852.18 crores.
On unconsolidated basis, revenue from operations for the ﬁnancial year 2014-15 at ` 73,578.06 crores, was  higher by 13.77% over last year ( ` 64,672.93 crores in 2013-14).
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and  amortisation (EBITDA) was ` 23,354.62 crores excluding the one-time employee reward registering a growth of  8.46% over the EBITDA of ` 21,533.72 crores in 2013-14.
The reported EBITDA aggregated ` 21,028.20 crores.
Proﬁt after tax (PAT) for the year was ` 21,091.43 crores excluding the said one-time adjustment stated above  recording a growth of 14.16% over the PAT of ` 18,474.92 crores in 2013-14.
The reported PAT aggregated   ` 19,256.96 crores.
5.
Human resource development  Evolution of digital forces has transformed the way we live and work.
TCS has built a digital and vivacious  workplace which goes beyond constraints of time and distance.
This reimagined workplace has enabled   employees to interact and collaborate better with each other, thereby facilitating bonding of the global talent  pool and building “One TCS” culture.
‘Knome’, one of the interaction platforms, has transcended beyond just  interaction platform to become an effective tool driving transparency, policy changes and even experimenting  and crowd sourcing.
It has transformed the way TCSers interact socially or professionally.
The Company continues to grow its global scale and footprint with a diverse talent base of 319,656 employees  representing 122 nationalities, deployed across 55 countries.
From gender diversity point of view, the Company  is one of the largest employers of women with 105,481 women employees and a number of senior positions held  by women leaders.
Efﬁcient systems, processes and continuous investments in technology helps the Company  manage this scale and complexity of a large, distributed and diverse workforce.
The Company has hired and integrated 67,123 employees across the globe in FY 2014-15.
Through its Academic  Interface Program (AIP), the Company continues its efforts to strengthen relationship with key institutes globally.
The Company continues its focus on retention through employee engagement initiatives and provides a holistic  environment where employees get opportunities to realize their potential.
‘Career Hub’ captures the career  aspirations of employees and offers a framework to shape and propel their careers.
‘Anytime and Anywhere’  learning, reinforced through the digital learning ecosystem, help employees to build their competencies across  domains and technologies.
Company’s performance driven culture helps and motivates employees to excel in  their respective areas and progress within the organization.
Company’s Health and Safety Policy commits to provide a healthy and safe work environment to all employees.
Company’s ‘Fit4life’ initiative creates a culture of ﬁtness in the organization by helping to build a fraternity of  health and ﬁtness conscious employees.
‘SafetyFirst’ initiative was launched to make Safety and Wellbeing a part of the Company’s culture and to change  employee behaviour and attitude to safety.
From self-defence classes to using technology to track vehicles  transporting our employees, this initiative promotes several other safety campaigns across the organization to  improve safety awareness.
Each and every TCSer is urged to reﬂect on the need to ensure personal safety and  security at all times and make sure colleagues are safe too.
The Company also launched ‘Purpose4life’ initiative to consolidate the employee volunteering programs for  social cause under one umbrella so that larger programs which empower people to lead a better life could be  taken up.
Annual Report 2014-15 Directors’ Report30    Employee inputs from PULSE, TCS’ annual global employee satisfaction and engagement survey, are analyzed  to gain necessary insight into the needs of the diverse workforce.
This helps the Company to design new  interventions and take necessary steps to enhance the engagement level.
The Company’s progressive workforce  policies and beneﬁts, various employee engagement and welfare initiatives like Maitree and Employee Assistance  Program, have addressed stress management, promoted work life balance and helped the Company maintain  a low attrition which was 14.9% during this year.
6.
Quality initiatives  Sustained commitment to highest levels of quality, best-in-class service management, robust information security  practices and mature business continuity processes helped the Company attain signiﬁcant milestones during the  year .
The Company continues to maintain the enterprise-wide highest maturity Level 5 for CMMI-DEV® (Development)  version 1.3.
The Company was re-assessed enterprise-wide at the highest maturity Level 5 for CMMI-SVC®  (Services) version 1.3.
The Company successfully achieved the annual enterprise-wide ISO certiﬁcation for ISO 20000:2011 (Service  Management), ISO 9001:2008 (Quality Management), ISO 27001:2013 (Security Management) and ISO 22301:2012  (Business Continuity Management).
The Company is enterprise-wide certified for ISO 14001:2004 (Environmental Management) and   BS OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health and Safety Management) which demonstrates TCS’ strong  commitment to the environment and the occupational health and safety of its employees and business partners.
The Company also continues to maintain the industry speciﬁc quality certiﬁcations viz., AS 9100 (Aerospace  Industry), ISO 13485 (Medical Devices) and TL 9000 (Telecom Industry).
The cornerstone of these certiﬁcations is TCS’ integrated quality management system (iQMS TM), a global process- driven and customer-focused system which provides ‘One Global Service Standard’.
iQMSTM is the backbone that  supports TCS’ global network delivery model (GNDM TM).
At the annual ‘Knowledge Management’, India summit, hosted by the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII)  in March 2015, the Company was recognized as India’s ‘Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise’ (MAKE) winner  (1st place) for a third successive year.
The Company has received the prestigious MAKE award for the 10 th time  in India as well as Asia.
The Company also received the Global Independent Operating Unit (IOU) MAKE award  for the 5th time in a row.
In December 2014, the Company received the ‘Excellence Award’ in information security in the large IT Service  category by the Data Security Council of India (DSCI).
7.
Subsidiary companies  The Company has 60 subsidiaries as on March 31, 2015.
There are no associate companies within the meaning  of Section 2(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”).
There has been no material change in the nature of the  business of the subsidiaries.
Pursuant to provisions of Section 129(3) of the Act, a statement containing salient features of the ﬁnancial  statements of the Company’s subsidiaries in Form AOC-1 is attached to the ﬁnancial statements of the Company.
Pursuant to the provisions of section 136 of the Act, the ﬁnancial statements of the Company, consolidated  ﬁnancial statements along with relevant documents and separate audited accounts in respect of subsidiaries,  are available on the website of the Company.
TCS Foundation was incorporated as wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company on March 13, 2015 under Section 8  of the Act with the sole objective of undertaking Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities of the Company  and its subsidiaries.
During the year, the process of closure of following wholly-owned subsidiaries, which were not in operation,  was completed:  a. Tata Consultancy Services Morocco SARL AU (w.e.f.
May 30, 2014)  b. Computational Research Laboratories Inc. ( w.e.f.
February 18, 2015)  c. TCS Management Pty Ltd. (w.e.f.
March 23, 2015).
Directors’ Report 31   During the year, operations of following subsidiaries were reviewed and a restructuring process was carried out:  a.  CMC Limited   At the respective meetings held on October 16, 2014, the Boards of the Company and its subsidiary CMC  Limited (CMC) have approved a scheme of amalgamation between the Company and CMC (“Scheme”)  proposing amalgamation of CMC with the Company under Sections 391 to 394 of the Companies Act,  1956.
The appointed date for the proposed scheme is April 1, 2015.
Pursuant to an Order of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, a meeting of the equity shareholders  of the Company has been scheduled on April 28, 2015, for the purpose of seeking approval  of the shareholders for the Scheme.
The shareholders of CMC have, at their meeting held on   March 5, 2015, duly approved the Scheme.
The Company holds 51.12% stake in CMC.
CMC is engaged in procurement, installation, commissioning  and maintenance of computer and networking systems, providing education and training, designing,  developing and implementing software technologies and applications as well as providing professional  services in India and overseas.
The amalgamation will enable the Company to consolidate CMC’s operations in a single company with  rationalized structure, enhanced reach and greater ﬁnancial strength.
As per the terms of the Scheme, shareholders of CMC will receive 79 equity shares of ` 1 each of the  Company for 100 equity shares of ` 10 each of CMC.
The swap ratio has been arrived at based on the  valuation report prepared by B.S.R.
& Associates LLP.
The Scheme is subject to court, regulatory, shareholders  and other necessary approvals.
If approved, the paid-up share capital of the Company, will increase from   ` 195.87 crores to ` 197.04 crores.
b.  WTI Advanced Technology Limited   Pursuant to the Scheme of Amalgamation sanctioned by the Hon’ble High Court of Bombay vide its order  dated March 27, 2015, WTI Advanced Technology Limited (WTI) was amalgamated with the Company with  effect from appointed date, April 1, 2014.
Consequently, the entire business, assets, liabilities, duties and  obligations of WTI have been transferred to and vested in the Company with effect from April 1, 2014.
WTI was engaged in information technology and information technology engineering services mainly  comprising geographic information systems, computer aided design, engineering services and business  associate services which are complementary to the business of the Company.
c.  Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Limited   Nippon TCS Solution Center Limited, IT Frontier Corporation (ITF) and Tata Consultancy Services Japan  Limited merged on July 1, 2014 to form a consolidated entity – Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Limited,  wherein Tata Consultancy Services Asia Paciﬁc Pte.
Limited (a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company)  holds 51% stake and Mitsubishi Corporation holds the balance 49% stake.
ITF, a subsidiary of Mitsubishi,  brings its long standing relationships with Japanese corporations, talented workforce and competencies  in industries like retail, distribution and trading.
This strategic alliance with Mitsubishi has enabled the Company to leverage the mutual strengths in  Japanese market to have scale, strong local presence and capability to offer full range of TCS’ global  services to Japanese customers and accelerate growth in Japan market.
d.  Tata Consultancy Services (Africa) (Pty) Limited   On September 16, 2014, the Company acquired additional 40% ownership interest in Tata Consultancy  Services (Africa) (Pty) Limited (TCS Africa) from Tata Africa Holdings (SA) Pty Limited and thereby making  TCS Africa a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
TCS Africa is the holding company of Tata  Consultancy Services (South Africa) (Pty) Limited, which is engaged in IT services and consulting business  catering to the customers in South Africa region.
Annual Report 2014-15 Directors’ Report32  8.
Directors’ responsibility statement  Pursuant to Section 134(5) of the Companies Act, 2013, the board of directors, to the best of their knowledge  and ability , conﬁrm that:  i. in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable accounting standards have been followed and  there are no material departures;  ii.
they have selected such accounting policies and applied them consistently and made judgments and  estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the  Company at the end of the ﬁnancial year and of the proﬁt of the Company for that period;  iii.
they have taken proper and sufficient care for the maintenance of adequate accounting records in  accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for preventing  and detecting fraud and other irregularities;  iv.
they have prepared the annual accounts on a going concern basis;  v. they have laid down internal ﬁnancial controls to be followed by the Company and such internal ﬁnancial  controls are adequate and operating effectively;  vi.
they have devised proper systems to ensure compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and that  such systems were adequate and operating effectively.
Based on the framework of internal ﬁnancial controls and compliance systems established and maintained by  the Company, work performed by the internal, statutory and secretarial auditors and external consultants and  the reviews performed by management and the relevant board committees, including the audit committee,  the board is of the opinion that the Company’s internal ﬁnancial controls were adequate and effective during  the ﬁnancial year 2014-15.
9.
Directors and key managerial personnel  Mr .
S. Ramadorai, Vice Chairman, stepped down from the Board of the Company on October 6, 2014 on attaining  the age of 70 years as per the Company’s policy.
He was associated with the Company for over four decades in  various capacity.
Under his leadership as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Managing Director, TCS was transformed  into a global software company.
The Board places on record its appreciation of the invaluable contribution and  guidance provided by him.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 149 of the Act, which came into effect from April 1, 2014,   Mr. Aman Mehta, Mr. V. Thyagarajan, Prof. Clayton M. Christensen, Dr. Ron Sommer, Dr. Vijay Kelkar and   Mr. O. P. Bhatt were appointed as independent directors at the annual general meeting of the Company held  on June 27, 2014.
The terms and conditions of appointment of independent directors are as per Schedule IV of  the Act.
They have submitted a declaration that each of them meets the criteria of independence as provided  in Section 149(6) of the Act and there has been no change in the circumstances which may affect their status  as independent director during the year.
Mr. Cyrus Mistry retires by rotation and being eligible has offered himself for re-appointment.
During the year, the non-executive directors of the Company had no pecuniary relationship or transactions with  the Company.
Mr. N. Chandrasekaran was appointed the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Managing Director of the Company for a  period of ﬁve years with effect from October 6, 2009.
The Board of Directors at its Meeting held on September 3,  2014, has re-appointed him as the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Managing Director of the Company for a further  period of ﬁve years from October 6, 2014, subject to the approval of the members.
As part of leadership development, Ms. Aarthi Subramanian was appointed as Additional Director with effect  from March 12, 2015.
The Board has also appointed her as Executive Director with effect from the same date  for a period of three years.
She is the Global Head of Delivery Excellence Group responsible for governance of  service delivery, compliance and risk management.
Ms. Aarthi Subramanian holds a B.
Tech in Computer Science  and a Masters in Engineering Management from University of Kansas (USA) and has over 25 years of experience  across multiple industry solutions in different markets.
Directors’ Report 33   The resolutions seeking approval of the Members for the appointment of Mr. N. Chandrasekaran and Ms. Aarthi  Subramanian have been incorporated in the notice of the forthcoming annual general meeting of the Company  along with brief details about them.
The Company has received a notice under Section 160 of the Act along  with the requisite deposit proposing the appointment of Ms. Aarthi Subramanian.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 203 of the Act, which came into effect from April 1, 2014, the appointments  of Mr. N. Chandrasekaran, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Managing Director, Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan, Chief Financial  Ofﬁcer and Mr. Suprakash Mukhopadhyay, Company Secretary as key managerial personnel of the Company  were formalised.
10.
Number of meetings of the board  Seven meetings of the board were held during the year.
For details of the meetings of the board, please refer  to the corporate governance report, which forms part of this report.
11.
Board evaluation  The board of directors has carried out an annual evaluation of its own performance, Board committees and  individual directors pursuant to the provisions of the Act and the corporate governance requirements as prescribed   by Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) under Clause 49 of the Listing Agreements (“Clause 49”).
The performance of the Board was evaluated by the Board after seeking inputs from all the directors on the  basis of the criteria  such as the Board composition and structure, effectiveness of board processes, information  and functioning, etc.
The performance of the committees was evaluated by the board after seeking inputs from the committee members  on the basis of the criteria such as the composition of committees, effectiveness of committee meetings, etc.
The Board and the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) reviewed the performance of the  individual directors on the basis of the criteria such as the contribution of the individual director to the Board and  committee meetings like preparedness on the issues to be discussed, meaningful and constructive contribution  and inputs in meetings, etc.
In addition, the Chairman was also evaluated on the key aspects of his role.
In a separate meeting of independent Directors,  performance of non-independent directors, performance of the  board as a whole and performance of the Chairman was evaluated, taking into account the views of executive  directors and non-executive directors.
The same was discussed in the board meeting that followed the meeting  of the independent Directors, at which the performance of the Board, its committees and individual directors  was also discussed.
12.
Policy on directors’ appointment and remuneration and other details  The Company’s policy on directors’ appointment and remuneration and other matters provided in Section 178(3)  of the Act has been disclosed in the corporate governance report, which forms part of the directors’ report.
13.
Internal ﬁnancial control systems and their adequacy  The details in respect of internal ﬁnancial control and their adequacy are included in the Management Discussion  & Analysis, which forms part of this report.
14.
Audit committee  The details pertaining to composition of audit committee are included in the Corporate Governance Report,  which forms part of this report.
15.
Auditors  Pursuant to the provisions of Section 139 of the Act and the rules framed thereunder, Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP,  (‘DHS LLP’), Chartered Accountants, were appointed as statutory auditors of the Company from the conclusion  of the nineteenth annual general meeting (AGM) of the Company held on June 27, 2014 till the conclusion of  the twenty second AGM to be held in the year 2017, subject to ratiﬁcation of their appointment at every AGM.
Annual Report 2014-15 Directors’ Report34  16.
Auditors’ report and secretarial auditors’ report  The auditors’ report and secretarial auditors’ report does not contain any qualiﬁcations, reservations or adverse  remarks.
Report of the secretarial auditor is given as an annexure which forms part of this report.
17.
Risk management  The Board of the Company has formed a risk management committee to frame, implement and monitor the  risk management plan for the Company .
The committee is responsible for reviewing the risk management plan  and ensuring its effectiveness.
The audit committee has additional oversight in the area of ﬁnancial risks and  controls.
Major risks identiﬁed by the businesses and functions are systematically addressed through mitigating  actions on a continuing basis.
The development and implementation of risk management policy has been covered in the management discussion  and analysis, which forms part of this report.
18.
Particulars of loans, guarantees and investments  The particulars of loans, guarantees and investments have been disclosed in the ﬁnancial statements.
19.
Transactions with related parties  None of the transactions with related parties falls under the scope of Section 188(1) of the Act.
Information on  transactions with related parties pursuant to Section 134(3)(h) of the Act read with rule 8(2) of the Companies  (Accounts) Rules, 2014 are given in Annexur e I in Form AOC-2 and the same forms part of this report.
20.
Corporate social responsibility  The brief outline of the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy of the Company and the initiatives undertaken  by the Company on CSR activities during the year are set out in Annexur e II of this report in the format  prescribed in the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014.
The policy is available on the  website of the Company.
21.
Extract of annual return  As provided under Section 92(3) of the Act, the extract of annual return is given in Annexur e III in the prescribed  Form MGT-9, which forms part of this report.
22.
Particulars of employees  The information required under Section 197 of the Act read with rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and  Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 are given below:  a.
The ratio of the remuneration of each director to the median remuneration of the employees  of the Company for the ﬁnancial year: Non-executive directors Ratio to median  remuneration Mr. Cyrus Mistry - Mr. S. Ramadorai (up to October 5, 2014)* - Mr. Aman Mehta 48.92 Mr. V. Thyagarajan 36.20 Prof. Clayton Christensen 30.33 Dr. Ron Sommer 37.18 Dr. Vijay Kelkar 27.40 Mr. Ishaat Hussain 34.25 Mr. O. P. Bhatt 26.42 Mr. Phiroz Vandrevala 9.78 Executive directors Mr. N. Chandrasekaran 416.51 Ms. Aarthi Subramanian (w.e.f.
March 12, 2015)* -   * Since this information is for part of the year, the same is not comparable.
Directors’ Report 35   b.
The percentage increase in remuneration of each director, chief executive ofﬁcer, chief ﬁnancial  ofﬁcer, company secretary in the ﬁnancial year: Directors, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and  Company Secretary % increase in  remuneration in the  ﬁnancial year Mr. Cyrus Mistry - Mr. S. Ramadorai (Up to October 5, 2014)* - Mr. Aman Mehta 47.1 Mr. V. Thyagarajan 48.0 Prof. Clayton Christensen 63.2 Dr. Ron Sommer 52.0 Dr. Vijay Kelkar 40.0 Mr. Ishaat Hussain 40.0 Mr. O. P. Bhatt 28.6 Mr. Phiroz Vandrevala 25.0 Mr. N. Chandrasekaran, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Managing Director 13.9 Ms. Aarthi Subramanian, Executive Director (w.e.f.
March 12, 2015)* - Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 57.2 Mr. Suprakash Mukhopadhyay, Company Secretary 20.5 D2  * Since this information is for part of the year, the same is not comparable.
c. The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the ﬁnancial year: 4.6%  d. The number of permanent employees on the rolls of Company: 319,656  e. The explanation on the relationship between average increase in remuneration and Company  performance:   On an average, employees received an annual increase of 10% in India.
The individual increments varied  from 6% to 14%, based on individual performance.
Employees outside India received wage increase varying from 2% to 6%.
The increase in remuneration is  in line with the market trends in the respective countries.
In order to ensure that remuneration reﬂects  Company performance, the performance pay is also linked to organization performance, apart from an  individual’s performance.
f. Comparison of the remuneration of the key managerial personnel against the performance of  the Company: Aggregate remuneration of  key managerial personnel (KMP) in FY15 (` crores) 24.81 Revenue (` crores) 73,578.06 Remuneration of KMPs (as % of revenue)  0.03 Proﬁt before Tax (PBT) (` crores) 24,549.97 Remuneration of KMP (as % of PBT) 0.10  g. Variations in the market capitalisation of the Company, price earnings ratio as at the closing  date of the current ﬁnancial year and previous ﬁnancial year: Particulars March 31, 2015 March 31, 2014 % Change Market Capitalisation ( ` crores) 498,897.81 416,866.28 19.68 Price Earnings Ratio 25.13 21.79 15.33 Annual Report 2014-15 Directors’ Report36   h.  Percentage increase over decrease in the market quotations of the shares of the Company in  comparison to the rate at which the Company came out with the last public offer: Particulars March 31, 2015 August 19, 2004  (IPO) August 19, 2004  (IPO)* % Change* Market Price (BSE) 2,547.05 850.00 212.50 1,098.61 Market Price (NSE) 2,553.95 850.00 212.50 1,101.86   *Adjusted for 1:1 bonus issue in 2006 and 2009  i.
Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial  personnel in the last ﬁnancial year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the  managerial remuneration and justiﬁcation thereof and point out if there are any exceptional  circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration:   The average annual increase was around 10%.
However, during the course of the year, the total increase  is approximately 14%, after accounting for promotions and other event based compensation revisions.
Increase in the managerial remuneration for the year was 13.9%.
j.
Comparison of each remuneration of the key managerial personnel against the performance  of the Company: Mr. N. Chandrasekaran,  Chief Executive Ofﬁcer  and Managing Director Ms. Aarthi Subramanian,  Executive Director   (w.e.f.
March 12, 2015) Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan,  Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Mr. Suprakash   Mukhopadhyay, Company Secretary Remuneration in FY15   (` crores) 21.28 0.07 2.15 1.31 Revenue (` crores)  73,578.06 Remuneration as % of  revenue 0.03 - 0.003 0.002 Proﬁt before Tax (PBT)  (` crores) 24,549.97 Remuneration   (as % of  PBT) 0.09 - 0.01 0.01  k. The key parameters for any variable component of remuneration availed by the directors:   The members have, at the AGM of the Company on June 27, 2014 approved payment of commission to  the non-executive directors within the ceiling of 1% of the net proﬁts of the Company as computed under  the applicable provisions of the Act.
The said commission is decided each year by the board of directors  and distributed amongst the non-executive directors based on their attendance and contribution at the  board and certain committee meetings, as well as the time spent on operational matters other than at  meetings.
l. The ratio of the remuneration of the highest paid director to that of the employees who are  not directors but receive remuneration in excess of the highest paid director during the year:   None.
m. Afﬁrmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company:   The Company afﬁrms remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company.
n. The statement containing particulars of employees as required under Section 197(12) of the Act read  with Rule 5(2) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014,  is provided in a separate annexure forming part of this report.
Further, the report and the accounts are  being sent to the members excluding the aforesaid annexure.
In terms of Section 136 of the Act, the said  annexure is open for inspection at the Registered Ofﬁce of the Company.
Any shareholder interested in  obtaining a copy of the same may write to the Company Secretary.
Directors’ Report 37  23.
Disclosure requirements  As per Clause 49 of the listing agreements entered into with the stock exchanges, corporate governance report  with auditors’ certiﬁcate thereon and management discussion and analysis are attached, which form part of  this report.
As per Clause 55 of the listing agreements entered into with the stock exchanges, a business responsibility report  is attached and forms part of this annual report.
Details of the familiarization programme of the independent directors are available on the website of the  Company (URL: www.tcs.com/investors).
Policy for determining material subsidiaries of the Company is available on the website of the Company   (URL: www.tcs.com/investors).
Policy on dealing with related party transactions is available on the website of the Company   (URL: www.tcs.com/investors).
 The Company has formulated and published a Whistle Blower Policy to provide Vigil Mechanism for employees  including directors of the Company to report genuine concerns.
The provisions of this policy are in line with  the provisions of the Section 177(9) of the Act and the revised Clause 49 of the Listing Agreements with stock  exchanges (URL: www.tcs.com/investors).
24.
Deposits from public  The Company has not accepted any deposits from public and as such, no amount on account of principal or  interest on deposits from public was outstanding as on the date of the balance sheet.
25.
Conservation of energy, technology absorption, foreign exchange earnings and outgo   Conservation  of energy:  TCS continues to work on reducing carbon footprint in all its areas of operations through initiatives like (a)  green infrastructure,(b) green IT (data centers, laptops and servers etc, (c) operational energy efﬁciency , (d)  procurement of renewable energy through onsite solar power generating units.
TCS continues to add LEED  certiﬁed green buildings to its real estate portfolio.
Green data center continues to be a focus area with data  center power management initiative extended to 23 key data centers.
FY15 saw operational efﬁciency emerging  as a main pillar for achieving the target.
TCS leveraged its IT capabilities with the remote energy monitoring  centre (REMC) initiative, involving real time monitoring and controls aided by smart meters and MIS, to optimise  the operational energy efﬁciency across its ofﬁces.
The initiative covered 90 TCS ofﬁces which account for over  98% of our total power consumption.
The estimated savings achieved in the FY15 was approximately 10 million  units.
TCS was recognised for its commitment to climate change management and improvement in carbon  performance with inclusion in the Global 500 Carbon Performance Leadership Index (CPLI) 2014 published by  CDP.
This is the second year in a row that TCS has been included in this prestigious index.
TCS has enterprise wide certiﬁcation under IS0 14001:2004 (Environmental Management System) for its 100  ofﬁces globally.
Data on reduction in energy consumption and consequent reduction in carbon footprint have been provided  in the Business Responsibility Report.
Technology absorption, adaption and innovation:  The Company continues to use the latest technologies for improving the productivity and quality of its services  and products.
The Company’ s operations do not require signiﬁcant import of technology.
Research and Development (R&D): Speciﬁc areas in which R&D was carried out by the Company  As the digital customer is disrupting business models in several industries today, TCS research and innovation  teams are working with business units on meeting this challenge.
Two key business units, banking & ﬁnancial services and insurance & healthcare will have their own innovation  units on the established 4E model.
This will help the Company to scale up innovation in these speciﬁc domains  in a structured way, supplementing innovation at the corporate level.
The Company hopes to deploy innovation  management in other industry units in a phased manner.
‘Intelligent Cities’ initiative has grown this year to meet the needs of several global governments looking for  Annual Report 2014-15 Directors’ Report38  intelligent infrastructures.
TCS iCity Lab, in collaboration with Singapore Management University has achieved  its major research objectives across the intelligent city domain, including citizen frameworks for ageing and   chronic disease management, as well as personalised community healthcare services.
To enable better user experience TCS’ ‘Accessibility CoE’ released a set of tools based on universal design.
TCS innovation has invested in an application programming interfaces (APIs) initiative as APIs are seen as the  building blocks of a digital enterprise.
Several TCS explore projects in research areas of software, applications and systems progressed creating more IPR  for the Company.
In the software area, researchers are mining operational process models to facilitate training  and transformation and also modelling human behaviour in the workplace.
Research in the applications area  deepened explorations in several areas including ‘Enterprise Contextual Intelligence’, ‘Digital Health’ and ‘Digital  Manufacturing’.
The systems research team worked on ‘Analytics as a Service’, ‘Human Sensing’, ‘Performance  Prediction and Optimization’ among other things.
Many mature projects have moved from research to business.
One example of close coupling of TCS research and business is: TCS Research’s ‘Energy Carbon View Tool’ and  engineering and industrial services unit’s ‘Data Acquisition and Management System’ have together been  implemented in more than 75 buildings to monitor and save energy.
TCS researchers published 300+ quality papers in various journals and conferences.
509 patents were ﬁled this  year taking the tally of ﬁled patents to 2,277.
Total number of granted patents is 206.
TCS ‘Co-Innovation Network’ has expanded its footprint to include Canada, Finland, Israel and the London  Financial Technologies (FinTech) hubs.
Many co-innovation events including a start-up boot camp for FinTech  companies was held this year.
TCS research scholar programme is supporting 200 PhD scholars and the programme  has been extended for the next ﬁve years.
TCS research has been socialized well in FY15.
Our ﬂagship event in North America, The ‘TCS Innovation Forum  2014’, was well received with 185 clients and partners attending, ‘TCS Evangelize’ held 39 innovation days  and workshops for customers.
TCS continues to be in Forbes list of Top 100 innovation companies.
It scored 96  percentile in innovation management on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
A ‘TCS Research Solution’ won  the best demo award for mobile based blood pressure monitor at SenSys 2014, Memphis, USA.
TCS was placed  in CII’s Industrial Innovation Awards List for 2014.
Looking forward, TCS R&D will deepen exploration in current areas of research that have yielded beneﬁts to  customers and explore new areas in software, applications and systems.
Expenditure on R&D  TCS innovation labs are located in India and other parts of the world.
These R&D centers, as certified by  Department of Scientiﬁc & Industrial Research (DSIR) function from Pune, Chennai, Bengaluru, Delhi- NCR,   Hyderabad, Kolkata and Mumbai.
Expenditure incurred in the R&D centers and innovation centers during the ﬁnancial year 2014-15 and 2013-14  are given below: (` crores) Expenditure on R&D and innovation Unconsolidated Consolidated 2014-15 2013-14 2014-15 2013-14 a.
Capital 1.06 1.17 1.76 1.84 b. Recurring 191.56 175.14 223.31 197.07 c. Total R&D expenditure (a+b) 192.62 176.31 225.07 198.91 d. Innovation center expenditure # 620.62 636.41 684.18 714.85 e. Total R&D and innovation expenditure (c+d) 813.24 812.72 909.25 913.76 f. R&D and innovation expenditure as a percentage of  total turnover 1.11% 1.26% 0.96% 1.12%  #  Includes activities for customers at project locations Directors’ Report 39   Foreign exchange earnings and outgo  Export revenue constituted 93.37% of the total unconsolidated revenue in ﬁnancial year 2014-15 (93.16% in  ﬁnancial year 2013-14).
(` crores) Foreign exchange earnings and outgo 2014-15 2013-2014 a.
Foreign exchange earnings 71,818.32 62,260.84 b. CIF Value of imports 570.61 622.56 c. Expenditure in foreign currency 24,745.56 20,275.40 26.
Acknowledgement  The directors thank the Company’s employees, customers, vendors, investors and academic institutions for their  continuous support.
The directors also thank the government of various countries, government of India, the governments of various  states in India and concerned government departments / agencies for their co-operation.
The directors appreciate and value the contributions made by every member of the TCS family.
On behalf of the board of directors,    Mumbai  Cyrus Mistry April 16, 2015  Chairman Annual Report 2014-15 Directors’ Report40  Annexure I Form No.
AOC-2 (Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of section 134 of the Act and  Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)  Form for disclosure of particulars of contracts / arrangements entered into by the company with related parties  referred to in sub-section (1) of section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arms length transactions  under third proviso thereto:  1.
Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis:  Tata Consultancy Services  Limited (TCS) has not entered into any contract or arrangement or transaction with its related parties which is  not at arm’s length during ﬁnancial year 2014-15.
2.
Details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm’s length basis:   a.
Name(s) of the related party and nature of relationship: Tata America International Corporation (TAIC),  wholly owned subsidiary of TCS.
b.
Nature of contracts / arrangements / transactions: IT/ITES Services  c.  Duration of the contracts / arrangements / transactions: Contract dated March 21, 1995 as amended on  January 1, 2015 which is ongoing.
d.  Salient terms of the contracts or arrangements or transactions including the value, if any: TCS shall(i) provide  IT/ITES services to the existing and new clients of TAIC,(ii) diligently perform the contract in timely manner  and provide services in accordance with the work order issued by TAIC, (iii) submit invoices on monthly  basis for the services provided for each project as per the terms of contract and TAIC shall promptly pay  the same,(iv) be responsible for all the expenses incurred in connection with providing its services and(v)  comply with the local, state and federal laws and regulations applicable while providing services.
e.  Date(s) of approval by the Board, if any: Not applicable, since the contract was entered into in the ordinary  course of business and on arm’s length basis.
f.  Amount paid as advances, if any:  Nil On behalf of the board of directors,    Mumbai  Cyrus Mistry April 16, 2015  Chairman Directors’ Report 41  Annexure II ANNUAL REPORT ON CSR ACTIVITIES 1.
A brief outline of the company’ s CSR policy, including overview of projects or programmes proposed  to be undertaken and a reference to the web-link to the CSR policy and projects or programmes:  TCS’ CSR policy is aimed at demonstrating care for the community through its focus on education & skill  development, health & wellness and environmental sustainability including biodiversity, energy & water  conservation.
Also embedded in this objective is support to the disadvantaged/marginalized cross section of the  society by providing opportunities to improve their quality of life.
The projects undertaken will be within the broad framework of Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013.
In India,  the CSR projects carried out in FY 2014-15 such as training of J&K youth to promote employability, providing  functional literacy to adults, technology support to cancer research institutes and hospitals, training of women  to encourage entrepreneurship, education of underprivileged children, construction of sanitation facilities in  rural schools, support to disaster relief efforts, etc.
have beneﬁtted the target communities across the country.
Details of the CSR policy and projects or programmes undertaken by the Company are available on the website  of the Company.
In other countries of operation, the Company’s CSR projects are designed and implemented to address the needs  of the local community.
Projects such as goIT, IT Futures and work experience programme have been created  to speciﬁcally address the STEM education skill gap.
The Company’s global CSR expenditure and details of global programmes are elaborated in the Business  Responsibility Report.
2.
The composition of the CSR committee: The Company has a CSR committee of directors comprising of   Mr. Cyrus Mistry, Chairman of the Committee, Mr. O. P. Bhatt and Mr. N. Chandrasekaran.
3.
Average net proﬁt of the company for last three ﬁnancial years for the purpose of computation of  CSR: ` 14,250 crores.
4.
Prescribed CSR Expenditure (two per cent of the amount as in item 3 above): ` 285 crores 5.
Details of CSR spent during the ﬁnancial year:  a.
Total amount to be spent for the ﬁnancial year: ` 285 crores  b.
Amount unspent: ` 66 crores    Some of the large programmes such as providing hygienic sanitation facilities for girl students in schools  across the country are multi-year projects.
c. Manner in which the amount spent during the ﬁnancial year: Attached 6.
In case the company has failed to spend the two per cent of the average net proﬁt of the last  three ﬁnancial years or any part thereof, the company shall provide the reasons for not spending  the amount in its Board report.
Please refer to item no.
5(b) above.
7.
A responsibility statement of the CSR committee that the implementation and monitoring of CSR  policy, is in compliance with CSR objectives and policy of the Company.
We hereby declare that implementation and monitoring of the CSR policy are in compliance with CSR objectives  and policy of the Company.
N. Chandrasekaran Cyrus Mistry Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Managing Director Chairman, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Mumbai April 16, 2015 Annual Report 2014-15 Directors’ Report42  5(c) Manner in which amount spent during the ﬁnancial year is detailed below: Sr.  No.
CSR Project or Activity  identiﬁed Sector in which the project is covered Projects or programs          (1) Local area or other  (2) Specify the State  and district where  projects or programs  was undertaken.
Amount Outlay  (budget)  project or  programs wise  (`) Amount spent on  the projects or  programs   Subheads :   (1) Direct  Expenditure  (2) Overheads (`) Cumulative  Expenditure  upto the  reporting  period (`) Amount Spent :  Direct or through  implementing  agency 1.
Training and educating  children, women,  elderly, differently-abled, scholarships, special education and increasing employability Promoting education, including special education and employment enhancing vocation skills especially among children, women, elderly, and the differently- abled and livelihood enhancement projects Pan India  43,90,00,000  324,336,801  324,336,801 Direct:   ` 30,54,17,425                                Through implementing agency:  `  1,89,19,376 2.
Disaster relief, tech support  for hospitals including cancer institutes, ﬁnancing hygienic sanitation.
Eradicating hunger, poverty and malnutrition, promoting preventive health care and sanitation including contribution to the Swatch Bharat Kosh  set up by the Central Government for the promotion of sanitation and making available safe drinking water Pan India 1,00,00,00,000  1,88,453,684  18,84,53,684 Direct 3.
Childline  software support  to track missing children Promoting gender equality, empowering women, setting up homes and hostels for women and orphans; setting up old age homes, day care centres and such other facilities for senior citizens and measures for reducing inequalities faced by socially and economically backward groups Pan India  26,00,000  25,79,011  25,79,011 Direct 4.
Tree plantation drive Ensuring environmental sustainability, ecological  balance, protection of ﬂora and fauna, animal welfare, agroforestry, conservation of natural resources and maintaining quality of soil, air and water including contribution to the Clean Ganga Fund set up by the Central Government for rejuvenation of river Ganga  Velas and Mumbai (Maharshtra) & Chennai (Tamil Nadu)  5,00,000  4,74,300  4,74,300 Direct 5.
Contribution to Prime  Minister’s National Relief Fund & other Central Government Funds Contribution to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund or any other fund set up by the Central Government for socio-economic development and relief,  welfare of the scheduled castes, the scheduled tribes, other backward classes, minorities and women Pan India  1,59,00,000  1,48,67,748  1,48,67,748 Direct 6.
Contribution to TCS  Foundation and other Trusts engaged in socio-economic development and relief work Various sectors covered by Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013.
Pan India  1,50,00,00,000  1,53,93,58,920  1,53,93,58,920 Direct through   TCS Foundation 7.
Support for the restoration  and renovation of the heritage structure Protection of national heritage, art and culture including restoration of buildings and sites of historical importance and works of art; setting up public libraries; promotion and development of traditional arts and handicrafts Mumbai (Maharashtra)  4,20,00,000  1,68,00,000  3,36,00,000 Through  Implementation Agency Sub-total  3,00,00,00,000  2,08,68,70,464  2,10,36,70,464  Overhead  9,73,09,442  9,81,49,442  Total CSR Spend  2,18,41,79,906  2,20,18,19,906  Directors’ Report 43  Annexure III Form No.
MGT-9 EXTRACT OF ANNUAL RETURN as on the ﬁnancial year ended on March 31, 2015 [Pursuant to Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 12(1) of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014] I.
REGISTRATION AND OTHER DETAILS :  i. CIN:  L22210MH1995PLC084781  ii.
Registration Date: January 19, 1995  iii.
Name of the Company: Tata Consultancy Services Limited  iv.
Category / Sub-Category of the Company: Company Limited by shares / Indian Non-Government Company  v. Address of the Registered ofﬁce and contact details:   9 th Floor, Nirmal Building,    Nariman Point,    Mumbai 400 021.
Tel: 91 22 6778 9595,    Fax: 91 22 6778 9660   Email: investor.relations@tcs.com   Website: www.tcs.com  vi.
Whether listed company: Yes  vii.
Name, Address and Contact details of Registrar and Transfer Agent, if any   TSR DARASHAW Limited   6-10, Haji Moosa Patrawala Industrial Estate   20, Dr. E. Moses Road,    Mahalaxmi   Mumbai 400 011   Tel: 91 22 6656 8484,    Fax: 91 22 6656 8494   Email: csg-unit@tsrdarashaw.com   Website: www.tsrdarashaw.com II.
PRINCIPAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY  All the business activities contributing 10% or more of the total turnover of the company shall be stated:- Sl.
No.
Name and Description of main  products / services NIC Code of the Product /  service % to total turnover of the  company 1.
Computer Programming,  Consultancy and Related Activities 620 100 Annual Report 2014-15 Directors’ Report44  III.
PARTICULARS OF HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES – Sr. No.
Name and Address of the Company CIN / GLN Holding /  Subsidiary /  Associate % of  shares  held Applicable  Section 1.
Tata Sons Limited  Bombay House, 24, Homi Modi Street, Mumbai 400 001 U99999MH1917PLC000478 Holding 73.69 2(46) 2.
CMC Limited PTI Building, 5th ﬂoor, 4 Sansad Marg, New Delhi- 110001, India L72200AP1975PLC001970 Subsidiary 51.12 2(87) 3.
APONLINE Limited Kohinoor, e-Park Plot No.1, Jubilee Gardens, Hyderabad -500081,   Andhra Pradesh, India U75142AP2002PLC039671 - do - 89 2(87) 4.
C-Edge Technologies Limited Palm Centre, Banyan Park, Suren Road, Andheri East, Mumbai 400 093, Maharashtra, India  U72900MH2006PLC159038 - do - 51 2(87) 5.
MP Online Limited Nirupam, Shopping Mall, 2nd Floor, Ahmedpur, Hoshangabad Road,  Bhopal - 462026, Madhya Pradesh, India U72400MP2006PLC018777 - do - 89 2(87) 6.
TCS e-Serve International Limited 9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400021, Maharashtra, India U72300MH2007PLC240002 - do - 100 2(87) 7.
MahaOnline Limited Directorate of Information Technology,Mantralaya Annex,7th Floor,  Mumbai - 400032, Maharashtra India  U72900MH2010PLC206026 - do - 74 2(87) 8.
TCS Foundation Nirmal, 9th ﬂoor, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 Maharashtra, India U74999MH2015NPL262710 - do - 100 2(87) 9.
Tata Consultancy Services (Africa) (PTY) Ltd. 39 Ferguson Road, Illovo, Johannesburg 2196, South Africa Not applicable - do - 100 2(87) 10.
Tata Consultancy Services (South Africa) (PTY) Ltd. 39 Ferguson Road, Illovo, Johannesburg 2196, South Africa - do - - do - 75 2(87) 11.
Tata Consultancy Services Qatar S. S. C. 935 Al Fardan Ofﬁce Tower, Al Fardan 61, P.O.
Box No.
31316, Doha, State of Qatar - do - - do - 100 2(87) 12.
Tata Consultancy Services Asia Paciﬁc Pte Ltd. 60, Anson Road, # 18-01,Mapletree Anson Singapore 079914 - do - - do - 100 2(87) 13.
Tata Consultancy Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd Level 8, Symphony House, Block D13, Pusat Dagangan Dana 1, Jalan PJU  1A/46,47301 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan,Malaysia - do - - do - 100 2(87) 14.
Tata Consultancy Services (China) Co., Ltd. 1st ﬂoor, Tower D 3rd Block Zhongguancun Software Park Building No.
9, No.
8  Dongbeiwang West Road, Haidian District, Beijing, Peoples Republic of China - do - - do - 90 2(87) 15.
PT Tata Consultancy Services Indonesia Gedung Menara Prima Lt.6 Unit F, Jl.
Dr. Ide Anak Agung Gde Agung Blok 6.2,  Kawasan Mega Kuningan Kel.
Kuningan Timur, Kec.
Setiabudi Jakarta Selatan 12950 - do - - do - 100 2(87) Directors’ Report 45  Sr. No.
Name and Address of the Company CIN / GLN Holding /  Subsidiary /  Associate % of  shares  held Applicable  Section 16.
Tata Consultancy Services (Thailand) Limited 32/46, Sino-Thai Tower, 18th Floor,  Sukhumvit 21 Road (Asoke) Road, Klongtoey-Nua Sub-District, Wattana District, Bangkok - do - - do - 100 2(87) 17.
Tata Consultancy Services (Philippines) Inc. 10th Floor Accralaw Tower, 30th St., cor 2nd Ave. E-Square IT Zone, Crescent Park West, Bonifacio Global City, Taguig City Philippines 1634 - do - - do - 100 2(87) 18.
Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd. 4th Floor, 38 Masonic Mt Building, 4-1-4 Shibakoen, Minato Ku, Tokyo 105-8551, Japan - do - - do - 51 2(87) 19.
Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc. 5750, Explorer Drive, Suite 200, Mississauga, Ontario, L4W 0A9, Canada - do - - do - 100 2(87) 20.
Tata Consultancy Services De Espana S.A. Ediﬁcio Cuzco III Paseo de la Castellana 135, 2ª planta.
28046 Madrid, Spain - do - - do - 100 2(87) 21.
Tata Consultancy Services Deutschland GmbH Messeturm, D-60308 Frankfurt a.M., Germany - do - - do - 100 2(87) 22.
Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV Symphony Towers, 20th Floor, Gustav Mahlerplein 85-91, 1082 MS Amsterdam The Netherlands - do - - do - 100 2(87) 23.
Tata Consultancy Services Sverige AB Mäster Samuelsgatan, 42 SE 111 57, Sweden - do - - do - 100 2(87) 24.
Tata Consultancy Services Belgium SA Boulevard Brand, Whitlock 87, Box-3, 1200 Woluwe- St. Lambert, Brussels, Belgium - do - - do - 100 2(87) 25.
TCS Italia SRL Via Dei Piatti, 4, C/o.
Business Centre Thurma, 20123 Milano, Italy - do - - do - 100 2(87) 26 Diligenta Limited Lynch Wood, Peterborough, Cambridgeshire, PE2 6FY, United Kingdom - do - - do - 100 2(87) 27.
Tata Consultancy Services Portugal Unipessoal Limitada Av.
José Gomes Ferreira, 15.7 U, 1495-139 Algés Portugal - do - - do - 100 2(87) 28.
Tata Consultancy Services Luxembourg S.A Rue Pafebruch 89D, L - 8308 Capellen, Luxembourg - do - - do - 100 2(87) 29.
Tata Consultancy Services Switzerland Ltd Thurgauerstrasse 36/38, 8050 Zurich, Switzerland  - do - - do - 100 2(87) 30.
Tata Consultancy Services France S.A.S.
Tour Franklin - La Defense, 8 100-101 Quartier Boieldieu, 92042 Paris La Defense Cedex, Paris 92053, France - do - - do - 100 2(87) 31.
Diligenta 2 Limited Lynch Wood, Peterborough, Cambridgeshire, PE2 6FY, United Kingdom - do - - do - 100 2(87) III.
PARTICULARS OF HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES (Contd.)
Annual Report 2014-15 Directors’ Report46  Sr. No.
Name and Address of the Company CIN / GLN Holding /  Subsidiary /  Associate % of  shares  held Applicable  Section 32.
Tata Consultancy Services Osterreich GmbH Schottengasse 1, 1010 Wien, Austria - do - - do - 100 2(87) 33.
Tata Consultancy Services Danmark ApS C/o CityCallCenter ApS, Hammerensgade 1, 2, 1267 Kobenhavn K, Denmark - do - - do - 100 2(87) 34.
Alti S.A. 88 de Villers, 92300 Levallois Perret, Paris, France - do - - do - 100 2(87) 35.
PLANAXIS TECHNOLOGIES INC 505, Boulevard de la Maisonneuve, Ouest H3A 3C2 Montréal (Quebec), Canada - do - - do - 100 2(87) 36.
ALTI HR S.A.S.
88, rue de Villiers, 92300 Levallois Perret, Paris, France - do - - do - 100 2(87) 37.
ALTI INFRASTRUCTURES SYSTEMES & RESEAUX S.A.S.
88, rue de Villiers, 92300 Levallois Perret, Paris, France - do - - do - 100 2(87) 38.
ALTI NV Lenneke Marelaan 6 – 1932 Zaventem, (Belgium) - do - - do - 100 2(87) 39.
TESCOM (France) Software Systems Testing S.A.R.L.
88, rue de Villiers, 92300 Levallois Perret, Paris, France - do - - do - 100 2(87) 40.
ALTI Switzerland S.A. Avenue Louis-Casaî – Genève, (Suisse) - do - - do - 100 2(87) 41.
TEAMLINK Struikheidestraat 2, 8020 Hertsberge - Belgique (Belgium) - do - - do - 100 2(87) 42.
TCS FNS Pty Limited Level 6, 76 Berry Street, North Sydney, NSW 2060 Australia - do - - do - 100 2(87) 43.
TCS Financial Solutions Australia Holdings Pty Limited Level 6, 76 Berry Street, North Sydney, NSW 2060 Australia  - do - - do - 100 2(87) 44.
TCS Financial Solutions Australia Pty Limited Level 6, 76 Berry Street, North Sydney, NSW 2060 Australia - do - - do - 100 2(87) 45.
PT Financial Network Services Menara Prima # 16 – F, Jl.
DR. Ide Anak Agung Gde Agung Blok 6.2, Kawasan  Mega Kuningan, Jakarta Selatan, 12950 - Indonesia - do - - do - 100 2(87) 46.
TCS Financial Solutions Beijing Co., Ltd. (04) Floor 3, 10 Futong East Street, Chaoyang District, Beijing, Postcode 100102, Peoples Republic of China - do - - do - 100 2(87) 47.
TCS Iberoamerica SA Colonia 1329; piso 3, Montevideo, Uruguay.
- do - - do - 100 2(87) 48.
TCS Solution Center S.A. Ruta 8 km 17500, Zonamerica, Ed 60, Ecuador - do - - do - 100 2(87) 49.
Tata Consultancy Services Argentina S.A. Uspallata 3046; Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires, Argentina (CP: C1437JCJ) - do - - do - 99.99 2(87) III.
PARTICULARS OF HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES (Contd.)
Directors’ Report 47  Sr. No.
Name and Address of the Company CIN / GLN Holding /  Subsidiary /  Associate % of  shares  held Applicable  Section 50.
Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A., De C.V. Av.
Insurgentes Sur 664, 2nd Floor, Colonia Del Valle, México, D.F.
, México  (Postal Code: 03100) - do - - do - 100 2(87) 51.
TCS Inversiones Chile Limitada Curico 18, Santiago, Chile - do - - do - 99.99 2(87) 52.
Tata Consultancy Services Do Brasil Ltda Av.
Aruanã, 70.
Tamboré - Barueri; São Paulo, Brazil (Postal Code: 06460-010) - do - - do - 100 2(87) 53.
Tata Consultancy Services Chile S.A. Curicó 18, piso 3,Oﬁcina 502,Santiago, Chile - do - - do - 100 2(87) 54.
TATASOLUTION CENTER S.A Francisco Salazar E10-61 and Camilo Destruge Building INLUXOR 7th Floor; Quito, Ecuador - do - - do - 100 2(87) 55.
TCS Uruguay S.A. Colonia 1329; Piso 3, Montevideo, Uruguay (Postal Code: 11100)  - do - - do - 100 2(87) 56.
MGDC S.C. Avenue Tizoc No.97, Colonia Ciudad del Sol; Zapopan Jalisco, México,  (Postal Code: 45050) - do - - do - 100 2(87) 57.
Tata America International Corporation 101, Park Avenue, 26th Floor, New York 10178, U.S.A. - do - - do - 100 2(87) 58.
CMC Americas Inc 4354 South Sherwood Forest Building, Suit No 175, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70816, U.S.A. - do - - do - 100 2(87) 59.
TCS e-Serve America, Inc Corporation Trust Center, 1209, Orange Street, Wilmington, New Castle County, Delaware – 19801 U.S.A. - do - - do - 100 2(87) 60.
MS CJV Investments Corporation C/o CSC Services of Nevada, Inc., (Commercial Registered Agent), 502 East John Street, Carson City, NV 89706, U.S.A. - do - - do - 100 2(87) 61.
CMC eBiz Inc Suit No.
400, Stonebridge Plaza II, 9600 North MoPac  Expressway, AUSTIN, Texas-78759, U.S.A. - do - - do - 100 2(87) III.
PARTICULARS OF HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES (Contd.)
Annual Report 2014-15 Directors’ Report48  IV.
SHARE HOLDING PATTERN (Equity Share Capital Breakup as percentage of Total Equity)  i. Category-wise Share Holding Category of  Shareholers No.of Shares held at the beginning of the year   i.e 01.04.2014 No.of Shares held at the end of the year   i.e 31.03.2015 %  Change  during  the  year Demat Physical Total % of  Total  Shares Demat Physical Total % of  Total  Shares A.  Promoters a.
Individuals /  Hindu Undivided Family 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 b.
Central  Government / State Governments(s) 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 c. Bodies  Corporate 1,445,813,486 0 1,445,813,486 73.814 1,445,813,486 0 1,445,813,486 73.814 0.000 d. Financial  Institutions / Banks 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 e. Others - Trust 1,607,624 0 1,607,624 0.082 1,607,624 0 1,607,624 0.082 0.000 Sub-Total (A) (1) 1,447,421,110 0 1,447,421,110 73.896 1,447,421,110 0 1,447,421,110 73.896 0.000 2.
Foreign a.
Individuals  (Non-Resident Individuals / Foreign Individuals) 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 b.
Bodies  Corporate 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 c. Institutions 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 d. Qualiﬁed  Foreign Investor 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 e. Others - Trust 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Sub-Total (A) (2) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total Shareholding of Promoter and Promoter Group (A)  1,447,421,110 0 1,447,421,110 73.896 1,447,421,110 0 1,447,421,110 73.896 0.000 B.
Public  Shareholding 1.
Institutions a.
Mutual Funds  / UTI 24,601,696 1,773 24,603,469 1.256 17,187,315 1,773 17,189,088 0.878 -0.379 b.
Financial  Institutions / Banks 411,889 2,703 414,592 0.021 481,037 2,703 483,740 0.025 0.004 c. Central  Government / State Governments(s) 378,954 0 378,954 0.019 495,610 0 495,610 0.025 0.006 d. Venture Capital  Funds 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  e. Insurance  Companies 79,667,652 0 79,667,652 4.067 73,858,592 0 73,858,592 3.771 -0.297 Directors’ Report 49  Category of  Shareholers No.of Shares held at the beginning of the year   i.e 01.04.2014 No.of Shares held at the end of the year   i.e 31.03.2015 %  Change  during  the  year Demat Physical Total % of  Total  Shares Demat Physical Total % of  Total  Shares f. Foreign  Institutional Investors 315,454,993 0 315,454,993 16.105 292,590,035 0 292,590,035 14.938 -1.167 g. Foreign Venture  Capital Investors 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 h. Qualiﬁed  Foreign Investor 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 i.
Foreign Portfolio  Investors (Corporate) 0 0 0 0 39,280,903 0 39,280,903 2.005 2.005 j.
Any Other  (specify) 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Sub-Total (B) (1) 420,515,184 4,476 420,519,660 21.469 423,893,492 4,476 423,897,968 21.641 0.172 2.
Non- Institutions a.
Bodies  Corporate 8,524,831 208,182 8,733,013 0.446 6,631,652 217,004 6,848,656 0.350 -0.096 b.
Individuals - i.
Individual  shareholders holding nominal share capital upto ` 1 lakh  63,985,173 1,080,740 65,065,913 3.322 63,515,258 1,004,954 64,520,212 3.294 -0.028 ii.
Individual  shareholders holding nominal share capital in excess of  ` 1 lakh  13,974,714 0 13,974,714 0.713 14,053,858 0 14,053,858 0.717 0.004 c. Qualiﬁed  Foreign Investor 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 d. Any Other 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 i.
Trusts 971,612 0 971,612 0.050 1,168,608 0 1,168,608 0.060 0.010 ii.
Foreign  Companies 28 0 28 0.000 28 0 28 0.000 0.000 iii.
Clearing  Members / Clearing House 2,041,929 0 2,041,929 0.104 817,539 0 817,539 0.042 -0.063 Sub-total (B) (2) 89,498,287 1,288,922 90,787,209 4.635 86,186,943 1,221,958 87,408,901 4.463 -0.172 Total Public Shareholding  (B) = (B)(1)+(B)(2) 510,013,471 1,293,398 511,306,869 26.104 510,080,435 1,226,434 511,306,869 26.104 0.000 TOTAL (A)+(B) 1,957,434,581 1,293,398 1,958,727,979 100.000 1,957,501,545 1,226,434 1,958,727,979 100.000 0.000 C. Shares held by  Custodians and against which Depository Receipts have been issued 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 GRAND TOTAL (A)+(B)+(C) 1,957,434,581 1,293,398 1,958,727,979 100.000 1,957,501,545 1,226,434 1,958,727,979 100.000 Annual Report 2014-15 Directors’ Report50   ii.
Shar eholding of Promoters Sr.   No.
Shareholder’s Name Shareholding at the beginning of the  year 01.04.2014 Shareholding at the end of the year  31.03.2015 % change in  shareholding  during the  yearNo.of Shares % of total  Shares of  the   company % of Shares  Pledged/en- cumbered to  total shares No.of Shares % of total  Shares of  the   company % of Shares  Pledged/  encumbered  to total  shares 1.
Tata Sons Limited 1,443,451,698 73.69 1.33 1,443,451,698 73.69 1.46 0.00 2.
Jamsetji Tata Trust 1,160,280 0.06 0.00 1,160,280 0.06 0.00 0.00 3.
Tata Industries Limited 1,029,700 0.05 0.00 1,029,700 0.05 0.00 0.00 4.
AF-Taab Investment  Company Limited 633,352 0.03 0.00 633,352 0.03 0.00 0.00 5.
Tata Investment  Corporation Limited 590,452 0.03 0.00 590,452 0.03 0.00 0.00 6.
Navajbai Ratan Tata Trust 447,344 0.02 0.00 447,344 0.02 0.00 0.00 7.
Tata International  Limited 83,232 0.00 0.00 83,232 0.00 0.00 0.00 8.
Tata Steel Limited 24,400 0.00 0.00 24,400 0.00 0.00 0.00 9.
Tata Power Company  Limited 452 0.00 0.00 452 0.00 0.00 0.00 10.
Tata Capital Limited 200 0.00 0.00 200 0.00 0.00 0.00 1,447,421,110 73.90 1.33 1,447,421,110 73.90 1.46 0.00  iii.
Change in Promoters’ Shareholding (please specify, if there is no change) Sr.   No.
Shareholding at the beginning of the year Cumulative Shareholding during the year No.
of  shares % of total  shares of the  company No.
of  shares % of total  shares of the  company 1.
At the beginning of the year There is no change in Promoters’ Shareholding between  01.04.2014 to 31.03.2015 2.
Date wise Increase / Decrease in  Promoters Share holding during the year  specifying the reasons for increase /  decrease (e.g.
allotment / transfer /  bonus/ sweat equity etc): 3.
At the end of the year Directors’ Report 51   iv.
Shareholding Pattern of top ten Shareholders (other than Directors, Promoters and Holders of  GDRs and ADRs): Sr.   No.
Top 10 Shareholders* Shareholding at the  beginning of the year 01-04-2014 Cumulative  Shareholding end of  the year 31-03-2015 No.
of  shares % of total  shares  of the  company No.
of  shares % of total  shares  of the  company 1.
Life Insurance Corporation of India 49,312,497 2.51 48,141,245 2.46 2.
Franklin Templeton Investment Funds 23,316,367 1.19 21,945,979 1.12 3.
Abu Dhabi Investment Authority 15,254,486 0.78 16,325,578 0.83 4.
Oppenheimer Developing Markets Fund 9,916,961 0.51 10,977,181 0.56 5.
Government of Singapore 9,811,302 0.50 9,095,739 0.46 6.
Vanguard Emerging Markets Stock Index Fund,  a series of Vanguard International Equity Index  Fund 8,237,765 0.42 8,550,350 0.44 7.
Aberdeen Global Indian Equity (Mauritius)  Limited 11,400,000 0.58 8,465,000 0.43 8.
Lazard Asset Management LLC A/C Lazard  Emerging Markets Portfolio 7,768,771 0.40 7,793,168 0.40 9.
National Westminster Bank Plc As Depositary of  First State Asia Paciﬁc Leaders Fund a sub Fund of  First State Investments ICVC 6,965,138 0.36 7,706,168 0.39 10.
Stichting Pensioenfonds Abp 7,078,171 0.36 4,284,492 0.22  *The shares of the Company are traded on a daily basis and hence the date wise increase / decrease in  shareholding is not indicated.
Shareholding is consolidated based on permanant account number (PAN) of the  shareholder.
v. Shareholding of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel: Sr.   No.
Folio/Beneﬁciary  Account no Name of the   ShareHolder Date Reason Shareholding at the  beginning of the  year Cumulative   Shareholding   during the year No.
of  shares % of total  shares  of the  company No.
of  shares % of total  shares  of the  company 1.
IN300167-10033607  Mr. Cyrus Pallonji Mistry 1-Apr-2014 At the beginning of the year 2,250,000 0.11 2,250,000 0.11 31-Mar-2015 At the end of the year 2,250,000 0.11 IN300360-21724244  Mr. Cyrus Pallonji Mistry 1-Apr-2014 At the beginning of the year 1,913,526 0.10 1,913,526 0.10 31-Mar-2015 At the end of the year 1,913,526 0.10 Total : 4,163,526 0.21 4,163,526 0.21 2.
IN302638-10006854 Mr. S. Ramadorai 1-Apr-2014 At the beginning of the year 199,120 0.01 199,120 0.01 05-Oct-2014 Retired as Director and   Vice Chairman of the  Company w.e.f 06-Oct-2014 199,120 0.01 3.
IN300095-10105315  Mr. N. Chandrasekaran 1-Apr-2014 At the beginning of the year 78,528 0.00 78,528 0.00 31-Mar-2015 At the end of the year 78,528 0.00 IN302902-42164138  Mr. N. Chandrasekaran 1-Apr-2014 At the beginning of the year 10,000 0.00 10,000 0.00 31-Mar-2015 At the end of the year 10,000 0.00 Total : 88,528 0.00 88,528 0.00 Annual Report 2014-15 Directors’ Report52  Sr.   No.
Folio/Beneﬁciary  Account no Name of the   ShareHolder Date Reason Shareholding at the  beginning of the  year Cumulative   Shareholding   during the year No.
of  shares % of total  shares  of the  company No.
of  shares % of total  shares  of the  company 4.
IN300644-10041586  Mr. Ishaat Hussain 1-Apr-2014 At the beginning of the year 1,740 0.00 1,740 0.00 31-Mar-2015 At the end of the year 1,740 0.00 Total : 1,740 0.00 1,740 0.00 5.
IN302902-40431894  Ms. Aarthi Subramanian 1-Apr-2014 At the beginning of the year 2,800 0.00 2,800 0.00 31-Mar-2015 At the end of the year 2,800 0.00 Total : 2,800 0.00 2,800 0.00 Key Managerial Personnel 1.
IN300183-11011075 Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan 1-Apr-2014 At the beginning of the year 130 0.00 130 0.00 31-Mar-2015 At the end of the year 130 0.00 Total : 130 0.00 130 0.00   V. INDEBTEDNESS  Indebtedness of the Company including interest outstanding / accrued but not due for payment (` crores) Secured Loans  excluding  deposits 1 Unsecured  Loans 2 Deposits 3 Total  Indebtedness Indebtedness at the beginning of the ﬁnancial year i.
Principal Amount 113.96 1.52 11.33 126.81 ii.
Interest due but not paid iii.
Interest accrued but not due - 0.03 - 0.03 Total (i+ii+iii) 113.96 1.55 11.33 126.84 Change in indebtedness during the ﬁnancial year x Addition- 185.08 - 185.08 x Reduction (27.72) (0.83) (28.55) Net Change (27.72) 185.08 (0.83) 156.53 Indebtedness at the end of the ﬁnancial year i.
Principal Amount 86.24 186.61 10.50 283.35 ii.
Interest due but not paid iii.
Interest accrued but not due - 0.02 - 0.02 Total (i+ii+iii) 86.24 186.63 10.50 283.37  Notes:  1.
These liabilities represent obligations under ﬁnance lease including current portion of obligations.
2.
These represent the bank overdraft ( ` 185.56 crores) and other borrowings as of March 31, 2015.
3.
These are deposits received on account of sub-lease of premises and from vendors for contracts to be  executed.
Directors’ Report 53  VI.
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL  A. Remuneration to Managing Director, Whole-time Directors and / or Manager: (` lakh) Sr.   No.
Particulars of Remuneration Name of MD/WTD/Manager Total Amount Mr. N. Chandrasekaran CEO & MD Ms. Aarthi  Subramanian, ED  (w.e.f.
March 12, 2015)  1.
Gross salary (a) Salary as per provisions contained in Section  17(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 179.58 1.67 181.25 (b) Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) of the Income- tax Act, 1961 262.20 - 262.20 (c) Proﬁts in lieu of salary under Section 17(3)  of the Income tax Act, 1961 -- 2.
Stock Option - - 3.
Sweat Equity - - 4.
Commission - as % of proﬁt 1,600.00 - 1,600.00 5.
Others, Allowances 86.61 5.19 91.80 Total (A) 2,128.39 6.86 2,135.25 Ceiling as per the Act (@ 10% of proﬁts calculated  under Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013) 239,457.58  B. Remuneration to other directors: (Refer Corporate Governance Report for details) (` lakh) Sr.   No.
Particulars of Remuneration Fee for  attending board  / committee  meetings Commission Others,  please  specify Total Amount 1.
Independent Directors Mr. Aman Mehta 1.50 250.00 - 251.50 Mr. V. Thyagarajan 1.90 185.00 - 186.90 Prof. Clayton M. Christensen 0.30 155.00 - 155.30 Dr. Ron Sommer 1.40 190.00 - 191.40 Dr. Vijay Kelkar 1.40 140.00 - 141.40 Mr. O. P. Bhatt 1.70 135.00 - 136.70 Total (1) 8.20 1,055.00 1,063.20 2.
Other Non-Executive Directors Mr. Cyrus Mistry 1.20 - - 1.20 Mr. S. Ramadorai* 0.50 200.00 - 200.50 Mr. Ishaat Hussain 1.70 175.00 - 176.70 Mr. Phiroz Vandrevala 0.60 50.00 - 50.60 Total (2) 4.00 425.00 429.00 Total (B)=(1+2) 12.20 1,480.00 1,492.20 Total Managerial Remuneration 1,480.00 Ceiling as per the Act (@ 1% of profits  calculated under Section 198 of the  Companies Act, 2013) 23,945.76  *Retired as the Director and Vice Chairman of the Company w.e.f.
October 6, 2014.
Annual Report 2014-15 Directors’ Report54    C. Remuneration to Key Managerial Personnel other than MD / Manager / WTD (` lakh) Sr.   No.
Particulars of Remuneration Key Managerial Personnel Mr. Rajesh   Gopinathan, CFO Mr. Suprakash  Mukhopadhyay, Company Secretary Total 1.
Gross salary a.
Salary as per provisions contained in  Section 17(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 43.43 28.68 72.11 b.
Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) of the   Income-tax Act, 1961 0.40 16.01 16.41 c. Proﬁts in lieu of salary under Section 17(3)  of the Income-tax Act, 1961 -- - 2.
Stock Option - - - 3.
Sweat Equity - - - 4.
Commission - as % of proﬁt -- - 5.
Others, Allowances 171.08 86.50 257.58 Total 214.91 131.19 346.10 VII.
PENALTIES / PUNISHMENT/ COMPOUNDING OF OFFENCES:  There were no penalties, punishment or compounding of offences during the year ended March 31, 2015.
Directors’ Report 55  FORM No.
MR-3 SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2015 (Pursuant to Section 204 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and  Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014) To, The Members, Tata Consultancy Services Limited We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to  good corporate practices by Tata Consultancy Services Limited (hereinafter called the Company).
Secretarial Audit  was conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts / statutory  compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our veriﬁcation of the Tata Consultancy Services Limited’s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns  ﬁled and other records maintained by the company and also the information provided by the company, its ofﬁcers,  agents and authorised representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit and as per the explanations given  to us and the representations made by the Management, we hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has,  during the audit period covering the ﬁnancial year ended on 31st March, 2015 generally complied with the statutory  provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board processes and compliance mechanism in  place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter: We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns ﬁled and other records made available to us  and maintained by Tata Consultancy Services Limited for the ﬁnancial year ended on 31st March, 2015 according to  the applicable provisions of: i.
The Companies Act, 1956 and the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the rules made there under, as applicable; ii.
The Securities Contract (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the rules made there under; iii.
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed there under; iv.
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made there under to the extent of  Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial Borrowings; v.  The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act,  1992 (‘SEBI Act’):  a.
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations,  2011;  b.
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992;  c.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,  2009; and vi.
Other laws applicable to the Company as per the representations made by the Management.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following:  i.  Secretarial Standards of The Institute of Company Secretaries of India with respect to board and general  meetings are yet to be speciﬁed under the Act by the Institute.
ii.
The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of  India Limited.
During the period under review and as per the explanations and clarifications given to us and the  representations made by the Management, the Company has generally complied with the provisions of  the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, etc.
mentioned above.
However, the Company has an unspent  amount during the year in the amount to be spent towards Corporate Social Responsibility.
We further report that:  The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors,   Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors.
The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors  that took place during the period under review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Annual Report 2014-15 Directors’ Report56    Adequate notice was given to all Directors at least seven days in advance to schedule the Board Meetings.
Agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent in advance, and a system exists for seeking and obtaining  further information and clariﬁcations on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful participation  at the meeting.
Decisions at the Board Meetings, as represented by the management, were taken unanimously.
We further report that as per the explanations given to us and the representations made by the Management  and relied upon by us there are adequate systems and processes in the Company commensurate with the size  and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and  guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period, the Board of Directors of the Company has approved the  following:  a. Amalgamation of WTI Advanced Technology Limited (a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company) with  the Company.
b. Amalgamation of CMC Limited (a subsidiary of the Company) with the Company.
For Parikh & Associates                                                                                      Company Secretaries  P.N.Parikh Mumbai Partner April 16, 2015  FCS No: 327   CP No:  1228 This Report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral part  of this report.
‘Annexure A’ To, The Members, Tata Consultancy Services Limited Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.
Maintenance of Secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company.
Our responsibility  is to express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.
We have followed the audit practices and process as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about  the correctness of the contents of the Secretarial records.
The veriﬁcation was done on test basis to ensure that  correct facts are reﬂected in Secretarial records.
We believe that the process and practices, we followed provide  a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.
We have not veriﬁed the correctness and appropriateness of ﬁnancial records and Books of Accounts of the  Company.
4.
Where ever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the Compliance of laws, rules  and regulations and happening of events etc.
5.
The Compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the  responsibility of management.
Our examination was limited to the veriﬁcation of procedure on test basis.
6.
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efﬁcacy  or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Parikh & Associates                                                                                      Company Secretaries  P.N.Parikh Mumbai Partner April 16, 2015  FCS No: 327   CP No:  1228 Management Discussion and Analysis 57   Management Discussion and Analysis58  Annual Report 2014-15 1.
A Macro-view The global economy belied initial optimism and continued  to remain patchy in 2014.
While the global output   increased by 3.3%, lower than initial expectations,  emerging and developing economies performed better  (4.4%) than developed economies (1.8%).
GDP growth  among developed economies which are also the largest  markets for IT Services was very uneven with the US  (2.2%) and UK (3.2%) performing better than the Euro  region (0.8%) and Japan (0.9%).
Businesses are adapting, reshaping their strategies and  increasingly using technology to establish a stronger  customer-connect, create competitive differentiation and  address new opportunities, though it is taking longer than  expected, for economies to regain their stride.
In particular, the adoption of the digital five forces  namely mobility, cloud, big data analytics, social media  and artificial intelligence continues apace resulting in  reimagined business models, business processes, systems  and workplaces, disrupting the old ways of doing business  in multiple industries and opening up entirely new, often  unconventional, revenue sources for those who have  imaginatively leveraged these forces.
2.
Overview of industry The global market for outsourced IT services is estimated  to have grown by 1.9% in 2014 (3.3% in constant   currency), with strong growth in key markets like the US  (4.1%) and UK (8.6%), driven by increased spending on  digital technologies and continued quest for efﬁciency  in IT operations.
In ﬁscal 2015, in line with previous years, TCS signiﬁcantly  outperformed the industry, growing at 15% (in USD  terms) in comparison to the market growth of 1.9%,  evidencing the fact that the Company continues to gain  market share.
The Company’s share of the global market  for outsourced IT services is estimated to be 1.6%, offering  plenty of head room for continued growth.
3.
Our business 3.1.
Overview: TCS is an information technology services, consulting  and business solutions company .
The Company provides  end-to-end technology and technology related services to  corporations all over the world.
The Company has deep  domain knowledge across industry sectors and technology  expertise across traditional and new age technologies.
TCS’ domain knowledge and technology expertise  combined with its global delivery capability offers unique  advantage to its customers.
The Company has built strong global customer base,  global talent and global infrastructure.
With a sharp focus  on customer’s business future, the Company is offering  a range of technology and technology related services  through its innovation labs, delivery centers and talented  professionals.
Over last few years, the Company has made signiﬁcant  investments in expanding its operations in new markets  and has launched new services based on digital platforms.
The Company’s customers consider the Company as  a thought leader and innovation partner.
Customers’  trust in the Company is driving strong ﬁnancial results  and elevated positioning on the global platform.
TCS  continues to remain India’s most valuable company  and it’s also among world’s most valuable IT services  companies.
3.2.
Capabilities: TCS offers domain solutions and consulting to its  customers in banking, financial services, insurance,   retail, consumer packaged goods, telecom, media &  entertainment, manufacturing, life sciences, healthcare,  energy, resources, utilities, hi-tech, travel, transportation,  hospitality and government sectors.
Company’s technology expertise extends across its  full services portfolio of application development and  maintenance, business process services, enterprise  solutions, IT infrastructure services, assurance services,  engineering & industrial services, asset leveraged solutions  and consulting.
TCS has made significant investments in ‘Digital Five  Forces’ - mobility, social computing, big data, cloud and  artiﬁcial intelligence/robotics.
All of the industry solution  units of TCS are co-innovating with customers in digital  and helping them to look at the future of their business  in a completely new way.
4.
Strategy The Company’s strategy for long term growth continues  to be to (a) expand its addressable market by investing   in newer geographies and newer businesses and   (b) strengthen and deepen existing client relationships  through a customer-centric approach, superior execution  that gives clients an experience of certainty, a full services  capability and a scalable global network delivery model.
In FY 2015, the Company continued to execute on this  strategy, acquiring a significant beach-head in Japan  through a joint venture with Mitsubishi Corporation,  coming on the heels of the acquisition in France in FY  2014.
Our continued investments in digital solutions  are paying handsome dividends in terms of winning us  Management Discussion and Analysis Management Discussion and Analysis 59  market share and customer mind share.
Cloud platforms  continued to gain scale and crossed the $100-million mark  in terms of revenue run-rate and together with Diligenta,  contribute over $500 million in revenues.
The Company’s relentless focus on delivery excellence  and customer satisfaction has won the Company multiple  awards from its customers during the year.
This and  our customer-centric approach resulted in more repeat  business, leading to an across-the-board movement of  clients into higher revenue buckets, as summarised in  the table below: Clients contribution* Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2014 US$ 1m+ clients 791 714 US$ 5m+ clients 389 354 US$ 10m+ clients 261 231 US$ 20m+ clients 162 136 US$ 50m+ clients 68 53 US$ 100m+ clients 29 24 * last 12 months’ service revenues   The full services portfolio continued to expand beyond  traditional services, with several new additions during  ﬁscal 2014-15 like digital platforms, enterprise security  & risk management and robotic process automation.
Company’s global infrastructure is expanding beyond  established locations with scaling up of delivery centers  in Asia Paciﬁc and Middle East.
5.
Digital technologies Digital technologies are making a huge impact on  enterprises, consumers, governments and on society .
The collision of digital technologies with every other  technology is creating a new paradigm for businesses in  the way they reimagine their business models, products &  services, channels, customer segments, business processes  and workplaces.
TCS is seeing accelerated adoption of  digital technologies by companies across the world.
TCS has made signiﬁcant investments in building digital  capabilities.
The Company is at the forefront of helping its  customers in deﬁning the future of their business in the  digital era.
The Company is bringing together its domain  knowledge and technology expertise to help its customers  reimagine their business.
Customers across industry sectors are partnering with   TCS in the co-creation model to design their digital future.
All of the industry units of TCS have built significant  digital capabilities in terms of digital assets and business- technology experts.
During last ﬁnancial year, TCS won several deals in digital,  across industries.
The Company sees digital business as a  multi-billion opportunity over next few years.
6.
Innovation The Company continued investments in software,  applications & systems research and innovation.
In the   area of software, explorations included the mining  of operational process models to facilitate training &  transformation within the enterprise and modeling  human behaviour in the workplace.
Innovations in text  mining with contextual intelligence, speech and voice  analysis, integrated computational materials engineering,  decision sciences as well as genomics and metagenomics  analysis made progress.
The systems research group has  reﬁned mobile based sensing application for health, high  performance computing solutions and energy analytics.
TCS continues to invest in the three horizon portfolio of  derivative innovation (improvements on current offerings),  platform innovations (near term advancements) and  disruptive innovations (long term or new market focused  investments).
With the digital consumer leading innovation in almost  every industry, service providers are trying to understand  customer needs and enhance the quality of services.
TCS is reﬁning a process that observes the customer value  chain, brainstorms and then brings out the best options  for implementation.
Academic alliances with renowned  schools have been forged to enable this.
With the maturity of technologies around the ‘Internet  of Things’, TCS has scaled up its efforts in the area.
It  has signed up with several industry bodies to encourage  interoperability.
The research team is working closely with  delivery units on several customer projects.
TCS R&D has now over 100 PhDs and over 30 doctoral  candidates.
A signiﬁcant amount of intellectual property  has been created for the Company with 300+ papers  presented in top tier conferences and journals.
The  number of patents filed this year was 509, taking the  cumulative tally to 2,277, with the total number of  patents granted reaching 206.
TCS co-innovation network (COIN) expanded its emerging  technology connects beyond the US and India, in the  Nordic region, Canada and Israel.
The Company continues  to work with researchers from several globally reputed  universities under the Academic COIN programme.
TCS’  research scholar programme continues to support PhD  scholars in computer science and related areas in India.
7.
Human resources 7.1.
Human resource strategy The human resource (HR) strategy is focused on creating a  performance-driven environment in the Company , where  innovation is encouraged, performance is recognised and  employees are motivated to realise their potential.
The  Management Discussion and Analysis60  Annual Report 2014-15 ‘One TCS’ culture runs as a common thread, ensuring a  collaborative fabric of the organisation.
HR is the core of the Company, influencing change,  building culture and capabilities.
The HR processes are  continuously evolving and aligning with the changing  business requirements.
HR is structured into the specialised  business units to enable them respond better to the needs  of their customers and get more strategic advantage.
The  HR organisation is equipped with multicultural leaders  capable to handle tremendous volatility in the economic,  regulatory and cultural sphere around the world.
The emergence of digital forces have given the Company,  the ability to build a vivacious enterprise by reimagining  how it works and collaborates, with engagement and  simpliﬁcation as core themes.
These digital forces help  the diverse workforce to collaborate, bond together and  act as a critical driver of competitive advantage.
Digital technologies are used by HR to increase connect,  reduce time to respond and make it possible to understand  the employees better which has a positive impact on  retention.
Employee base  111,407 143,761 160,429 198,614 238,583 276,196 300,464 319,656 0 50,000 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 300,000 350,000 2007 -08 2008 -09 2009 -10 2010 -11 2011 -12 2012 -13 2013 -14 2014 -15 7.2.
Talent acquisition The recruitment strategy of TCS helps create a workforce  with diverse culture and thinking across all levels which in   turn brings in a competitive advantage for the Company.
In FY 15, the Company has hired and integrated 67,123  people into its workforce across the globe, out of  which 51,527 were in India and the remaining 15,596  were outside India.
TCS continues to remain preferred  employer at the engineering campuses in India and has  made 35,753 offers to engineering trainees and 632 offers  to management trainees for joining in FY16.
Outside  India, offers were made at established institutes across  geographies.
The need for going digital and gamiﬁcation is essential  to remain relevant to the need of GenY – the future  workforce.
Campus Commune – the Company’s social  networking platform for campuses - has become  extremely popular in the educational institutions.
There  are 600,000+ registered users from 1,500+ institutes  connecting, collaborating and learning.
This extremely  vibrant platform has multiple forums and competitions.
The CodeVita contest had over 49,000+ teams from 19  countries registered and the winners were from UK, India  and Peru.
TCS invests on academic interface programme (AIP)  initiatives for improving employability of students,  developing faculty for academic institutes, and developing  curricula as per industry requirements.
In FY 15, a total of  612 institutes in India and 261 institutes abroad beneﬁtted  through the Company’s AIP activities like workshops for  students, faculty development programs etc.
TCS research  scholarship programme supports 188 research scholars  pursuing their PhD in 33 premier institutes across India.
The Company’s annual event, ‘Sangam’ was held at  Bangalore with academic experts participating from India  and abroad.
A 3-year full-time Bachelor of Commerce degree with  specialisation in business process services (BPS), has been  rolled out with over 400 students enrolled in 10 colleges  under a reputed university.
The BPS curriculum was  designed by TCS.
7.3.
Talent development, engagement and r etention The effort is towards developing competencies in  technology , domain and processes to meet customer  requirements and help our employees to stay relevant  and realise their potential.
Key components of talent development at TCS are  initial learning programmes (ILP), continuous learning  programmes (CLP) and leadership development  programmes (LDP).
The Company uses various delivery  mechanisms for imparting knowledge to its employees.
‘Anytime Anywhere’ learning is promoted through  customised e-learning content delivered through an  integrated digital learning eco-system.
An innovative model of pre-ILP engagement with selected  trainees is introduced through ‘ASPIRE’ program.
The  trainees complete certain courses while still at college  and attempt for advanced batching based on their score.
Key leadership attributes at different levels of leadership  are identified and mapped to specific programmes.
These include personal leadership, organisational  knowledge and ethical business practice attributes.
These  competencies are enhanced in potential leaders through  well-designed LDPs for each level of prospective leaders,  right from operational to strategic.
The rich leadership  pipeline supports the fast paced business growth of the  company.
Management Discussion and Analysis 61  Employee career development is facilitated through  mentoring and developmental interventions.
Opportunities to move across roles, career streams, clients  and geographies give employees an opportunity to have a  holistic view of the business and develop a well-rounded  career.
High potential employees are nurtured to fulﬁll  their aspirational growth through role change and high- end leadership development.
‘Career Hub’ is a platform  which facilitates employee’s career development.
Talent management processes of the Company serve  as effective platforms for employees to connect and  interact with key stakeholders and share their goals and  aspirations.
TCS embarks on a sustainability journey by ensuring  safety and healthy well-being of associates and protecting  the environment.
Initiatives like ‘Safety First’ emphasise  employee safety and security.
‘TCSFit4Life’ initiative  creates a culture of fitness in the organisation by  helping to build a fraternity of health and fitness  conscious employees.
Employees are offered conﬁdential  counselling sessions through 24X7 ‘Employee Assistance  Programme’, on request.‘Purpose4life’ initiative enhances  employee contribution to community projects in the  areas of education, health and environment.
The Maitree  platform provides opportunities to employees to explore  their hobbies and volunteer for social causes.
These robust  employee engagement platforms help in improving  employee’s overall well-being, bonding within the  organisation and promoting work-life balance, thereby,  increasing employee retention.
PULSE – TCS’ annual employee engagement and  satisfaction survey, has showed an increase in employee  satisfaction index this year.
In FY 15, the Company’s  attrition rate including BPS is 14.9%.
Attrition rate  12.6% 11.4% 11.8% 14.4% 12.2% 10.6% 11.3% 14.9% 0.0% 2.0% 4.0% 6.0% 8.0% 10.0% 12.0% 14.0% 16.0% 2007 -08 2008 -09 2009 -10 2010 -11 2011 -12 2012 -13 2013 -14 2014 -15 7.4.
Compliance The Company ensures compliance of employment,  immigration and labour laws in countries of operation.
Changes in the applicable regulations are tracked on a  global basis.
The Company has zero tolerance for sexual harassment  at workplace and has adopted a policy on prevention,  prohibition and redressal of sexual harassment at  workplace in line with the provisions of the Sexual  Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention,  Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 and the rules  thereunder for prevention and redressal of complaints of  sexual harassment at workplace.
During the financial year 2014-15, the Company has  received 17 complaints on sexual harassment, out of which  15 complaints have been disposed of and appropriate  action taken and 2 complaints remain pending as of  March 31, 2015.
7.5.
Talent Diversity TCS has world’s one of the largest base of diverse  intellectual capital with 319,656 employees from 122   different nationalities deployed in 55 countries.
10.4%  of the Company’s workforce are of nationalities other  than India and Gen Y employees constitute 81% of  the workforce in FY 15.
The ability to integrate this  diverse talent base at the ground level is the key to high  performance.
TCS is one of the largest employers of women in the  world with women constituting 33% of the Company’s  workforce.
The high potential women managers have an  opportunity to hone their skills for career advancement  and leadership roles, through ‘iEXCEL’- a specialised  developmental executive education programme for  women in mid-management.
The Company’s managerial  employees are also sensitised to the aspects of diversity  and inclusion through various workshops.
Gender diversity - women employees  27.8% 30.1% 30.4% 30.3% 31.6% 32.4% 32.7% 33.0% 25.0% 26.0% 27.0% 28.0% 29.0% 30.0% 31.0% 32.0% 33.0% 34.0% 2007-08 2008-09 2009- 10 2010- 11 2011 - 12 2012- 13 2013- 14 2014- 15 8.
Risk management and compliance TCS enterprise risk management programme (ERM)  involves risk identiﬁcation, assessment and risk mitigation   planning for strategic, operational and compliance related  risks across business units, functions and geographies.TCS  has a robust digitised ERM framework which has been  deployed across the enterprise.The Company level as well  as unit level deployment of the ERM process is governed  by the corporate risk ofﬁce.
The risk reports prepared  by the chief risk ofﬁcer are reviewed by the board of  directors periodically.
Management Discussion and Analysis62  Annual Report 2014-15 Compliance management has been significantly  strengthened by the deployment of an integrated  compliance management and governance framework.
This covers regulatory compliance certification across  all countries of operation.
A compliance committee at  corporate level guides and monitors the deployment  of the compliance framework.
The Company ensures  compliance of ﬁscal, employment, immigration and labour  laws in the countries of operation.
A robust internal  check process is deployed to prevent and limit risk of  non-compliance.
The following table gives the key risks faced by the Company.
Key Risks Impact on TCS Mitigation Global  economic  scenario Technology investments by corporates  have shown strong correlations with  GDP growth.
The Company derives a  material portion of its revenues from  customers’ discretionary spending  which is linked to their business  outlook.
Depressed economic  outlook in key markets can impact  this spending and thereby constrain  the Company’s growth potential.
s   "ROAD BASED DE RISKED BUSINESS MIX WELL DIVERSIlED ACROSS  geographies and industry verticals s  #APABILITIES AND VALUE PROPOSITIONS ADDRESSING THE  discretionary as well as non-discretionary portions of client  spend s  4ARGET NEWER MARKET SEGMENTS WHICH MIGHT PROVIDE  counter-cyclical support.
Business  model  changes The new disruptive technologies,  such as cloud, big data, mobile  smart devices and social media  are changing consumer behaviour,  requiring business model changes in  customer organisations.
For instance,  the retail sector is seeing a ground- shift across the value chain.
This has  led to business model disruptions  for traditional retailers with huge  investments in their physical stores.
s  &OCUSED INVESTMENT IN CREATING INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY IN  ‘Software-as-a-Service’ and cloud platforms s  2ESEARCH AND )NNOVATION IN @3ERVICES AS A 3OFTWARE AND  neuroscience-based platforms for services automation s  %MBED @$IGITAL 2EIMAGINATION IN ALL OUR BUSINESS SERVICES  across verticals.
Data  privacy and  protection Data protection and privacy laws are  being enacted by many countries.
They mandate protection of   personally identiﬁable information  (PII) and sensitive personal data or  information (SPDI) and have strict  restrictions for any cross border  transmission of such personal data of  employees.
Any violation or breach  can result in penalties apart from  reputation loss.
s   ! GLOBAL PRIVACY POLICY HAS BEEN DRAFTED FOR IMPLEMENTATION  within TCS s   2EVIEW AND ENHANCEMENT OF EMPLOYEE RELATED AGREEMENTS  with respect to PII and SPDI s  %NHANCED TRAINING  EDUCATION AND INTER COMPANY  agreements to cater to the privacy requirements s  $ATA PROTECTION CONTROLS ARE A PART OF THE ENGAGEMENT  security management process and these are subjected to  internal audits s  3TRONG SECURITY MEASURES IN PLACE TO HANDLE CYBER SECURITY  attacks s  3ENSITIVE ENGAGEMENTS USE DATA MASKING TOOLS TO PROTECT  PII and SPDI.
Management Discussion and Analysis 63  Currency  volatility Volatility in currency exchange  movements resulting in transaction  and translation exposure.
s  #URRENCY HEDGING POLICIES AND PRACTICES IN PLACE  s   (EDGING STRATEGY MONITORED BY RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE  through regular reviews.
Restrictive  cross  border  mobility  legislations Non-tariff trade barriers proposed by  some countries may lead to multitude  of challenges.
Mobility of resources  across the globe could be impacted,  leading to increased costs and margin  pressures.
s  )NCREASED RIGOR IN TERMS OF MANPOWER PLANNING AND  deployment  s   ,EVERAGE COLLABORATION TECHNOLOGIES LIKE VIDEO CONFERENCING  to reduce need for cross border travel s  )NCREASE OUTREACH TO LEGISLATIVE AND TRADE BODIES Attrition Attrition of talent especially at  critical/mid-levels, can impact client  outcomes, in turn impacting growth.
s  %MPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT CONTINUES TO BE A KEY FOCUS AREA s  7ITH CONTINUOUS INVESTMENTS IN BUILDING A NEXT  gen organisation that is social, mobile, engaged and  collaborative, the Company provides a vibrant digital  work environment for the large, diverse and distributed  workforce s  )NCREASED FOCUS IS BEING GIVEN IN TERMS OF LEARNING  opportunities, signiﬁcant investments in training in new  technologies and rotation in work assignments s  0ROGRAMS SUCH AS 0URPOSELIFE WHERE 4#3 ASSOCIATES  volunteer for community service programmes, also provide  a holistic sense of satisfaction for employees.
Management Discussion and Analysis64  Annual Report 2014-15 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS SINCE FISCAL 2005 TCS’ existence as a listed company over the past eleven years has been marked by continuous value creation and  setting increasingly higher standards of performance.
While relentlessly pursuing excellence in all its activities, TCS  has been generating wealth for its stakeholders.
The wealth so created has been shared with the stakeholders.
Revenue trend Revenue  9,74813,264 18,685 22,620 27,813 30,029 37,325 48,894 62,989 81,809 94,648 - 10,000  20,000  30,000  40,000  50,000  60,000  70,000  80,000  90,000  1,00,000  FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 ` crores Growth in industry verticals Revenue-industry vertical  - 4,000  8,000  12,000  16,000  20,000  24,000  28,000  32,000  36,000  40,000  BFSI Telecom Retail & distribu/g415on Manufacturing Others ` crores FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY 12 FY 13 FY 14 FY 15 Growth in geographic revenue Revenue-geography  - 4,000  8,000  12,000  16,000  20,000  24,000  28,000  32,000  36,000  40,000  44,000  48,000  North America UK Europe India New growth market ` crores FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY 12 FY 13 FY 14 FY 15 CAGR: 24.0% CAGR: 25.8% CAGR: 32.4% CAGR: 17.8% CAGR: 35.7 % Growth in service lines Revenue-service lines  - 4,000  8,000  12,000  16,000  20,000  24,000  28,000  32,000  36,000  40,000  44,000  48,000  52,000  56,000  60,000  Technology  services Engineering and  industrial services  Infrastructure services Global  consul/g415ng Products &  services Business process  services `crores FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY 12 FY 13 FY 14 FY 15 CAGR: 18.8% CAGR: 17.2%CAGR: 36.5%CAGR: 23.4%CAGR: 20.1% CAGR: 50.5% Earnings per share EPS  11.8 15.2 21.5 25.7 26.8 35.7 46.3 53.1 71.0 97.7 111.9 0.0 20.0 40.0 60.0 80.0 100.0 120.0 FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 ` * excluding one-/g415me employee reward * Customer centricity Last twelve months  revenue buckets Number of customers Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2005 $100mn + 29  -    $50mn + 68 5 $20mn + 162 25 $10mn + 261 42 $5mn + 389 76 $1mn + 791 214 Management Discussion and Analysis 65  Cash ﬂow from operating activities Operating cash ﬂow  2,092  2,488  3,472  3,895  5,409  7,406  6,614 6,977  11,615 14,751  19,369  - 2,000  4,000  6,000  8,000  10,000  12,000  14,000  16,000  18,000  20,000  FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 Opera/g415ng Cash Flows crores` Earnings trends PBT  2,634 3,507 4,918 5,846 6,150 8,290 11,021 13,923 18,090 25,402 28,926 27.0% 26.4% 26.3% 25.8% 22.1% 27.6% 29.5% 28.5% 28.7%31.1% 30.6% 0.0% 5.0% 10.0% 15.0% 20.0% 25.0% 30.0% 35.0% 2,000  6,000  10,000  14,000  18,000  22,000  26,000  30,000  FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY 14 FY 15 `crores Proﬁt before taxes PBT margin *  *excluding-one /g415me employee reward  Market capitalisation Market capitalisation  Dividend Dividend (including final dividend and dividend  distribution tax) and the payout ratio computed on   consolidated proﬁts have remained high.
The amount  of dividend appropriated (excluding special dividend)  has increased 14 times in the last eleven years.
In ﬁscal  2015, the payout ratio including special dividend and net  dividend distribution tax was 91%.
Dividend  627 744 1295 1603 1603 2287 3189 3867 5030 7058 8922 2282 1820 0 0 9166 27.6% 25.1% 30.7% 31.9% 30.5% 32.7% 35.2% 37.2% 36.2% 36.9% 44.9% 5.0% 10.0% 15.0% 20.0% 25.0% 30.0% 35.0% 40.0% 45.0% 50.0% 0 2000 4000 6000 8000 10000 12000 14000 16000 18000 FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 Dividends Special dividends Dividend payout ra/g415o (Excl spl div) ` crores Cash utilisation since ﬁscal 2005 Of the available funds generated during fiscal 2005  to ﬁscal 2015, 55.84% has been appropriated towards   dividend (including dividend tax and ﬁnal dividend for  ﬁscal 2015 to be paid post approval by shareholders).
Cash usage  55.8% 20.3% 4.9% 18.0% Dividends paid Capex Acquisi/g415ons, etc.
Invested funds 0 50,000 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 300,000 350,000 400,000 450,000 500,000 550,000 Mar-05 Mar-06 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14 Mar-15 ` crores Management Discussion and Analysis66  Annual Report 2014-15 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE - (CONSOLIDATED) The financial statements of Tata Consultancy Services  Limited and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as   “TCS” or the Company) are prepared in compliance  with the Companies Act, 2013 and generally accepted  accounting principles in India (Indian GAAP).
The discussions herein below relate to consolidated  statement of proﬁt and loss for the year ended March  31, 2015, consolidated balance sheet as at March 31,  2015 and the consolidated cash ﬂow statement for the  year ended March 31, 2015.
The consolidated results are  more relevant for understanding the performance of TCS.
Signiﬁcant accounting policies used for the preparation of  the ﬁnancial statements are disclosed in the notes to the  consolidated ﬁnancial statements 2 (a) to (q).
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL RESULTS - SUMMARY The revenue of the Company aggregated `  94,648.41   crores in ﬁscal 2015 (`  81,809.36 crores in ﬁscal 2014),  registering a growth of 15.69%.
In terms of US Dollars,  the revenue in fiscal 2015 was $15.45 billion ($13.44  billion in ﬁscal 2014) registering a growth of 14.96%.
In fiscal 2015, there was a special, one-time reward  to eligible employees, which increased the employee  expenses by ` 2,627.91 crores.
Other signiﬁcant ﬁnancial parameters of the Company  are given below: x Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and  amortisation (EBITDA)  The EBITDA excluding one-time adjustment for  employee reward aggregated ` 27,109.62 crores  in ﬁscal 2015 ( ` 25,152.79 crores in ﬁscal 2014) – a  growth of 7.78%.
EBITDA as reported aggregated   ` 24,481.71 crores.
x Proﬁt before tax (PBT)  PBT excluding one-time adjustment for employee  reward aggregated ` 28,926.40 crores in ﬁscal 2015   (` 25,401.86 crores in ﬁscal 2014) – a growth of  13.88%.
PBT as reported aggregated ` 26,298.49  crores.
x Proﬁt after tax (PAT)  PAT excluding one-time adjustment for employee  reward aggregated ` 21,911.85 crores in ﬁscal 2015   (` 19,163.87 crores in ﬁscal 2014) – a growth of  14.34%.
PAT as reported aggregated ` 19,852.18  crores.
x Earnings per share (EPS)  EPS excluding one-time adjustment for employee  reward aggregated ` 111.87 in ﬁscal 2015 ( ` 97.67  in ﬁscal 2014) – a growth of 14.54%.
EPS as reported  was ` 101.35.
Management Discussion and Analysis 67  DISCUSSIONS ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL RESULTS The following table gives an overview of the ﬁnancial results of the Company: Fiscal 2015 - as  reported Fiscal 2015-excluding  one-time employee  reward Fiscal 2014 % growth ` crores % of  revenue ` crores % of  revenue ` crores % of   revenue Revenue from operations  94,648.41 100.00 94,648.41 100.00  81,809.36  100.00  15.69  Expenses Employee beneﬁt expenses  38,701.15  40.89 36,073.24  38.12  29,860.01  36.50  20.81  Overseas business expenses  (employee allowances paid  overseas)  12,223.20  12.91  12,223.20  12.91  10,626.29  12.99  15.03  Services rendered by business  associates and others (BA) 6,220.25  6.57 6,220.25  6.57  4,938.37  6.04  25.96  Employee and BA related  expenses  57,144.60  60.37 54,516.69  57.60  45,424.67  55.53  20.02  Overseas business expenses (other  than employee allowances paid  overseas) 1,140.71  1.21 1,140.71  1.21  1,010.13  1.23  12.93  Operation and other expenses  11,881.39  12.55 11,881.39  12.55  10,221.77  12.49  16.24  Total expenses  70,166.70  74.13  67,538.79  71.36  56,656.57  69.25  19.21  Earnings before  interest, tax,  depreciation and amortisation  (EBITDA)   24,481.71  25.87 27,109.62  28.64  25,152.79  30.75  7.78  Other income (net) 3,229.91  3.41 3,229.91  3.41  1,636.74  2.00  97.34  Finance costs  104.19  0.11  104.19  0.11  38.52  0.05  170.48  Depreciation and amortisation  expense 1,798.69  1.90 1,798.69  1.90  1,349.15  1.65  33.32  Proﬁt before exceptional item  and tax  25,808.74  27.27 28,436.65  30.04  25,401.86  31.05  11.95  Exceptional item  489.75  0.52  489.75  0.52  -    Proﬁt before tax (PBT)  26,298.49  27.79  28,926.40  30.56  25,401.86  31.05  13.88  Tax expense 6,238.79  6.60 6,800.03  7.18  6,069.99  7.42  12.03  Proﬁt for the year before  minority interest   20,059.70  21.19 22,126.37  23.38  19,331.87  23.63  14.46  Minority interest  207.52  0.22  214.52  0.23  168.00  0.20  27.69  Proﬁt for the year (PAT)  19,852.18  20.97 21,911.85  23.15  19,163.87  23.43  14.34  The growth in operating parameters in the table above and also in other tables in the following discussions have  been analysed with respect to performance prior to the impact of one-time employee reward.
Revenue Analysis of r evenue growth Growth attributable to Fiscal 2015  (%) Fiscal 2014  (%) Business growth  17.01  17.27  Impact of exchange rate  (1.32)  12.61  Total growth  15.69 29.88 The business growth in ﬁscal 2015 was in line with the  business growth in ﬁscal 2014.
However, the total revenue  growth in ﬁscal 2015 was lower than that of ﬁscal 2014  primarily due to impact of exchange rate ﬂuctuations  (-1.32% in ﬁscal 2015, 12.61% in ﬁscal 2014).
Currency  wise ﬂuctuations during ﬁscal 2015 compared to those  in ﬁscal 2014 are given below: Management Discussion and Analysis68  Annual Report 2014-15 (Amount in `) Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2014 % change  in average  ratesHigh Low Average Average USD  63.89  58.34  61.26  60.85 0.67 GBP  103.77  91.91  98.34  97.36 1.01 EUR  84.63  65.77  76.86  81.93  (6.19) CAD  56.63  48.40  53.68  57.48  (6.61) AUD  57.25  47.12  53.15  56.30  (5.60) Out of the total revenue earned in ﬁscal 2015, 94.12%  was earned in foreign currencies.
Fiscal 2015 witnessed  substantial movement in exchange rates particularly  affecting EUR, GBP and CAD.
Net impact of such  movement in exchange rates on revenue of the Company  has been a negative variance of 1.32% in fiscal 2015  (positive 12.61% in ﬁscal 2014).
Revenue by industry Major industries contributing to revenue of the Company  are (1) banking, financial services and insurance (2)   manufacturing, (3) retail and consumer packaged goods  (CPG), (4) telecom, media and entertainment and (5)  others.
‘Others’ include (a) hi-tech, (b) life sciences and  healthcare (c) travel, transportation and hospitality and  (d) energy, resources and utilities.
During fiscal 2015, revenue from all industries other  than banking, ﬁnancial services and insurance showed  double digit growth rates.
Industry wise performances  are discussed in segment results section.
Revenue by geography Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2014 ` crores % of revenue % growth ` crores % of revenue North America 49,085.94 51.86 13.14 43,385.87 53.03 UK 15,783.29 16.68 10.75 14,251.38 17.42 Europe 10,946.34 11.57 19.22 9,181.32 11.22 Asia Paciﬁc 8,834.63 9.33 49.48 5,910.12 7.22 India 6,107.55 6.45 11.29 5,487.80 6.71 Latin America 1,967.52 2.08 5.02 1,873.56 2.29 Middle East and Africa 1,923.14 2.03 11.86 1,719.31 2.11 Total 94,648.41 100.00 15.69 81,809.36 100.00 Revenue by geography  North America,  51.9% UK, 16.7% Europe,  11.6% India,  6.5% Asia Paciﬁc,  9.3% La/g415n America,  2.1% Middle East  and Africa,  2.0% Asia Pacific recorded highest growth primarily due to  TCS’ sustained investment in market development and  increasing customer acceptance of global delivery model.
The growth was also aided by acquisition of a controlling  interest (51%) in IT Frontier Corporation (referred to  as ITF) from Mitsubishi Corporation.
Growth in Europe  continued to be good and was more than the Company  average.
North America, United Kingdom, Middle East &  Africa and India registered growth around the Company  average.
Management Discussion and Analysis 69  Revenue by services Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2014 Service lines ` crores % of revenue % growth ` crores % of revenue Technology services: Application development  and maintenance (ADM) 38,056.53 40.21 11.88 34,016.19 41.58 Enterprise solutions 14,736.06 15.57 16.30 12,671.11 15.49 Assurance services 8,050.80 8.51 17.29 6,863.94 8.39 Business process services (BPS) 11,051.65 11.68 12.35 9,837.06 12.02 IT infrastructure services (IT IS) 13,095.00 13.84 34.12 9,763.57 11.93 Engineering and industrial  services (EIS) 4,273.97 4.52 11.04 3,848.96 4.70 Products & services 2,235.01 2.36 8.33 2,063.18 2.52 Consulting 3,149.39 3.31 14.72 2,745.35 3.37 Total 94,648.41 100.00 15.69 81,809.36 100.00 Revenue by services Revenue by signiﬁcant services  Applica/g415on  development and  maintenance,  40.2% Enterprise solu/g415ons,  15.6% Assurance services,  8.5% Business process  services,  11.7% IT infrastucture  services,  13.8% Engineering and  industrial services,  4.5% Products & services,  2.4% Consul/g415ng,  3.3% IT IS registered the highest growth (34.12%) well above  the Company average.
Enterprise solutions and assurance  services recorded higher growth than the Company  average, while growth in BPS and EIS were slightly lower.
ADM continues to be the major contributor although  its relative weight to the total revenue has come down  over the past years (40.21% in fiscal 2015, 58.20% in  ﬁscal 2006) in line with our strategy of focusing on new  services.
Consequently, contribution from other services  to total revenue has increased.
Revenue by nature of contract Nature of Contract Fiscal 2015  (%) Fiscal 2014  (%) Time and material basis 47.98 48.04 Fixed price, ﬁxed time 52.02 51.96 Total 100.00 100.00 The mix of revenue from time and material contracts and  contracts on ﬁxed price basis has remained steady with  the latter going up marginally in ﬁscal 2015.
Revenue by location of service delivery Revenue from local delivery is for those services which  are performed at customer locations.
Remote delivery   revenue reﬂects the aggregation of revenue from services  which are performed at delivery centers located in India  (referred to as India delivery center revenue) as well as  global delivery centers (GDC) in various countries.
The  composition of the revenue from India delivery center,  global delivery center and local delivery was as follows: Revenue mix   (% of revenue) Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2014 India delivery center 46.20 47.92 Global delivery center 5.61 5.43 Remote delivery 51.81 53.35 Local delivery 48.19 46.65 Total 100.00 100.00 Revenue from local, global and India delivery centers are  aligned with customer requirements.
Mix of revenue from  these locations has remained steady.
Management Discussion and Analysis70  Annual Report 2014-15 Employee costs and overseas business expenses Employee costs include salaries which have ﬁxed and variable components, contribution to retirement funds and  pension schemes.
It also includes expenses incurred on staf f welfare.
Overseas business expenses primarily comprise living allowances paid to employees on overseas assignments.
For purpose of the management discussion and analysis (MD&A), employee related costs included in ‘overseas business  expenses’ and costs related to business associates (BA) have been grouped under ‘Employee and BA related costs’.
Fiscal 2015 - as  reported Fiscal 2015-excluding  one-time employee  reward Fiscal 2014 ` crores % of   Revenue ` crores % of   Revenue ` crores % of   Revenue % growth Employee beneﬁt expense  38,701.15  40.89  36,073.24  38.12  29,860.01  36.50 20.81% Overseas business expenses  (employee allowances paid  overseas)  12,223.20  12.91  12,223.20  12.91  10,626.29  12.99 15.03% Services rendered by  business associates (BA)  and others  6,220.25  6.57  6,220.25  6.57 4,938.37  6.04 25.96% Total  57,144.60  60.37  54,516.69  57.60 45,424.67  55.53 20.02% Employee beneﬁt and BA costs excluding one-time employee reward have increased by 20.02%.
In relation to revenue,  this group of expenses is higher by 2.07% in ﬁscal 2015 as compared to ﬁscal 2014, primarily on account of signiﬁcant  increase in local hires.
Employee beneﬁt and BA costs as reported aggregated ` 57,144.60 crores representing 60.37% of revenue.
Overseas business expenses (other than employee allowances paid overseas) Overseas business expenses (other than employee allowances paid overseas) include travel expenses incurred  in overseas locations.
These expenses as percentage of revenue have marginally decreased from 1.23%    (` 1,010.13 crores in ﬁscal 2014) to 1.21% ( ` 1,140.71 crores in ﬁscal 2015).
Operation and other expenses Fiscal 2015 - as                            reported Fiscal 2014 ` crores % of   revenue ` crores % of   revenue Software,  hardware and  material costs  3,835.83  4.05  3,088.68  3.77  Communication  1,056.06  1.12  874.04  1.07  Travelling and  conveyance   1,261.25  1.33  1,046.75  1.28  Rent  1,569.46  1.66  1,421.27  1.74  Legal and  professional  fees  596.30  0.63  613.61  0.75  Repairs and  maintenance  705.00  0.74  499.11  0.61  Electricity  573.87  0.61  527.10  0.64  Recruitment  and training   360.94  0.38  303.46  0.37  Others  1,922.68  2.03  1,847.75  2.26  Total 11,881.39   12.55 10,221.77  12.49  Operation and other expenses as a percentage of revenue  has remained steady (12.49 % of revenue in ﬁscal 2014,  12.55 % of revenue in ﬁscal 2015).
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and  amortisation (EBITDA) In ﬁscal 2015 EBITDA excluding the impact of one-time  employee reward was ` 27,109.62 crores ( ` 25,152.79   crores in fiscal 2014).
There is a decrease of 2.11% in  EBITDA as a percentage of revenue, primarily attributable  to increase in employee and BA related expenses.
EBITDA as reported aggregated ` 24,481.71 crores.
Other income (net) Other income increased from ` 1,636.74 crores in ﬁscal   2014 to `  3,229.91 crores in ﬁscal 2015 primarily for the  following reasons: xinterest income on bank deposits, inter-corporate  deposits and bonds & debentures increased from  ` 1,340.00 crores in ﬁscal 2014 to ` 1,596.61 crores  in fiscal 2015 arising out of effective treasury  management.
Management Discussion and Analysis 71  x increase in exchange gain (net) from ` 17.62 crores  to ` 1,308.47 crores.
x increase in proﬁt on redemption of mutual funds,  from ` 173.09 crores in ﬁscal 2014 to ` 233.10 crores  in ﬁscal 2015.
Foreign exchange forward, option and futures  contracts TCS enters into foreign exchange forward, option and  futures contracts to manage its exposure to exchange   rate ﬂuctuations, in accordance with its risk management  policies.
TCS follows accounting principles in line with international  ﬁnancial reporting standard 9 (IFRS 9) to account for the  aforesaid hedging instruments.Changes in the fair value  of instruments designated as hedges of future cash  flows are recognised directly in shareholders’ funds if  they are effective in hedging the risk.
The ineffective  portion is recognised immediately in the statement of  proﬁt and loss.
The change in the time value of option  is also accumulated in hedging reserve and is transferred  to statement of profit and loss when the forecasted  transaction occurs.
Foreign exchange forward, option and futures contracts  outstanding at the reporting date, other than designated  cash ﬂow hedges, are stated at their respective fair values  and the resultant gains or losses are accounted as ‘other  income (net)’ in the proﬁt and loss account for the period.
Note 2 (m) to the consolidated financial statements  describes the accounting policy relating to the derivative  instruments and hedge accounting.
Note 41 to the  consolidated ﬁnancial statements provide details of the  derivative ﬁnancial instruments entered by the Company  during ﬁscal 2015 with comparatives for ﬁscal 2014.
Depreciation and amortisation Depreciation and amortisation increased from ` 1,349.15  crores (1.65% of revenue) in fiscal 2014 to `  1,798.69   crores (1.90% of revenue) in fiscal 2015.
The increase  was spread across all asset groups, mainly attributable to  freehold buildings, computers, leasehold improvement  and ofﬁce equipment.
Exceptional item In ﬁscal 2015, there is a one-time credit item of ` 489.75  crores shown under the head ‘Exceptional item’.
This   is the net impact of change in accounting policy for  depreciation relating to both (1) change in the method  of depreciation and (2) change in the useful life of  ﬁxed assets, necessitated due to implementation of the  Companies Act, 2013.
Depreciation is now provided on  straight line basis on all assets as against the policy of  providing on written down value basis on some assets  and on straight line basis for others.
The remaining useful  life has also been revised wherever appropriate, based on  an evaluation.
Proﬁt before tax (PBT) In ﬁscal 2015,PBT excluding the one-time employee  reward was ` 28,926.40 crores ( ` 25,401.86 crores in   ﬁscal 2014).
As a percentage of revenue, PBT decreased  from 31.05% in ﬁscal 2014 to 30.56% in ﬁscal 2015.
The  decrease of 0.49% is mainly due to decrease in EBITDA  of 2.11%, offset by increase in other income by 1.41%.
In fiscal 2015, PBT as reported was `  26,298.49 crores  representing 27.79% of revenue.
Tax expense Tax expense before accounting of one-time employee  reward increased to ` 6,800.03 crores in ﬁscal 2015 from   ` 6,069.99 crores in ﬁscal 2014.
As a percentage of   revenue, it has reduced from 7.42% in ﬁscal 2014 to  7.18% in ﬁscal 2015.
The effective tax rate has decreased  from 23.90% in ﬁscal 2014 to 23.51% in ﬁscal 2015.
In fiscal 2015, tax expense as reported was ` 6,238.79  crores (6.60% of revenue).
The effective tax rate was  23.72% Minority interest Minority interest, before accounting of one-time employee  reward, registered an increase from ` 168.00 crores in   ﬁscal 2014 to ` 214.52 crores in ﬁscal 2015, primarily due  to setting up of a subsidiary in Japan where TCS has a  controlling interest of 51%.
In fiscal 2015, the minority interest as reported after  impact of one-time employee reward was ` 207.52 crores.
Proﬁt after tax (PAT) The net proﬁt in fiscal 2015, prior to adjustment of   one-time employee reward,was ` 21,911.85 crores   (23.15% of revenue) as compared to ` 19,163.87 crores in  ﬁscal 2014 (23.43% of revenue).
The decrease of 0.28% in  terms of revenue is attributable to decrease in PBT 0.49%,  partly offset by lower taxes of 0.24%.
In fiscal 2015, the PAT as reported after impact of   one-time employee reward was ` 19,852.18 crores  (20.97% of revenue).
Management Discussion and Analysis72  Annual Report 2014-15 Segment result The Company considers industry to which the customer  belongs as its primary segment and the geography in   which the customer is located as its secondary segment.
Revenue and expenses directly attributable to segments  are reported under each reportable primary segment.
The following table presents each industry segment’s  revenue as a percentage of total revenue and each  industry segment’s result, i.e., operating proﬁt (excluding  unallocated expenses) as a percentage of total segment  result.
Segment revenue Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2014 % growth ` crores % of aggregate revenue Banking, ﬁnancial services and insurance 38,565.66 35,112.41 40.74 42.92 9.83  Manufacturing 9,242.45 6,989.36 9.77 8.54 32.24  Retail and consumer packaged goods (CPG) 12,829.01 11,309.06 13.55 13.82 13.44  Telecom, media and entertainment 10,933.55 9,613.74 11.55 11.75 13.73  Others 23,077.74 18,784.79 24.39 22.97 22.85  Total 94,648.41 81,809.36 100.00 100.00 15.69  Revenue by industry in ﬁscal 2015 Percentage of revenue by industry vertical    Banking,ﬁnancial  services and  insurance, 40.7% Manufacturing, 9.8% Retail and CPG, 13.6% Telecom, media and  entertainment, 11.6% Energy and  u/g415li/g415es , 4.1% HiTech, 5.8% Life Sciences   & healthcare, 6.4% Others, 4.6% Travel and  hospitality, 3.5% Others, 24.4% In ﬁscal 2015, BFSI continued to contribute the largest  share to revenue (40.74%) although the growth (9.83%)  is less than the Company average.
Manufacturing grew  at an impressive rate of 32.24%.
Telecom including media  and entertainment grew at 13.73 % and retail & CPG  registered a growth of 13.44 %.
Verticals included under  ‘Others’ showed good growth of 22.85 %.
Amongst these,  hi-tech registered better growth (24.36%) than ﬁscal 2014  (19.52%).
Life sciences & healthcare (27.74%), energy,  resources & utilities (25.08%) and travel, transportation  & hospitality (18.70%), grew well above the Company  average in ﬁscal 2015.
Industry segment wise performance Banking, ﬁnancial services and insurance (BFSI) BFSI continues its pursuit to redefine its purpose of  existence keeping customer at center; leading to   a paradigm shift in the way players are evaluating  businesses and investments.
Most of the banking and  ﬁnancial service industry players have embarked upon  key strategic transformation initiatives that revolve  around simpliﬁcation, digital adaptation and governance.
Customer experience management has become pivotal  across most of these transformation themes.
The industry  also witnessed some structural changes as banks redrew  their boundaries to focus on core businesses, while  shelving off the non-core activities leading to a rise of  related demerger and merger integration activities.
Digital technology adaptation has gradually percolated  deeper into the system rather than just refurbishing  the front end touch points for internal and external  stakeholders.
In the insurance industry, the gradual global economic  recovery and a declining emphasis on spread-based  and guaranteed products was partly offset by declining  investment margins during fiscal 2015.
Insurers are  investing in data and analytics for smarter business  decisions though improved underwriting and to gain  greater customer insights for new products and services.
New digital technologies are lowering barriers to  expansion & global reach and the same technologies are  enabling new industry players (or disruptors) to enter and  compete in these markets.
The Company has invested in a broad array of offerings  to meet the security, data & analytics and digital demand.
It has partnered with industry experts and has made  signiﬁcant investments to engage and deepen European  presence.
Management Discussion and Analysis 73  In fiscal 2015, BFSI constituted 40.74% of Company’s  revenue (42.92% in fiscal 2014), growing at a muted  9.83% (29.35% in FY 2014), significantly below the  Company’s average (15.69%).
This is primarily attributable  to weakness in insurance portfolio, particularly in  Diligenta, a subsidiary focused on life insurance policy  administration in the UK.
BFSI contributed 43.23% of  total segment result (46.04% in ﬁscal 2014) excluding the  one-time employee reward.
Telecom, media and entertainment As a group, telecom, media & entertainment witnessed  revenue growth of 13.73 % in ﬁscal 2015 (27.51% in ﬁscal   2014), just below the Company average (15.69%).
Margin,  excluding one-time employee reward, has remained  steady at 28.54% in ﬁscal 2015 (28.59% in ﬁscal 2014).
However, this aggregate performance masks sharply  divergent trends in the underlying sub-segments.
The telecom sector continues to be under pressure, with  demands for continued investment in newer generations  of technologies even as mobile revenues remained  flat and wireline revenues continued to decline, cost  pressures mounted and the regulatory overhang on the  sector increased.
Consequently, the Company’s telecom  segment, which has been very volatile over the last ﬁve  years, underperformed in FY 2015 as well, with revenues  growing at a subdued 7.9%.
On the other hand, the media industry is continuing its  journey of digital metamorphosis.
While information  services and publishing are fast becoming largely digital  driven business, we are seeing broadcast industry rapidly  adopting the digital formats.
As media businesses adapt  to changing market needs, they are also reimagining how  they operate.
In some cases the IT, engineering and R&D  organisations are coming under one organisation while  in others the boundaries are getting deﬁned more clearly.
This structural change in the industry bodes well for  greater spending on IT services, evidenced by the strong  performance by this sub-segment.
Revenue in the media  and entertainment segment grew by 37.8% in FY 2015.
Retail and CPG The retail segment was one of the fastest growing  industry verticals in the global market for outsourced IT  Services, clocking a growth of 4.2% in 2014, versus an   overall growth of 1.9%.
Retailer’s IT spend is largely driven by (a) achieving  the vision of fully integrated omnichannel shopping  experience and (b) getting the foundation ready for  future digital business.
Social, mobile, cloud and emerging technologies such  as internet of things, machine intelligence and robotics  are changing the way business is done and the state of  competition.
Retailers are focusing on building a data- driven enterprise to make informed decisions.
This also  requires them to invest in ramping up security and data  protection tools and processes.
To support the above focus areas of our retail clients,  TCS is investing signiﬁcantly in building differentiated  products, solutions and capabilities.
TCS is investing  in industry leading roadmap for first-of-its kind, truly  omnichannel enabled store commerce platform and retail  customer ‘Knowledge Hub’.
We continue to invest in  OptumeraTM, our shopper-centric merchandising suite, by  adding a competitive pricing engine module.
The CPG sub-segment has had to deal with low-growth,  fragmenting segments and fragmenting channels in  developed markets even as faster-growing emerging  markets pose challenges in terms of diverse consumption  habits, regulatory obstacles and poor distribution  networks.
In response, CPG companies are investing in  direct to consumer (D2C) commerce and big data analytics.
TCS’ early investments in building capabilities in big  data analytics, digital creative services, D2C commerce  and digital marketing have helped us gain traction in  this segment and win recognition from industry groups.
TCS was recognised as best in class for outsourcing and  consulting by consumer goods technology in 2015.
The segment revenue has recorded a growth of 13.44%  in ﬁscal 2015 (34.61% in ﬁscal 2014).
Segment margin,  excluding one-time employee reward, as a percentage of  segment revenue was 28.33% in ﬁscal 2015 compared to  32.48% in ﬁscal 2014.
Manufacturing The Company experienced strong revenue growth in  manufacturing, driven by increased adoption of digital   technologies by a resurgent sector, along with traditional  drivers such as IT infrastructure cost optimisation and  simpliﬁcation of business processes.
A key trend that significantly bolsters longer term  sustainability of growth in this sector has been the rise  of IT from being a source of back-ofﬁce efﬁciencies to  becoming part of the core product and an important  source of competitive differentiation to our customers.
This has been most evident in the automotive sector where  software-driven features such as autonomous navigation,  interactive infotainment systems and connected vehicles  are gaining currency.
Management Discussion and Analysis74  Annual Report 2014-15 TCS continues to invest in building industry speciﬁc core  capability across the manufacturing value chain, namely  in new product innovation, manufacturing excellence,  supply chain and customer experience.
A dedicated  digital re-imagination initiative for manufacturing  has been formed which is helping customers in their  adoption of digital capabilities as internet of things,  digital customer experience, e-Commerce, big data led  predictive diagnostics, social product development and  factory optimisation.
Manufacturing industry revenue recorded a growth of  32.24% in ﬁscal 2015 (34.01% in ﬁscal 2014).
Growth in  segment results (excluding one-time employee reward)  was 18.17% in ﬁscal 2015 (50.53% in ﬁscal 2014).
The  comparable growth in segment margin has been 26.22%  in ﬁscal 2015 (29.35% in ﬁscal 2014).
Others Segments combined in ‘others’ includes: x Life sciences and healthcare x Energy , resources and utilities x Travel, transportation and hospitality x Hi-tech Despite a sharp slowdown in the energy sub-segment  towards the end of the fiscal year, resulting from the  depressed oil prices, all the segments grouped in ‘others’  showed good revenue growth over ﬁscal 2014, reﬂecting  the Company’s growing traction in these industries on  the back of strong domain expertise and domain-speciﬁc  digital solutions.
In ﬁscal 2015, the segments in aggregate showed better  growth (22.85%) than the Company average (15.69  %).
The share of these segments in aggregate revenue  improved to 24.39 % in ﬁscal 2015 from 22.97% in ﬁscal  2014.
The margin remained steady at 26.52% in ﬁscal  2015 as compared to 26.77% in ﬁscal 2014.
Life sciences and healthcare registered the highest growth  amongst these segments in revenue and results at 27.74%  and 29.99% respectively, followed by energy, resources  and utilities (growth of revenue 25.08%, margin 28.04%),  hi-tech (revenue growth 24.36%, margin 19.40%) and  travel, transportation and hospitality (growth of revenue  18.70%, margin 8.61%).
The growth in segment results and segment margins  have been analysed by excluding the impact of one-time  employee reward.
FINANCIAL POSITION — CONSOLIDATED Shar e capital (` crores) As at March  31, 2015 As at March  31, 2014 Authorised 420.05 crores equity  shares of `1 each 420.05 420.05 105.025 crores  redeemable preference  shares of ` 1 each 105.03 105.03 Total 525.08 525.08 Issued, subscribed  and fully paid-up 195.87 crores equity  shares of ` 1 each 195.87 195.87 Total 195.87 195.87 There has been no change in the position of authorised,  issued, subscribed and paid up capital during ﬁscal 2015.
Reserves and surplus For the purpose of consolidation of subsidiaries with  the ﬁnancial statement of the holding company , income  and expenses are translated at average rates and the  assets and liabilities are stated at closing rate.
Use of  such different rates for translation gives rise to exchange  difference which is accumulated in foreign currency  translation reserve.
Foreign currency translation reserve  decreased from ` 1,547.78 crores as at March 31, 2014 to  ` 1,051.17 crores as at March 31, 2015, due to movement  in exchange rates of currencies in ﬁscal 2015.
The closing balance of hedging reserve account, arising  out of cash ﬂow hedges as at March 31, 2015 was a net  gain of ` 150.75 crores ( ` 29.64 crores net gain as at  March 31, 2014).
Note 41 to the consolidated ﬁnancial  statements gives details of movements in the hedging  reserve account.
An amount of ` 255.57 crores was transferred to capital  redemption reserve during fiscal 2015 pursuant to  redemption of preference shares by Diligenta.
Balance in statement of profit and loss as at March  31, 2015 was ` 39,012.65 crores ( ` 39,504.51 crores as  at March 31, 2014) after appropriation towards equity  dividend (interim and proposed ﬁnal dividend), tax on  dividends, transfer to general reserves, statutory reserve  and capital redemption reserve.
Reserves and surplus at the end of ﬁscal 2015 stood at   ` 50,438.89 crores, an increase of 2.94% over ` 48,998.89  crores at the end of fiscal 2014.
` 1953.64 crores was  transferred to the general reserve from the proﬁt and  loss account for ﬁscal 2015.
Management Discussion and Analysis 75  Short-term and long-term borrowings The Company’s long-term obligations under ﬁnance lease  (refer note 5 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements) was    ` 113.69 crores as at March 31, 2015 ( ` 126.21 crores as  at March 31, 2014).
These are secured against ﬁxed assets  obtained under ﬁnance lease arrangements.
The secured  loans are secured against book debts.
The increase in short term borrowings (` 185.56 crores as  at March 31, 2015; ` 127.09 crores as at March 31, 2014)  were mainly attributable to bank overdraft required for  management of working capital.
(` crores) As at  March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 As at  March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 As at  March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 Short-term borrowings Long-term borrowings Total borrowings Secured borrowings from  entity other than banks  -    33.58  -    -    -    33.58  Unsecured loans repayable on  demand from banks  -    93.51  -    -    -    93.51  Unsecured loans: overdraft  from bank  185.56  -    -    -    185.56  -    Secured loans: long-term  maturities of finance lease  obligations  -    -    113.69  126.21  113.69  126.21  Unsecured borrowings from  entity other than banks  -    -    0.58  1.05  0.58  1.05  Total  185.56  127.09  114.27  127.26  299.83  254.35  Trade payables (current liabilities) Trade payables (current liabilities), representing payables  for purchase of goods and services increased from    ` 5,536.02 crores as at March 31, 2014 to ` 8,830.93 crores  as at March 31, 2015.
As percentage of revenue, trade  payables have increased to 9.33% in fiscal 2015 from  6.77% in ﬁscal 2014.
The increase is primarily attributable  to the one-time employee reward of ` 2,627.91 crores  constituting 2.78% of revenues.
Deferred tax liability (net) and deferred tax assets  (net) As stated in the accounting policies, deferred tax  assets and liabilities are of fset, tax jurisdiction-wise.
Note 6 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements brings out  details of component-wise deferred tax balances where  the net values result into liabilities or assets, jurisdiction- wise.
Deferred tax liability or asset is recognised on timing  difference being the difference between taxable income  and accounting income that originate in one period and  is likely to reverse in one or more subsequent periods.
Such timing differences resulting in deferred tax liability  or asset usually arise on branch proﬁt tax, depreciation  and employee beneﬁt expenses.
The net deferred tax liability was ` 342.96 crores as at  March 31, 2015.
(` 308.80 crores as at March 31, 2014).
As at March 31, 2015, the net deferred tax asset had a  balance of ` 593.94 crores (` 420.06 crores as at March 31,  2014).
The Company assesses the likelihood of deferred  tax assets getting recovered from future taxable income.
Management Discussion and Analysis76  Annual Report 2014-15 Other current and long-term liabilities (` crores) As at   March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 As at   March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 As at   March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 Other current liabilities Other long-term liabilities Total other liabilities Income received in advance  1,062.31  1,050.73  -    -    1,062.31  1,050.73  Advance received from  customers  130.76  62.81  -    -    130.76  62.81  Other payables  2,317.90  2,413.00  -    -    2,317.90  2,413.00  Other liabilities  135.62  94.70  825.02  743.07  960.64  837.77  Total  3,646.59  3,621.24  825.02  743.07  4,471.61  4,364.31  Other current liabilities Other current liabilities increased to ` 3,646.59 crores as  at March 31, 2015 (` 3,621.24 crores as at March 31, 2014).
The increase was primarily due to: x increase in income received in advance to ` 1,062.31  crores as at March 31, 2015 ( ` 1,050.73 crores as at   March, 31, 2014).
Income received in advance  represents advance billings to customers not  recognised as revenue x increase in advance received from customers ` 130.76  crores as at March 31, 2015 ( ` 62.81 crores as at   March 31, 2014) x increase in other liabilities to ` 135.62 crores, mainly  on account of (1) current maturities of finance  lease obligations ` 57.40 crores as at March 31,  2015  ( ` 42.05 crores as at March 31, 2014) and  (2) operating lease liabilities ` 57.50 crores as at  March 31, 2015 (` 37.09 crores as at March 31, 2014)  offset by decrease in other payables to ` 2,317.90  crores as at March 31, 2015 ( ` 2,413.00 crores as  at March 31, 2014).
Other payables include (1)  statutory liabilities ` 1,143.66 crores as at March  31, 2015 ( ` 1,179.52 crores as at March 31, 2014),  (2) capital creditors ` 337.41 crores as at March 31,  2015 (`  487.53 crores as at March 31, 2014) and  (3) liabilities for cost related to customer contracts   ` 727.79 crores as at March 31, 2015 ( ` 648.11 crores  as at March 31, 2014).
Other long-term liabilities Other long-term liabilities increased to ` 825.02 crores as  at March 31, 2015 (` 743.07 crores as at March 31, 2014).
The increase was primarily attributable to: x increase in lease rental liabilities to ` 344.51 crores   as at March 31, 2015 (` 292.71 crores as at March 31,  2014) x increase in other liabilities to ` 412.98 crores as at  March 31, 2015 (` 358.09 crores as at March 31, 2014) x offset by decrease in capital creditors to ` 67.53 crores  as at March 31, 2015 (` 92.27 crores as at March 31,  2014).
Management Discussion and Analysis 77  Short-term and long-term provisions (` crores) As at  March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 As at  March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 As at  March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 Short-term provisions Long-term provisions Total provisions Provision for employee  beneﬁts  1,356.15  1,046.90  203.39  274.91  1,559.54  1,321.81  Proposed ﬁnal dividend on  equity shares  4,700.95  3,917.46  -    -    4,700.95  3,917.46  Proposed ﬁnal dividend  on redeemable preference  shares  -    28.76  -    -    -    28.76  Tax on dividend  947.68  683.13  -    -    947.68  683.13  Current income taxes (net)  547.34  672.10  -    -    547.34  672.10  Provision for foreseeable  loss on a long-term contract  103.04  37.61  94.48  110.68  197.52  148.29  Total  7,655.16  6,385.96  297.87  385.59  7,953.03  6,771.55  The increase in short-term provisions was mainly  attributable to: x proposed ﬁnal dividend on equity shares ` 4,700.95  crores as at March 31, 2015 ( ` 3,917.46 crores as at  March 31, 2014) x provision for employee beneﬁts ` 1,356.15 crores as  at March 31, 2015 ( ` 1,046.90 crores as at March 31,  2014) x tax on dividend ` 947.68 crores as at March 31, 2015  (` 683.13 crores as at March 31, 2014) x of fset by provision for current taxes ` 547.34 crores  as at March 31, 2015 (` 672.10 crores as at March 31,  2014).
Fixed assets Additions to the gross block in ﬁscal 2015 amounted to   ` 3,662.91 crores (` 2,284.07 crores in ﬁscal 2014).
The Company has been investing in infrastructure   development across various locations in India to meet its  growing business needs.
In ﬁscal 2015, TCS has invested  in state-of-the-art facilities at Mumbai, Ahmedabad,  Chennai, Kochi, Hyderabad, Bhubaneswar, Kolkata,  Nagpur, Trivandrum and Pune for signiﬁcant capacities.
Goodwill on consolidation Goodwill on consolidation represents the excess of  purchase consideration over net asset value of acquired  subsidiaries on the date of such acquisition.
Such goodwill   is tested for impairment annually or more frequently, if  there are indications for impairment.
Goodwill on consolidation as at March 31, 2015 stood at  ` 2,093.22 crores (` 2,268.78 crores as at March 31, 2014).
Signiﬁcant acquisitions over the years which resulted in  goodwill were Alti SA, TCS Do Brasil Ltda, TCS Financial  Solutions Australia Holdings Pty Limited, Diligenta Limited  and TCS Switzerland Ltd.
In fiscal 2015, acquisition  of a controlling interest (51%) in ITF from Mitsubishi  Corporation resulted in goodwill of ` 51.61 crores.
Most  of these acquisitions are contributing signiﬁcantly to the  overall ﬁnancial performance of the Company.
Management Discussion and Analysis78  Annual Report 2014-15 Overview of funds invested (` crores) As at  March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 As at  March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 As at  March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 Current Non-current Total funds invested Investments  1,492.60  1,158.47  169.18  2,275.27  1,661.78  3,433.74  Deposits with banks  16,734.34  13,485.73  500.49  1,502.31  17,234.83  14,988.04  Inter-corporate deposits*  1,083.00  1,872.00  1,572.00  938.00  2,655.00  2,810.00  Cash and bank balances  1,821.70  956.11  -    -    1,821.70  956.11  Total  21,131.64  17,472.31  2,241.67  4,715.58  23,373.31  22,187.89  *These are interest-bearing deposits placed with   non-related corporates, which have high credit-rating  assigned by international and domestic credit-rating  agencies.
Investible funds went up by ` 1,185.42 crores (` 22,187.89  crores as at March 31, 2014 to ` 23,373.31 crores as at  March 31, 2015), mainly driven by: xincrease in deposits with banks by ` 2,246.79 crores x increase in cash and bank balances by ` 865.59 crores x offset by (a) decrease in investments of ` 1,771.96  crores primarily comprising redemption of bonds  and debentures and (b) decrease in inter-corporate  deposits by ` 155.00 crores.
Acquisition / amalgamation Details of acquisition / amalgamation are given in  note 30 to the consolidated financial statements.
On July 1, 2014, TCS Ltd, through its wholly owned  subsidiary Tata Consultancy Services Asia Paciﬁc Pte Ltd.,  acquired controlling interest (51%) in ITF from Mitsubishi  Corporation in Japan.
On September 16, 2014, TCS Ltd acquired the balance  40% equity shares of Tata Consultancy Services (Africa)  (Pty) Ltd., making it a wholly owned subsidiary of TCS Ltd. On March 25, 2015, TCS Ltd subscribed to 100% share  capital of TCS Foundation, a not for profit initiative  registered under section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013  with a paid up capital of ` 1.00 crore.
This company aims  at promoting projects and / or programmes relating to  corporate social responsibility.
In March 2015, WTI Advanced Technology Limited, a  wholly owned subsidiary of TCS Ltd amalgamated with  TCS Ltd in accordance with the terms of the composite  scheme of amalgamation (Scheme) sanctioned by the High  Court of Judicature at Bombay, vide order dated March  27, 2015.
The Scheme is effective from April 1, 2014.
At their respective meetings held on October 16, 2014, the  Boards of TCS Ltd and of its subsidiary, CMC Limited have  approved a scheme of amalgamation of CMC Limited with  TCS Ltd.
The appointed date for the proposed scheme is  April 1, 2015.
The scheme is subject to sanction by the  Hon’ble High Courts and all other statutory approvals as  may be required under law.
Unbilled revenue Unbilled revenue as percentage of revenue declined to  4.04% in ﬁscal 2015 from 4.90% in ﬁscal 2014.
Trade receivables (net) As a percentage of revenue, trade receivables decreased  from 22.28% as at March 31, 2014 to 21.59% as at March  31, 2015.
The Company monitors trade receivables closely .
Management Discussion and Analysis 79  Short-term and long-term loans and advances       (` crores)  As at  March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 As at  March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 As at  March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 Short-term loans and  advances Long-term loans and  advances Total loans and advances Loans and advances to  employees  335.64  311.24  9.05  7.28  344.69  318.52  Advance tax [including  refund receivable (net)]  74.93  33.83  4,092.34  3,067.16  4,167.27  3,100.99  MAT credit entitlement  5.25  10.50  1,899.76  1,885.46  1,905.01  1,895.96  Inter-corporate deposits  1,083.00  1,872.00  1,572.00  938.00  2,655.00  2,810.00  Prepaid expenses  1,512.13  1,122.53  534.25  217.66  2,046.38  1,340.19  Capital advances  -    -    206.71  356.97  206.71  356.97  Others  1,135.50  960.70  840.81  814.09  1,976.31  1,774.79  Total  4,146.45  4,310.80  9,154.92  7,286.62  13,301.37  11,597.42  Loans and advances as at March 31, 2015 increased by   ` 1,703.94 crores arising out of increase in long-term loans  and advances by ` 1,868.30 crores, offset by a net decrease  in short-term loans and advances of ` 164.36 crores.
The increase in long-term loans and advances was  primarily attributable to: x increase in advance tax (net of provision for taxes)   ` 1,025.18 crores against demands from tax authorities,  which have been contested by the Company x increase in long-term inter-corporate deposits ` 634.00  crores x increase in prepaid expenses ` 316.59 crores x of fset by decrease in capital advances ` 150.26 crores.
The decrease in short-term loans and advances was  primarily attributable to the decrease in inter-corporate  deposits by ` 789.00 crores.
This was partially offset by: x increase in prepaid expenses related to large projects  ` 389.60 crores x increase in other short term loans and advances   ` 174.80 crores x increase in advance tax ` 41.10 crores.
Other current and non-current assets      (` crores)  As at  March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 As at  March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 As at  March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 Other current assets Other non-current assets Total other assets Interest receivable  331.93  727.41  24.37  34.55  356.30  761.96  Long term bank deposits  -    -    500.49  1,502.31  500.49  1,502.31  Other non-current assets  -    -    0.44  8.47  0.44  8.47  Other current assets  4.89  7.95  -    -    4.89  7.95  Total  336.82  735.36  525.30  1,545.33  862.12  2,280.69  Other current and non-current assets as at March 31, 2015  reduced by ` 1,418.57 crores primarily on account of: x decrease in interest receivable of ` 405.66 crores x decrease in long term bank deposits of ` 1,001.82  crores.
Management Discussion and Analysis80  Annual Report 2014-15 CASH FLOW — CONSOLIDATED The Company’s cash flows from operating, investing  and ﬁnancing activities, as reﬂected in the consolidated  statement of cash ﬂow , is summarised in the table below: Summary of cash ﬂow statement:   (` crores) Fiscal  2015 Fiscal   2014 Net cash provided by/  (used in) Operating activities  19,368.78  14,751.41  Investing activities  (1,701.32)  (9,667.08) Financing activities (17,167.61)  (5,673.24) Exchange difference on  translation of foreign  currency cash and cash  equivalents  (105.82)  215.41  Net (decrease)/ increase in cash and  cash equivalents after  translation  394.03  (373.50) Cash ﬂows from operating activities   (` crores) Fiscal  2015 Fiscal   2014 Proﬁt before tax  26,298.49  25,401.86  Adjustments:   depreciation and                                                                                      amortisation  1,308.94  1,349.15  Other non-cash  adjustments  233.44  (16.81) Non operating income  (net)  (1,737.55)  (1,488.37) Effect of working capital  changes  747.22  (3,450.79) Cash generated from  operations  26,850.54  21,795.04  Taxes paid  (7,481.76)  (7,043.63) Net cash provided by  operating activities  19,368.78  14,751.41 Cash generated from operations, post adjustments to  proﬁt before tax, has gone up from ` 21,795.04 crores in  ﬁscal 2014 to ` 26,850.54 crores in ﬁscal 2015, registering  a growth of 23.20% over the previous ﬁscal.
In ﬁscal 2015,  an additional amount of ` 747.22 crores (` 3,450.79 crores  used in ﬁscal 2014) was released in working capital.
The incremental tax paid in ﬁscal 2015 was ` 438.13 crores.
The resultant net cash inﬂow from operating activities  was ` 19,368.78 crores (` 14,751.41 crores in ﬁscal 2014).
Cash ﬂows from investing activities   (` crores) Fiscal  2015 Fiscal   2014 Fixed asset (net)  (2,942.50)  (3,112.32) Other investments (net)  2,064.79  (1,286.72) Fixed deposits with banks  (net) having maturity over  three months  (2,644.38)  (7,067.37) Inter - corporate deposits  (net)  155.00  874.77  Interest received  1,994.40  1,367.72  Other items (net)  (328.63)  (443.16) Net cash used in  investing activities  (1,701.32)  (9,667.08) During ﬁscal 2015, the signiﬁcant uses of cash in investing  activities were purchase of ﬁxed assets, inter-corporate  deposits and investment in ﬁxed deposits.
The other investments (net), included payment for  acquisition of a controlling interest (51%) in ITF from  Mitsubishi Corporation for ` 263.65 crores.
Interest on funds invested went up by 45.82%, from   ` 1,367.72 crores in fiscal 2014 to ` 1,994.40 crores in  ﬁscal 2015.
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities   (` crores) Fiscal  2015 Fiscal   2014 Dividends paid including  dividend tax (17,105.57) (5,520.03) Other payments  (62.04)  (153.21) Net cash used in  ﬁnancing activities (17,167.61)  (5,673.24) In ﬁscal 2015, dividend paid includes the ﬁnal dividend  payout and tax thereon for ﬁscal 2014 approved by the  shareholders at the last annual general meeting (` 20 per  share).In addition, the dividend paid includes the interim  dividend of fiscal 2015 (` 15 per share) and a special  dividend (` 40 per share).
Other payments in fiscal 2015 include net payments  related to borrowings.
Management Discussion and Analysis 81  TCS’S PERFORMANCE TREND (INDIAN GAAP CONSOLIDATED) PERFORMANCE SUMMARY (` crores)  Fiscal   2015*  Fiscal  2015**  Fiscal  2014 Fiscal  2013 Fiscal  2012 Fiscal  2011 Fiscal  2010 Fiscal  2009 Fiscal  2008 Fiscal  2007 Fiscal  2006 Revenue Total revenue  94,648.41 94,648.41  81,809.36  62,989.48  48,893.83  37,324.51  30,028.92  27,812.88  22,619.52  18,685.21  13,263.99  Revenue by delivery  location India delivery center  43,723.90  43,723.90  39,204.02  30,571.21  24,725.61  19,020.57  15,314.75  12,293.29  9,477.58  7,567.51  4,960.73  Others  50,924.51  50,924.51  42,605.34  32,418.27  24,168.22  18,303.94  14,714.17  15,519.59  13,141.94  11,117.70  8,303.26  Revenue by  geographic segments North America  49,085.94 49,085.94  43,385.87  33,854.40  26,064.25  20,107.48  15,855.37  14,290.93  11,388.49  9,796.25  7,568.80  UK  15,783.29 15,783.29  14,251.38  10,760.53  7,453.28  5,770.80  4,860.18  5,282.46  4,497.51  3,791.03  2,058.92  Europe  10,946.34 10,946.34  9,181.32  6,052.88  4,928.25  3,479.87  3,149.39  2,929.76  2,105.51  1,529.45  916.42  India  6,107.55  6,107.55  5,487.80  4,890.26  4,202.29  3,435.06  2,597.90  2,182.12  2,045.62  1,681.99  1,656.91  New growth markets  12,725.27 12,725.27  9,502.99  7,431.41  6,245.76  4,531.31  3,566.08  3,127.61  2,582.39  1,886.49  1,062.94  Cost Employee and BA  related cost  57,144.60 54,516.69  45,424.67  35,685.60  27,097.96  20,549.34  16,327.72  15,597.77  12,261.54  9,847.00  6,772.60  Other costs  13,022.10 13,022.10  11,231.90  9,263.97  7,360.56  5,596.81  5,006.65  5,045.31  4,646.60  3,699.36  2,807.09  Total cost (excluding  interest &  depreciation)  70,166.70 67,538.79  56,656.57  44,949.57  34,458.52  26,146.15  21,334.37  20,643.08  16,908.14  13,546.36  9,579.69  Proﬁtability EBIDTA (before other  income)  24,481.71 27,109.62  25,152.79  18,039.91  14,435.31  11,178.36  8,694.55  7,169.80  5,711.38  5,138.85  3,684.30  Proﬁt before tax  25,808.74 28,436.65  25,401.86  18,089.73  13,923.31  11,020.62  8,289.63  6,150.07  5,845.95  4,918.28  3,506.62  Proﬁt after tax  19,852.18 21,911.85  19,163.87  13,917.31  10,413.49  9,068.04  7,000.64  5,256.42  5,026.02  4,212.63  2,966.74  Financial  position Equity share capital  195.87  195.87  195.87  195.72  195.72  195.72  195.72  97.86  97.86  97.86  48.93  Reserves and surplus  50,438.89 58,139.66  48,998.89  38,350.01  29,283.51  24,209.09  18,171.00  15,502.15  12,102.26  8,752.24  5,949.88  Gross block  17,316.05 17,316.05  13,897.41  11,622.99  9,447.83  7,792.24  6,419.51  5,843.86  4,291.80  3,197.71  1,951.04  Total investments  1,661.78  1,661.78  3,433.74  1,897.34  1,350.33  1,762.67  3,682.08  1,614.41  2,606.16  1,256.87  704.62  Net current assets  28,494.76 36,188.94  27,227.38  19,733.75  12,672.65  9,790.38  7,395.02  7,544.12  5,553.32  4,331.11  2,867.18  Earnings per  share in ` EPS - as reported  101.35  111.87  97.67  70.99  53.07  46.27  35.67  53.63  51.36  43.05  60.63  EPS - adjusted for  bonus issue  101.35  111.87  97.67  70.99  53.07  46.27  35.67  26.81  25.68  21.53  15.16  Headcount  (number) Headcount (including  subsidiaries) as on  March 31st  319,656  319,656  300,464  276,196  238,583  198,614  160,429  143,761  111,407  89,419  66,480 *as reported **excluding impact of one-time employee reward Management Discussion and Analysis82  Annual Report 2014-15 RATIO ANALYSIS Ratio Analysis Units  Fiscal  2015*   Fiscal  2015**  Fiscal  2014   Fiscal  2013   Fiscal  2012   Fiscal  2011   Fiscal  2010   Fiscal  2009   Fiscal  2008   Fiscal  2007   Fiscal  2006  Ratios - ﬁnancial performance Employee cost/total revenue %  53.80  51.03  49.49  50.68  50.48  50.38  50.17  52.07  50.45  48.17  46.08  Other operating cost/total revenue %  20.33  20.33  19.77  20.68  19.99  19.67  20.88  22.15  24.30  24.32  26.15  Total cost/total revenue %  74.13  71.36  69.25  71.36  70.48  70.05  71.05  74.22  74.75  72.50  72.22  EBIDTA (before other income)/total  revenue  %  25.87  28.64  30.75  28.64  29.52  29.95  28.95  25.78  25.25  27.50  27.78  Proﬁt before tax/total revenue %  27.27  30.04  31.05  28.72  28.48  29.53  27.61  22.11  25.84  26.32  26.44  Tax/total revenue %  6.59  7.18  7.42  6.37  6.95  4.91  3.99  3.02  3.48  3.55  3.84  Effective tax rate - tax/PBT %  23.72  23.51  23.90  22.19  24.42  16.61  14.44  13.64  13.45  13.50  14.53  Proﬁt after tax/total revenue %  20.97  23.15  23.43  22.09  21.30  24.30  23.31  18.90  22.22  22.55  22.37  Ratios - growth Total revenue %  15.69  15.69  29.88  28.83  31.00  24.30  7.97  22.96  21.06  40.87  36.06  EBIDTA (before other income) %  (2.67)  7.78  39.43  24.97  29.14  28.57  21.27  25.54  11.14  39.48  30.94  Proﬁt after tax %  3.59  14.34  37.70  33.65  14.84  29.53  33.18  4.58  19.31  42.00  50.07  Ratios - Balance Sheet Debt-equity ratio Times  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.00  0.00  0.01  0.04  0.04  0.06  0.02  Current ratio Times  2.40  3.91  2.74  2.69  2.22  2.35  1.88  2.26  2.24  2.24  2.25  Days sales outstanding (DSO) in `  terms Days  79  79  81  82  86  80  71  79  87  84  90  Days sales outstanding (DSO) in $  terms Days  78  78  82  82  81  82  74  74  87  88  90  Invested funds / total assets %  43.51  38.02  43.01  36.38  34.81  36.81  45.68  26.29  28.97  27.03  17.67  Capital expenditure / total revenue %  3.11  3.11  3.80  4.18  4.06  4.85  3.43  3.95  5.58  6.64  4.69  Operating cash ﬂows / total revenue %  20.46  20.46  18.03  18.44  14.27  17.72  24.66  19.45  17.22  18.58  18.76  Free cash ﬂow/operating cash ﬂow  ratio   %  84.81  84.81  78.90  77.33  71.52  72.66  86.07  79.70  67.60  64.25  74.97  Depreciation / average gross block %  11.53  11.53  10.57  10.25  10.65  10.35  10.78  11.13  15.05  17.10  18.09  Ratios - per share EPS - adjusted for bonus `` 101.35 111.87  97.67  70.99  53.07  46.27  35.67  26.81  25.68  21.53  15.16  Price earning ratio, end of year Times  25.13  22.77  21.79  22.14  22.01  25.56  21.89  10.07  15.79  28.97  31.57  Dividend per share `  79.00  79.00  32.00  22.00  25.00  14.00  20.00  14.00  14.00  13.00  13.50  Dividend per share - adjusted for  bonus ` `  79.00  79.00  32.00  22.00  25.00  14.00  20.00  7.00  7.00  5.75  3.38  Market capitalization/total revenue Times  5.27  5.27  5.10  4.88  4.67  6.20  5.09  1.90  3.51  6.53  7.06  *as reported **excluding impact of one-time employee reward Management Discussion and Analysis 83  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE UNCONSOLIDATED  The management discussion and analysis given below  relate to the audited financial statements of T ata  Consultancy Services Limited (hereinafter referred to as  TCS Limited, TCS Ltd or TCSL).
The discussion should be  read in conjunction with the ﬁnancial statements and  related notes to the financial statements for the year  ended March 31, 2015.
SUMMARY  Revenue of TCS Limited aggregated ` 73,578.06 crores   in ﬁscal 2015 as compared to ` 64,672.93 crores in ﬁscal  2014, registering a growth of 13.77%.
In ﬁscal 2015, there was a major one-time adjustment in  the statement of proﬁt and loss namely, a special, one- time reward to eligible employees, which increased the  employee expenses by ` 2,326.42 crores.
Other signiﬁcant ﬁnancial parameters are: x Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and  amortisation (EBITDA) excluding the one-time  adjustment for employee reward aggregated   ` 23,354.62 crores in ﬁscal 2015 ( ` 21,533.72 crores  in fiscal 2014), a growth of 8.46%.
The EBITDA as  reported aggregated ` 21,028.20 crores.
x Proﬁt before tax (PBT) excluding one-time adjustment  for employee reward aggregated ` 26,876.39 crores in  ﬁscal 2015 (` 23,544.47 crores in ﬁscal 2014), registering  a growth of 14.15%.
The PBT as reported aggregated   ` 24,549.97 crores.
x Proﬁt after tax (PAT) excluding one-time adjustment  for employee reward aggregated ` 21,091.43 crores in  ﬁscal 2015 (` 18,474.92 crores in ﬁscal 2014), registering  a growth of 14.16%.
The PAT as reported aggregated   ` 19,256.96 crores.
x Earnings per share (EPS) excluding one-time adjustment  for employee reward was ` 107.68 in ﬁscal 2015   (` 94.15 in ﬁscal 2014), registering a growth of  14.37%.
The EPS as reported was ` 98.31. DIVIDEND  Decision on dividend is based on Tata Consultancy Services  Limited (unconsolidated) ﬁnancials which excludes the   performance of subsidiaries of TCS Limited.
The board of directors decides on interim dividend based  on the performance of TCSL during the course of the year.
For ﬁscal 2015, TCSL declared three interim dividends of  ` 5 per equity share and a special dividend of ` 40 per  equity share.
A ﬁnal dividend of ` 24 per equity share  has been recommended by the board of directors at its  meeting held on April 16, 2015.
Post approval of ﬁnal dividend of ` 24 per equity share by  the shareholders, the total dividend for ﬁscal 2015 would  aggregate ` 79 per equity share (dividend for ﬁscal 2014  ` 32 per equity share).
Management Discussion and Analysis84  Annual Report 2014-15 DISCUSSIONS ON FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE - UNCONSOLIDATED  The following table gives an overview of the ﬁnancial results of TCS Limited:  Fiscal 2015 - as  reported Fiscal 2015 -  excluding one-time  employee reward Fiscal 2014 ` crores % of  revenue ` crores % of   revenue ` crores % of   revenue %  growth Revenue from operations 73,578.06  100.00 73,578.06  100.00 64,672.93  100.00  13.77  Expenses: Employee beneﬁt expenses 27,368.32  37.19 25,041.90  34.03 21,466.56  33.19  16.66  Overseas business expenses  (employee allowances paid  overseas) 10,886.90  14.80 10,886.90  14.80 9,316.28  14.41  16.86  Services rendered by business  associates (BA) and others 5,046.61  6.86 5,046.61  6.86 4,398.42  6.80  14.74  Total employee and BA  related expenses 43,301.83  58.85 40,975.41  55.69 35,181.26  54.40  16.47  Overseas business expenses  (other than employee allowance  paid overseas) 930.73  1.27 930.73 1.27 833.09  1.29  11.72  Operation and other expenses 8,317.30  11.30 8,317.30  11.30 7,124.86  11.01  16.74  Total expenses 52,549.86  71.42 50,223.44  68.26 43,139.21  66.70  16.42  Earnings before  interest,  tax, depreciation and  amortization (EBITDA) 21,028.20  28.58 23,354.62  31.74 21,533.72  33.30  8.46  Other income (net) excluding  dividend income 3,131.60  4.26 3,131.60  4.26 1,503.76  2.33  108.25  Dividend income 1,335.13  1.81 1,335.13  1.81 1,610.95  2.49  (17.12) Finance costs 79.57  0.11 79.57  0.11 23.41  0.04  239.90  Depreciation and amortisation  expense 1,393.77  1.89 1,393.77  1.89 1,080.55  1.67  28.99  Proﬁt before exceptional  item and tax 24,021.59  32.65 26,348.01  35.81 23,544.47  36.41  11.91  Exceptional Item 528.38  0.72 528.38  0.72  -    -    Proﬁt before tax (PBT) 24,549.97  33.37 26,876.39  36.53 23,544.47  36.41  14.15  Tax expense 5,293.01  7.20 5,784.96  7.86 5,069.55  7.84  14.11  Proﬁt for the year (PAT) 19,256.96  26.17 21,091.43  28.67 18,474.92  28.57  14.16  The growth in operating parameters in the table above and also in other tables in the following discussions have  been analysed with respect to performance prior to the impact of one-time employee reward.
Revenue from operations Revenue from operations increased from ` 64,672.93   crores in ﬁscal 2014 to ` 73,578.06 crores in ﬁscal 2015,  registering a growth of 13.77 % (33.55% in ﬁscal 2014).
The business growth in ﬁscal 2015 was at 14.44% (20.44%  in fiscal 2014).
The revenue growth in fiscal 2015 was  adversely affected by exchange rate ﬂuctuations (-0.67%  in ﬁscal 2015; 13.11% in ﬁscal 2014).
Management Discussion and Analysis 85  Expenses Employee and BA related expenses  Fiscal 2015 - as  reported Fiscal 2015 -  excluding one-time  employee reward Fiscal 2014 ` crores % of  revenue ` crores % of   revenue ` crores % of   revenue %  growth Employee beneﬁt expenses 27,368.32  37.19 25,041.90  34.03 21,466.56  33.19  16.66  Overseas business expenses  (employee allowances paid  overseas) 10,886.90  14.80 10,886.90  14.80 9,316.28  14.41  16.86  Services rendered by business  associates (BA) and others 5,046.61  6.86 5,046.61  6.86 4,398.42  6.80  14.74  Total 43,301.83  58.85 40,975.41  55.69 35,181.26  54.40  16.47  Total employee and BA related expenses excluding one-time employee reward have increased by 16.47% from   ` 35,181.26 crores in ﬁscal 2014 to ` 40,975.41 crores in ﬁscal 2015.
These costs as a percentage of revenue were   55.69 % in ﬁscal 2015 (54.40% in ﬁscal 2014).
Total employee and BA related expenses as reported aggregated ` 43,301.83 crores representing 58.85% of revenue.
Overseas business expenses (other than employee allowances paid overseas)  Overseas business expenses (other than employee allowances paid overseas) went up marginally from ` 833.09 crores  (1.29 % of revenue) in ﬁscal 2014 to ` 930.73 crores (1.27 % of revenue) in ﬁscal 2015.
Operation and other expenses  Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2014 ` crores % of  revenue ` crores % of  revenue % growth Software, hardware and material costs 2,932.16  3.99 2,442.64  3.78  20.04  Communication expenses 641.50  0.87 529.48  0.82  21.16  Travelling and conveyance expenses 812.94  1.10 671.40  1.04  21.08  Rent 1,072.70  1.46 1,044.05  1.61  2.74  Legal and professional fees 333.54  0.45 277.84  0.43  20.05  Repairs and maintenance 491.18  0.66 404.36  0.62  21.47  Electricity expenses 493.36  0.67 463.25  0.72  6.50  Recruitment and training expenses 235.10  0.33 205.06  0.31  14.65  Others 1,304.82  1.77 1,086.78  1.68  20.06  Total 8,317.30  11.30 7,124.86  11.01  16.74  Operation and other expenses as percentage of revenue increased marginally from 11.01% in ﬁscal 2014 to 11.30 %  in ﬁscal 2015.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA)  In ﬁscal 2015 EBITDA excluding the impact of one-time employee reward was ` 23,354.62 (31.74 % of revenue) as  compared to ` 21,533.72 crores (33.30% of revenue) in  ﬁscal 2014.
The decrease in the EBITDA of 1.56% as a percentage  of revenue during ﬁscal 2015 was primarily attributable to increase in employee and BA related costs by 1.29%.
EBITDA as reported aggregated ` 21,028.20 crores.
Management Discussion and Analysis86  Annual Report 2014-15 Other income (net) Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2014 ` crores % of  revenue ` crores % of  revenue Dividend income 1,335.13  1.81  1,610.95  2.49  Interest income 1,554.93  2.11  1,280.07  1.98  Exchange gain (net) 1,278.63  1.74  5.00  0.01  Proﬁt on redemption of mutual funds and sale of other  investments (net) 225.99  0.31  162.77  0.25  Others (net) 72.05  0.10  55.92  0.09  Total 4,466.73  6.07  3,114.71  4.82  The increase in other income of 1.25 % as a percentage  of revenue, is primarily attributable to: x increase in exchange gain (net) 1.73% x offset by decrease in dividend received from  subsidiaries  0.68%.
Depreciation and amortisation  Depreciation and amortisation increased from ` 1,080.55  crores in ﬁscal 2014 (1.67% of revenue) to `  1,393.77   crores in ﬁscal 2015 (1.89% of revenue).
The increase  was spread across all asset groups, mainly attributable  to freehold buildings, computers, electrical installation,  leasehold improvements and furniture and ﬁxtures.
Exceptional Item In ﬁscal 2015, as mentioned earlier, there is a one-time  credit item of `  528.38 crores shown under the head   ‘exceptional item’.
This is the net impact of change in  accounting policy for depreciation relating to both (1)  change in the method of depreciation and (2) change  in the useful life of fixed assets, necessitated due to  implementation of the Companies Act, 2013.
Depreciation  is now provided on straight line basis on all assets as  against the policy of providing on written down value  basis on some assets and on straight line basis for others.
The remaining useful life has also been revised wherever  appropriate, based on an evaluation.
Proﬁt before tax (PBT)  In ﬁscal 2015, PBT before adjustment of one-time  employee reward was ` 26,876.39 crores ( ` 23,544.47   crores in ﬁscal 2014).
As a percentage of revenue, PBT  increased from 36.41% in ﬁscal 2014 to 36.53% in ﬁscal  2015.
The increase of 0.12% is mainly due to: x increase in exchange gain (net) 1.73% x impact of exceptional item relating to change in  accounting policy 0.72%  offset by x decrease in EBITDA 1.56% x decrease in dividend income 0.68%.
In ﬁscal 2015, PBT as reported, after impact of one-time  employee reward, was `  24,549.97 crores representing  33.37% of revenue.
Tax expense  Tax expense before accounting of one-time employee  reward increased to ` 5,784.96 crores in ﬁscal 2015 from   ` 5,069.55 crores in ﬁscal 2014.
As a percentage of   revenue, it has increased from 7.84% in ﬁscal 2014 to 7.86  % in ﬁscal 2015.
The effective tax rate has decreased from  21.53% in ﬁscal 2014 to 21.52% in ﬁscal 2015.
In ﬁscal 2015, tax expense as reported, after impact of  one-time employee reward, was ` 5,293.01 crores (7.20%  of revenue).
The effective tax rate was 21.56%.
Proﬁt for the year (PAT)  The net proﬁt in fiscal 2015, prior to adjustment of   one-time employee reward, was ` 21,091.43 crores   (28.67% of revenue) as compared to ` 18,474.92 crores  in ﬁscal 2014 (28.57% of revenue).
In ﬁscal 2015, the PAT as reported was ` 19,256.96 crores  (26.17% of revenue).
Management Discussion and Analysis 87  FINANCIAL POSITION – UNCONSOLIDATED Share capital  There has been no change in the position of authorised,  issued, subscribed and paid up capital during ﬁscal 2015.
Reserves and surplus  General reserve as at March 31, 2014 was ` 5,161.20   crores.
On transfer of  ` 1,925.69 crores from the proﬁt  and loss account and adjusting the reserve on account of  merger of WTI Advanced Technology Limited into TCSL,  the general reserve as at March 31, 2015 increased to   ` 7,052.69 crores.
Foreign currency translation reserve was ` 218.46 crores as  at March 31, 2015 (` 225.85 crores as at March 31, 2014).
The closing balance in hedging reserve account, arising  out of cash ﬂow hedges as at March 31, 2015 showed an  accumulated gain of ` 150.75 crores (` 29.64 crores as at  March 31, 2014).
Note 39 to the unconsolidated ﬁnancial  statements gives details of movements in the hedging  reserve account.
Balance in the statement of proﬁt and loss as at March  31, 2015 was `  35,779.06 crores (`  36,420.45 crores as at   March 31, 2014) after appropriation towards dividend  on equity shares, tax on dividend, write back of tax on  dividend of prior year and transfer to general reserve.
Reserves and surplus as at March 31, 2015 were   ` 45,220.57 crores ( ` 43,856.01 crores, as at March 31,  2014), an increase of 3.11%.
Borrowings  Long-term borr owings  Long-term borrowings as at March 31, 2015 aggregated   ` 64.71 crores ( ` 89.69 crores as at March 31, 2014)   primarily due to ﬁnance lease obligations of ` 64.13 crores  (` 88.64 crores as at March 31, 2014) which are secured  against ﬁxed assets.
For details refer note 34 ‘obligations  towards ﬁnance leases’ to the unconsolidated ﬁnancial  statements.
Deferred tax liability (net) and deferred tax assets  (net)  As stated in the accounting policies, deferred tax assets  and liabilities are of fset, tax jurisdiction-wise.
Note 6 to  the unconsolidated ﬁnancial statements brings out details  of component-wise deferred tax balances where the net  values result into liabilities or assets, jurisdiction-wise.
Deferred tax liability or asset is recognised on timing  difference being the difference between taxable income  and accounting income that originate in one period and  is likely to reverse in one or more subsequent periods.
Such timing differences resulting in deferred tax liability  or asset usually arise from items like branch proﬁt tax,  depreciation and employee beneﬁt expenses.
The net deferred tax liability was ` 271.46 crores as at  March 31, 2015 (` 226.87 crores as at March 31, 2014).
As at March 31, 2015, the net deferred tax asset had a  balance of ` 303.47 crores (` 273.58 crores as at March 31,  2014).
TCSL assesses the likelihood of deferred tax assets  getting recovered from future taxable income.
Other current liabilities and long-term liabilities       (` crores)  As at   March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 As at   March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 As at   March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 Other current liabilities Other long-term liabilities Total other liabilities Income received in advance  854.67  753.74  -    -    854.67  753.74  Advance received from  customers  26.18  21.96  -    -    26.18  21.96  Other payables and  liabilities  1,610.62  1,684.62  722.15  690.44  2,332.77  2,375.06  Total  2,491.47  2,460.32  722.15  690.44  3,213.62  3,150.76  Other current and long-term liabilities increased to   ` 3,213.62  crores as at March 31, 2015 ( ` 3,150.76 crores  as at March 31, 2014).
The increase was primarily due  to increase in income received in advance ` 100.93  crores offset by decrease in other payables and liabilities   ` 42.29 crores, mainly on account of: x decrease in capital creditors ` 144.43 crores x decrease in statutory current liabilities such as value  added tax (VAT), tax deducted at source (TDS) etc   ` 17.15 crores offset by: x increase in lease rental liabilities ` 72.11 crores x net increase in liabilities for cost related to customer  contracts ` 49.29 crores.
Management Discussion and Analysis88  Annual Report 2014-15 Short-term and long-term provisions Provisions aggregated ` 7,146.26 crores as at March 31, 2015 (` 6,107.44 crores as at March 31, 2014).
The composition  of provisions is given in the table below:       (` crores)  As at   March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 As at   March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 As at   March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 Short-term provisions Long-term provisions Total provisions Provision for employee  beneﬁts  951.52  761.99  32.43  168.93  983.95  930.92  Proposed ﬁnal dividend on  equity shares  4,700.95  3,917.46  -    -    4,700.95  3,917.46  Proposed dividend on  redeemable preference  shares  -    28.76  -    -    -    28.76  Tax on dividend  939.91  670.66  -    -    939.91  670.66  Current income taxes  323.93  411.35  -    -    323.93  411.35  Provision for foreseeable  loss on a long-term contract  103.04  37.61  94.48  110.68  197.52  148.29  Total  7,019.35  5,827.83  126.91  279.61  7,146.26  6,107.44  The increase of 1,038.82 crores in provisions was mainly  attributable to: x increase in proposed ﬁnal dividend on equity shares  ` 783.49 crores x increase in tax on dividend ` 269.25 crores x offset by decrease in current income taxes (net)   ` 87.42 crores.
Fixed assets  Signiﬁcant additions to gross block in ﬁscal 2015 were:  x land and buildings ` 1,243.63 crores ( ` 531.16 crores  in ﬁscal 2014) x computer equipment ` 711.64 crores (` 766.19 crores  in ﬁscal 2014) x furniture & fixtures and electrical installations    ` 442.23  crores ( ` 417.21  crores in ﬁscal 2014) x ofﬁce equipment ` 209.69 crores ( ` 299.89 crores in  ﬁscal 2014) x leasehold improvements ` 207.97 crores ( ` 229.72  crores in ﬁscal 2014).
TCSL entered into contractual commitments with vendors  who are executing various infrastructure projects.
The  estimated amounts of such contracts remaining to be  executed on capital account were ` 1,844.08 crores as at  March 31, 2015 (` 2,811.44 crores as at March 31, 2014).
Management Discussion and Analysis 89  Current investments and non-current investments       (` crores)     As at   March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 As at   March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 As at   March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 Current investments Non-current investments Total Investments in bonds and  debentures  -    727.87  0.12  2,185.23  0.12  2,913.10  Investments in fully paid-up  equity shares of subsidiaries  -    -    2,492.82  2,473.01  2,492.82  2,473.01  Investments in fully paid- up preference shares of  subsidiaries  -    -    101.75  359.45  101.75  359.45  Other investments  747.47  6.00  56.54  80.86  804.01  86.86  Total  747.47  733.87  2,651.23  5,098.55  3,398.70  5,832.42 Decrease in total investments of ` 2,433.72 crores in ﬁscal  2015 were primarily attributable to:  s  DECREASE IN INVESTMENTS IN BONDS AND DEBENTURES    ` 2,912.98 crores s  DECREASE IN )NVESTMENTS IN FULLY PAID UP PREFERENCE  shares of subsidiaries ` 257.70  crores s  OFFSET BY INCREASE IN INVESTMENTS IN MUTUAL FUNDS    ` 742.15 crores.
Unbilled revenue  In ﬁscal 2015, unbilled revenue was 3.32% of revenue  (4.06% for ﬁscal 2014).
Trade receivables  As a percentage of revenue, trade receivables were at  23.15% as at March 31, 2015 compared to 22.38% as at   March 31, 2014.
Short-term and long-term loans and advances       (` crores)     As at   March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 As at   March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 As at   March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 Short-term loans and  advances Long-term loans and  advances Total loans and   advances Capital advances  -    -    201.90  351.99  201.90  351.99  Security deposits 104.17 63.07  538.00  548.23 642.17 611.30 Advance tax (including  refunds receivable (net))  -    -    3,884.22  2,913.02  3,884.22  2,913.02  MAT Credit entitlement  -    -    1,801.78  1,810.61  1,801.78  1,810.61  Other loans and advances 3,248.01 3,625.05  2,026.65  1,251.69 5,274.66 4,876.74 Total  3,352.18  3,688.12  8,452.55  6,875.54  11,804.73  10,563.66 Loans and advances as at March 31, 2015 increased by   ` 1,241.07 crores.
The increase was primarily attributable  to:  x increase in advance tax ` 971.20 crores, mainly  driven by payments made against demands from tax  authorities, some of which have been contested by  TCSL  x increase in prepaid expenses ` 418.88 crores x increase in inter-corporate deposits ` 277.00 crores  placed with non-related corporate which have high  credit ratings x offset by decrease in capital advances ` 150.09 crores.
Management Discussion and Analysis90  Annual Report 2014-15 Other current and non-current assets       (` crores)     As at   March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 As at   March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 As at   March 31,  2015 As at   March 31,  2014 Other current assets Other non-current assets Total Interest receivable  339.53  715.61  24.33  34.52  363.86  750.13  Long-term bank deposits  -    -    500.00  1,477.00  500.00  1,477.00  Others  -    24.41  0.35  33.47  0.35  57.88  Total  339.53  740.02  524.68  1,544.99  864.21  2,285.01  Other current and non-current assets as at March 31, 2015 were lower by ` 1,420.80 crores primarily on account of  reduction in long term bank deposits.
Cash & bank balances   (` crores) As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 Short-term bank deposits  16,002.75  12,112.90  Cash and cash equivalents and earmarked balances with banks  499.75  453.36  Total  16,502.50  12,566.26  Management Discussion and Analysis 91  CASH FLOW - UNCONSOLIDATED TCSL’s growth has been ﬁnanced largely by cash generated  from operations.
It has sufﬁcient cash generated from   operations for meeting its working capital requirements  as well as the requirements for capital expenditure.
Banking and ﬁnancing arrangements As at March 31, 2015, TCSL had available line of credit  with multiple banks aggregating ` 5,759.00 crores,   interchangeable between fund-based and non-fund based  limits (` 5,334.00 crores as at March 31, 2014).
As at March  31, 2015 TCSL had utilised ` 1,475.31 crores of these limits  (` 1,707.50 crores utilised as at March 31, 2014).
Summary of cash ﬂow statement is given below:   (` crores) Fiscal   2015 Fiscal  2014 Net cash provided by/ (used in) Operating activities  16,319.89  12,941.93  Investing activities   611.01  (7,189.32) Financing activities (16,914.20)  (5,684.32) Net  increase / (decrease) in  cash and cash equivalents  16.70  68.29  Adjustment on account of  merger  1.97 2.57 Exchange difference on  translation of foreign currency  cash and cash equivalents (27.26) 43.66 Net  increase / (decrease) in  cash and cash equivalents  after adjustments (8.59)  114.52  Cash ﬂows from operating activities   (` crores) Fiscal   2015 Fiscal  2014 Operating Proﬁt before  working capital changes  22,633.58  21,495.39  Effect of working capital  changes  6.88  (2,458.04) Taxes paid  (6,320.57)  (6,095.42) Net cash provided by  operating activities  16,319.89  12,941.93  In ﬁscal 2015, TCSL generated net cash of ` 16,319.89  crores (` 12,941.93 crores in ﬁscal 2014) from operating  activities.
This is attributable to: x release of additional amount of working capital   ` 6.88 crores in ﬁscal 2015 (utilization of ` 2,458.04  crores in ﬁscal 2014) x increase in operating profit before working  capital changes to `  22,633.58 crores in ﬁscal 2015   (` 21,495.39 crores in ﬁscal 2014) x offset by increase in taxes paid ` 6,320.57 crores in  ﬁscal 2015 (` 6,095.42 crores in ﬁscal 2014).
Cash ﬂows from investing activities   (` crores) Fiscal   2015 Fiscal  2014 Fixed assets (net)  (2,564.49)  (2,694.44) Trade investments (net) 192.53  29.66  Mutual Funds (net) 2,451.06  (1,485.84) Inter-corporate deposits (net)  103.00  866.77  Fixed deposit with banks  having original maturity over  three months (net)  (2,897.58)  (6,783.67) Dividends received from  subsidiaries (including  exchange gain)  1,354.31  1,551.10  Interest received  1,934.38  1,318.45  Others  37.80  8.65  Net cash provided by  / (used in)  investing  activities      611.01  (7,189.32) In ﬁscal 2015, cash provided by investing activities was  ` 611.01 crores (TCSL had used ` 7,189.32 crores in ﬁscal  2014).
During ﬁscal 2015, cash provided by investing activity was  primarily attributable to: x mutual funds (net) ` 2,451.06 crores in ﬁscal 2015  (purchase of mutual funds (net) ` 1,485.84 crores in  ﬁscal 2014) x inter-corporate deposits (net) ` 103.00 crores in ﬁscal  2015 (` 866.77 crores used in ﬁscal 2014) x interest received from investments in ﬁxed deposits,  inter-corporate deposits and bonds & debentures   ` 1,934.38 crores in ﬁscal 2015 ( ` 1,318.45 crores in  ﬁscal 2014) x dividends from subsidiaries ` 1,354.31 crores in ﬁscal  2015 (` 1,551.10 crores in ﬁscal 2014).
Use of cash in investing activity was primarily  attributable to: x investment in fixed deposits with banks (net)   ` 2,897.58 crores in ﬁscal 2015 ( ` 6,783.67 crores in  ﬁscal 2014) x purchase of ﬁxed assets (net) ` 2,564.49 crores in ﬁscal  2015 (` 2,694.44 crores in ﬁscal 2014).
Management Discussion and Analysis92  Annual Report 2014-15 Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities   (` crores) Fiscal   2015 Fiscal  2014 Repayment of long term  borrowings  (0.47)  (1.24) Short term borrowings (net) 185.56  (80.02) Dividend paid including  dividend tax (17,020.46)  (5,480.07) Interest paid  (78.83)  (22.99) Redemption of preference  shares  -    (100.00) Net cash used in ﬁnancing  activities                                                                    (16,914.20)  (5,684.32) The signiﬁcant items of cash used in ﬁnancing activities  in fiscal 2015 were payment of dividend ` 17,020.46  crores including dividend tax (`  5,480.07 crores in ﬁscal  2014) and proceeds from short term borrowings (net)   ` 185.56  crores in ﬁscal 2015 (repayment of ` 80.02 crores  in ﬁscal 2014).
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROL SYSTEMS AND THEIR  ADEQUACY In order to ensure that the policies and procedures  adopted by TCSL for conducting its business orderly   and efficiently, TCS has aligned its internal financial  control systems on lines of globally accepted risk based  framework as issued by the committee of sponsoring  organisations of the treadway commission (COSO) internal  control - integrated framework (2013).
The internal financial control system as designed in  the COSO framework, has been followed by TCSL, such  controls are adequate for TCSL and have been operating  effectively.
TCS’s internal ﬁnancial control systems are commensurate  with its size and the nature of its operations.
These have  been designed to provide reasonable assurance with  regard to recording and providing reliable financial  and operational information, complying with applicable  statutes, safeguarding assets from unauthorised use,  executing transactions with proper authorisation and  ensuring compliance of corporate policies.
TCS has a well- deﬁned delegation of power with authority limits for  approving revenue as well as expenditure.
Processes for  formulating and reviewing annual and long term business  plans have been laid down.
TCS uses a state-of-the-art  ERP system to record data for accounting, consolidation  and management information purposes and connects to  different locations for efﬁcient exchange of information.
It has continued its efforts to align all its processes and  controls with global best practices.
The audit committee deliberated with the members of  the management, considered the systems as laid down  and met the statutory auditors to ascertain, inter alia,  their views on the internal financial control systems.
The audit committee satisﬁed itself of the adequacy and  effectiveness of the internal ﬁnancial control system as  laid down and kept the board of directors informed.
TCS has appointed Ernst & Young LLP to oversee and  carry out internal audit of its activities.
The audit is  based on an internal audit plan, which is reviewed each  year in consultation with the statutory auditors (Deloitte  Haskins & Sells LLP) and the audit committee.
In line with  international practice, the internal audit plan aims at  reviewing internal controls and risks in operations such as  software delivery, accounting and ﬁnance, procurement,  employee engagement, travel, insurance, IT processes,  including most of the subsidiaries and foreign branches.
The audit committee reviews audit reports submitted  by the internal auditors.
Suggestions for improvement  are considered and the audit committee follows up on  corrective action.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT  Certain statements made in the management discussion  and analysis report relating to the Company’ s objectives,  projections, outlook, expectations, estimates and others  may constitute ‘forward looking statements’ within the  meaning of applicable laws and regulations.
Actual results  may differ from such expectations whether expressed or  implied.
Several factors could make signiﬁcant difference  to the Company’s operations.
These include climatic  and economic conditions affecting demand and supply,  government regulations and taxation, natural calamities  over which the Company does not have any direct control.
Corporate Governance Report 93  Corporate Governance Report Separator  Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report94  Corporate Governance Report for the year 2014-15 I. Company’s Philosophy on Code of Governance  Effective corporate governance practices constitute the strong foundation on which successful commercial  enterprises are built to last.
The Company’ s philosophy on corporate governance oversees business strategies and  ensures ﬁscal accountability, ethical corporate behaviour and fairness to all stakeholders comprising regulators,  employees, customers, vendors, investors and the society at large.
Strong leadership and effective corporate governance practices have been the Company’s hallmark inherited  from the Tata culture and ethos.
The Company has a strong legacy of fair, transparent and ethical governance practices.
The Company has adopted  a code of conduct for its employees including the managing director and the executive directors.
In addition,  the Company has adopted a code of conduct for its non-executive directors and independent directors.
These  codes are available on the Company’s website.
The Company’s corporate governance philosophy has been further  strengthened through the Tata Business Excellence Model, the Tata Code of Conduct for prevention of insider  trading and the code of corporate disclosure practices.
The Company has in place an information security policy  that ensures proper utilisation of IT resources.
The Company is in compliance with the requirements stipulated under Clause 49 of the Listing Agreements  entered into with the stock exchanges with regard to corporate governance.
II.
Board of Directors  i.
As on March 31, 2015, the Company has eleven directors.
Of the eleven Directors, nine (i.e.
81.82%) are  non-executive directors and six (i.e.
54.55%) are independent directors.
The composition of the board is  in conformity with Clause 49 of the Listing Agreements entered into with the stock exchanges.
ii.
None of the directors on the board hold directorships in more than ten public companies.
Further, none  of them is a  member of more than ten committees or chairman of more than ﬁve committees across all  the public companies in which he is a director.
Necessary disclosures regarding committee positions in  other public companies as on March 31, 2015 have been made by the directors.
None of the directors are  related to each other.
iii.
Independent directors are non-executive directors as deﬁned under Clause 49(II)(B)(1) of the Listing  Agreements entered into with the Stock Exchanges.
The maximum tenure of the independent directors is  in compliance with the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”).
All the Independent Directors have conﬁrmed that  they meet the criteria as mentioned under clause 49 of the Listing Agreement and Section 149 of the Act.
iv.
The names and categories of the directors on the board, their attendance at board meetings held during  the year and the number of directorships and committee chairmanships / memberships held by them  in other public companies as on March 31, 2015 are given herein below.
Other directorships do not  include directorships of private limited companies, Section 8 companies and of companies incorporated  outside India.
Chairmanships / memberships of board committees shall include only audit committee and  stakeholders’ relationship committee.
Corporate Governance Report 95  Name of the Director Category Number of board  meetings during the  year 2014-15 Whether  attended  last AGM  held on   June 27,  2014 Number of  directorships in other  Public Companies Number of committee  positions held  in other public  companies Held Attended Chairman Member Chairman Member Mr. Cyrus Mistry (Chairman) DIN 00010178 Non-Independent,  Non-Executive 77 Y e s 9 - -- Mr. S.Ramadorai* (Vice-Chairman) DIN 00000002 Non-Independent,  Non-Executive 4 3 Yes N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Mr. N. Chandrasekaran (Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and  Managing Director) DIN 00121863 Non-Independent,  Executive 77 Y e s 21 -- Mr. Aman Mehta DIN 00009364 Independent,   Non-Executive 76 Y e s -52 3 Mr. V. Thyagarajan DIN 00017541 Independent,  Non-Executive 77 Y e s -1 - 1 Prof. Clayton M. Christensen DIN 00020111 Independent,  Non-Executive 72 N o - - -- Dr. Ron Sommer DIN 00621387 Independent,  Non-Executive 77 Y e s 1 - -- Dr. Vijay Kelkar DIN 00011991 Independent,  Non-Executive 77 Y e s -72 1 Mr. Ishaat Hussain DIN 00027891 Non-Independent,  Non-Executive 77 Y e s 453 3 Mr. O. P. Bhatt DIN 00548091 Independent,  Non-Executive 77 Y e s -21 2 Mr. Phiroz Vandrevala DIN 01778976 Non-Independent,  Non-Executive 76 Y e s -21- Ms. Aarthi Subramanian** DIN 07121802 Non-Independent,  Executive 1 1 N.A.
- 1 - -  * Retired as the Director and Vice Chairman of the Company w.e.f October 6, 2014  ** Appointed as an Additional and Executive Director w.e.f March 12, 2015  Video / tele-conferencing facilities are also used to facilitate directors travelling / residing abroad or at other  locations to participate in the meetings.
v. Seven board meetings were held during the year and the gap between two meetings did not exceed one  hundred twenty days.
The dates on which the said meetings were held:   April 16, 2014; June 27, 2014; July 17, 2014; September 3, 2014; October 16, 2014; January 15, 2015 and  March 12, 2015.
The necessary quorum was present for all the meetings.
vi.
During the year 2014-15, information as mentioned in Annexure X to Clause 49 of the Listing Agreements  has been placed before the board for its consideration.
vii.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the independent directors are disclosed on the website of  the Company.
viii.
During the year a separate meeting of the independent directors was held inter-alia to review the  performance of non-independent directors and the board as a whole.
ix.
The Board periodically reviews compliance reports of all laws applicable to the Company, prepared by the  Company.
Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report96  III.
Committees of the board  A.
Audit committee   i.
The audit committee of the Company is constituted in line with the provisions of Clause 49 of the  Listing Agreements entered into with the stock exchanges read with Section 177 of the Act.
ii.
The terms of reference of the audit committee are broadly as under: x  Oversight of the Company’s ﬁnancial reporting process and the disclosure of its ﬁnancial  information to ensure that the ﬁnancial statement is correct, sufﬁcient and credible; x  Recommend the appointment, remuneration and terms of appointment of auditors of the  Company; x  Approval of payment to statutory auditors for any other services rendered by the statutory  auditors; x  Reviewing, with the management, the annual ﬁnancial statements and auditors’ report thereon  before submission to the board for approval, with particular reference to: ¾  Matters required to be included in the director’s responsibility statement to be included  in the board’s report in terms of clause (c) of sub-section 3 of section 134 of the Act ¾  Changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices and reasons for the same ¾  Major accounting entries involving estimates based on the exercise of judgment by  management ¾  Signiﬁcant adjustments made in the ﬁnancial statements arising out of audit ﬁndings ¾  Compliance with listing and other legal requirements relating to ﬁnancial statements ¾  Disclosure of any related party transactions ¾  Qualiﬁcations in the draft audit report x  Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly ﬁnancial statements before submission to the  board for approval; x  Reviewing, with the management, the statement of uses / application of funds raised through  an issue (public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, etc.
), the statement of funds utilised for  purposes other than those stated in the offer document / prospectus / notice and the report  submitted by the monitoring agency monitoring the utilisation of proceeds of a public or rights  issue, and making appropriate recommendations to the board to take up steps in this matter; x  Review and monitor the auditors’ independence and performance, and effectiveness of audit  process; x  Approval or any subsequent modiﬁcation of transactions of the Company with related parties; x  Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments; x  Valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company, wherever it is necessary; x  Evaluation of internal ﬁnancial controls and risk management systems; x  Reviewing, with the management, performance of statutory and internal auditors, adequacy  of the internal control systems; x  Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, if any, including the structure of the internal  audit department, stafﬁng and seniority of the ofﬁcial heading the department, reporting  structure coverage and frequency of internal audit; x  Discussion with internal auditors of any signiﬁcant ﬁndings and follow up there on; x  Reviewing the ﬁndings of any internal investigations by the internal auditors into matters where  there is suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal control systems of a material  nature and reporting the matter to the board; x  Discussion with statutory auditors before the audit commences, about the nature and scope  of audit as well as post-audit discussion to ascertain any area of concern; Corporate Governance Report 97  x  To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the payment to the depositors, debenture  holders, shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared dividends) and creditors; x  Establish a vigil mechanism for directors and employees to report genuine concerns in such  manner as may be prescribed; x  To review the functioning of whistle blower mechanism.
x  Approval of appointment of CFO; x  The audit committee may call for the comments of the auditors about internal control systems,  the scope of audit, including the observations of the auditors and review of ﬁnancial statement  before their submission to the board and may also discuss any related issues with the internal  and statutory auditors and the management of the Company; x  Carrying out any other function as is mentioned in the terms of reference of the audit  committee; x  Oversee ﬁnancial reporting controls and process for material subsidiaries; x  Oversee compliance with legal and regulatory requirements including the Tata Code of Conduct  (“TCoC”) for the company and its material subsidiaries; x  To mandatorily review the following information: ¾  Management discussion and analysis of ﬁnancial condition and results of operations; ¾  Statement of signiﬁcant related party transactions (as deﬁned by the audit committee),  submitted by management; ¾  Management letters / letters of internal control weaknesses issued by the statutory  auditors; ¾  Internal audit reports relating to internal control weaknesses; and ¾  The appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the chief internal auditor.
iii.
The audit committee invites executives, as it considers appropriate (particularly the head of the ﬁnance  function), representatives of the statutory auditors and representatives of the internal auditors to  be present at its meetings.
The Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the audit committee.
iv.
The previous annual general meeting (AGM) of the Company was held on June 27, 2014 and was  attended by Mr. Aman Mehta, Chairman of the audit committee.
v. The composition of the audit committee and the details of meetings attended by its members are  given below: Name Category Number of meetings during the  ﬁnancial year 2014-15 Held Attended Mr. Aman Mehta  (Chairman) Independent, Non-Executive 5 4 Mr. V. Thyagarajan Independent, Non-Executive 5 5 Dr. Ron Sommer Independent, Non-Executive 5 5 Dr. Vijay Kelkar Independent, Non-Executive 5 5 Mr. Ishaat Hussain Non-Independent, Non-Executive 5 5 Mr. O. P. Bhatt Independent, Non-Executive 5 5   vi.
Five audit committee meetings were held during the year and the gap between two meetings did  not exceed four months.
The dates on which the said meetings were held are as follows:    April 16, 2014; July 17, 2014; September 3, 2014; October 16, 2014 and January 15, 2015    The necessary quorum was present for all the meetings.
Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report98   B.
Nomination and remuneration committee   i.
The Company had a nomination committee and remuneration committee of directors.
The nomination  committee and remuneration committee of the Company were merged on October 16, 2014, pursuant   to the provisions of the Act and clause 49 of the Listing Agreement.
ii.
The broad terms of reference of the nomination and Remuneration Committee are as under: x  Recommend to the board the set up and composition of the board and its committees.
including the “formulation of the criteria for determining qualiﬁcations, positive attributes  and independence of a director”.
The committee will consider periodically reviewing the  composition of the board with the objective of achieving an optimum balance of size, skills,  independence, knowledge, age, gender and experience.
x  Recommend to the board the appointment or reappointment of directors.
x  Devise a policy on board diversity.
x  Recommend to the board appointment of key managerial personnel (“KMP” as deﬁned by the  Act) and executive team members of the Company (as deﬁned by this committee).
x  Carry out evaluation of every director’s performance and support the board and independent  directors in evaluation of the performance of the board, its committees and individual directors.
This shall include “formulation of criteria for evaluation of independent directors and the  board”.
x  Recommend to the board the remuneration policy for directors, executive team or   key managerial personnel as well as the rest of the employees.
x  On an annual basis, recommend to the board the remuneration payable to the directors and  oversee the remuneration to executive team or key managerial personnel of the Company.
x  Oversee familiarisation programmes for directors.
x  Oversee the human resource philosophy, human resource and people strategy and human  resource practices including those for leadership development, rewards and recognition, talent  management and succession planning (speciﬁcally for the board, key managerial personnel  and executive team).
x  Provide guidelines for remuneration of directors on material subsidiaries.
x  Recommend to the board on voting pattern for appointment and remuneration of directors  on the boards of its material subsidiary companies.
x  Performing such other duties and responsibilities as may be consistent with the provisions of  the committee charter.
iii.
The composition of the nomination and remuneration committee and the details of meetings  attended by its members are given below: Name Category Number of meetings during the  ﬁnancial year 2014-15 Held Attended Mr. Aman Mehta  (Chairman) Independent, Non-Executive 4 4 Mr. V. Thyagarajan Independent, Non-Executive 4 4 Mr. Cyrus Mistry Non-Independent, Non-Executive 4 4 Mr. Ishaat Hussain* Non-Independent, Non-Executive 2 2 Mr. S. Ramadorai** Non-Independent, Non-Executive 2 1    *  Appointed as a member of the committee w.e.f.
October 16, 2014    **  Retired as the Director and Vice Chairman of the Company w.e.f October 6, 2014 Corporate Governance Report 99     During the year, two meetings of the nomination and remuneration committee were held on January  15, 2015 and March 13, 2015.
Further, two meetings of the erstwhile remuneration committee were  held on April 16, 2014 and September 3, 2014.   iv.
The Company does not have any employee stock option scheme.
v. Remuneration policy:    Remuneration policy in the Company is designed to create a high performance culture.
It enables the  Company to attract, retain and motivate employees to achieve results.
Our business model promotes  customer centricity and requires employee mobility to address project needs.
The remuneration policy  supports such mobility through pay models that are compliant to local regulations.
In each country  where the Company operates, the remuneration structure is tailored to the regulations, practices  and benchmarks prevalent in the IT industry.
The Company pays remuneration by way of salary, benefits, perquisites and allowances (fixed  component) and commission (variable component) to its managing director and the executive  directors.
Annual increments are decided by the nomination and remuneration committee (NRC)  within the salary scale approved by the members of the Company and are effective April 1 each year.
NRC decides on the commission payable to the managing director and the executive directors out  of the proﬁts for the ﬁnancial year and within the ceilings prescribed under the Act based on the  performance of the Company as well as that of the managing director and each executive director.
During the year 2014-15, the Company paid sitting fees of ` 10,000 per meeting to its non-executive  directors for attending meetings of the board and meetings of committees of the board.
The  members have at the AGM of the Company on June 27, 2014, approved of payment of commission to  the non-executive directors within the ceiling of 1% of the net proﬁts of the Company as computed  under the applicable provisions of the Act.
The said commission is decided each year by the board  of directors and distributed amongst the non-executive directors based on their attendance and  contribution at the board and certain committee meetings, as well as the time spent on operational  matters other than at meetings.
The Company also reimburses the out-of-pocket expenses incurred  by the directors for attending the meetings.
vi.
Details of commission and sitting fees for the year ended March 31, 2015:    a. Non-Executive Directors: (` Lakh) Name Commission Sitting Fees  Mr. Cyrus Mistry - 1.20 Mr .
S. Ramadorai* 200.00 0.50 Mr. Aman Mehta 250.00 1.50 Mr. V. Thyagarajan 185.00 1.90 Prof. Clayton M. Christensen 155.00 0.30 Dr. Ron Sommer 190.00 1.40 Dr. Vijay Kelkar 140.00 1.40 Mr. Ishaat Hussain 175.00 1.70 Mr. O. P. Bhatt 135.00 1.70 Mr. Phiroz Vandrevala 50.00 0.60     * Retired as the Director and Vice Chairman of the Company w.e.f October 6, 2014 Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report100     b.
Managing Director and Executive Director Name of director and period of  appointment Salary   (` lakh) Beneﬁts  perquisites and  allowances   (` lakh) Commission  (` lakh) ESPS Mr. N. Chandrasekaran Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Managing Director (w .e.f.
October 6, 2014 for a period of 5 years) 179.58 348.81 1,600.00 Nil Ms. Aarthi Subramanian Additional and Executive Director (w.e.f March 12, 2015 for a period of 3 years) 1.67 5.19 - Nil     The above ﬁgures do not include provisions for encashable leave, gratuity and premium paid  for group health insurance, as separate actuarial valuation / premium paid are not available  for the managing director and executive director.
Services of the managing director and executive director may be terminated by either party,  giving the other party six months’ notice or the Company paying six months’ salary in lieu  thereof.
There is no separate provision for payment of severance fees.
vii.
Details of equity shares of the Company held by the directors as on March 31, 2015 are given below: Name Number of equity shares Mr. Cyrus Mistry 41,63,526 Mr .
N. Chandrasekaran 88,528 Mr. Ishaat Hussain 1,740 Ms. Aarthi Subramanian 2,800    The Company has not issued any convertible debentures.
C. Stakeholders’ relationship committee   i.
The Company had a shareholders / investors grievance committee of directors to look into the  redressal of complaints of investors such as transfer or credit of shares, non-receipt of dividend /   notices / annual reports, etc.
The nomenclature of the said committee was changed to stakeholders’  relationship committee in the light of provisions of the Act and revised clause 49 of the Listing  Agreement.
ii.
One meeting of the stakeholders’ relationship committee was held during the year on   March 13, 2015.   iii.
The composition of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee and the details of meetings attended  by its members are given below: Name Category Number of meetings during  the ﬁnancial year 2014-15 Held Attended Mr. V. Thyagarajan (Chairman) Independent, Non-Executive 1 1 Mr .
S. Ramadorai* Non-Independent, Non-Executive - - Mr. O. P. Bhatt Independent, Non-Executive 1 1 Mr. N. Chandrasekaran** Non-Independent, Executive 1 1    * Retired as the Director and Vice Chairman of the Company w.e.f October 6, 2014    **  Appointed as a member of the committee w.e.f.
October 16, 2014 Corporate Governance Report 101    iv.
The Company has always valued its customer relationships.
This philosophy has been extended to  investor relationship and an Investor Relations Department (IRD) was set up in June 2004, prior  to the Company’s Initial Public Offer of shares.
The IRD focuses on servicing the needs of various  stakeholders viz.
investors, analysts, brokers and the general public.
v. Name, designation and address of Compliance Ofﬁcer:    Mr. Suprakash Mukhopadhyay    Vice President and Company Secretary    Tata Consultancy Services Limited    1 1th Floor, Air India Building    Nariman Point    Mumbai 400 021    Telephone: 91 22 6778 9285    Fax: 91 22 6630 3672   vi.
Details of investor complaints received and redressed during the year 2014-15 are as follows: Opening balance Received during the year Resolved during   the year Closing balance 1 152 150 3*    * The complaints were received during the last week of March 2015 and addressed subsequently.
D. Other committees   i.
Ethics and compliance committee:     In terms of the Tata Code of Conduct for prevention of insider trading and code of corporate  disclosure practices (“Insider Trading Code”) adopted by the Company, applicable to the directors,  ofﬁcers and other employees, the Company has an ethics and compliance committee of directors.
The Committee considers matters relating to the Insider Trading Code and the Company’s Code of  Conduct (“CoC”).
The Company has also formulated an anti bribery and anti corruption policy and gifts policy which  are monitored by the ethics and compliance committee.
Monthly reports are sent to the members of the committee on matters relating to the Insider Trading  Code and the CoC.
One meeting of the ethics and compliance committee was held during the year  on March 13, 2015.
The composition of the ethics and compliance committee and details of the meetings attended by  its members are given below: Name Category Number of meetings during the  ﬁnancial year 2014-15 Held Attended Mr. S. Ramadorai* Non-Independent, Non- Executive - - Mr .
N. Chandrasekaran** Non-Independent, Executive 1 1 Mr. V. Thyagarajan Independent, Non-Executive 1 1 Mr. O. P. Bhatt** Independent, Non-Executive 1 1    * Retired as the Director and Vice Chairman of the Company w.e.f October 6, 2014    **  Appointed as a member of the committee w.e.f.
October 16, 2014    Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, was appointed as the compliance ofﬁcer by the board  in 2012-13, to ensure compliance and effective implementation of the Insider Trading Code.
Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report102    ii.
Bank account committee:    The Company has a bank account committee of directors comprising of Mr. Aman Mehta  (independent, non-executive) and Mr. N. Chandrasekaran (non-independent, executive).
The bank  account committee is responsible for approval of the opening and closing of bank accounts of the  Company and to authorise persons to operate the bank accounts of the Company.
iii.
Executive Committee:    The Company has an executive committee of directors comprising of Mr. Cyrus Mistry   (non-independent, non-executive) as the chairman, Prof. Clayton M. Christensen (independent,  non-executive), Dr. Ron Sommer (independent, non-executive) and Mr. N. Chandrasekaran   (non-independent, executive).
Mr. S. Ramadorai, who was a member of this committee, has retired  as the Director and Vice Chairman of the Company w.e.f.
October 6, 2014.
The executive committee’s role covers a detailed review of the following matters before these are  presented to the board: x  Business and strategy review; x  Long-term ﬁnancial projections and cash ﬂows; x  Capital and revenue budgets and capital expenditure programmes; x  Acquisitions, divestments and business restructuring proposals; x  Senior management succession planning; x  Any other item as may be decided by the board.
The above matters were discussed in various board meetings held during the year with the presence  of the executive committee members with intent to avail expertise of all the board members.
iv.
Software technology parks of India (STPI) / special economic zone (SEZ) committee:    The Company has a STPI / SEZ committee of directors comprising of Mr. V. Thyagarajan (independent,  Non-Executive) and Mr. N. Chandrasekaran (non-independent, executive).
The STPI / SEZ committee is  responsible for approval, from time to time, of registration / renewal of registration / de-registration  of various ofﬁces of the Company under the STPI / SEZ schemes and such other schemes as may be  deemed ﬁt by them, and to also approve of other STPI / SEZ / other scheme(s) related matters.
v. Risk management committee:    The board of the Company has formed a risk management committee to frame, implement and  monitor the risk management plan for the Company.
The committee is responsible for reviewing the  risk management plan and ensuring its effectiveness.
The audit committee has additional oversight  in the area of ﬁnancial risks and controls.
Major risks identiﬁed by the businesses and functions are  systematically addressed through mitigating actions on a continuing basis.
During the year, two meetings of the risk management committee were held on June 5, 2014 and  January 8, 2015.
The composition of the risk management committee and details of the meetings  attended by its members are given below: Name Category Number of meetings during the  ﬁnancial year 2014-15 Held Attended Mr. Ishaat Hussain Non-Independent, Non-Executive 2 2 Mr .
S. Ramadorai* Non-Independent, Non- Executive 1 - Mr. N. Chandrasekaran Non-Independent, Executive 2 2 Mr. O. P. Bhatt Independent, Non-Executive 2 1 Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan** Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 1 1    * Retired as the Director and Vice Chairman of the Company w.e.f October 6, 2014    ** Appointed as the member of the committee w.e.f.
October 16, 2014 Corporate Governance Report 103    vi.
Health, safety and sustainability committee:    The Health, safety and sustainability committee of directors is responsible for framing and  implementation of broad guidelines / policies with regard to the health, safety and sustainability  activities of the Company, review the policies, processes and systems periodically and recommend  measures for improvements from time to time.
During the year, one meeting of the Health, safety and sustainability committee was held on    March 12, 2015.
The composition of the Health, safety and sustainability committee and details of the meetings  attended by its members are given below: Name Category Number of meetings during the  ﬁnancial year 2014-15 Held Attended Dr. Vijay Kelkar (Chairman) Independent, Non-Executive 1 1 Dr .
Ron Sommer Independent, Non-Executive 1 1 Mr. N. Chandrasekaran Non-Independent, Executive 1 1   vii.
Corporate social responsibility (CSR) committee    CSR committee of directors as required under Section 135 of the Act was constituted on   April 16, 2014, comprising of Mr. Cyrus Mistry (non-independent, non-executive), Chairman,   Mr. O. P. Bhatt (independent, non-executive) and Mr. N. Chandrasekaran (non-independent,  executive).
The broad terms of reference of CSR committee is as follows: x  Formulate and recommend to the board, a corporate social responsibility (CSR) policy; x  Recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred on the activities referred to above; x  Monitor the CSR policy of the Company from time to time; x  Oversee the Company’s conduct with regard to its corporate and societal obligations and its  reputation as a responsible corporate citizen; and x  Oversee activities impacting the quality of life of various stakeholders.
During the year, one meeting of the CSR Committee was held on March 13, 2015.
The composition of the CSR Committee and details of the meeting attended by its members are  given below: Name Category Number of meetings during  the ﬁnancial year 2014-15 Held Attended Mr. Cyrus Mistry (Chairman) Non-Independent, Non-Executive 1 1 Mr .
O. P. Bhatt Independent, Non-Executive 1 1 Mr. N. Chandrasekaran Non-Independent, Executive 1 1 IV.
General body meetings  i.
General meeting    a.
Annual general meeting: Financial year Date Time Venue 2011-12 June 29, 2012 Birla Matushri Sabhagar, 19, Sir V ithaldas Thackersey Marg,  New Marine Lines, Mumbai 400 020 2012-13 June 28, 2013 3.30 p.m. 2013-14 June 27, 2014   b.
Extraordinary general meeting:    No extraordinary general meeting of the members was held during the year 2014-15.
Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report104   ii.
Special resolutions:   No special resolution was passed by the Company in any of its previous three AGMs.
iii.
Details of  special resolution passed through postal ballot, the persons who conducted the postal ballot  exercise and details of the voting pattern.
During the year under review, no special resolution has been passed through the exercise of postal ballot.
None of the items to be transacted at the ensuing meeting is required to be passed by postal ballot.
V. Disclosures  i.
Related Party transactions    All material transactions entered into with related parties as deﬁned under the Act and Clause 49 of the  Listing Agreement during the ﬁnancial year were in the ordinary course of business.
These have been  approved by the audit committee.
The board has approved a policy for related party transactions which  has been uploaded on the Company’s website at the following link-   http://www.tcs.com/investors/corp_governance/Documents/TCS_Related_Party_Transactions_Policy.pdf  ii.
Details of non-compliance by the Company, penalties, strictures imposed on the Company by the stock  exchanges or the securities and exchange board of India or any statutory authority, on any matter related  to capital markets, during the last three years 2012-13, 2013-14 and 2014-15 respectively: NIL  iii.
The Company has adopted a whistle blower policy and has established the necessary vigil mechanism  for employees and directors to report concerns about unethical behaviour.
No person has been denied  access to the chairman of the audit committee.
The said policy has been also put up on the website of  the Company at the following link-   http://www.tcs.com/investors/corp_governance/Documents/TCS_Whistle_Blower_Policy.pdf  iv.
The Company has fulﬁlled the following non-mandatory requirements as prescribed in Annexure XIII to  the Clause 49 of the Listing Agreements entered into with the Stock Exchanges:   a.
A message from the CEO and Managing Director on the half-yearly ﬁnancial performance of the  Company including a summary of the signiﬁcant events in the six month period ended September  30, 2014 was sent to every member in October 2014.   b.
The statutory ﬁnancial statements of the Company are unqualiﬁed.
c. Mr. Cyrus Mistry is the Chairman of the Company and Mr. N. Chandrasekaran is the CEO and Managing  Director of the Company.
The Company has complied with the requirement of having separate  persons to the post of Chairman and CEO / Managing Director.
d. Ernst & Young LLP, the internal auditors of the Company, make presentations to the audit committee  on their reports.
v. Reconciliation of share capital audit:   A qualiﬁed practicing Company Secretary carried out a share capital audit to reconcile the total admitted  equity share capital with the national securities depository limited (NSDL) and the Central Depository  Services (India) Limited (CDSL) and the total issued and listed equity share capital.
The audit report conﬁrms  that the total issued / paid-up capital is in agreement with the total number of shares in physical form  and the total number of dematerialised shares held with NSDL and CDSL.
vi.
Code of Conduct   The members of the board and senior management personnel have afﬁrmed the compliance with the  Code applicable to them during the year ended March 31, 2015.
The Annual  Report of the Company  contains a Certiﬁcate by the CEO and Managing Director in terms of Clause 49 of the listing agreement  based on the compliance declarations received from Independent Directors, Non-Executive Directors and  Senior Management.
VI.
Subsidiary companies  The audit committee reviews the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Company and the investments made  by its unlisted subsidiary companies.
The minutes of the board meetings along with a report on signiﬁcant   developments of the unlisted subsidiary companies are periodically placed before the board of directors of the  Company.
Corporate Governance Report 105   The Company does not have any material non-listed Indian subsidiary companies.
The Company has a policy for determining ‘material subsidiaries’ which is disclosed on its website at the following  link-  http://www.tcs.com/investors/corp_governance/Documents/TCS_Material_Subsidiary_Policy.pdf VII.
Means of communication  The quarterly, half-yearly and annual results of the Company are published in leading newspapers in India which  include The Indian Express, Financial Express, LokSatta, Business Standard, The Hindu Business Line, Hindustan  T imes, and Sandesh.
The results are also displayed on the Company’s website “www.tcs.com”.
Press Releases  made by the Company from time to time are also displayed on the Company’s website.
Presentations made to  the institutional investors and analysts after the declaration of the quarterly, half-yearly and annual results are  also displayed on the Company’s website.
A list of frequently asked questions (FAQs) giving details about the  Company and its shares is uploaded on the Company’s website under ‘Investor FAQs’ section.
A management  discussion and analysis report is a part of the Company’s annual report.
VIII.
General shareholder information  i.
Annual General Meeting:   Date  : June 30, 2015   Time : 3.30 p.m.   Venue : Birla Matushri Sabhagar     19, Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Marg     New Marine Lines, Mumbai 400 020   As required under Clause 49(VIII)(E)(1) of the Listing Agreements entered into with the stock exchanges,  particulars of directors seeking appointment / re-appointment at the forthcoming AGM are given in the  Annexure to the notice of the AGM to be held on June 30, 2015.  ii.
Financial Calendar:   Year ending : March 31   AGM in :  June   Dividend payment : The ﬁnal dividend, if declared, shall be paid / credited  on or after July 7, 2015.  iii.
Date of book closure / record date : As mentioned in the Notice of the AGM to be held  on June 30, 2015.  iv.
Listing on stock exchanges : National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE)     Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G     Bandra Kurla Complex     Bandra(East), Mumbai 400 051    : BSE Limited (BSE)     2 5 th Floor, P. J.
Towers, Dalal Street     Mumbai 400 001  v. Stock Codes / Symbol:   NSE :  TCS   BSE :  532540   Listing Fees as applicable have been paid.
vi.
Corporate identity number (CIN) of the Company : L22210MH1995PLC084781  vii.
Dividend policy:   Dividends, other than interim dividend(s), are to be declared at the annual general meetings of shareholders  based on the recommendation of the board of directors.
Generally, the factors that may be considered  by the board of directors before making any recommendations for dividend include, without limitation,  the Company’s future expansion plans and capital requirements, proﬁts earned during the ﬁscal year,  cost of raising funds from alternate sources, liquidity position, applicable taxes including tax on dividend,  Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report106  as well as exemptions under tax laws available to various categories of investors from time to time and  general market conditions.
The board of directors may also from time to time pay interim dividend(s) to  shareholders.
viii.
Market price data:   High, low (based on daily closing prices) and number of equity shares traded during each month in the  year 2014-15 on NSE and BSE: Month NSE BSE High  (`) Low (`) Total number of  equity shares  traded High  (`) Low (`) Total number of  equity shares  traded April 2014 2,264.00 2,100.00 2,51,05,568 2,270.00 2,101.15 21,71,394 May 2014 2,253.40 1,999.50 3,11,43,929 2,253.65 2,000.50 30,19,206 June 2014 2,435.00 2,056.00 2,36,39,368 2,427.00 2,062.50 20,58,687 July 2014 2,614.35 2,335.00 1,88,40,679 2,613.35 2,336.00 14,13,667 August 2014 2,587.95 2,430.00 1,86,99,338 2,588.00 2,425.95 13,42,004 September 2014 2,782.45 2,514.10 1,94,86,167 2,780.00 2,515.00 15,23,230 October 2014 2,839.70 2,415.00 2,62,17,610 2,834.00 2,415.65 25,10,523 November 2014 2,691.90 2,551.00 1,62,57,977 2,688.00 2,551.009,80,896 December 2014 2,710.95 2,345.00 2,22,89,456 2,709.00 2,348.25 12,53,975 January 2015 2,599.90 2,407.45 2,71,02,743 2,599.05 2,407.40 24,86,487 February 2015 2,730.00 2,433.00 2,57,96,671 2,727.00 2,436.00 16,11,720 March 2015 2,812.10 2,501.00 2,37,49,603 2,810.00 2,501.65 14,23,069  ix.
Performance of the share price of the Company in comparison to the BSE Sensex: 80  100  120  140  160  Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 TCS Share Price BSE Sensex TCS share price and BSE Sensex movement Base 100 = April 1, 2014 Corporate Governance Report 107   x. Registrars and transfer agents:   Name and Address : TSR DARASHAW Limited (TSRDL)     6-10, Haji Moosa Patrawala Industrial Estate     20, Dr. E. Moses Road, Mahalaxmi     Mumbai 400 011   Telephone : 91 22 6656 8484   Fax : 91 22 6656 8494   E-mail : csg-unit@tsrdarashaw.com   Website : www.tsrdarashaw.com  xi.
Places for acceptance of documents:   Documents will be accepted at : TSR DARASHAW Limited     6-10, Haji Moosa Patrawala Industrial Estate     20, Dr. E. Moses Road, Mahalaxmi     Mumbai 400 011   Time : 10.00 a.m. to 3.30 p.m.     (Monday to Friday except bank holidays)   For the convenience of the shareholders based in the following cities, transfer documents and letters will  also be accepted at the following branches / agencies of TSRDL:   a.
Branches of TSRDL: s TSR DARASHAW Limited 503, Barton Centre, 5th Floor 84, Mahatma Gandhi Road Bangalore 560 001  Telephone: 91 80 2532 0321 Fax: 91 80 2558 0019 E-mail: tsrdlbang@tsrdarashaw.com s TSR DARASHAW Limited ‘E’ Road, Northern Town  Bistupur Jamshedpur 831 001 Telephone: 91 657 2426616 Fax: 91 657 2426937 E-mail: tsrdljsr@tsrdarashaw.com s TSR DARASHAW Limited Tata Centre, 1st Floor 43, J. L. Nehru Road Kolkata 700 071 Telephone: 91 33 2288 3087 Fax: 91 33 2288 3062 E-mail: tsrdlcal@tsrdarashaw.com s TSR DARASHAW Limited 2/42, Ansari Road, 1st Floor Daryaganj, Sant Vihar New Delhi 110 002 Telephone: 91 11 2327 1805 Fax: 91 11 2327 1802 E-mail: tsrdldel@tsrdarashaw.com   b.
Agent of TSRDL:    Shah Consultancy Services Limited    3, Sumatinath Complex, 2nd Dhal,    Pritam Nagar, Ellisbridge,    Ahmedabad 380 006    Telefax: 91 79 2657 6038    E-mail: shahconsultancy8154@gmail.com  xii.
Share transfer system:   99.94% of the equity shares of the Company are in electronic form.
Transfers of these shares are done  through the depositories with no involvement of the Company.
As regards transfer of shares held in physical  form the transfer documents can be lodged with TSRDL at any of the above mentioned addresses.
Transfer of shares in physical form is normally processed within ten to twelve days from the date of receipt,  if the documents are complete in all respects.
The Directors and certain Company ofﬁcials (including Chief  Financial Ofﬁcer and Company Secretary), under the authority of the board, severally approve transfers,  which are noted at subsequent board meetings.
Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report108    xiii.
Shareholding as on March 31, 2015:   a.
Distribution of equity shareholding as on March 31, 2015: Number of shares Holding Percentage  to capital Number of Accounts Percentage to total accounts 1 – 100 1,93,05,278 0.98 5,14,665 83.44 101 - 500 1,81,47,838 0.92 83,507 13.54 501 - 1000 72,52,272 0.37 10,198 1.65 1001 - 5000 1,29,17,727 0.66 6,449 1.05 5001 - 10000 42,90,069 0.22 606 0.10 10001 - 20000 48,30,582 0.25 337 0.05 20001 - 30000 40,77,658 0.21 164 0.03 30001 - 40000 37,12,638 0.19 104 0.02 40001- 50000 34,58,212 0.18 76 0.01 50001 -100000 1,50,38,921 0.77 209 0.03 100001 - above 1,86,56,96,784 95.25 513 0.08 GRAND TOTAL 1,95,87,27,979 100.00 6,16,828 100.00   b.
Categories of equity shareholders as on March 31, 2015: Category Number of equity  shares held Percentage of holding Promoters 1,44,34,51,698 73.69 Other Entities of the Promoters Group 39,69,412 0.20 Insurance Companies 7,38,58,592 3.77 Indian Public and others 7,63,46,136 3.90 Mutual Fund and UTI 1,71,89,088 0.88 Corporate Bodies 88,34,803 0.45 Banks, Financial Institutions, State and Central Government 9,79,350 0.05 Foreign Institutional Investors 29,25,90,035 14.94 Foreign Portfolio Investor – CORP 3,92,80,903 2.01 NRI’s / OCBs / Foreign Nationals 22,27,962 0.11 GRAND TOTAL 1,95,87,27,979 100.00 73.69% 0.20% 3.77% 3.90% 0.88% 0.45% 0.05% 14.94% 2.01% 0.11% Categories of equity shareholders Promoters Other en/g415/g415es of the promoters  group Insurance companies Indian public and others Mutual fund and UTI Corporate bodies Banks, ﬁnancial ins/g415tu/g415ons, state  and central government Foreign ins/g415tu/g415onal investors Foreign por/g414olio investor –C O R P NRI’s/OCBs/foreign na/g415onals Corporate Governance Report 109    c. Top ten equity shareholders of the Company as on March 31, 2015: Sr.   No.
Name of the shareholder Number of  equity shares  held Percentage   of holding 1 Tata Sons Limited 1,44,34,51,698 73.69 2 Life Insurance Corporation of India 4,81,41,245 2.46 3 Franklin Templeton Investment Funds 2,19,45,979 1.12 4 Abu Dhabi Investment Authority 1,63,25,578 0.83 5 Oppenheimer Developing Markets Fund 1,09,77,181 0.56 6 Government of Singapore 90,95,739 0.46 7 Vanguard Emerging Markets Stock Index Fund, a series of  Vanguard International Equity Index Fund 85,50,350 0.44 8 Aberdeen Global Indian Equity (Mauritius) Limited 84,65,000 0.43 9 Lazard Asset Management LLC A/C Lazard Emerging Markets  Portfolio 77,93,168 0.40 10 National Westminster Bank Plc as Depositary of First State Asia  Paciﬁc Leaders Fund a Sub Fund of First State Investments ICVC 77,06,168 0.39  xiv.
Dematerialisation of shares and liquidity:   The Company’s shares are compulsorily traded in dematerialised form.
Equity shares of the Company  representing 99.94% of the Company’s equity share capital are dematerialised as on March 31, 2015.
The Company’s equity shares are regularly traded on NSE and BSE, in dematerialised form.
Under the depository system, the international securities identiﬁcation number (ISIN) allotted to the  Company’s shares is INE467B01029.
xv.
Outstanding GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any convertible instruments, conversion date and likely impact on  equity:   The Company has not issued any GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any convertible instruments in the past and  hence as on March 31, 2015, the Company does not have any outstanding GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any  convertible instruments.
xvi.
Equity shares in the suspense account:   In accordance with the requirement of Clause 5A(I) of the Listing Agreements entered into with the stock  exchanges, the Company reports the following details in respect of equity shares lying in the suspense  account which were issued in dematerialized form pursuant to the public issue of the Company: Particulars Number of  shareholders Number of  equity shares Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the  suspense account lying as on April 1, 2014 184 7,360 Shareholders who approached the Company for transfer of shares from  suspense account during the year 9 374 Shareholders to whom shares were transferred from the suspense  account during the year 9 374 Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the  suspense account lying as on March 31, 2015 175 6,986 Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report110     The voting rights on the shares outstanding in the suspense account as on March 31, 2015 shall remain  frozen till the rightful owner of such shares claims the shares.
xvii.
Transfer of unclaimed / unpaid amounts to the investor education and protection fund (IEPF):   Pursuant to sections 205A and 205C of the Companies Act, 1956 and other applicable provisions, if any, of  the Act, all unclaimed / unpaid dividend, application money, debenture interest and interest on deposits  as well as the principal amount of debentures and deposits, as applicable, remaining unclaimed / unpaid  for a period of seven years from the date they became due for payment, in relation to the Company and  erstwhile TCS e-Serve Limited (e-Serve), which has merged with the Company, have been transferred to  the IEPF established by the Central Government.
No claim shall lie against the IEPF or the Company for  the amounts so transferred prior to March 31, 2015, nor shall any payment be made in respect of such  claims.
Members who have not yet encashed their dividend warrant(s) pertaining to the ﬁnal dividend for  the ﬁnancial year 2007-08 and onwards are requested to make their claims without any delay to TSRDL.
a) For shareholders of erstwhile TCS e-Serve Limited (e-Serve) which has merged with the Company:    The following table gives information relating to outstanding dividend accounts and the dates by  which they can be claimed by the shareholders: Financial year Date of declaration Last date for claiming  unpaid dividend 2007-08 December 18, 2008 December 17, 2015 2008-09 December 19, 2008 December 18, 2015 2009-10 August 24, 2010 August 23, 2017 2010-11 August 12, 2011 August 11, 2018 2011-12 July 10, 2012 July 9, 2019 2012-13 May 30, 2013 May 29, 2020   b) For shareholders of Tata Consultancy Service Limited (TCS):    A separate communication has been sent in December 2014 to the shareholders of TCS who have  not encashed their dividend warrants and which are not yet transferred to IEPF, providing them  details of the unencashed warrants and requesting them to comply with the procedure for seeking  payment of the same.
The following table gives information relating to outstanding dividend accounts and the dates by  which they can be claimed by the shareholders in the ﬁnancial year 2015-16: Financial Year Date of declaration Last date for claiming  unpaid dividend 2007-08 July 1, 2008 June 30, 2015 2008-09 July 16, 2008 July 15, 2015 October 22, 2008 October 21, 2015 January 15, 2009 January 14, 2016 Corporate Governance Report 111   xviii.
Plant locations:   In view of the nature of the Company’s business viz.
Information Technology (IT) Services and IT enabled  services, the Company operates from various ofﬁces in India and abroad.
The Company has a manufacturing facility at 17-B, Tivim Industrial Estate, Karaswada, Mapusa–Bardez,  Goa.
xix.
Address for correspondence:   Tata Consultancy Services Limited   9 th Floor, Nirmal Building   Nariman Point   Mumbai 400 021   Telephone: 91 22 6778 9356 / 91 22 6778 9595   Fax: 91 22 6630 3672   Designated e-mail address for Investor Services: investor.relations@tcs.com   Website: www.tcs.com Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report112  DECLARATION REGARDING COMPLIANCE BY BOARD MEMBERS AND   SENIOR MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL WITH THE COMPANY’S CODE OF CONDUCT This is to conﬁrm that the Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for its employees including the Managing Director  and Executive Directors.
In addition, the Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for its Non-Executive Directors and  Independent Directors.
These Codes are available on the Company’s website.
I conﬁrm that the Company has in respect of the year ended March 31, 2015, received from the Senior Management  Team of the Company and the Members of the Board a declaration of compliance with the Code of Conduct as  applicable to them.
For the purpose of this declaration, Senior Management Team means the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, employees in the  Executive Vice President cadre and the Company Secretary as on March 31, 2015.
Mumbai,  N. Chandrasekaran April 16, 2015  Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Managing Director COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE TO THE MEMBERS OF TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES LIMITED We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES  LIMITED (“the Company”), for the year ended March 31, 2015, as stipulated in Clause 49 of the Listing Agreements  of the Company entered into with the Stock Exchanges.
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management.
Our examination  was limited to a review of the procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring the  compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance.
It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the  ﬁnancial statements of the Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and the representations  made by the Directors and the management, we certify that the Company has complied with the conditions of  Corporate Governance as stipulated in the above mentioned Listing Agreements.
We state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efﬁciency  or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP  Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No.
117366W/W-100018) P. R. Ramesh Mumbai,  Partner April 16, 2015  (Membership No.
70928) Business Responsibility Report 113  Business Responsibility Report Separator  Annual Report 2014-15 Business Responsibility Report114  Business Responsibility Report (As per clause 55 of the Listing Agreement) Introduction Tata Consultancy Services Limited (TCS) has adopted the  ‘triple bottom-line’ approach, recognising People, Planet  and Proﬁt as the primary pillars of corporate sustainability .
At TCS, corporate sustainability is demonstrated  through (a) fair, transparent and ethical governance,  (b) engagement with marginalised and vulnerable  communities, (c) adherence to and respect for all human  rights, (d) offering specialised services and solutions to  meet distinct needs of its clients, (e) reduction of impact  of its operations on the environment and (f) promotion  of employee well-being and safety.
TCS operates in a large number of geographies across  the globe.
All these units of operation are encouraged  to identify target beneficiaries in line with their local  needs.
The objective is to drive sustainability through  various initiatives across the units of operation, supply  chain, community and customers.
While volunteering by  employees is encouraged, the Company also utilizes its  own expertise in IT to address needs of the community  and the environment.
Section A: General Information about the Company 1.
Corporate identity number (CIN) of the  Company: L22210MH1995PLC084781 2 .
Name of the Company: Tata Consultancy  Services Limited 3.
Registered address: 9th Floor, Nirmal Building,  Nariman Point, Mumbai - 400 021 4.
Website: www.tcs.com 5.
E-mail id:  corporate.sustainability@tcs.com 6.
Financial year reported:  April 1, 2014 to March  31, 2015 7.
Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in  (industrial activity code-wise): ITC CODE PRODUCT DESCRIPTION 85249009 Computer Software 8.
List three key products/services that the  Company manufactures/provides (as in Balance  Sheet):  1.
Application development and maintenance  2.
Enterprise solutions including business intelligence  and  3. Business process outsourcing 9.
Total number of locations where business  activity is undertaken by the Company:  There are 132 global locations  i.
Number of International Locations (Provide  details of major 5)   132 international locations: North America 29 LATAM 14 UK & Ireland 25 Europe 31 APAC 24 MEA 9 Total 132  ii.
Number of National Locations:   14 National locations 10.
Markets served by the Company :  North America, South America, United Kingdom &  Ireland, Europe, Asia Paciﬁc, Middle East & Africa  and India Section B: Financial Details of the Company (` crores) Tata Consultancy Services Ltd FY15 FY15 Standalone Consolidated 1.
Paid up capital 195.87 195.87 2.
Total turnover 78044.79 97878.32 (a) Revenue from  operation 73578.06 94648.41 (b) Other income 4466.73 3229.91 3.
Total proﬁt  after taxes and  minority interest  (i.e.
net proﬁt) 19256.96 19852.18 4.
Total Spending on Corporate Social   Responsibility (CSR) as percentage of proﬁt  after tax (%):   1.53% of average proﬁt for previous three years  in respect of standalone TCS (computation as  prescribed by the Companies Act, 2013.)
Business Responsibility Report 115  5.
List of activities in which expenditure in 4  above has been incurred:- Sr.  no.
Particulars Amount spent   in ` crores  1 Disaster Relief 17.37 2 Education & Skill  Building 34.38 3 Environment  Sustainability 1.99 4 Contribution to TCS  Foundation 140.00 5 Health & Wellness 21.05 6 Restoration of  Heritage sites 3.63 Total 218.42  The Company’s spending on Corporate Social  Responsibility (including overseas expenses) is   ` 253.55 crores.
Section C: Other Details i.
Does the Company have any Subsidiary   Company/ Companies?
Yes ii.
Do the Subsidiary Company/Companies  participate in the BR Initiatives of the parent  company?
If yes, then indicate the number of  such subsidiary company(s):  Yes, 34 of the subsidiaries participate in BR activities.
iii.
Do any other entity/entities (e.g.
suppliers,  distributors etc.)
that the Company does  business with, participate in the BR initiatives  of the Company?
The Company does not mandate its suppliers/ distributors to participate in the Company’s BR  initiatives.
However, they are encouraged to adopt  such practices and follow the concept of being a  responsible business.
i.
If yes, then indicate the percentage of such  entity/entities?
[Less than 30%, 30-60%,  More than 60%]: NA Section D: BR Information 1.
Details of Dir ector/Directors responsible for BR  a) Details of the Director/Director responsible  for implementation of the BR policy/policies:   z DIN Number: 00121863   z Name: Mr. N. Chandrasekaran   z Designation:  Chief Executive Officer and  Managing Director   b) Details of the BR head: Sr.   no.
Particulars Details 1 DIN Number  (if applicable) NA 2 Name Mr. Ajoyendra Mukherjee 3 Designation Executive Vice President &  Global Head HR 4 Telephone  number: 022 – 67789999 5 e-mail id corporate.sustainability@ tcs.com 2.
Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/policies (Reply in Y/N):  The National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business (NVGs)  released by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs has adopted nine areas of Business Responsibility.
These brieﬂy  are as follows:  National P1 Business should conduct and govern themselves with ethics, transparency and accountability P2 Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability P3 Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees P4 Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those  who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised.
P5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights P6 Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment P7 Businesses, when engaged in inﬂuencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner P8 Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development P9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner Annual Report 2014-15 Business Responsibility Report116  Sr.   no.
Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 1 Do you have a policy / policies for.... YY Y  Y Y Y Y YY 2 Has the policy   being formulated in  consultation with the  relevant stakeholders?
YY Y  Y Y Y Y YY 3 Does the policy conform  to any national / international standards?
YY Y Y Y Y Y YY 4 Has the policy been  approved by the Board?
If yes, has it been   signed by MD/owner/ CEO/ appropriate Board  Director?
YY Y Y Y Y Y YY 5 Does the company have  a specified committee  of the Board/ Director/ Official to oversee the  implementation of the  policy?
YY Y Y Y Y Y YY 6 Indicate the link for  the policy to be viewed  online?
https:// knowmax.
ultimatix.
net/sites/ ethics-cop/ Codes%20 of%20 Conduct/ TCOC.2013_ English.pdf “MyHR”  view  restricted  to  employees “Knomax”  View  restricted  to  employees Same  as   P1 http:// www.tcs.
com/about/ corp_re- sponsibil- ity/envi- ronmental/ Pages/ default.
aspx Same as P1 “Knomax”  View  restricted to  employees Same  as  P1 7 Has the policy been  formally communicated  to all relevant   internal and external  stakeholders?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y   Commu- nicated to  internal  stakeholders Y   Commu- nicated to  internal  stakeholders Y 8 Does the company have  in-house structure to  implement the policy/ policies?
YY Y Y Y Y Y YY 9 Does the Company have  a grievance redressal  mechanism related to  the policy/policies to  address stakeholders’  grievances related to the  policy/policies?
YY Y Y Y Y Y YY 10 Has the company carried  out independent audit/ evaluation of the   working of this policy by  an internal or external  agency?
YY Y Y Y Y Y YY Business Responsibility Report 117  Governance related to BR z Indicate the frequency with which the Board  of Directors, Committee of the Board or CEO  to assess the BR performance of the Company.
Within 3 months, 3-6 months, Annually, More  than 1 year: Quarterly z Does the Company publish a BR or a  Sustainability Report?
What is the hyperlink  for viewing this report?
How frequently it is  published?
Yes, the Company publishes its sustainability report  on GRI 3.1 framework annually.
It is also available  on the Company’s website www.tcs.com/cs Section E: Principle-wise performance Principle 1 Business should conduct and gover n themselves  with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability 1.
Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and  corruption cover only the company?
No  i.
Does it extend to the Gr oup/Joint Ventures/  Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs /Others?
All companies in TCS group are covered by the  policy.
2.
How many stakeholder complaints have been  received in the past ﬁnancial year and what  percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the  management?
352 complaints were received during the year 2014- 15, from various stakeholders; 95.17% of these  were satisfactorily resolved.
Internal review is still  in progress for the pending complaints.
Additional Information The Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC) is the guiding document  on principles of responsible business conduct for all   employees.
Created in 1998, the TCoC has been inﬂuenced  by the UN Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO  principles.
Within TCS, it is available on the intranet and  on the Company’s webpage.
Guided by the managers and  a global network of local ethics counsellors, all employees  adhere to the principles laid down in the TCoC.
The  Corporate Sustainability Assessment which is conducted  annually includes review of awareness and adherence to  the TCoC.
Principle 2 Businesses should pr ovide goods and services that  are safe and contribute to sustainability throughout  their life cycle TCS has evolved its strategy around integrated customer- centric services delivered from multiple global locations  with consistent quality through its Global Network   Delivery Model (GNDM™).
The Company follows rigorous  quality management processes to ensure highest quality  of service delivery.
TCS is the world’s ﬁrst organization to  achieve an enterprise-wide Maturity Level 5 on CMMI®  and P-CMM® based on SCAMPISM TCS has evolved an ‘Integrated Quality Management  System’ (iQMS) which caters to all types of services  we deliver and is aligned with the strategic objectives  of the Company.
iQMS is an integrated approach for  implementing practices of world-class quality models such  as ISO 9000 (Quality), ISO 20000 (Service Management),  CMMI, ISO 27001(Security), ISO 14001 (Environment) and  OHSAS 18001 (Health & Safety).
The assured world class high quality of services ensures  that the IT system built by TCS would be safe and  sustainable throughout the lifetime of the system  anywhere in the world.
1.
List up to 3 of your products or services  whose design has incorporated social  or environmental concerns, risks and/or  opportunities.
There are many examples, some of which are well  known to the public at large - three of these are  mentioned below.
a) ICT Solution to society for elimination of  rural poverty (SERP) & sthreeNidhi   Society for elimination of rural poverty (SERP)  is the nodal organisation for self help groups  and their federations in Andhra Pradesh.
SERP is  running one of the most successful micro-credit  and other livelihood programmes in the world  with ~1,16,42,765 members.
Under its livelihoods programmes, SERP is  distributing lands to poor, encouraging farmers  to implement community managed sustainable  agriculture, promotion of livestock and poultry,  community marketing.
Besides, it is also  addressing social issues like gender, health and  nutrition etc.
TCS has developed ICT solution to capture  all loans, repayments and outstanding loans  from SHGs.
Besides, the system also covers  other welfare schemes run by SERP.
Broadly,  the benefits achieved by adopting TCS’ ICT  solution are: (1) the government can compare  performance by setting parameters, (2) banks and  ﬁnancial institutions can check the performance  of SHG online and disburse the loans, (3) all  the transactions like savings, loans received,  loans repaid, CIF received and repaid etc.
are  made transparent and visible to outside world,  (4) increased productivity of people, (5) good  accounting, monitoring and control can take  Annual Report 2014-15 Business Responsibility Report118  place with the help of IT adoption, (6) elimination   of delays in submission of monthly balance and  accounts and (7) generation of reports bank wise  and branch wise.
b) Community health insurance programme  (Aarogyasri)   Aarogyasri is a unique community health  insurance scheme formulated by the Andhra  Pradesh government under the Aarogyasri Trust,  to bring quality medical care within the reach of  the poor people in the state.
TCS in a record time of 30 days, was able to  provide an innovative and effective solution that  used IT as an effective means of service delivery.
This website portal, the core of the scheme, was  a workflow-oriented integrated system which  addressed all the needs of the target groups.
Each phase of a patient’s journey through the  system, from in/out patient registration, surgery  updates, discharge updates, claim settlements  etc., was routed through the ICT.
The Aarogyasri  Scheme has been a great success in the districts  where it was introduced, and has provided  the following beneﬁts: (1) quick and accurate  decision making due to availability of real  time information, (2) ﬂagging of irregularities  to the appropriate authorities at the correct  time, leading to fewer opportunities for fraud,   (3) transformation of the project into a ﬂagship  brand for the AP government, (4) tracking  of worker productivity and performance and  (5) efﬁcient accounting.
c) Remote energy management solution   TCS is using remote energy management solution,  comprising the hardware embedded asset   T DAMS (TCS Data Acquisition and Management  System) and ECView (Energy Carbon View) a  comprehensive, enterprise-wide energy and  carbon management visualisation application  to monitor, report, manage and improve energy  usage for its own buildings (75+), across India,  with an annual energy bill of approximately  USD 60 million monitored remotely for energy  optimisation.
Using this tool as an enterprise,  the organisation has been able to plan and  have targets of energy consumption.
TCS’s T CUP  (TCS Connected Universe Platform) and SDAF  (Sensory Data Analytics frame work) provides a  scalable platform to perform, not limited to, data  management, analytics, rich query capabilities  and visualisation.
2.
For each such product, provide the following  details in respect of resource use (energy,  water, raw material etc.)
per unit of product  (optional):  i.
Reduction during sourcing/production/  distribution achieved since the previous  year throughout the value chain?
a) ICT Solution to Society for Elimination of  Rural Poverty (SERP) & SthreeNidhi  - Not  applicable; addressed area is social concern   b) Community Health Insurance Programme  (Aarogyasri) - Not applicable; addressed area  is social concern   c) Remote Energy Management solution –  Not applicable  ii.
Reduction during usage by consumers  (energy, water) has been achieved since the  previous year?
a) ICT Solution to Society for Elimination of  Rural Poverty (SERP) & SthreeNidhi  - Not  applicable; addressed area is social concern.
b) Community Health Insurance Programme  (Aarogyasri) - Not applicable; addressed area  is social concern.
c) Remote Energy Management solution -  Since April 2014, the solution has resulted in  reducing the wastage in energy usage of ~6.8  million units as against the FY15 target of 16.9  million units (out of 23 Phase 1 sites which  went live in April 2014).
This energy savings  efforts is driven by a team under remote  operating center (ROC).
3.
Does the company have procedures in  place for sustainable sourcing (including  transportation)?
Yes  i.
If yes, what percentage of your inputs was  sourced sustainably?
Also, provide details  thereof, in about 50 words or so.
Sustainable sourcing describes a sourcing exercise  which goes beyond economic considerations and  takes into account environmental, social and  ethical factors as well.
It is a widely practiced tool  within TCS and the endeavour is to maximise its  reach with every passing year.
TCS has a stated  environment policy and an occupation health  and safety policy.
The vendors have to ensure  compliance to these policies.
It covers various  issues like health of their workers deployed,  safety measures (helmet, rope, safety-belt etc.)
adopted, discharge from equipment, hygiene  norms, PUC requirement for vehicles hired,  age of vehicles used etc.
The adherence to the  policy is audited by an internal team not directly  involved with execution and action is taken  on the deviations.
Adherence to local laws for  compensation of vendors’ workmen is also strictly  practiced at TCS.
Business Responsibility Report 119    Vendors are asked to sign the Tata Code of  Conduct and TCS’ Supplier Code of Conduct  for every contract awarded, in order to ensure  ethical practices are followed throughout the  entire supply chain.
Additionally, vendors are  empowered to raise ethical concerns that they  may come across while dealing with members of  TCS management at any level.
4.
Has the company taken any steps to procure  goods and services from local & small  producers, including communities surrounding  their place of work?
Yes  i.
If yes, what steps have been taken to  improve their capacity and capability of  local and small vendors?
While the criteria for selection of goods and  services is quality, reliability and price, TCS gives  preference to small organisations, particularly  promoted by entrepreneurs from socially  backward communities.
Two vendors from the  marginalised community commissioned and  empanelled with TCS under the CSR supplier  diversity and affirmative action initiatives  continue to work with TCS.
Under the BriDgeIT  programme, TCS has trained digital entrepreneurs  who have established themselves as key resources  in the villages within which they operate.
The  Company has worked to open new avenues  and provide opportunities to the entrepreneurs  to utilise their skills in an effective manner  including providing them the opportunity to be  part of Jagriti Yatra, the government initiative of  ‘building India through enterprise’   To enhance livelihood options in Panvel, India,  TCS associates have trained 45 women in  making eco-friendly jute bags through the  ‘Women Empowerment Programme’.
Through   TCS-Maitree, a 1,500 sq ft convention center was  built as a workstation and storage area for raw  material & finished goods.
Training on screen  printing, block painting has also been provided  and TCS procured 9 full shutter sewing machines,  one embroidery machine, and a snap button  machine for these women.
Through TCS’s support this initiative has  successfully completed an order of making 12,000  cotton bags for TCS Bangalore 10K Marathon &  Standard Chartered Mumbai Marathon in the last  3 years.
5.
Does the company have a mechanism to  recycle products and waste?
Yes  i.
If yes what is the percentage of recycling  of products and waste (separately as <5%,  5-10%, >10%).
Also, provide details thereof,  in about 50 words or so.
The nature of the Company’s business is such  that there are no signiﬁcant emissions or process  wastes.
The waste generation is fairly limited and  restricted primarily to e-waste, lube oil waste,  waste from lead-acid batteries and municipal  solid waste.
The Company’s waste management  practices seek to reduce the environmental  impact by reduction in generation, segregation  at source, maximisation of recycling and reuse to  achieve the target of <5% waste to landﬁll.
    s  7ASTE LUBE OIL 503 BATTERIES E WASTE n  disposed through government authorised  recyclers (100% recycling)     s  7ASTE OFlCE PAPER n SENT FOR RECYCLING   recycling)     s  0RINTER AND TONER CARTRIDGES n SENT BACK TO  the manufacturer under product take-back  arrangement (100% recycling)     s  "IO DEGRADABLE GARDEN WASTE AND FOOD  waste - vermi-composting and bio-digestion  respectively (15% recycling) Aditional Information Environment Performance - FY 2014-15 Sr.   no.
Environmental  Performance Parameters % change (over  FY  2013-14) % change  (over FY  2007-08) 1 Electricity consumption  (kWh/FTE/month) 4% decrease 41%  decrease 2 Freshwater consumption  (ltrs/FTE/month) No change 13%  decrease 3 Carbon footprint due to  Scope 1 + Scope 2 (tCO2e/ FTE/annum) 7% decrease 38%  decrease 4 Paper consumption  (Reams/1000FTE/month) 4% decrease 79%  decrease Principle 3 Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all  employees 1.
Please indicate the total number of employees:   Total number of employees including subsidiaries as  on March 31, 2015 was 319,656.
2.
Please indicate the total number of employees  hired on temporary/contractual/casual basis:  9,488 employees were hired on a contractual basis.
3.
Please indicate the number of permanent  women employees:  Total number of permanent women employees as  on March 31, 2015 was 105,481.
Annual Report 2014-15 Business Responsibility Report120  4.
Please indicate the number of permanent  employees with disabilities:  583 on the basis of self-declaration.
5.
Do you have an employee association that is  recognised by management?
: Yes 6.
What percentage of your permanent employees  is members of this recognised employee  association?
: 0.05% 7.
Please indicate the number of complaints  relating to child labour, forced labour,  involuntary labour, sexual harassment in the  last ﬁnancial year and pending, as on the end  of the ﬁnancial year.
Category No.
of  complaints  ﬁled during  the ﬁnancial  year No.
of  complaints  pending as  on end of the  ﬁnancial year Child labour/forced  labour/involuntary  labour None None Sexual harassment 17 2 Discriminatory  employment None None 8.
What percentage of your under mentioned  employees were given safety & skill up- gradation training in the last year?
  s  0ERMANENT EMPLOYEES   s  0ERMANENT WOMEN EMPLOYEES   s  #ASUALTEMPORARYCONTRACTUAL EMPLOYEES   s  %MPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES  1.
Safety   All the categories of employees mentioned above  have been covered through our training modules.
Training on health and safety is imparted to  associates as a part of the induction training  combined with an annual refresher web based  HSE training.
An effective mode of training  has been informal floor-walks and town-hall  meetings.
Additionally, regular ﬁre drills, several  awareness campaigns including road safety, ﬁre  safety, ergonomics, behaviour based safety, etc.
are conducted to reach out to the associates.
Innovative modes of training including video  based learning modules and interactive web  based training have been very effective and  in FY15, over 3,45,000 man-hours of training  on health, safety and environment has been  imparted through the various training channels.
2.
Employee skill up-gradation: FY 2014-15 Permanent employees 79% Permanent women  employees 83% Casual/temporary/ contractual employees 13% Employees with disabilities Included above Additional Information The Company has a number of policies and programmes  focussed on employee wellbeing.
These include holiday   homes, pharmacy benefits, vacation for employees  who are retiring, periodic health screening, safety  for women associates and health insurance coverage  including parents/in-laws.
The policy change management  framework takes into consideration, feedback from all  relevant stakeholders.
The policies and programmes are implemented through  various internal teams, with HR taking the ownership.
There are several platforms within TCS which seek to  empower employees.
‘Employee Concerns’ is an online  tool where a grievance may be raised by an employee  which is then addressed by stakeholders within predeﬁned  SLAs.
Initiatives such as ‘iConnect’ and ‘mPower’ provide  the opportunity to resolve issues of key importance and  facilitate individual mentoring and coaching with senior  managers.
TCS also offers an Employee Assistance Programme (EAP)  for India based associates, which includes professional  counselling services in important life matters such as  personal, relationship, work and parenting concerns that  an employee voluntarily seeks.
Associates can communicate with the counsellors through  a toll-free number, online correspondence as well as face  to face meetings.
There is also a 24x7 emergency number  for immediate concerns.
Digitised platform ‘Career Hub’ enables employees to  record their aspirations, helps the Company in identifying  high potentials, mentors and tracks career movement of  employees.
The tool ‘TCS Gems’ is used for global reward  and recognition.
Fit4Life, health awareness sessions,  periodic medical check-ups, gymnasiums in ofﬁces, and  24 x 7 ‘Employee Assistance Programme’ are some of the  important initiatives for employee health and safety.
TCS provides its employees huge opportunities for  learning.
Substantial investments in infrastructure and  tools have been made to keep its workforce motivated  and ready for the evolving technology.
Adherence to the Company’s HR policies is audited by the  internal auditor of the Company.
The HR compliance team continues to monitor the  changes in legislation pertaining to employment,  labour, and immigration laws across the globe to ensure  compliance, which is checked through regular audits.
Business Responsibility Report 121  The HR compliance team pro-actively prepares alerts  to identify key areas where TCS needs to introduce  new policies or modify the existing policies to remain  compliant.
A number of non-work related employee engagement  initiatives such as fun events, sports, cultural activities  and volunteering for social causes are organised across  the globe under our employee engagement platform  known as ‘TCS-Maitree’.
The culture of volunteering helps  employee bonding within the organisation and reduces  stress at work.
Employees are also encouraged to involve  their families in these activities.
Principle 4 Businesses should r espect the interests of, and be  responsive towards all stakeholders, especially  those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and  marginalised 1.
Has the company mapped its internal and  exter nal stakeholders?
Yes 2.
Out of the above, has the company identiﬁed  the disadvantaged, vulnerable & marginalized  stakeholders?
Yes 3.
Are there any special initiatives taken by the  company to engage with the disadvantaged,  vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders?
Yes  If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or  so.
TCS has several programmes designed to beneﬁt  marginalised stakeholders such as (a) illiterate  adults, (b) scheduled caste, scheduled tribes and  other tribal communities, (c) rural unskilled youth,  (d) visually impaired and (e) inmates in jail.
Beneﬁts  reach the marginalised stakeholders through the  following schemes:  Promoting Employability, Employment, Education  and Entrepreneurship among marginalized groups  s   Adult Literacy Programme (ALP) - details  given in Principle 8(1)(a)(i)  s   TCS-Maitree Advanced Computer Training  Centre for the Visually Impaired - details  given in Principle 8(1)(a)(v)  s   BPS Employability Programme – given in  Principle 8(1)(c)(i)  s   Computer Operator Cum Programming  Assistant (COPA) ITI Training - given in  Principle 8(1)(c)(ii)  s   BriDgeIT - details given in Principle 8(1)(c)(iv)  s   IT Employability Programme - details given in  Principle 8(1)(c)(v)  s   Other Programmes - details given in Principle  8(1)(c)(vi) Principle 5 Businesses should r espect and promote human  rights 1.
Does the policy of the company on human  rights cover only the company or extend to the   Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/ NGOs/Others?
The policy is applicable to TCS, its subsidiaries  and vendors.
The Company’s commitment to  follow the basic principles of human rights is  reflected in the checks and balances within the  HR processes.
The commitment to human rights is  embedded in the ‘Tata Code of Conduct’, adopted  by the Company.
All employees, including security  personnel, are sensitized to human rights as part of  their orientation programme.
With respect to vendors, TCS follows a rigorous  screening process before entering into a business  relationship.
All the contracts that the Company  enters into with vendors require the vendor  to comply with the relevant laws safeguarding  labour rights and human rights in their respective  jurisdiction.
2.
How many stakeholder complaints have been  received in the past ﬁnancial year and what  percent was satisfactorily resolved by the  management?
None Principle 6 Business should r espect, protect, and make efforts  to restore the environment 1.
Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover  only the company or extends to the Gr oup/ Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/ others.
TCS’ Environmental Policy is applicable to all the  business units/groups and extends to business  partners including suppliers, vendors and  contractors.
2.
Does the company have strategies/ initiatives  to address global environmental issues such  as climate change, global warming, etc?
Y/N.
If yes, please give hyperlink for webpage etc  Yes.
The ‘TATA Group Climate Change Policy’ and  TCS’ ‘Environment Policy’ guide the organisation to  continually mitigate the impact on climate change  and global warming as a result of our operations.
The Company has specific targets to reduce its  carbon footprint and monitors it on an ongoing  basis.
Detailed plan to achieve these targets  focus on creating green infrastructure which are  designed for better energy efﬁciency, drive green  IT (IT enabled energy efﬁciency in data centers and  distributed IT networks), efﬁcient operations and  green power purchase.
The details of the targets,  performance and the various initiatives are available  at: Annual Report 2014-15 Business Responsibility Report122   a.
Corporate Sustainability page on TCS   website –   http://www.tcs.com/about/corp_responsibility/ Pages/default.aspx  b. TCS’ Corporate Sustainability Report   http://www.tcs.com/about/corp_responsibility/ cs-report/Pages/default.aspx 3.
Does the company identify and assess potential  environmental risks?
Yes.
ISO 14001:2004 has been adopted as the  environment management system standard.
As a part  of this management system, an exhaustive impact  assessment is conducted at the organisation level,  as well as site level, to identify all environmental  impacts from our operations.
4.
Does the company have any project related to  Clean Development Mechanism?
If so, provide  details thereof, in about 50 words or so.
Also,  if Yes, whether any environmental compliance  report is ﬁled?
Not Applicable 5.
Has the company undertaken any other  initiatives on – clean technology, energy  efﬁciency, renewable energy, etc.
Y/N.
If yes,  please give hyperlink for web page etc.
Yes.
TCS is committed to drive energy efficiency.
This is achieved through creating green building  infrastructure, operating offices efficiently and  driving green IT.
Some key initiatives include –  creating green office campuses designed at par  with LEED Gold rating and driving data center  energy efficiency through server virtualisation  and optimisation of cooling.
The details of these  initiatives and more information are available on:  a) Corporate Sustainability Report, page on  TCS website -    http://www.tcs.com/about/corp_responsibility/ Pages/default.aspx  b) TCS’ Corporate Sustainability Report   http://www.tcs.com/about/corp_responsibility/ cs-report/Pages/default.aspx 6.
Are the Emissions/Waste generated by the  company within the permissible limits given  by CPCB/SPCB for the financial year being  reported?
Yes.
All emissions/waste generated at various ofﬁces  of TCS are within permissible limits.
These are  continuously monitored, reviewed internally and  reported to the CPCB/SPCB as per the requirement.
7.
Number of show cause/ legal notices received  from CPCB/SPCB which are pending (i.e.
not  resolved to satisfaction) as on end of Financial  Year.
No show cause/legal notices were received from  CPCB/SPCB in this ﬁnancial year.
Additional Information ‘Environmental Policy’ of the Company has been drafted  in line with the ISO 14001:2004 environment management   system.
The overall responsibility of environment  management lies with the Company’s CEO & MD and the  progress is reviewed by health, safety and sustainability  committee of the Board of Directors.
External stakeholders can access this policy through the  Company’s website.
For internal stakeholders, the policy  has been posted on the intranet and at ofﬁce receptions.
Training on this policy is conducted periodically for all  associates.
TCS has enterprise wide certiﬁcation for integrated health  safety & environment management system as per ISO  14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007.
Principle 7 Businesses, when engaged in influencing public   and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible  manner 1.
Is your company a member of any trade and  chamber or association?
: Ye s 2.
If Yes, Name only those major ones that your  business deals with:  a.
National Association of Software and Services  Companies (NASSCOM)  b. Confederation of Indian Industries (CII)  c. All India Management Association  d. Federation of India Chambers of Commerce and  Industry (FICCI)  e. Federation of Indian Exporters Organisation  (FIEO) and Computer Society of India (CSI) 3.
Have you advocated/lobbied through  above associations for the advancement or  improvement of public good?
: Yes  i.
If yes specify the broad areas (drop box:  Governance and Administration, Economic  Reforms, Inclusive Development Policies,  Energy security, Water, Food Security,  Sustainable Business Principles, Others)   TCS has participated in industry body consultations  in the following areas:   a.
Governance and Administration   b.
Sustainable Business Principles   c. Inclusive Development Policies (with a focus  on skill building and literacy)   d. Economic Reforms   e. Tax and other legislations Additional Information TCS uses the Tata Code of Conduct as a guide for its  actions in inﬂuencing public and regulatory policy .
Business Responsibility Report 123  Principle 8 Businesses should support inclusive gr owth and equitable development 1.
Does the company have speciﬁed programmes/initiatives/projects in pursuit of the policy related to  Principle 8?
If yes details ther e of:  Yes, summary of initiative/projects undertaken is given below: a) Education & Skill Building b) Health c) Afﬁrmative Action i.
Adult Literacy Programme i. MedMantra i. BPS Employability Programme ii.
UDAAN ii.
Tata Medical Center ii.
COPA ITI Training iii.
Empower iii.
CSR Tech Team iii.
Manuski Hostel Engagement iv.
Academic Interface Programme iv.
BriDgeIT v. Advanced Computer Training Center v. IT Employability Programme vi.
Rural IT Quiz vi.
Other Afﬁrmative Action  Programmes vii.
IT Wiz viii.
TCS Maitree Village development  Programme ix.
InsighT Details of Projects Undertaken a.
Education & Skill Building  i.
Adult Literacy Programme (ALP), a  Computer Based Functional Literacy  Programme   TCS designed the Adult Literacy Programme  (ALP) by using its expertise in IT to  conceptualise and develop the modules  to achieve functional literacy.
Today, the  software is available in 9 Indian languages and  3 foreign languages namely, Northern Sotho  (South Africa) and Moore (West Africa) and  Arabic.
Since inception, the programme has  reached 2,31,178 beneﬁciaries which include  prison inmates in New Delhi and Lucknow.
The  ALP is available on www.tcsion.com/ALP Telegu being taught through TCS’ Adult Literacy  Program at Chouluru, Karnataka  ii.
UDAAN, initiative for increasing  employability of Kashmiri Youth   TCS was the ﬁrst organization in India to sign  an MOU with the National Skill Development  Corporation (NSDC) to promote employability  among youth from Jammu & Kashmir.
Through  a 14 week training programme designed by  TCS, Udaan seeks to improve skills relevant to  the industry as well as increase employment  opportunities available to them.
The Company  trained 200 candidates in FY 15 of which  126 were offered jobs in TCS.
75% of the  candidates were mobilised through Indian  Army under Operation Megh Rahat, described  by Armymen as their “biggest ﬂood relief and  rescue exercise so far”.
TCS promoting employability among youth in  Kashmir through Udaan Annual Report 2014-15 Business Responsibility Report124   iii.
EMPOWER Through Empower, TCS aims  at building capacity and capabilities of its  support staff at various TCS ofﬁces.
Modules  for training include acquiring basic computer  skills, communication through English,  and other relevant soft skills.
In FY15, 480  beneficiaries received training under the  Empower programme across locations.
iv.
Academic Interface Programme (AIP)   The Company commitment towards the  development of faculty for academic  institutes, improvement of employability  of students and development of curricula  as per industry requirements has been  consistent.
As part of Board of Studies, TCS  helps 37 Boards of various institutes across  the country in revamping their curriculum as  per current industry trends.
In addition, TCS  has signed Memorandum of Understandings  with the Govt of Gujarat, Assam, Tamil Nadu,  Maharashtra and Jharkhand to serve as a  partner in the establishment of Indian Institute  of Information Technology in Vadodara,  Guwahati, Tiruchirappalli, Nagpur and Ranchi  respectively.
This is being done through PPP  model in association with Govt.
of India &  other industry partners.
In FY15, 993 workshops were conducted under  AIP reaching 1,51,834 students.
In addition,  318 faculty development programmes were  also conducted which reached 10,757 faculty.
Through TCS Research Scholarship Programme  the company has been supporting 188 PhD  research scholars from 33 institutes across  India.
TCS encouraging faculty development in addition to student training through Academic Interface Program (AIP)  v.  Advanced Computer Training Center  (ACTC)   In an effort to promote employability  among individuals with visual impairment,  the Company has created a programme that  offers IT-enabled vocational courses that  are in sync with the industry requirements,  personality development and training in  corporate etiquette.
This unique programme  aims at bridging the gap between computer  skills of persons who are visually impaired and  those required by IT/ITES.
Till date, TCS has trained 156 individuals of  which 121 candidates are employed with TCS  and other companies.
5 of these trainees are  currently pursuing higher studies.
TCS associates teaching hardware conﬁguration to  visually impaired students  vi.
TCS IT Wiz   TCS IT Wiz, the biggest inter school IT  Quiz programme in India, started in 1999  Business Responsibility Report 125  as a part of the educational Initiative to  build awareness and hone IT skills for young  students.
The programme is the ﬁrst and the  largest powerful Knowledge Platform of this  scale, on Information Technology for students  of class 8-12.
The TCS IT Wiz, which was held  between August and November 2014 across 14  locations in India— Ahmedabad, Bangalore,  Bhubaneswar, Chennai, Coimbatore, Delhi,  Hyderabad, Indore, Kochi, Kolkata, Lucknow,  Mumbai, Nagpur and Pune—witnessed over  18,432 students of class 8-12 from over 1,900  schools participating at the Regional level.
vii.
Rural IT Quiz   TCS partnered with the Government of  Karnataka to start India’s ﬁrst Rural IT Quiz  programme in the year 2000.
The Quiz aims  at enhancing IT awareness among students  from rural areas, promoting inclusive growth  and building their confidence.
The Rural  IT Quiz currently reaches rural students in  Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra,  Chattisgarh and Rajasthan.
The 15th edition of  the Rural IT Quiz was conducted in the states  of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh,  Chattisgarh, Rajasthan and Karnataka this  year.
The programme witnessed participation  from over 8,000 schools.
viii.
TCS Maitree Village Development  Programme   TCS is working to deploy a sustainable  model to improve Education, Healthcare  and Environment and promote Economic  Empowerment in rural areas across India.
To enhance their livelihood options in Panvel,  India, TCS associates have trained 45 women  in making eco-friendly jute bags through the  ‘Women Empowerment Programme’.
TCS Maitree volunteers  encouraging  entrepreneurship among women through the  WEP centre    In this village more than 520 children are  benefitted through the provision of a two  storey school building equipped with a Science  lab, a library and a solar operated Computer  lab.
Students at Computer lab in Waze school, Panvel   Infrastructure for clean drinking water is also  built as supplementary support.
Volunteers  visit the school every weekend to teach the  kids conversational English, Science and  Maths.
The Panvel Rural Development initiative is  one of the flagship volunteering initiatives  of TCS Maitree.
More than 1014 people both  children and adults have benefitted from  these initiatives in Panvel (Maharashtra),  Nainar (Tamil Nadu), Padmapur (Odisha),  Challera (UP).
Ix  InsighT   The programme is designed to meet the ISE,  CBSE and State Board syllabus and uses a case  study methodology with a practical approach.
InsighT seeks to promote team building,  leadership, communication, and presentation  skills, along with technical skills.
This year,  InsighT was run in 36 schools reaching 2,040  students.
b.
Health   i.
Cancer Research Institute    An integrated Hospital Management  System and IT infrastructure which  includes a comprehensive and fully  integrated, web-based solution has  been provided free of cost to the Cancer  Institute at Chennai.
Since its inception at the Cancer Institute  in 2010, the system has enabled more  than 80,000 new patient registrations,  over 500, 000 doctor consultations and  50,000 hospital admissions.
Annual Report 2014-15 Business Responsibility Report126      TCS is continuing to support Cancer  Institute by continuously enhancing the  system in alignment with the needs of  Cancer Institute.
In 2014, a new module  to support the Chemotherapy function  has been taken up for development.
This year saw an increase of 37% in the  laboratory investigations being reported  in the system, a direct result of the  automation of laboratory equipment  interface with the Hospital Management  System.
ii.
Tata Medical Center (TMC)    TCS also designed and implemented a  comprehensive Hospital Management  System for TMC, Kolkata.
TCS is  providing 24x7 maintenance support  services to TMC, Kolkata which  includes enhancement to functions of  a comprehensive Hospital Management  System (HMS) and the site IT   Infrastructure.
Upgrade of desktops  to Windows7 is in progress.
A 32TB  NAS storage has been added for non- HMS data archival by TMC medical  staff.
These activities are part of the IT  Infrastructure services.
Currently a TCS sponsored Clinical Trial  platform is being developed, which  is expected to be in the production  environment this year.
For ease  of communication and tracking of  information flow a SMS gateway has  been implemented at TMC.
After a  successful integration with the IP patient  admission process the SMS gateway is  now being integrated with other process  ﬂows in phases.
iii.
Projects undertaken by the CSR Tech  Team    The Tech CSR team has been instrumental  in leveraging core competencies and  capabilities (i.e.
feasibility assessment,  business & process analysis, prioritisation  of aspirations, design, development and  consulting) for social programmes and  initiatives.
Bulk of non-government  organizations (NGO) struggle in  visualizing and functioning with  corporate style efficiencies.
TCS’ Tech  CSR Team uses information technology  (IT) as key enabler to assist such  organizations and is instrumental in  analyzing and highlighting areas of  improvement and suggesting processes  and systems to increase efficiency for  social organizations.
This has assisted  NGO in highlighting increased visibility  of their programme activities and  initiatives - to their teams, management  and donors.
This in turn translates  into enhancement of NGOs overall  experience due to increase in efﬁciency,  credibility and accountability which is  substantiated by fact based statistics.
In  Financial Year 2015 the Tech CSR Team  has focused on supporting multiple  Health based initiatives for organizations  like Retina India Foundation (Indian  Retina Repository) and Operation Smile  (Patient Management System).
Tech  CSR Team has also prepared a Case  Management System to assist Justice and  Care in tracking human trafﬁcking cases.
c.  Afﬁrmative Action   i.  BPS Employability Programme    Since 2010, TCS has dedicated itself  towards addressing this critical concern  of lack of exposure to contemporary  skills within the country.
TCS launched a simple yet powerful  employability training programme for  marginalised youth across India.
This  Employability Training Programme  comprises of 80 to 100 hours of powerful  interactive content designed to develop  skills that increase their chances of  ﬁnding employment.
The training provides an effective  platform for the development   of communication skills, corporate  etiquette, interview skills, resume  building and basic computer knowledge.
Above all, the programme enables  the trainees to become self-conﬁdent.
Recruitment process for entry level  jobs is conducted by TCS BPS post the  training.
In the last 3 years, the programme  has trained 56,631 students with a  cumulative reach of 16,676 SC/ST youth  through training programmes in over  160 geographic locations.
Over 3,626  of these trained youth have found  employment at TCS BPS.
Business Responsibility Report 127    ii.
COPA ITI Training    TCS has developed a Faculty Development  Programme for Industrial Training  Institute Instructors.
The objective of the  programme is to enhance the capability  of the faculty in ITIs so that the quality  and course delivery is in line with the  latest industry practices on the subjects    Thus far, with our technology specialists,  we have trained COPA faculty from  ITIs located in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana,  Gujarat, West Bengal, Maharashtra,  Odisha, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.
158  Faculty from various ITIs across 8 states  have been trained and certiﬁed by TCS.
iii.
BriDgeIT    BriDgeIT is unique project to demonstrate  the use of IT as a key enabler in  school education, adult literacy and  creation of entrepreneurs in Jhansi  district (Bundelkhand region), Uttar  Pradesh.
This is a joint venture with  the National Confederation of Dalit  Organisations (NACDOR) who provides  ﬁeld level support in identifying schools  and in the identification of young  entrepreneurs; and Pratham as the  domain expert is providing support  in education domain support in child  education.
The programme reaches 500  school children through computer-aided  learning, 250 adults through the adult  literacy programme and also provides  support to 5 Dalit entrepreneurs.
In FY 15, number of Entrepreneurs  reached was 31, number of children  reached was 1471 and number of adults  reached was 140.
Uma, an entrepreneur in Jhansi sponsored  through TCS’ BriDgeIT Program  Bridging the digital divide at Jhansi,   Uttar Pradesh   iv.
IT Employability Programme    Encouraged by the success of the BPS  Employability Programme, in 2014  TCS embarked on a new initiative to  promote employability.
Students in  the 5th semester of four engineering  colleges in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka,  Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra  each, have received training through  a specially designed 200hr module  designed to promote employability  in the IT sector.
Students from 22  engineering colleges have been reached  through this programme.
v .
Other Affirmative Action   Programmes    At the Manuski Hostel in Pune, TCS  has sponsored the education of 40  children from socially and economically  disadvantaged communities.
Water  filters, computers and a broadband  connection have also been provided  within the girls’ hostel a library has been  set up for the boys’ hostel.
Childrens’ Day at Manuski Girls Hostel Annual Report 2014-15 Business Responsibility Report128      In NOIDA, TCS has associated with  Vidya & Child to promote learning in  Maths, English and other soft skills  among children in these locations.
TCS also provides ﬁnancial support for  meritorious students in Class XI and Class  XII.
TCS has been supporting students  through FAEA for the past 4 years.
This year, TCS contributed INR 3,50,000  towards 5 scholarships through  Foundation for Academic Excellence  and Access (FAEA) to help SC/ST students  studying in professional courses in  leading colleges in the country.
d.  Global Initiatives Students learn the wonders of IT through   TCS’ goIT Program   Under the STEM “Education to Careers”  banner in North America, TCS is working  to create a robust framework to promote  interest and careers in Science, Technology,  Engineering & Math (STEM).
The goIT Student  Technology programme aims to increase  students’ interest in IT by providing in- school IT career and awareness workshops,  and hands-on technology education to  high school students free of cost.
Since its  inception in 2009, goIT has evolved from a  two-school camp to a year-long programme  and has impacted over 8,800+ students across   11 cities reaching 1,800 new students.
goIT  was launched this year in Canada.
In addition,  national level partnerships have been forged  with leading organisations such as US  2020, Million Women Mentors and nPower.
TCS’ pro-bono technology platforms for  US2020 and Million Women Mentors now  enable mentors to reach over 300,000  students.
TCS has completed over 65 consulting  projects for non-proﬁt organizations through  NPower, resulting in over $1Million of social  good.
NPower through TCS’ support has  trained over 360 disadvantaged youth and  80 veterans, providing them with internship  and job placements.
President Barack Obama  recognized TCS as a partner of US2020 in the  2014 ‘Educate to Innovate’ progress report.
TCS announced partnership with US2020 at an  event hosted by the Clinton Global Initiative to  mobilize STEM Professionals to Mentor Students   Expansion of efforts to promote interest in   IT & technology in APAC continues through Go  for IT!
and Work Placements Programmes.
Go  for IT is a 1 week structured and intensive work  placement initiative designed to encourage  girls to consider IT as a career.
TCS employees  interact with the trainees also sharing their  personal experiences, providing insight into  their current roles and thereby increasing the  students’ enthusiasm towards IT.
Till date, the  programmes have reached 6,500+ students.
In  FY15, the programmes reached 63 students,  in 13 schools with associates pledging over  130 hours of volunteer time.
86% of students  said that their participation in the TCS Work  Experience programme has inspired them to  study IT and 100% felt that their knowledge  of the IT Industry has increased exponentially.
TCS received the 5th Hong Kong Corporate  Citizenship Award (2015).
TCS associates  have also designed and implemented a  comprehensive IT system for Operation Smile  China, which provides free surgeries to young  patients with cleft palates.
In Middle East and Africa, IT awareness in  schools, Graduate Development Programmes  and Customer Training in IT address the global  “Education to Careers” theme.
Till date, 30  graduates have been trained and employed;  2 IT Training centers built for marginalised  communities and 2000+ customer employees  Business Responsibility Report 129  trained.
In Africa, TCS is a Level 2 BEEE  contributor.
In UK TCS is seen as enthusing young people  into technology through its IT Futures.
The  programme seeks to engage students at critical  stages in education, while strengthening  the ability of educators to deliver effective  training and relevant skills.
Through IT Futures,   TCS facilitated  IT application development  for 160 schools, IT challenges to students  through 100 school workshops, 100 work  placements at TCS and 12 Universities involved  in programmes where students provide   IT solutions to local charities.
As part of this  programme, TCS is proud to be a founding  donor of the Queen Elizabeth Prize for  Engineering.
63% reached by IT Futures  indicated that they will consider an IT career  and 90% of teachers say that the programme  has triggered an interest in technology.
In  Europe, youth summer camps and technical  skill enhancements programs have been  instrumental in encouraging an interest in IT.
This year, goIT was also launched in Sweden  & Germany.
TCS helps students get creative at the Big Bang  Fair in UK   In LATAM, a programme focusing on Social  & Economic empowerment of differently  abled was launched.
Through ENABLE 3000  Volunteering hours were invested and  21 associates hired in post the training.
TCS received the Best Volunteering Company  (Red Cross, Ecuador) and Company with Best  Social Service Practices (Foundation Tierra  Nueva of Carollo Father).
e.  Volunteering through TCS Maitree and  Purpose4Life   TCS Maitree was started with the purpose  of creating a spirit of camaraderie among  TCS associates and their families.
Through  Maitree’s core Philosophy of Together Caring  & Sharing we have enkindled the “Spirit of  Camaraderie” in terms of meaningful activities  for TCSers, their families & the Community.
This network encourages associates and their  families to look upon themselves as a part of  TCS’ extended family.
The scope of TCS Maitree now also includes  socially relevant initiatives.
The initiatives  undertaken promote volunteering in  meaningful activities such as working with  the differently abled and extra classes for  under-privileged children in schools near   TCS offices and Rural areas.
One of the  incidental objectives of TCS Maitree’s  Volunteering Programmes is to assist   volunteers in the development of their  professional and personal attributes.
TCS Purpose4Life initiative was launched  in April 2014 and since then, the initiative  has contributed  over 2,21,000 hours with  more than 35000 employees registered on  the portal and over 2300 initiatives across  Environment, Education and Health.
TATA  Trusts collaborated with TCS and other group  companies (TSMG, TCE and TISS) to launch  Mission Garima with an objective of improving  the lives of conservancy workers of Municipal  Corporation of Greater Mumbai.
TCS  volunteers are entrusted with Project Yukti,  an innovation-cum-competition involving  ideation and propagation, execution,  preliminary assessment and digitization of  the idea and the survey responses received  from migrant workers.
So far, 52 volunteers  reached out to 50 municipal chowkis and  pumping stations, interacted with more than  800 workers and generated over 6500 ideas.
TCS associates volunteer time to make Math and  Science interesting for children in villages  Annual Report 2014-15 Business Responsibility Report130  f.  Support to Disaster Relief  This year, the Company and associates extended  support to the relief efforts of  Tata Relief  Committee and the PM’s Relief Fund in Jammu &  Kashmir Andhra Pradesh and Odisha.
2.
Are the programmes/projects undertaken  through in-house team?
Yes through in-house  team 3.
Have you done any impact assessment of your  initiative?
Currently, the Company monitors the reach and  outcome of its CSR initiatives through monthly  reports and assessments conducted by CSR regional  and geographic leads.
4.
What is your company’s direct contribution to  community development projects- Amount in  INR and the details of the projects undertaken?
In India, the Company invested ` 218.42 crores.
in FY 2014-2015, TCS’ contribution to community  development projects including those overseas was  ` 253.55.
5.
Have you taken steps to ensure that this  community development initiative is  successfully adopted by the community?
: Yes.
Please explain in 50 words, or so.
Initiatives conducted under CSR are tracked  to determine the outcomes achieved and the  benefits to the community.
Internal tracking  mechanisms, monthly reports and follow-up ﬁeld  visits, telephonic and email communications are  regularly carried out.
The Company has engaged  highly trained employees to drive and monitor the  CSR activities.
Principle 9 Businesses should engage with and pr ovide value  to their customers and consumers in a responsible  manner 1.
What percentage of customer complaints/ consumer cases ar e pending as on the end of  ﬁnancial year.
Total number of customer complaints  received during the ﬁnancial year 183 Percentage of customer complaints  open as on March 31, 2015 6.56% 2.
Does the company display product information  on the product label, over and above what is  mandated as per local laws?
TCS is a software solution provider hence this  question is not applicable to us.
Remarks(additional information) – None 3.
Is there any case filed by any stakeholder  against the company regarding unfair trade  practices, irresponsible advertising and/or  anti-competitive behaviour during the last  ﬁve years and pending as on end of ﬁnancial  year.
If so, provide details thereof, in about 50  words or so.
As on date, there are no anti-competitive, abuse of  dominant position or unfair trade practices cases  pending against the Company.
4.
Did your company carry out any consumer  survey/ consumer satisfaction trends?
Customer satisfaction surveys are carried out on a  half yearly basis.
The survey is done at an account- level and measures TCS’ performance on various  parameters across multiple dimensions.
Consolidated Financial Statements 131   Consolidated Financial Statements132  Annual Report 2014-15 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TO THE MEMBERS OF TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES LIMITED Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated ﬁnancial statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited (‘the Company’)  and its subsidiaries (the Company and its subsidiaries constitute ‘the Group’), which comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at   March 31, 2015, the Consolidated Statement of Proﬁt and Loss and the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended,  and a summary of the signiﬁcant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements in terms of the  requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) that give a true and fair view of the consolidated ﬁnancial position, consolidated  ﬁnancial performance and consolidated cash ﬂows of the Group in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in  India, including the Accounting Standards speciﬁed under Section 133 of the Act, read with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules,  2014.
The respective Board of Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries are responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting  records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the respective assets of the Company and its subsidiaries   and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; the selection and application of appropriate accounting policies;  making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate  internal ﬁnancial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records,  relevant to the preparation and presentation of the ﬁnancial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from materi al  misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation of these consolidated ﬁnancial   statements by the Board of Directors of the Company.
Auditors’ Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated ﬁnancial statements based on our audit.
While conducting the audit, we have taken into account the provisions of the Act, the accounting and auditing standards and  matters which are required to be included in the audit report under the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing speciﬁed under Section 143(10) of the Act.
Those Standards  require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether  the consolidated ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and the disclosures in the consolidated  ﬁnancial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of materia l  misstatement of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor  considers internal ﬁnancial control relevant to the Company’s preparation and presentation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements  that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose  of expressing an opinion on whether the Company has in place an adequate internal ﬁnancial control system over ﬁnancial reporting  and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of the accounting polic ies  used and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates made by the Company’s Board of Directors, as well as evaluating the overall  presentation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors referred to in the Othe r  Matter below, is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Opinion In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid consolidated ﬁnancial  statements give the information required by the Act in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with  the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs of the Group as at March 31, 2015 and the  consolidated proﬁt and its consolidated cash ﬂows for the year ended on that date.
Other Matter We did not audit the ﬁnancial statements of certain subsidiaries, whose ﬁnancial statements reﬂect total assets of ` 9666.66 crores as  at March 31, 2015, total revenues of ` 14404.85 crores and net cash inﬂows amounting to ` 355.62 crores for the year ended on that  date, as considered in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
These ﬁnancial statements have been audited by other auditors whose  reports have been furnished to us by the Management and our opinion on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, in so far as it relates  to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries, and our report in terms of sub-section (3) and (11) of Section  143 of the Act, insofar as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries is based solely on the reports of the other auditors.
Our opinion on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory requirements below, is not  modiﬁed in respect of the above matter with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors and the  ﬁnancial statements certiﬁed by the Management.
Consolidated Financial Statements 133  Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 1.
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2015 (‘the Order’), issued by the Central Government of India in terms of  Section 143 (11) of the Act, based on the comments in the auditors’ report of the Company and on the auditors’ reports issued in  accordance with the Order on subsidiary companies incorporated in India, we give in the Annexure a statement on the matters  speciﬁed in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
2.
As required by Section 143 (3) of the Act, we report, to the extent applicable, that:  (a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were  necessary for the purposes of our audit of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
(b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements   have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports of the other auditors.
(c) The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Proﬁt and Loss, and the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement  dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the relevant books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation  of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
(d) In our opinion, the consolidated ﬁnancial statements comply with the Accounting Standards speciﬁed under Section 133 of  the Act, read with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
(e) On the basis of the written representations received from the Directors of the Company as on March 31, 2015, taken on  record by the Board of Directors of the Company and the reports of the auditors of its subsidiary companies incorporated in  India, none of the Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries, incorporated in India is disqualiﬁed as on March 31, 2015  from being appointed as a Director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act.
(f) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies  (Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations  given to us:   i) The Group has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on the consolidated ﬁnancial position of the Group in its  consolidated ﬁnancial statements as of March 31, 2015.   ii) The Group has made provisions in its consolidated ﬁnancial statements, as required under the applicable law or  accounting standards, for material foreseeable losses on long term contracts.
iii) There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection  Fund by the Company and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No.
117366W / W-100018) P. R. RAMESH Partner (Membership No.
70928) Mumbai, April 16, 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements134  Annual Report 2014-15 ANNEXURE TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT (Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date) Our reporting on the Order includes subsidiary companies incorporated in India on which the auditors have reported on in accordance  with the Order.
Our report in respect of these subsidiaries is based solely on the reports of their auditors.
1.
In respect of the ﬁxed assets of the Company and its aforesaid subsidiaries:  (a) The respective entities have maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation  of ﬁxed assets.
(b) The ﬁxed assets were physically veriﬁed during the year by the Management of the respective entities in accordance with a  regular programme of veriﬁcation which, in our opinion and based on the auditors’ reports issued in accordance with the  Order on the aforesaid subsidiaries, provides for physical veriﬁcation of the ﬁxed assets at reasonable intervals.
According  to the information and explanations given to us and based on the auditors’ reports issued in accordance with the Order on  the aforesaid subsidiaries, no material discrepancies were noticed on such veriﬁcation.
2.
In respect of the inventories of the Company and its aforesaid subsidiaries:  (a) As explained to us and based on the auditors’ reports issued in accordance with the Order on the aforesaid subsidiaries,  the inventories were physically veriﬁed during the year by the Management of the respective subsidiaries at reasonable  intervals.
(b) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us and based on the auditors’ reports issued  in accordance with the Order on the aforesaid subsidiaries, the procedures of physical veriﬁcation of inventories followed  by the respective Management were reasonable and adequate in relation to the size of the Company and its respective  subsidiaries and the nature of their business.
(c) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us and based on the auditors’ reports issued  in accordance with the Order on the aforesaid subsidiaries, the Company and its aforesaid subsidiaries have maintained  proper records of its inventories and no material discrepancies were noticed on physical veriﬁcation.
3.
The Company and its aforesaid subsidiaries have not granted any loans, secured or unsecured, to companies, ﬁrms or other  parties covered in the Registers maintained under Section 189 of the Act by the respective entities.
4.
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us and based on the auditors’ reports issued in  accordance with the Order on the aforesaid subsidiaries, having regard to the explanations that some of the items purchased  are of special nature and suitable alternative sources are not readily available for obtaining comparable quotations, there is an  adequate internal control system commensurate with the size of the Company and its aforesaid subsidiaries and the nature of  their business respectively with regard to purchase of inventory and ﬁxed assets and the sale of goods and services.
During the  course of our audits and based on auditors’ reports issued in accordance with the Order on the aforesaid subsidiaries, we have  not observed any major weakness in such internal control system.
5.
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us and based on the auditors’ reports issued in  accordance with the Order on the aforesaid subsidiaries, the Company and its aforesaid subsidiaries have not accepted deposits  during the year and do not have any unclaimed deposits.
Therefore, the provisions of the clause 3 (v) of the Order are not  applicable to the Company and its aforesaid subsidiaries.
6.
The provisions of clause 3 (vi) of the Order are not applicable to the Company and its aforesaid subsidiaries as the respect ive  entities are not covered by the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014.
7.
According to the information and explanations given to us and based on auditors’ reports issued in accordance with the Order   on the aforesaid subsidiaries, in respect of statutory dues of the Company and its aforesaid subsidiaries:  (a) The respective entities have generally been regular in depositing undisputed statutory dues, including Provident Fund,  Employees’ State Insurance, Income Tax, Sales Tax and Value Added Tax, Wealth Tax, Service Tax, duty of Customs, duty of  Excise, Cess and other material statutory dues applicable to it with the appropriate authorities.
(b) There were no undisputed amounts payable in respect of Provident Fund, Employees’ State Insurance, Income Tax, Sales  Tax and Value Added Tax, Wealth Tax, Service Tax, duty of Customs, duty of Excise, Cess and other material statutory dues  in arrears as at March 31, 2015 for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable.
(c) Details of dues of Income Tax, Sales Tax and Value Added Tax and Service Tax which have not been deposited as at   March 31, 2015 on account of dispute are given below: Particulars Period to which the amount relates Forum where the dispute is  pending Amount (` crores) Income Tax   2005-06, 2008-09 Income Tax Appellate Tribunal  157.16  2007-08, 2008-09,  2009-10, 2011-12, 2012-13  Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)  505.71  2008-09 Assessing Ofﬁcer 3.61 Consolidated Financial Statements 135  Particulars Period to which the amount relates Forum where the dispute is  pending Amount (` crores) Sales Tax and  Value Added Tax           2001-02, 2003-04, 2004-05, 2005-06, 2007-08,  2009-10, 2012-13  High court 22.82  2002-03, 2003-04, 2004-05, 2005-06, 2006-07,  2007-08  Tribunal 7.06 2008-09, 2009-10, 2010-11 Deputy Commissioner 7.56 2005-06, 2009-10, 2010-11, 2011-12, 2013-14 Joint Commissioner  4.42 2001-02, 2005-06, 2011-12 Assistant Commissioner  0.49  2007-08, 2008-09, 2009-10 Additional Commissioner  0.02  Service Tax 2004-05, 2005-06, 2006-07, 2007-08, 2008-09,  2009-10 Appellate Tribunal  12.12  2008-09, 2009-10 Commissioner of Service Tax (Appeals)  0.15    There were no dues of Wealth Tax, duty of Customs, duty of Excise and Cess which have not been deposited as at   March 31, 2015 on account of dispute.
(d) The Company and its aforesaid subsidiaries have been regular in transferring amounts to the Investor Education and  Protection Fund in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and Rules made thereunder within  time.
8.
The Group does not have accumulated losses.
The Group has not incurred cash losses on a consolidated basis during the ﬁnanci al  year covered by our audit and in the immediately preceding ﬁnancial year.
9.
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us and based on the auditors’ reports issued in  accordance with the Order on the aforesaid subsidiaries, the respective entities have not defaulted in repayment of dues to a  bank during the year and did not have any amount outstanding to ﬁnancial institutions or debenture holders.
10.
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us and based on the auditors’ reports issued in  accordance with the Order on the aforesaid subsidiaries, the Company and its aforesaid subsidiaries have not given guarantees  for loans taken by others from banks and ﬁnancial institutions.
Therefore, the provisions of the clause 3 (x) of the Order are not  applicable to the Group.
11.
According to the information and explanations given to us and based on the auditors’ reports issued in accordance with the  Order on the aforesaid subsidiaries, the respective entities did not avail any term loan during the year.
12.
To the best of our knowledge and belief and according to the information and explanations given to us and based on the  auditors’ reports issued in accordance with the Order on the aforesaid subsidiaries, no fraud by the Company and its aforesaid  subsidiaries and no material fraud on the Company and its aforesaid subsidiaries has been noticed or reported during the year.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No.
117366W / W-100018) P. R. RAMESH Partner (Membership No.
70928) Mumbai, April 16, 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements136  Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2015 As per our report attached For and on behalf of the Board For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Cyrus Mistry N. Chandrasekaran Prof. Clayton M. Christensen Chartered Accountants Chairman CEO and Managing Director Director  Aman Mehta Ishaat Hussain V. Thyagarajan  Director Director Director P. R. Ramesh Dr. Ron Sommer Dr. Vijay Kelkar Phiroz Vandrevala Partner Director Director Director  O. P. Bhatt Aarthi Subramanian Rajesh Gopinathan  Director Executive Director Chief Financial Ofﬁcer  Suprakash Mukhopadhyay  Company Secretary Mumbai, April 16, 2015  Mumbai, April 16, 2015 (` crores) Note As at  March 31, 2015 As at  March 31, 2014 I.
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ funds (a) Share capital 3 195.87 195.87 (b) Reserves and surplus 4 50438.89 48998.89 50634.76 49194.76 Minority interest 1127.76 707.99 Non-current liabilities (a) Long-term borrowings 5 114.27 127.26 (b) Deferred tax liabilities (net) 6 (a) 342.96 308.80 (c) Other long-term liabilities 7 825.02 743.07 (d) Long-term provisions 8 297.87 385.59 1580.12 1564.72 Current liabilities (a) Short-term borrowings 9 185.56 127.09 (b) Trade payables 8830.93 5536.02 (c) Other current liabilities 10 3646.59 3621.24 (d) Short-term provisions 11 7655.16 6385.96 20318.24 15670.31 TOTAL 73660.88 67137.78 II.
ASSETS Non-current assets (a) Fixed assets 12 (i)  Tangible assets 9376.12 7034.81 (ii)  Intangible assets 168.83 240.74 (iii)  Capital work-in-progress 2766.37 3168.48 12311.32 10444.03 (b) Non-current investments 13 169.18 2275.27 (c) Deferred tax assets (net) 6 (b) 593.94 420.06 (d) Long-term loans and advances 14 9154.92 7286.62 (e) Other non-current assets 15 525.30 1545.33 (f) Goodwill (on consolidation) 2093.22 2268.78 24847.88 24240.09 Current assets (a) Current investments 16 1492.60 1158.47 (b) Inventories 17 16.07 15.21 (c) Unbilled revenue 18 3827.08 4005.61 (d) Trade receivables 19 20437.94 18230.40 (e) Cash and bank balances 20 18556.04 14441.84 (f) Short-term loans and advances 21 4146.45 4310.80 (g) Other current assets 22 336.82 735.36 48813.00 42897.69 TOTAL 73660.88 67137.78 III.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1-48 Consolidated Financial Statements 137  As per our report attached For and on behalf of the Board For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Cyrus Mistry N. Chandrasekaran Prof. Clayton M. Christensen Chartered Accountants Chairman CEO and Managing Director Director  Aman Mehta Ishaat Hussain V. Thyagarajan  Director Director Director P. R. Ramesh Dr. Ron Sommer Dr. Vijay Kelkar Phiroz Vandrevala Partner Director Director Director  O. P. Bhatt Aarthi Subramanian Rajesh Gopinathan  Director Executive Director Chief Financial Ofﬁcer  Suprakash Mukhopadhyay  Company Secretary Mumbai, April 16, 2015  Mumbai, April 16, 2015 (` crores) Note 2015 2014 I.
Revenue from operations 23 94648.41 81809.36 (Net of excise duty of ` 4.09 crores (Previous year ` 3.15 crores) II.
Other income (net) 24 3229.91 1636.74 TOTAL REVENUE 97878.32 83446.10 III.
Expenses: (a)  Employee beneﬁt expense 25 38701.15 29860.01 (b)  Operation and other expenses 26 31465.55 26796.56 (c)   Finance costs 27 104.19 38.52 (d)  Depreciation and amortisation expense 12 1798.69 1349.15 TOTAL EXPENSES 72069.58 58044.24 IV.
PROFIT BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL ITEM AND TAX 25808.74 25401.86 V .
Exceptional item 44 489.75  -  VI.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX 26298.49 25401.86 VII.
Tax expense: (a)  Current tax 28 6275.65 6148.26 (b)  Deferred tax (28.18) (27.14) (c)  Fringe beneﬁt tax 0.37 0.13 (d)  MAT credit entitlement 28 (9.05) (51.26) 6238.79 6069.99 VIII.
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR BEFORE MINORITY INTEREST 20059.70 19331.87 IX.
Minority interest 207.52 168.00 X.
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 19852.18 19163.87 XI.
Earnings per equity share :- Basic and diluted (`) 38 101.35 97.67 Weighted average number of  equity shares (face value of  ` 1 each) 1,95,87,27,979 1,95,87,27,979 XII.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1-48 Consolidated Statement of Proﬁt and Loss for the year ended March 31, 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements138  Annual Report 2014-15 (` crores) Note 2015 2014 I CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Proﬁt before tax 26298.49 25401.86 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation expense 1308.94 1349.15 Bad debts written-of f / (recovered) (net) 12.46 (5.71) Provision of doubtful receivables (net) 158.60 90.96 Provision for doubtful advances (net) 6.42 10.17 Advances written off / (recovered) (net) 0.25 (0.12) Diminution in value of investments (net) 1.40  -  Interest expense 104.19 38.52 Proﬁt on sale of ﬁxed assets (net) (2.54) (4.55) Unrealised exchange loss / (gain) (net) 27.05 (68.45) Exchange difference on translation of foreign currency cash and cash equivalents 27.26 (43.66) Dividend income from current investments (mutual funds)  (9.49) (9.25) Interest income  (1596.61) (1340.00) Proﬁt on redemption of mutual funds and sale of other investments (net)  (233.10) (173.09) Operating proﬁt before working capital changes 26103.32 25245.83 Inventories  (0.86)  5.94  Unbilled revenue  212.76  (811.60) Trade receivables (2158.04)  (4015.80) Loans and advances and other assets (711.75)  (296.00) Trade payables, other liabilities and provisions 3405.11 1666.67 Cash generated from operations 26850.54 21795.04 Taxes paid (7481.76) (7043.63) Net cash provided by operating activities 19368.78 14751.41 II CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchase of ﬁxed assets (2949.20) (3126.15) Proceeds from sale of ﬁxed assets 6.70 13.83 Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash of ` 25.23 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 53.80 crores) (263.65) (452.41) Purchase of shares from minority shareholders (74.47)  -  Purchase of mutual funds and other investments (67296.17) (82613.36) Redemption of mutual funds and sale of other investments 69360.96 81326.64 Inter -corporate deposits placed (1797.00) (2665.00) Inter-corporate deposits matured 1952.00 3539.77 Fixed deposit placed with banks having original maturity over three months (15538.60) (12774.14) Fixed deposit with banks matured having original maturity over three months 13064.39 5706.77 Earmarked deposits placed with banks (195.44)  -  Earmarked deposits with banks matured 25.27  -  Dividends received from current investments (mutual funds) 9.49 9.25 Interest received 1994.40 1367.72 Net cash used in investing activities (1701.32) (9667.08) Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended March 31, 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements 139  Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended March 31, 2015 (Contd.)
(` crores) Note 2015 2014 III CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Redemption of preference shares - (100.00) Repayment of long-term borrowings (0.47) (1.24) Short-term borrowings (net) 43.41 8.44 Proceeds from other borrowings  - 117.67 Repayment of other borrowings  - (140.02) Dividend paid, including dividend tax (17020.46) (5480.07) Dividend paid to minority shareholders of subsidiaries and dividend tax on  dividend paid by subsidiaries (85.11) (39.96) Interest paid (104.98) (38.06) Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (17167.61) (5673.24) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 499.85 (588.91) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1467.86 1841.36 Exchange difference on translation of foreign currency cash and cash equivalents (105.82) 215.41 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 20 1861.89 1467.86 Earmarked balances with banks 312.67 25.59 Short-term bank deposits 16381.48 12948.39 Cash and bank balances at the end of the year 20 18556.04 14441.84 Supplementary disclosure of cash ﬂow non-cash investing activities: Investment in shares at cost received in settlement of trade receivables 58.87  -  Issue of shares on acquisition of subsidiary 69.05  -  IV NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1-48 As per our report attached For and on behalf of the Board For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Cyrus Mistry N. Chandrasekaran Prof. Clayton M. Christensen Chartered Accountants Chairman CEO and Managing Director Director  Aman Mehta Ishaat Hussain V. Thyagarajan  Director Director Director P. R. Ramesh Dr. Ron Sommer Dr. Vijay Kelkar Phiroz Vandrevala Partner Director Director Director  O. P. Bhatt Aarthi Subramanian Rajesh Gopinathan  Director Executive Director Chief Financial Ofﬁcer  Suprakash Mukhopadhyay  Company Secretary Mumbai, April 16, 2015  Mumbai, April 16, 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements140  Annual Report 2014-15 Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements 1) CORPORATE INFORMATION  Tata Consultancy Services Limited (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as “the Group”) provide  consulting-led integrated portfolio of information technology (IT) and IT -enabled services delivered through a network of  multiple locations around the globe.
The Group’s full services portfolio consists of IT and Assurance Services, Business Intelligence  and Performance Management, Business Process Services, Cloud Services, Connected Marketing Solutions, Consulting,   Eco-sustainability Services, Engineering and Industrial Services, Enterprise Security and Risk Management, Enterprise Solutions ,  iON -Small and Medium Businesses, IT Infrastructure Services, Mobility Products and Services and Platform Solutions.
As at March 31, 2015, Tata Sons Limited owned 73.69 % of the Company’s equity share capital and has the ability to control its  operating and ﬁnancial policies.
The Company’s registered ofﬁce is in Mumbai and it has 60 subsidiaries across the globe.
2) SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  a) Basis of preparation    These ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in  India (‘Indian GAAP’) to comply with the Accounting Standards speciﬁed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013,  read with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
The  ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention on accrual basis, except for certain ﬁnancial  instruments which are measured at fair value.
b) Principles of consolidation   The ﬁnancial statements of the subsidiary companies used in the consolidation are drawn up to the same reporting date as  of the Company.
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on the following basis:   i) The ﬁnancial statements of the Company and its subsidiary companies have been combined on a line-by-line basis by  adding together like items of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Inter-company balances and transactions and  unrealised proﬁts or losses have been fully eliminated.
ii) The share of proﬁt / loss of associate companies is accounted under the ‘Equity method’ as per which the share of  proﬁt / loss of the associate company has been adjusted to the cost of investment.
An associate is an enterprise in  which the investor has signiﬁcant inﬂuence and which is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture.
iii) The excess of the cost to the parent of its investments in a subsidiary over the parent’s portion of equity at the date  on which investment in the subsidiary is made, is recognised as ‘Goodwill (on consolidation)’.
When the cost to the  parent of its investment in a subsidiary is less than the parent’s portion of equity of the subsidiary at the date on  which investment in the subsidiary is made, the difference is treated as ‘Capital Reserve (on consolidation)’ in the  consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
iv) Minority interest in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries consists of the amount of equity attributable to the  minority shareholders at the dates on which investments in the subsidiary companies are made and further movements  in their share in the equity, subsequent to the dates of investments.
v) On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the proﬁt or loss  on disposal.
c) Use of estimates   The preparation of ﬁnancial statements requires the management of the Group to make estimates and assumptions that  affect the reported balances of assets and liabilities and disclosures relating to the contingent liabilities as at the date of  the ﬁnancial statements and reported amounts of income and expense during the year.
Example of such estimates include  provision for doubtful receivables, employee beneﬁts, provision for income taxes, accounting for contract costs expected  to be incurred, the useful lives of depreciable ﬁxed assets and provision for impairment.
Future results could differ due to  changes in these estimates and the difference between the actual result and the estimates are recognised in the period in  which the results are known / materialise.
d) Fixed Assets   Fixed assets are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation / amortisation.
Costs include all expenses incurred to bring t he  assets to its present location and condition.
Fixed assets exclude computers and other assets individually costing ` 50,000 or less which are not capitalised except when  they are part of a larger capital investment programme.
e) Depreciation / Amortisation   In respect of ﬁxed assets (other than freehold land and capital work-in-progress) acquired during the year, depreciation /  amortisation is charged on a straight line basis so as to write off the cost of the assets over the useful lives and for the assets  acquired prior to April 1, 2014, the carrying amount as on April 1, 2014 is depreciated over the remaining useful life based  on an evaluation.
Consolidated Financial Statements 141  Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements Type of asset Period Leasehold land and buildings Lease period Freehold buildings 20 years Factory buildings 20 years Leasehold improvements Lease period Plant and machinery 10 years Computer equipment 4 years Vehicles 4 years Ofﬁce equipment 5 years Electrical installations 10 years Furniture and ﬁxtures 5 years Goodwill 12 years Acquired contract rights 12 years Intellectual property / distribution rights 5 Years Rights under licensing agreement and software licenses License period   Fixed assets purchased for speciﬁc projects are depreciated over the period of the project or the useful life stated above,  whichever is shorter.
f) Leases   Where the Group, as a lessor, leases assets under ﬁnance lease, such amounts are recognised as receivables at an amount  equal to the net investment in the lease and the ﬁnance income is based on a constant rate of return on the outstanding  net investment.
Assets taken on lease by the Group in its capacity as lessee, where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of  ownership are classiﬁed as ﬁnance lease.
Such a lease is capitalised at the inception of the lease at lower of the fair value  or the present value of the minimum lease payments and a liability is recognised for an equivalent amount.
Each lease  rental paid is allocated between the liability and the interest cost so as to obtain a constant periodic rate of interest on the  outstanding liability for each year.
Lease arrangements where the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset substantially vests with the lessor, are  recognised as operating lease.
Lease rentals under operating lease are recognised in the statement of proﬁt and loss on a  straight-line basis.
g) Impairment   At each balance sheet date, the management reviews the carrying amounts of its assets included in each cash generating  unit to determine whether there is any indication that those assets were impaired.
If any such indication exists, the  recoverable amount of the assets is estimated in order to determine the extent of impairment.
Recoverable amount is the  higher of an asset’s net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ﬂows expected  from the continuing use of the asset and from its disposal are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount  rate that reﬂects the current market assessments of time value of money and risks speciﬁc to the asset.
Reversal of impairment loss is recognised as income in the statement of proﬁt and loss.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units expected to  beneﬁt from the synergies of acquisition.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for  impairment annually or more frequently when there is indication for impairment.
If the recoverable amount of the cash- generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated ﬁrst to reduce the carrying  amount of goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying  amount of each asset in the unit.
h) Investments   Long-term investments and current maturities of long-term investments are stated at cost, less provision for other than  temporary diminution in value.
Current investments, except for current maturities of long-term investments, comprising  investments in mutual funds are stated at the lower of cost and fair value.
i) Employee beneﬁts   i) Post-employment beneﬁt plans    Contributions to deﬁned contribution retirement beneﬁt schemes are recognised as expense when employees have  rendered services entitling them to such beneﬁts.
Consolidated Financial Statements142  Annual Report 2014-15 Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements    For deﬁned beneﬁt schemes, the cost of providing beneﬁts is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method,  with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full  in the statement of proﬁt and loss for the period in which they occur.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to  the extent that the beneﬁts are already vested or amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the  beneﬁts become vested.
The retirement beneﬁt obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt  obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any  asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future  contributions to the scheme.
ii) Other employee beneﬁts    The undiscounted amount of short-term employee beneﬁts expected to be paid in exchange for the services rendered  by employees is recognised during the period when the employee renders the service.
These beneﬁts include  compensated absences such as paid annual leave, overseas social security contributions and performance incentives.
Compensated absences which are not expected to occur within twelve months after the end of the period in which  the employee renders the related services are recognised as an actuarially determined liability at the present value of  the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the balance sheet date.
j) Revenue recognition   Revenue from contracts priced on a time and material basis are recognised when services are rendered and related costs  are incurred.
Revenue from turnkey contracts, which are generally time bound ﬁxed price contracts, are recognised over the life of  the contract using the proportionate completion method, with contract costs determining the degree of completion.
Foreseeable losses on such contracts are recognised when probable.
Revenue from the sale of equipments are recognised upon delivery, which is when the title passes to the customer.
Revenue from sale of software licenses are recognised upon delivery.
Revenue from maintenance contracts are recognised on pro-rata basis over the period of the contract.
In respect of Business Process Services, revenue on time and material and unit priced contracts is recognised as the related  services are rendered, whereas revenue from ﬁxed price contracts is recognised using the proportionate completion  method with contract cost determining the degree of completion.
Revenue is reported net of discounts.
Dividend is recorded when the right to receive payment is established.
Interest income is recognised on time proportion  basis taking into account the amount outstanding and the rate applicable.
k) Taxation   Current income tax expense comprises taxes on income from operations in India and in foreign jurisdictions.
Income tax  payable in India is determined in accordance with the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
Tax expense relating to  foreign operations is determined in accordance with tax laws applicable in countries where such operations are domiciled.
Minimum Alternative Tax (MAT) paid in accordance with the tax laws in India, which gives rise to future economic beneﬁts  in the form of adjustment of future income tax liability, is considered as an asset if there is convincing evidence that the  Company and its Indian subsidiaries will pay normal income tax after the tax holiday period.
Accordingly, MAT is recognised  as an asset in the balance sheet when the asset can be measured reliably and it is probable that the future economic beneﬁt  associated with it will fructify.
Deferred tax expense or beneﬁt is recognised on timing differences being the difference between taxable income and  accounting income that originate in one period and is likely to reverse in one or more subsequent periods.
Deferred tax  assets and liabilities are measured using the tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the  balance sheet date.
In the event of unabsorbed depreciation and carry forward of losses, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent  that there is virtual certainty supported by convincing evidence that sufﬁcient future taxable income will be available  to realise such assets.
In other situations, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that there is reasonable  certainty that sufﬁcient future taxable income will be available to realise these assets.
Advance taxes and provisions for current income taxes are presented in the balance sheet after off-setting advance tax paid  and income tax provision arising in the same tax jurisdiction for relevant tax paying units and where the Group is able to  and intends to settle the asset and liability on a net basis.
The Group offsets deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities if it has a legally enforceable right and these relate to taxes  on income levied by the same governing taxation laws.
Consolidated Financial Statements 143  Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements  l) Foreign currency transactions   Income and expense in foreign currencies are converted at exchange rates prevailing on the date of the transaction.
Foreign  currency monetary assets and liabilities other than net investments in non-integral foreign operations are translated at  the exchange rate prevailing on the balance sheet date and the exchange gains or losses are recognised in the statement  of proﬁt and loss.
Exchange difference arising on a monetary item that, in substance, forms part of an enterprise’s net  investments in a non-integral foreign operation are accumulated in a foreign currency translation reserve.
Premium or discount on foreign exchange forward, option and futures contracts are amortised and recognised in the  statement of proﬁt and loss over the period of the contract.
Foreign exchange forward, option and future contracts  outstanding at the balance sheet date, other than designated cash ﬂow hedges, are stated at fair values and any gains or  losses are recognised in the statement of proﬁt and loss.
For the purpose of consolidation, income and expenses are translated at average rates and the assets and liabilities are  stated at closing rate.
The net impact of such change is accumulated under foreign currency translation reserve.
m) Derivative instruments and hedge accounting   The Group uses foreign exchange forward, option and futures contracts to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency  ﬂuctuations relating to certain ﬁrm commitments and forecasted transactions.
The Group designates these hedging  instruments as cash ﬂow hedges.
The use of hedging instruments is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide  written principles on the use of such ﬁnancial derivatives consistent with the Group’s risk management strategy.
Hedging instruments are initially measured at fair value, and are remeasured at subsequent reporting dates.
Changes in  the fair value of these derivatives that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash ﬂows are recognised directly  in shareholders’ funds and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the statement of proﬁt and loss.
The Group  separates the intrinsic value and time value of an option and designates as hedging instruments only the fair value change  in the intrinsic value of the option.
The change in fair value of the time value of derivative instruments is accumulated in  hedging reserve, a component of shareholders’ funds and is transferred to statement of proﬁt and loss when the forecast  transaction occurs.
Changes in the fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the  statement of proﬁt and loss as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer  qualiﬁes for hedge accounting.
Cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in shareholders’ funds  is retained there and is transferred to statement of proﬁt and loss when the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged  transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in shareholders’ funds is transferred  to the statement of proﬁt and loss.
n) Inventories   Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined  on a weighted average basis.
Purchased goods-in-transit are carried at cost.
Work-in-progress is carried at the lower of cost  and net realisable value.
Stores and spare parts are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Finished goods  produced or purchased by the Group are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes direct material  and labour cost and a proportion of manufacturing overheads.
o) Government grants   Government grants are recognised when there is reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions  attached to them and the grants will be received.
Government grants whose primary condition is that the Group should purchase, construct or otherwise acquire capital  assets are presented by deducting them from the carrying value of the assets.
The grant is recognised as income over the  life of a depreciable asset by way of a reduced depreciation charge.
Other government grants are recognised as income over the periods necessary to match them with the costs for which they  are intended to compensate, on a systematic and rational basis.
p) Provisions, Contingent liabilities and Contingent assets   A provision is recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of past event and it is probable that an  outﬂow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, in respect of which reliable estimate can be made.
Provisions  (excluding retirement beneﬁts and compensated absences) are not discounted to its present value and are determined  based on best estimate required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
These are reviewed at each balance  sheet date and adjusted to reﬂect the current best estimates.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the ﬁnancial  statements.
A contingent asset is neither recognised nor disclosed in the ﬁnancial statements.
q) Cash and cash equivalents   The Group considers all highly liquid ﬁnancial instruments, which are readily convertible into known amounts of cash that  are subject to an insigniﬁcant risk of change in value and having original maturities of three months or less from the date  of purchase, to be cash equivalents.
Consolidated Financial Statements144  Annual Report 2014-15 Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements 3) SHARE CAPITAL  The Authorised, Issued, Subscribed and Fully paid-up share capital comprises of equity shares and redeemable preference shares   having a par value of ` 1 each as follows:    (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 Authorised (i) 420,05,00,000 equity shares of ` 1 each (March 31, 2014 : 420,05,00,000 equity shares of ` 1 each) 420.05 420.05 (ii) 105,02,50,000 redeemable preference shares of ` 1 each (March 31, 2014 : 105,02,50,000 redeemable preference shares of ` 1 each) 105.03 105.03 525.08 525.08 Issued, Subscribed and Fully paid-up 195,87,27,979 equity shares of ` 1 each 195.87 195.87 (March 31, 2014 : 195,87,27,979 equity shares of ` 1 each) 195.87 195.87  The Authorised share capital was increased to 420,05,00,000 equity shares of ` 1 each and 105,02,50,000 redeemable preference  shares of ` 1 each pursuant to the amalgamation of two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Retail FullServe Limited and Computational  Research Laboratories Limited vide Order dated March 22, 2013 and TCS e-Serve Limited vide order dated September 6, 2013 of  the Hon’ble High Court of Judicature at Bombay .
a) Reconciliation of number of shares As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 Number of shares Amount (` crores) Number of shares Amount (` crores) Equity shares Opening balance 195,87,27,979 195.87 195,72,20,996 195.72 Issued during the year -- 15,06,983 0.15 Closing balance 195,87,27,979 195.87 195,87,27,979 195.87 Preference shares Opening balance -- 100,00,00,000 100.00 Redeemed during the year -- (100,00,00,000) (100.00) Closing balance - - - -  b) Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares   Equity shares   The Company has one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 1 each.
Each shareholder is eligible for one vote per  share held.
The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing  Annual General Meeting, except in case of interim dividend.
In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders are  eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, in proportion to their  shareholding.
Preference shares   Preference shares carried a ﬁxed cumulative dividend of 1% per annum and a variable non-cumulative dividend of 1%  of the difference between the rate of dividend declared during the year on the equity shares of the Company and the  average rate of dividend declared on the equity shares of the Company for three years preceding the year of issue of the  redeemable preference shares.
Consolidated Financial Statements 145  Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements  c) Shares held by Holding company, its Subsidiaries and Associates (` crores) As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 Equity shares Holding company 144,34,51,698 equity shares (March 31, 2014 : 144,34,51,698 equity shares) are  held by Tata Sons Limited 144.35 144.35 Subsidiaries and Associates of Holding company 10,29,700 equity shares (March 31,2014 : 10,29,700 equity shares) are held by  Tata Industries Limited 0.10 0.10 5,90,452 equity shares (March 31,2014 : 5,90,452 equity shares) are held by  Tata Investment Corporation Limited 0.06 0.06 200 equity shares (March 31, 2014 : 200 equity shares) are held by Tata Capital  Limited* - - 83,232 equity shares (March 31,2014 : 83,232 equity shares) are held by Tata  International Limited 0.01 0.01 24,400 equity shares (March 31, 2014 : Nil equity shares) are held by Tata Steel  Limited* - - 452 equity shares (March 31, 2014 : 452 equity shares) are held by The Tata  Power Company Limited* - - Total 144.52 144.52   * Equity shares having value less than ` 50,000  d) Details of shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate shares in the Company As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 Equity shares Tata Sons Limited, the Holding company 144,34,51,698 144,34,51,698 73.69% 73.69%  e) Equity shares alloted as fully paid up (during 5 years preceding March 31, 2015) including equity shares issued  pursuant to contract without payment being received in cash   15,06,983 equity shares of ` 1 each have been issued to the shareholders of TCS e-Serve Limited in terms of the composite  scheme of arrangement (“the Scheme”) sanctioned by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay vide their order dated  September 6, 2013.
Consolidated Financial Statements146  Annual Report 2014-15 Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements 4) RESERVES AND SURPLUS  Reserves and surplus consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Capital reserve (on consolidation) (i)  Opening balance 24.50 24.50 (ii)  Addition during the year (net) (Refer Note 30(a)) 50.76 - 75.26 24.50 (b) Capital redemption reserve (i)  Opening balance 157.52 0.40 (ii)  Transferred from surplus in statement of proﬁt and loss 255.57 157.12 413.09 157.52 (c) Securities premium reserve (i)  Opening balance 1918.87 1918.47 (ii)  Transferred on amalgamation - 0.40 1918.87 1918.87 (d) Foreign currency translation reserve (i)  Opening balance 1547.78 972.11 (ii)  (Deduction) / Addition during the year (net) (496.61) 575.67 1051.17 1547.78 (e) Hedging reserve (Refer Note 41) (i)  Opening balance 29.64 46.11 (ii)  Addition / (Deduction) during the year (net) 121.11 (16.47) 150.75 29.64 (f) General reserve (i)  Opening balance 5742.39 5841.80 (ii)  Adjustment on amalgamation (Refer Note 30(h)) 1.15 (1982.82) (iii)  Transferred from surplus in statement of proﬁt and loss 1953.64 1883.41 7697.18 5742.39 (g) Statutory reserve (i)  Opening balance 73.68 16.65 (ii)  Transferred from surplus in statement of proﬁt and loss 46.24 57.03 119.92 73.68 (h) Surplus in statement of proﬁt and loss (i)  Opening balance 39504.51 29529.97 (ii)  Add : Proﬁt for the year 19852.18 19163.87 59356.69 48693.84 (iii)  Less : Appropriations  (a)  Interim dividends on equity shares 10772.92 2349.87  (b)  Proposed ﬁnal dividend on equity shares 4700.95 3917.46  (c)  Dividend on redeemable preference shares - 28.76  (d)  Tax on dividend 2635.69 795.68  (e)  Write back of tax on dividend of prior year (20.97) -  (f)  Capital redemption reserve 255.57 157.12  (g)  General reserve 1953.64 1883.41  (h)  Statutory reserve 46.24 57.03 39012.65 39504.51 50438.89 48998.89  The Board of Directors at their meeting held on April 16, 2015 recommended a ﬁnal dividend of ` 24 per equity share.
Consolidated Financial Statements 147  Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements 5) LONG-TERM BORROWINGS  Long-term borrowings consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Secured loans Long-term maturities of obligations under ﬁnance lease (Refer Note 36) 113.69 126.21 (b) Unsecured loans Borrowings from entity other than banks 0.58 1.05 114.27 127.26  Obligations under ﬁnance lease are secured against ﬁxed assets obtained under ﬁnance lease arrangements.
6) DEFERRED TAX BALANCES  Deferred tax balances consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Deferred tax liabilities (net) (i)  Foreign branch proﬁt tax 256.03 217.88 (ii)  Depreciation and amortisation 25.11 16.40 (iii)  Employee beneﬁts (0.61) (0.95) (iv)  Provision for doubtful receivables, loans and advances (0.17) (0.11) (v)  Others 62.60 75.58 342.96 308.80 (b) Deferred tax assets (net) (i)  Depreciation and amortisation (129.55) (57.98) (ii)  Employee beneﬁts 293.57 211.20 (iii)  Operating lease liabilities 83.10 72.19 (iv)  Provision for doubtful receivables, loans and advances 158.07 112.70 (v)  Others 188.75 81.95 593.94 420.06 7) OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES  Other long-term liabilities consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Capital creditors 67.53 92.27 (b) Operating lease liabilities 344.51 292.71 (c) Others 412.98 358.09 825.02 743.07  Others include advance taxes paid of ` 333.28 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 333.28 crores) by the seller of TCS e-Serve Limited which,  on refund by tax authorities, is payable to the seller.
8) LONG-TERM PROVISIONS  Long-term provisions consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Provision for employee beneﬁts (i) Gratuity 21.50 158.78 (ii)  Foreign deﬁned beneﬁt plans 140.42 74.17 (iii)  Other post retirement beneﬁts 41.47 41.96 (b) Provision for foreseeable loss on a long-term contract 94.48 110.68 297.87 385.59 Consolidated Financial Statements148  Annual Report 2014-15 Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements 9) SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS  Short-term borrowings consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Secured loans  Borrowings from entity other than banks - 33.58 (b) Unsecured loans  Loans repayable on demand from banks - 93.51 Overdraft from bank 185.56 - 185.56 127.09  Secured loans from other parties were secured against trade receivables.
10) OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES  Other current liabilities consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Current maturities of long-term debt 0.47 0.47 (b) Current maturities of obligations under ﬁnance lease (Refer Note 36) 57.40 42.05 (c) Interest accrued but not due on borrowings 0.48 1.27 (d) Income received in advance 1062.31 1050.73 (e) Unclaimed dividends 19.77 13.82 (f) Advance received from customers 130.76 62.81 (g) Operating lease liabilities 57.50 37.09 (h) Fair values of foreign exchange forward, option and future contracts secured  against trade receivables 19.75 22.95 (i) Statutory liabilities 1143.66 1179.52 (j) Capital creditors 337.41 487.53 (k) Liabilities for cost related to customer contracts 727.79 648.11 (l) Other payables 89.29 74.89 3646.59 3621.24  Obligations under ﬁnance lease are secured against ﬁxed assets obtained under ﬁnance lease arrangements.
11) SHORT-TERM PROVISIONS  Short-term provisions consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Provision for employee beneﬁts 1356.15 1046.90 (b) Proposed ﬁnal dividend on equity shares 4700.95 3917.46 (c) Proposed dividend on redeemable preference shares - 28.76 (d) Tax on dividend 947.68 683.13 (e) Current income taxes (net) 547.34 672.10 (f) Provision for foreseeable loss on a long-term contract 103.04 37.61 7655.16 6385.96  Provision for employee beneﬁts includes provision for compensated absences and other short-term employee beneﬁts.
Consolidated Financial Statements 149  Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements 12) FIXED ASSETS  Fixed assets consist of the following:   (i)  Tangible assets (` crores) Description Freehold  land Leasehold  land Freehold  buildings Factory  buildings Leasehold  buildings Leasehold  Improvements Plant and  machinery Computer  equipment Vehicles Ofﬁce  equipment Electrical  installations Furniture  and ﬁxtures Total Gross block as at April 1, 2014 346.13 216.58 3508.02 2.77 14.62 1289.89 10.29 4166.29 27.80 1513.11 1050.35 1016.55 13162.40343.59 201.07 2889.61 2.77 14.59 1052.17 10.67 3547.79 26.79 1248.20 900.06 759.03 10996.34 Additions 0.30 1.01 1302.64  -    -   260.68 116.40 964.06 4.72 237.28 245.36 255.84 3388.29 0.64 15.51 612.44  -   0.03 273.53  -   678.12 3.16 265.53 166.17 250.54 2265.67 Assets acquired on acquisition  -    -    -    -    -   164.04  -   71.98  -   31.37 4.52 0.74 272.65  -     -     -    -     -     -     -   3.42 0.15  -     -   5.00 8.57 Deletions / Adjustments  -    -   (0.34)  -    -   1.94 (0.01) (65.49) (3.95) (10.15) (0.82) 0.70 (78.12)  -     -   (0.08)  -     -   (51.12) (0.38) (112.62) (2.39) (8.46) (13.88) (8.29) (197.22) Translation exchange difference 0.83  -   2.66  -    -   (38.51)  -   (64.15) (0.20) (2.75) (4.64) (14.51) (121.27)  1.90   -   6.05  -     -   15.31  -   49.58 0.09 7.84 (2.00) 10.27 89.04 Gross block as at March 31, 2015  347.26 217.59 4812.98 2.77 14.62 1678.04 126.68 5072.69 28.37 1768.86 1294.77 1259.32 16623.95 346.13 216.58 3508.02 2.77 14.62 1289.89 10.29 4166.29 27.80 1513.11 1050.35 1016.55 13162.40 Accumulated depreciation as at April 1, 2014  -   (16.28) (602.45) (1.43) (12.63) (634.31) (10.27) (2894.92) (17.78) (672.31) (484.14) (781.07) (6127.59) -   (13.30) (469.53) (1.23) (11.44) (544.99) (10.60) (2411.87) (16.36) (545.32) (407.83) (572.16) (5004.63) Depreciation for the year  -   (3.07) 100.13 (0.08) (0.41) (182.39) (5.99) (743.06) (6.03) (301.35) (3.97) (100.98) (1247.20) -   (2.98) (132.20) (0.20) (1.21) (131.97) (0.05) (566.28) (3.16) (136.52) (96.81) (212.60) (1283.98) Deletions / Adjustments  -    -   0.08  -    -   0.18 0.01 61.57 3.82 6.41 0.41 1.65 74.13  -     -   0.05  -   0.02 50.10  0.38 108.19 1.83 12.72 17.89 7.45 198.63 Translation exchange difference  -    -   (0.50)  -    -   11.48  -   35.22 0.19 0.26 1.12 5.06 52.83  -     -   (0.77)  -     -   (7.45)  -   (24.96) (0.09) (3.19) 2.61 (3.76) (37.61) Accumulated depreciation as at March 31, 2015  -   (19.35) (502.74) (1.51) (13.04) (805.04) (16.25) (3541.19) (19.80) (966.99) (486.58) (875.34) (7247.83) -   (16.28) (602.45) (1.43) (12.63) (634.31) (10.27) (2894.92) (17.78) (672.31) (484.14) (781.07) (6127.59) Net book value as at March 31, 2015 347.26 198.24 4310.24 1.26 1.58 873.00 110.43 1531.50 8.57 801.87 808.19 383.98 9376.12346.13 200.30 2905.57 1.34 1.99 655.58 0.02 1271.37 10.02 840.80 566.21 235.48 7034.81              Consolidated Financial Statements150  Annual Report 2014-15 Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements 12) FIXED ASSETS (contd.)
(ii)  Intangible assets (` crores) Description Goodwill on  acquisition Acquired  contract  rights Intellectual  property /   distribution  rights Rights under  licensing  agreement  and software  licenses Total Gross block as at April 1, 2014 327.64 252.46 13.51 141.40 735.01 270.10 208.12 12.93 135.50 626.65 Additions - - - 1.97 1.97 - - 0.58 6.88 7.46 Assets acquired on acquisition -- - - - - - - 2.37 2.37 Deletions / Adjustments - - - (0.17) (0.17) - - - (3.22) (3.22) Translation exchange difference (24.09) (18.56) (0.06) (2.00) (44.71) 57.54 44.34 - (0.13) 101.75 Gross block as at March 31, 2015 303.55 233.90 13.45 141.20 692.10 327.64 252.46 13.51 141.40 735.01 Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2014 (218.97) (168.76) (12.43) (94.11) (494.27) (158.01) (121.78) (11.82) (80.24) (371.85) Amortisation for the year (26.91) (20.74) (0.68) (13.41) (61.74) (26.51) (20.43) (0.61) (17.62) (65.17) Deletions / Adjustments -- - - - - - - 3.42 3.42 Translation exchange difference 17.72 13.65 - 1.37 32.74 (34.45) (26.55) - 0.33 (60.67) Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2015 (228.16) (175.85) (13.11) (106.15) (523.27) (218.97) (168.76) (12.43) (94.11) (494.27) Net book value as at March 31, 2015 75.39 58.05 0.34 35.05 168.83 108.67 83.70 1.08 47.29 240.74 (iii)  Capital work-in-progress (` crores) Description Total Capital work-in-progress 2766.37 3168.48 Previous years’ ﬁgures are in italics.
Notes (a) Freehold buildings include ` 2.67 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 2.67 crores) being value of investment in shares of Co-operative  Housing Societies and Limited Companies.
(b) Legal formalities relating to conveyance of freehold buildings having net book value ` 5.18 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 9.81 crores)  are pending completion.
(c) Net book value of computer equipment of ` 78.84 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 86.01 crores), leasehold improvements of ` 56.65  crores (March 31, 2014: ` 67.13 crores), ofﬁce equipment of ` 2.11 crores (March 31, 2014: ` Nil) and electrical installations of   ` 3.01 crores (March 31, 2014: ` Nil) are under ﬁnance lease.
(d) Previous year’s deletions/adjustments include ` 10.89 crores arising on realignment of depreciation policies of TCS e-Serve  Limited and TCS e-Serve International Limited’s SEZ undertaking consequent to the amalgamation with the Company, primarily  including adjustment to ofﬁce equipment for ` 6.46 crore and electrical installations ` 6.22 crores.
(e) Fixed assets acquired on acquisition of IT Frontier Corporation which was renamed as Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd.,   include Capital work in progress of ` 54.77 crores, which was subsequently capitalised.
Consolidated Financial Statements 151  Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements 13) NON-CURRENT INVESTMENTS  Non-current investments consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) TRADE INVESTMENTS (at cost) Fully paid equity shares (unquoted) National Power Exchange Limited 1.40 1.40 Philippine Dealing System Holdings Corporation 5.63 5.41 Taj Air Limited 19.00 19.00 ALMC HF* - - KOOH Sports Private Limited 3.00 3.00 RuralShores Business Services Private Limited* - - FCM LLC 46.93 - Fully paid preference shares (unquoted) RuralShores Business Services Private Limited 25.00 25.00 Mozido LLC 62.58 - Fully paid equity shares (quoted) Yodlee, Inc. (listed during the year) - - (b) OTHER INVESTMENTS Debentures and bonds (unquoted) 0.12 2190.22 Government securities (unquoted) - 25.00 Mutual funds and other funds (unquoted) 7.04 6.36 170.70 2275.39 Less: Provision for diminution in value of investments (1.52) (0.12) 169.18 2275.27 (i) Market value of quoted investments 3.91 - (ii) Book value of quoted investments - - (iii) Book value of unquoted investments (net of provision) 169.18 2275.27 * Non-current investments having a value of less than ` 50,000.
14) LONG-TERM LOANS AND ADVANCES  Long-term loans and advances consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Secured, considered good Loans and advances to employees 0.15 0.22 (b) Unsecured, considered good (i)  Capital advances 206.71 356.97 (ii)  Security deposits 665.02 615.66 (iii)  Loans and advances to employees 8.90 7.06 (iv)  Loans and advances to related parties 3.13 128.13 (v)  Advance tax (including refunds receivable) (net) 4092.34 3067.16 (vi)  MAT credit entitlement 1899.76 1885.46 (vii) Indirect tax recoverable 52.49 54.76 Consolidated Financial Statements152  Annual Report 2014-15 Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (viii) Inter-corporate deposits 1572.00 858.00 (ix)  Prepaid expenses 534.25 217.66 (x) Other amounts recoverable in cash or kind or for value to be received 120.17 95.54 (c) Unsecured, considered doubtful Security deposits 0.31 0.31 Less : Provision for doubtful security deposits (0.31) (0.31) 9154.92 7286.62 Loans and advances to related parties comprise: Tata Sons Limited 2.74 2.74 Tata Realty and Infrastructure Limited 0.39 45.39 Tata Capital Financial Services Limited - 80.00 15) OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS  Other non-current assets consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Interest receivable 24.37 34.55 (b) Long-term bank deposits 500.08 1477.25 (c) Earmarked balances with banks 0.41 25.06 (d) Others 0.44 8.47 525.30 1545.33  Others include discount on bonds and debentures receivable on maturity of ` Nil (March 31, 2014: ` 8.47 crores).
16) CURRENT INVESTMENTS  Current investments consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Investment in mutual funds (unquoted) 1492.60 423.63 (b) Investment in bonds (quoted) - 6.97 (c) Investment in debentures and bonds (unquoted) - 727.87 1492.60 1158.47 (i) Market value of quoted investments - 7.58 (ii) Book value of quoted investments - 6.97 (iii) Book value of unquoted investments 1492.60 1151.50 14) LONG-TERM LOANS AND ADVANCES (contd.)
Consolidated Financial Statements 153  Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements 17) INVENTORIES  Inventories consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components 12.17 8.32 (b) Finished goods and Work-in-progress 2.16 4.90 (c) Stores and spares 1.74 1.99 16.07 15.21  Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
18) UNBILLED REVENUE  Unbilled revenue as at March 31, 2015, amounting to ` 3827.08 crores (March 31, 2014 : ` 4005.61 crores) primarily includes  revenue recognised in relation to ef forts incurred on turnkey contracts priced on a ﬁxed time, ﬁxed price basis.
19) TRADE RECEIVABLES  Trade receivables (Unsecured) consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Over six months from the date they were due for payment (i)  Considered good 1469.78 1460.46 (ii)  Considered doubtful 422.94 298.20 (b) Others (i)  Considered good 18968.16 16769.94 (ii)  Considered doubtful 24.67 - 20885.55 18528.60 Less: Provision for doubtful receivables (447.61) (298.20) 20437.94 18230.40 20) CASH AND BANK BALANCES  Cash and bank balances consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Cash and cash equivalents (i) Balances with banks  In current accounts 1443.19 880.91  In deposit accounts with original maturity less than three months 352.86 537.34 (ii) Cheques on hand 50.85 16.59 (iii) Cash on hand 1.43 2.55 (iv) Remittances in transit 13.56 30.47 1861.89 1467.86 (b) Other bank balances (i) Earmarked balances with banks 312.67 25.59 (ii) Short-term bank deposits 16381.48 12948.39 18556.04 14441.84 Consolidated Financial Statements154  Annual Report 2014-15 Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements 21) SHORT-TERM LOANS AND ADVANCES  Short-term loans and advances consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Secured, considered good Loans and advances to employees 0.16 1.50 (b) Unsecured, considered good (i)  Loans and advances to employees 335.48 309.74 (ii)  Loans and advances to related parties 0.01 305.06 (iii)  Advance tax (including refunds receivable) (net) 74.93 33.83 (iv)  MAT credit entitlement 5.25 10.50 (v)  Security deposits 126.94 87.11 (vi)  Indirect tax recoverable 308.76 371.36 (vii)  Inter-corporate deposits 1083.00 1567.00 (viii) Prepaid expenses 1512.13 1122.53 (ix)  Advance to Suppliers 109.57 76.42 (x)  Fair values of foreign exchange forward, option and future contracts 365.38 352.19 (xi)  Other amounts recoverable in cash or kind or for value to be received 224.84 73.56 (c) Unsecured, considered doubtful (i) Loans and advances to employees 51.46 44.57 (ii)  Security Deposits 4.65 5.24 (iii)  Indirect tax recoverable 1.74  -    (iv)  Advance to suppliers 4.79 5.79 (v) Other amounts recoverable in cash or kind or for value to be received 3.29 4.24 Less : Provision for doubtful loans and advances (65.93) (59.84) 4146.45 4310.80 Loans and advances to related parties comprise: Tata Realty and Infrastructure Limited - 50.00 Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited 0.01 0.02 Tata Housing Development Company Limited - 55.00 Tata Capital Financial Services Limited - 200.00 Inﬁniti Retail Limited - 0.04 22) OTHER CURRENT ASSETS  Other current assets consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Interest receivable 331.93 727.41 (b) Others 4.89 7.95 336.82 735.36  Others include discount on bonds and debentures receivable on maturity of ` Nil (March 31, 2014: ` 5.16 crores).
Consolidated Financial Statements 155  Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements 23) REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS  Revenue from operations consist of revenue from: (` crores) 2015 2014 (a) Information technology and consultancy services 92701.70 80139.84 (b) Sale of equipment and software licences 1946.71 1669.52 94648.41 81809.36 24) OTHER INCOME (NET)  Other income (net) consist of the following: (` crores) 2015 2014 (a) Interest income 1596.61 1340.00 (b) Dividend from current investments (mutual funds) 9.49 9.25 (c) Proﬁt on redemption of mutual funds and sale of other investments (net) 233.10 173.09 (d) Rent 18.45 17.62 (e) Proﬁt on sale of ﬁxed assets (net) 2.54 4.55 (f) Exchange gain (net) 1308.47 17.62 (g) Miscellaneous income 61.25 74.61 3229.91 1636.74 Interest income comprise : Interest on bank deposits 1198.85 728.13 Interest on inter-corporate deposits 272.07 337.70 Interest on long-term bonds and debentures 120.99 254.60 Others 4.70 19.57 Proﬁt on redemption of mutual funds and sale of other investments (net) comprise: From other long-term investments (net) 24.78 0.36 From current investments (net) 208.32 172.73 Exchange gain/ (loss) (net) include: Gain/ (loss) on foreign exchange forward and currency option contracts which  have been designated as Cash Flow Hedges (Refer Note 41) 344.60 (751.93) 25) EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSE  Employee beneﬁt expense consist of the following: (` crores) 2015 2014 (a) Salaries and incentives (Refer Note 45) 34063.91 26148.72 (b) Contributions to: (Refer Note 32) (i)  Provident fund and pension fund 606.47 564.35 (ii)  Superannuation scheme 222.44 191.74 (iii)  Gratuity fund 305.62 132.26 (iv)  Social security and other plans for overseas employees 1519.76 1125.52 (c) Staff welfare expenses 1982.95 1697.42 38701.15 29860.01 Consolidated Financial Statements156  Annual Report 2014-15 Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements 26) OPERATION AND OTHER EXPENSES  Operation and other expenses consist of the following: (` crores) 2015 2014 (a) Overseas business expenses 13363.91 11636.42 (b) Services rendered by business associates and others 6220.25 4938.37 (c) Software, hardware and material costs 3835.83 3088.68 (d) Communication expenses 1056.06 874.04 (e) Travelling and conveyance expenses 1261.25 1046.75 (f) Rent 1569.46 1421.27 (g) Legal and professional fees 596.30 613.61 (h) Repairs and maintenance 705.00 499.11 (i) Electricity expenses 573.87 527.10 (j) Bad debts written-off / (recovered) (net) 12.46 (5.71) (k) Provision for doubtful receivables (net) 158.60 90.96 (l) Advances written off / (recovered) (net) 0.25 (0.12) (m) Provision for doubtful advances (net) 6.42 10.17 (n) Recruitment and training expenses 360.94 303.46 (o) Diminution in value of investments (net) 1.40 - (p) Printing and stationery 97.76 93.33 (q) Insurance 70.41 61.13 (r) Rates and taxes 119.08 108.19 (s) Entertainment 71.93 60.20 (t) Other expenses 1384.37 1429.60 31465.55 26796.56 (i) Overseas business expenses includes: Travel expenses 1140.71 1007.88 Employee allowances 12223.20 10626.29 (ii) Repairs and maintenance includes: Buildings 267.25 250.08 Ofﬁce and computer equipment 427.95 243.42 27) FINANCE COSTS  Finance costs consist of the following: (` crores) 2015 2014 Interest expense 104.19 38.52 104.19 38.52 28) Current tax is adjusted for the effect of write back of provision (net) of ` 28.79 crores (March 31, 2014: additional provision (net)  ` 394.53 crores) in domestic and certain overseas jurisdictions relating to earlier years.
The impact on MA T entitlement of earlier  period is ` 8.83 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 451.92 crores).
Consolidated Financial Statements 157  Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements 29) (a) Particulars of subsidiaries: Name of the Company Country of  incorporation Percentage of  voting power  as at   March 31, 2015 Percentage of  voting power  as at   March 31, 2014 Subsidiaries (held directly) APOnline Limited India 89.00 89.00 C-Edge Technologies Limited India 51.00 51.00 CMC Limited (Refer Note 30 (d)) India 51.12 51.12 Diligenta Limited UK 100.00 100.00 MP Online Limited India 89.00 89.00 Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc. Canada 100.00 100.00 Tata America International Corporation USA 100.00 100.00 Tata Consultancy Services Asia Paciﬁc Pte Ltd. Singapore 100.00 100.00 Tata Consultancy Services Belgium S.A. Belgium 100.00 100.00 Tata Consultancy Services Deutschland GmbH Germany 100.00 100.00 Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV Netherlands 100.00 100.00 Tata Consultancy Services Sverige AB Sweden 100.00 100.00 TCS FNS Pty Limited Australia 100.00 100.00 TCS Iberoamerica SA Uruguay 100.00 100.00 WTI Advanced Technology Limited (Refer Note 30(h)) India - 100.00 Tata Consultancy Services Morocco SARL AU (Refer Note 30 (b)) Morocco - 100.00 Tata Consultancy Services (Africa) (PTY) Ltd. (Refer Note 30 (c)) South Africa 100.00 60.00 MahaOnline Limited India 74.00 74.00 Tata Consultancy Services Qatar S.S.C.
Qatar 100.00 100.00 Computational Research Laboratories Inc. (Refer Note 30(e)) USA - 100.00 TCS e-Serve International Limited India 100.00 100.00 TCS Foundation (Refer Note 30 (g)) India 100.00 - Subsidiaries (held indirectly) CMC Americas Inc. USA 100.00 100.00 TCS Financial Solutions Beijing Co., Ltd. China 100.00 100.00 Tata Consultancy Services (China) Co., Ltd. China 90.00 90.00 TCS Solution Center S.A. Uruguay 100.00 100.00 Tata Consultancy Services Argentina S.A. Argentina 99.99 99.99 Tata Consultancy Services Do Brasil Ltda Brazil 100.00 100.00 Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A., De C.V. Mexico 100.00 100.00 Tata Consultancy Services De Espana S.A. Spain 100.00 100.00 TCS Italia SRL Italy 100.00 100.00 Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd. (Refer Note 30 (a)) Japan 51.00 100.00 Tata Consultancy Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100.00 100.00 Tata Consultancy Services Luxembourg S.A. Capellen (G.D.  de Luxembourg) 100.00 100.00 Tata Consultancy Services Portugal Unipessoal Limitada Portugal 100.00 100.00 TCS Inversiones Chile Limitada Chile 99.99 99.99 Tata Consultancy Services Chile S.A. Chile 100.00 100.00 TATASOLUTION CENTER S.A. Ecuador 100.00 100.00 TCS Financial Solutions Australia Holdings Pty Limited Australia 100.00 100.00 Consolidated Financial Statements158  Annual Report 2014-15 Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements Name of the Company Country of  incorporation Percentage of  voting power  as at   March 31, 2015 Percentage of  voting power  as at   March 31, 2014 TCS Financial Solutions Australia Pty Limited Australia 100.00 100.00 TCS Management Pty Ltd. (Refer Note 30 (f)) Australia - 100.00 PT Financial Network Services Indonesia 100.00 100.00 PT Tata Consultancy Services Indonesia Indonesia 100.00 100.00 Tata Consultancy Services Switzerland Ltd. Switzerland 100.00 100.00 Tata Consultancy Services France S.A.S.
France 100.00 100.00 Tata Consultancy Services (South Africa) (PTY) Ltd. South Africa 75.00 75.00 Tata Consultancy Services (Thailand) Limited Thailand 100.00 100.00 Tata Consultancy Services (Philippines) Inc. Philippines 100.00 100.00 TCS e-Serve America, Inc. USA 100.00 100.00 TCS Uruguay S. A. Uruguay 100.00 100.00 MGDC S.C. Mexico 100.00 100.00 Diligenta 2 Limited UK 100.00 100.00 MS CJV Investments Corporation USA 100.00 100.00 CMC eBiz Inc. USA 100.00 100.00 Nippon TCS Solution Center Limited (Refer Note 30 (a)) Japan - 60.00 Tata Consultancy Services Osterreich GmbH Austria 100.00 100.00 Tata Consultancy Services Danmark ApS Denmark 100.00 100.00 Alti S.A. France 100.00 100.00 Planaxis Technologies Inc. Canada 100.00 100.00 Alti HR S.A.S.
France 100.00 100.00 Alti Infrastructures Systemes & Reseaux S.A.S.
France 100.00 100.00 Alti NV Belgium 100.00 100.00 Tescom (France) Software Systems Testing S.A.R.L.
France 100.00 100.00 Alti Switzerland S.A. Switzerland 100.00 100.00 Teamlink Belgium 100.00 100.00 (b)  The contribution of the subsidiaries acquired and incorporated during the year is as under: (` crores) Name of Subsidiary Revenue Net proﬁt/(loss) Net Assets IT Frontier Corporation (Refer Note 30(a)) 1947.34 100.26 625.62 TCS Foundation 145.44 145.44 146.44 30) ACQUISITIONS / DIVESTMENTS  a) On July 1, 2014, the Company through its wholly owned subsidiary Tata Consultancy Services Asia Paciﬁc Pte Ltd., acquired  a controlling interest (51%) in IT Frontier Corporation (referred to as ITF) from Mitsubishi Corporation in Japan in exchange  for a total purchase consideration of ` 357.93 crores (USD 59.6 million) consisting of a transfer of 49% ownership interest  in T ata Consultancy Services Japan Ltd. to Mitsubishi Corporation and a cash consideration aggregating to ` 288.88 crores  (USD 48.1 million).
b) On August 7, 2014, Tata Consultancy Services Morocco SARL AU, a wholly owned subsidiary, has been voluntarily liquidated.
c) On September 16, 2014, the Company acquired additional 40% ownership interest in Tata Consultancy Services Africa (Pty)  Ltd. for a purchase consideration of ` 60.83 crores (USD 10 million) from Tata Africa Holdings (SA) Proprietary Limited and  thereby making it a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
d) At their respective meetings held on October 16, 2014, the Boards of the Company and of its subsidiary, CMC Limited have  approved a Scheme of Amalgamation of CMC Limited with the Company.
The appointed date for the proposed Scheme  is April 1, 2015.
The Scheme is subject to sanction of the Hon’ble High Courts and all other statutory approvals as may be  required under law.
Consolidated Financial Statements 159  Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements  e) On February 18, 2015, Computational Research Laboratories Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary, has been voluntarily liquidated.
f) On March 23, 2015, TCS management Pty Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of TCS FNS Pty Limited, has been voluntarily  liquidated.
g) On March 25, 2015 the Company subscribed to 100% Share Capital of TCS Foundation, a not for proﬁt initiative registered  under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 with a paid-up capital of ` 1.00 crore.
TCS Foundation aims at promoting  projects and / or programmes relating to Corporate Social Responsibility activities of the Group.
h) WTI Advanced Technology Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary, amalgamated with the Company, with effect from April 1,  2014 (“the appointed date”) in accordance with the terms of the composite scheme of amalgamation sanctioned by the  High Court of Judicature at Bombay vide their Order dated March 27, 2015.
31) a)  The Company has given an undertaking to the investors of KOOH Sports Private Limited not to transfer its shareholding  prior to the expiry of thirty-six months from the completion date of the investment agreement except with the prior  written consent of the other parties to the agreement.
The restriction is valid as at March 31, 2015.   b)  The Company has given letter of comfort to various banks for credit and/or foreign exchange hedging facilities availed  by its subsidiaries (a) Tata America International Corporation, (b) Tata Consultancy Services Switzerland Limited, (c) Tata  Consultancy Services Sverige AB, (d) Tata Consultancy Services Belgium S.A., (e) Tata Consultancy Services Deutschland GmbH,  (f) Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A. De CV,(g) Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands B V (h) Tata Consultancy Services  Asia Paciﬁc Pte Ltd, (i) Tata Consultancy Services Qatar S.S.C.
(j) Tata Consultancy Services Italia SRL, (k) Tata Consultancy  Services France S.A.S., (l) Tata Consultancy Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd, and (m) Tata Consultancy Services Luxembourg S.A.  As per the terms of letter of comfort, the Company undertakes not to divest its ownership interest directly or indirectly in  the subsidiaries and provide such managerial, technical and ﬁnancial assistance to ensure continued successful operations  of the subsidiaries.
32) EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT BENEFITS  a) Deﬁned contribution plans    The Company and its subsidiaries make Provident fund, Superannuation fund and foreign deﬁned contribution fund  contributions to deﬁned contribution retirement beneﬁt plans for eligible employees.
Under the schemes, the Company  and its subsidiaries are required to contribute a speciﬁed percentage of the payroll costs to fund the beneﬁts.
In case of  Provident Fund, the contributions as speciﬁed under the law are paid to the Provident Fund where set up as a trust and to  the respective Regional Provident Fund Commissioner and the Central Provident Fund under the State Pension Scheme in  other cases in India and to the administrator of funds in case of foreign contribution plans.
In respect of Provident fund  contributions to trusts set up for this purpose, the Company and its subsidiaries are generally liable for annual contribution  and any deﬁciency in interest cost compared to interest computed based on the rate of interest declared by the Central  Government under the Employees’ Provident Fund Scheme, 1952.
In addition to such contributions the Company also  recognises potential deﬁciency in interest, if any, computed as per actuarial valuation of interest as an expense in the year  it is determined.
As of March 31, 2015, the fair value of the assets of the fund and the accumulated members’ corpus is ` 8275.11 crores and   ` 7721.21 crores respectively, in respect of provident fund managed by trusts.
In accordance with an actuarial valuation,  there is no deﬁciency in the interest cost as the present value of the expected future earnings on the fund is greater than  the expected amount to be credited to the individual members based on the expected guaranteed rate of interest of  8.75%.
The actuarial assumptions include discount rate of 8.00% and an average expected future period of 7.35 years.
The Group recognised ` 606.47 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 564.35 crores) for provident fund and pension fund contributions  and ` 222.44 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 191.74 crores) for superannuation contributions in the statement of proﬁt and loss.
The contributions payable to these plans by the Group are at rates speciﬁed in the rules of the schemes.
The Group has contributed ` 715.25 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 540.21 crores) towards other foreign deﬁned contribution  plans.
b) Deﬁned beneﬁt plans   The Company and its subsidiaries in India provide to the eligible employees deﬁned beneﬁt plans such as gratuity, post  retirement medical beneﬁt, post retirement vacation and pension plan.
The Gratuity plan provides for a lump sum payment  to vested employees at retirement, death while in employment or on termination of employment of an amount equivalent  to 15 to 30 days salary payable for each completed year of service or part thereof in excess of six months.
Vesting occurs  upon completion of ﬁve years of service.
Certain overseas subsidiaries of the Company also provide for retirement beneﬁt  plans in accordance with the local laws.
The present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation and the related current service cost are measured using the Projected  Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuation being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Consolidated Financial Statements160  Annual Report 2014-15 Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements   The following table set out the funded and unfunded status of the retirement beneﬁt plans and the amounts recognised  in the ﬁnancial statements: (` crores) Indian Foreign Consolidated Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded As at March  31,2015 As at March  31,2015 As at March  31,2015 As at March  31,2015 As at March 31,  2015 i)  Change in beneﬁt obligations:  Projected beneﬁt obligation, beginning of the year 1017.55 1.24 429.19 33.85 1481.83 880.58 2.17 338.95 16.02 1237.72  Service cost 165.85 0.33 17.15 12.88 196.21 154.03 0.27 29.35 5.66 189.31  Interest cost 98.57 0.11 16.33 1.87 116.88 70.87 0.16 13.33 1.11 85.47  Acquisitions - - 178.86 - 178.86 - - - 8.44 8.44  Actuarial loss / (gain) 131.09 0.11 111.74 11.29 254.23 (23.10) (0.02) 19.41 1.83 (1.88)  Plan participants’ contributions - - 6.67 - 6.67 - - 7.39 - 7.39  Exchange (gain) / loss / adjustments - - (62.84) (4.45) (67.29) 1.31 (1.31) 68.56 1.55 70.11  Past service cost / (credit) 0.20 - - (1.36) (1.16) 3.92 0.03 (19.55) - (15.60)  Beneﬁts paid (118.06) (0.08) (10.90) (1.03) (130.07) (70.06) (0.06) (28.25) (0.76) (99.13)  Projected beneﬁt obligation, end of the year 1295.20 1.71 686.20 53.05 2036.16 1017.55 1.24 429.19 33.85 1481.83 ii)  Change in plan assets:  Fair value of plan assets, beginning of the year860.22 - 388.87 - 1249.09 623.58 - 312.58 - 936.16  Expected return on plan assets 84.70 - 16.92 - 101.62 51.68 - 16.62 - 68.30  Plan participants’ contributions - - 6.67 - 6.67 - - 7.39 - 7.39  Acquisition - - 241.77 - 241.77 ---- -  Employers’ contributions 620.34 - 25.00 - 645.34 232.80 - 25.96 - 258.76  Exchange (loss) / gain - - (63.52) - (63.52) - - 63.47 - 63.47  Beneﬁts paid (118.06) - (10.90) - (128.96) (70.06) - (28.25) - (98.31)  Actuarial gain / (loss) 5.94 - 64.42 - 70.36 22.22 - (8.90) - 13.32  Fair value of plan assets, end of the year 1453.14 - 669.23 - 2122.37 860.22 - 388.87 - 1249.09  Excess / (Deﬁcit) of plan assets over obligation (net) 157.94 (1.71) (16.97) (53.05) 86.21 (157.33) (1.24) (40.32) (33.85) (232.74)  Unrecognised asset due to assets ceiling - - (69.95) - (69.95) - - - - - iii) Excess / (Deﬁcit) of plan assets over obligation (net) 157.94 (1.71) (86.92) (53.05) 16.26 (157.33) (1.24) (40.32) (33.85) (232.74) Consolidated Financial Statements 161  Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements (` crores) Indian Foreign Consolidated Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 iv)  Net gratuity and other retirement  beneﬁt cost:  Service cost 165.85 0.33 17.15 12.88 196.21 154.03 0.27 29.35 5.66 189.31  Interest on deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 98.57 0.11 16.33 1.87 116.88 70.87 0.16 13.33 1.11 85.47  Expected return on plan assets (84.70) - (16.92) - (101.62) (51.68) - (16.62) - (68.30)  Past service cost / (credit) 0.20 - - (1.36) (1.16) 3.92 0.03 (19.55) - (15.60)  Net actuarial loss / (gain) recognised  during the year 125.15 0.11 62.92 11.29 199.47 (45.32) (0.02) 28.31 1.83 (15.20)  Net gratuity and other retirement  beneﬁt cost 305.07 131.82 0.55 0.44 79.48 34.82 24.68 8.60 409.78 175.68  Actual return on plan assets 90.64 - 81.34 - 171.98 73.90 - 7.72 - 81.62 (` crores) Indian Foreign Consolidated  As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2015 v)  Category of assets:  Corporate bonds 174.55 121.19 295.74 - 88.03 88.03  Equity shares - 134.08 134.08 - 49.97 49.97  Index linked bonds - 107.52 107.52 - 88.49 88.49  Insurer managed funds 748.90 172.27 921.17 860.18 159.63 1019.81  Cash and bank balances 217.33 5.89 223.22 - 2.75 2.75  Government Securities 265.55 99.42 364.97 ---  Others 46.81 28.86 75.67 0.04 - 0.04  Total 1453.14 669.23 2122.37 860.22 388.87 1249.09 Consolidated Financial Statements162  Annual Report 2014-15 Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements vi)  Assumptions used in accounting for deﬁned beneﬁt plan Indian Foreign As at March 31,2015 As at March 31,2015  Discount rate 8.00% 0.87% - 6.75% 9.00% 2.25% - 7.60%  Salary escalation rate 6.00% - 7.00% 1.00% - 4.64% 4.00% - 7.00% 1.50 % - 4.64%  Expected rate of return on plan assets 8.00% 0.87% - 3.30% 9.00% 2.25% - 4.50%   The estimate of future salary increases considered in actuarial valuation takes account of inﬂation, seniority, promotion  and other relevant factors such as supply and demand factors in the employment market.
The expected return on plan assets is determined considering several applicable factors mainly the composition of the plan  assets held, assessed risks of asset management, historical results of the return on plan assets and the Company and its  subsidiaries policy for plan asset management.
(` crores) Indian 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Experience adjustment On plan liability loss / (gain) 31.50 55.10 (17.78) 44.05 31.05 On plan asset gain 5.94 22.22 4.06 6.61 9.27 Present value of beneﬁt obligation 1296.91 1,018.79 882.75 724.70 602.65 Fair value of plan assets 1453.14 860.22 623.58 569.23 518.91 Excess/(Deﬁcit) of plan assets over obligation (net) 156.23 (158.57) (259.17) (155.47) (83.74) (` crores) Foreign 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Experience adjustment On plan liability loss / (gain) 5.05 (3.06) (2.11) (0.38) (3.74) On plan asset gain / (loss) 64.42 (8.90) 13.74 4.16 0.33 Present value of beneﬁt obligation 739.25 463.04 354.97 273.68 222.22 Fair value of plan assets 669.23 388.87 312.58 269.29 213.65 Unrecognised asset due to assets ceiling (69.95) -- -- Excess of obligation over plan assets (net) (139.97) (74.17) (42.39) (4.39) (8.57)   The expected contributions are based on the same assumptions used to measure Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt obligations as at   March 31, 2015.
The Group is expected to contribute ` 39.84 crores to deﬁned beneﬁt plans for the year ended March 31,  2016, comprising domestic component of ` 16.57 crores and foreign component of ` 23.27 crores.
Previous years’ ﬁgures are in italics.
Consolidated Financial Statements 163  Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements 33) SEGMENT REPORTING  The Group has identiﬁed business segments (industry practice) as its primary segment and geographic segments as its secondary  segment.
Business segments comprise banking, ﬁnance and insurance services, manufacturing, retail and consumer packaged goods,  telecom, media and entertainment and others such as energy, resources and utilities, Hi-Tech, life science and healthcare,  s-Governance, travel, transportation and hospitality, products, etc.
Revenue and expenses directly attributable to segments are reported under each reportable segment.
Expenses which are  not directly identiﬁable to a speciﬁc segment have been allocated on the basis of associated revenues of the segment and  manpower efforts.
All other expenses which are not attributable or allocable to segments have been disclosed as unallocable  expenses.
Assets and liabilities that are directly attributable or allocable to segments are disclosed under each reportable segment.
All  other assets and liabilities are disclosed as unallocable.
Fixed assets that are used interchangeably among segments are not  allocated to primary and secondary segments.
Geographical revenue is allocated based on the location of the customer.
Geographic segments of the Group are Americas  (including Canada and South American countries), Europe, India and Others.
Year ended March 31, 2015 (` crores) Particulars Business Segments Banking,  Financial  Services and  Insurance Manufacturing Retail and  Consumer  Packaged  Goods Telecom,  Media and  Entertainment Others Total Revenue 38565.66 9242.45 12829.01 10933.55 23077.74 94648.41 35112.41 6989.36 11309.06 9613.74 18784.79 81809.36 Segment result 10594.47 2223.00 3254.49 2770.78 5480.11 24322.85 11522.77 2051.15 3673.75 2748.56 5028.96 25025.19 Unallocable expenses (net) 1744.02 1260.07 Operating income 22578.83 23765.12 Other income (net) 3229.91 1636.74 Proﬁt before Exceptional item and tax 25808.74 25401.86 Exceptional item 489.75 - Proﬁt before tax 26298.49 25401.86 Tax expense 6238.79 6069.99 Proﬁt before minority interest 20059.70 19331.87 Minority interest 207.52 168.00 Proﬁt for the year 19852.18 19163.87 Consolidated Financial Statements164  Annual Report 2014-15 Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements As at March 31, 2015 (` crores) Particulars Business Segments Banking,  Financial  Services and  Insurance Manufacturing Retail and  Consumer  Packaged  Goods Telecom,  Media and  Entertainment Others Total Segment assets 9649.76 2489.20 3298.98 3248.77 8949.38 27636.09 9847.07 2162.04 3055.24 3148.15 8228.79 26441.29 Unallocable assets 46024.79 40696.49 Total assets 73660.88 67137.78 Segment liabilities 2592.41 340.86 531.48 551.56 1827.96 5844.27 1503.43 167.61 130.78 171.51 1220.19 3193.52 Unallocable liabilities 16054.09 14041.51 Total liabilities 21898.36 17235.03 Year ended March 31, 2015 (` crores) Particulars Business Segments Banking,  Financial  Services and  Insurance Manufacturing Retail and  Consumer  Packaged  Goods Telecom,  Media and  Entertainment Others Total Other information : Capital expenditure (allocable) 73.56 - - - 63.00 136.56 37.77 - - - 103.30 141.07 Capital expenditure (unallocable) 3124.24 3416.12 Depreciation (allocable) 113.43 - - - 66.43 179.86 100.91 - - - 26.69 127.60 Depreciation (unallocable) 1129.08 1221.55 Other signiﬁcant non cash expenses 28.47 7.78 54.85 7.18 79.45 177.73 (allocable) 18.26 4.70 (1.44) 27.20 46.58 95.30 Other signiﬁcant non cash expenses (net) (unallocable) 1.40 -  The following geographic segments individually contribute 10 percent or more of the Group’s revenue or segment assets: (` crores) Geographic segments Revenue for the year   ended March 31, 2015 Segment assets as at   March 31, 2015 Americas 51053.46 12639.38 45259.43 10774.01 Europe 26729.63 9022.42 23432.70 9148.15 India 6107.55 5292.85 5487.80 5045.06  Previous years’ ﬁgures are in italics.
Consolidated Financial Statements 165  Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements 34) RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES  A) Related parties and their relationship   I)  Holding Company    Tata Sons Limited   II) Fellow subsidiaries with whom the Group has transactions    s   )NlNITI 2ETAIL ,IMITED    s   0ANATONE &INVEST ,IMITED    s   4 ATA !
)' 'ENERAL )NSURANCE #OMPANY ,IMITED    s   4 ATA !
)! ,IFE )NSURANCE #OMPANY ,IMITED    s   4 ATA )NVESTMENT #ORPORATION ,IMITED    s   4 ATA ,IMITED    s   4 ATA !DVANCED 3YSTEMS ,IMITED    s   4 ATA !SSET -ANAGEMENT ,IMITED    s   4 ATA "USINESS 3UPPORT 3ERVICES ,IMITED    s   4 ATA #APITAL ,IMITED    s   4 ATA (OUSING $EVELOPMENT #OMPANY ,IMITED    s   4 ATA #ONSULTING %NGINEERS ,IMITED    s   4 ATA 3KY ,IMITED    s   4 ATA 2EALTY AND )NFRASTRUCTURE ,IMITED    s   E .XT &INANCIALS ,IMITED    s   4 ATA )NDUSTRIES ,IMITED    s   4 ATA )NTERNATIONAL ,IMITED    s   4 ATA !UTOCOMP 3YSTEMS ,IMITED    s   $RIVE )NDIA %NTERPRISE 3OLUTIONS ,IMITED    s   4 ATA 3IKORSKY !EROSPACE ,IMITED FORMERLY 4ARA !EROSPACE 3YSTEMS ,IMITED	    s   4 ATA ,OCKHEED -ARTIN !EROSTRUCTURES ,IMITED FORMERLY 4ATA !EROSTRUCTURES ,IMITED	    s   4 ATA #APITAL (OUSING &INANCE ,IMITED    s   4# 4RAVEL AND 3ERVICES ,IMITED    s   4 ATA 3ECURITIES ,IMITED    s   4 ATA #APITAL &OREX ,IMITED    s   4 ATA #APITAL &INANCIAL 3ERVICES ,IMITED    s   4 ATA #LEANTECH #APITAL ,IMITED    s   4 ATA 6ALUE (OMES ,IMITED    s   4 ATA )NTERACTIVE 3YSTEMS 'MB(    s   4 ATA )NTERACTIVE 3YSTEMS !'
   s   4 ATA )NDUSTRIAL 3ERVICES ,IMITED    s   4 ATA !FRICA (OLDINGS 3!
 0ROPRIETARY	 ,IMITED    s   4 !
4 !
  !FRICA (OLDINGS +ENYA	 ,IMITED    s   4 ATA !FRICA (OLDINGS 4ANZANIA	 ,IMITED    s   4 ATA !FRICA 3ERVICES .IGERIA	 ,IMITED    s   4 ATA 5GANDA ,IMITED    s   4 ATA :AMBIA ,IMITED    s   4 ATA 3)! !IRLINES ,IMITED    s   42), )NFOPARK ,IMITED CEASED TO BE AN ASSOCIATE AND IS A SUBSIDIARY WEF 	    s   3MART 6ALUE (OMES 0EENYA 0ROJECT	 0RIVATE ,IMITED    s   3MART 6ALUE (OMES "OISAR	 0RIVATE ,IMITED     s   3MART 6ALUE (OMES .EW 0ROJECT	 0RIVATE ,IMITED   III) Key Management Personnel    s   - R  . #HANDRASEKARAN #HIEF %XECUTIVE /FlCER AND -ANAGING $IRECTOR    s   - R    2 AJESH 'OPINATHAN #HIEF &INANCIAL /FlCER    s   -S Aarthi Subramanian, Executive Director (w.e.f.
12.03.2015)   Consolidated Financial Statements166  Annual Report 2014-15 Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements  B) Transactions with related parties for the year ended March 31, 2015 (` crores) Holding  Company Fellow  Subsidiaries Key  Management  Personnel  and their  relatives Total Brand equity contribution  122.93  -    -    122.93   118.07  -    -   118.07 Purchase of ﬁxed assets  -    66.19  -    66.19   -    40.33  -    40.33  Loans and advances given  -    -  -    -     -    0.06  -    0.06  Loans and advances repaid  -    0.05  -    0.05   -    -    -    -    Inter-corporate deposits placed  -    -    -    -     -    340.00  -    340.00  Inter-corporate deposits matured  -    385.00  -    385.00   -    5.00  -    5.00  Purchase of investments  -    7441.46  -    7441.46   -    25.00  -    25.00  Redemption of investments  29.43  6736.55  -    6765.98   348.33  -    -   348.33 Revenue ( including reimbursements )  2.99  242.09  -    245.08   1.80  195.91  -    197.71  Interest income  49.61 30.04  -    79.65   126.43  55.18  -    181.61  Purchase of goods, services and facilities (including  reimbursement)  0.81  268.21  -    269.02   1.16  261.76  -    262.92  Rent expense  0.98  3.65  -    4.63   0.81  4.06  -    4.87  (Write back of provision)/provision for doubtful receivables,  advances (net)  0.02  0.40  -    0.42   0.02  0.37  -    0.39  Dividend paid on equity shares 10825.89 12.78 0.66 10839.33  3608.63 6.94  0.22 3615.79  Dividend paid on redeemable preference shares  28.68  -    -    28.68   19.00  -    -    19.00  Remuneration  -    -   23.50 23.50  -    -    20.05  20.05  Repayment of preference share capital  -    -  -  -     100.00  -  -  100.00   C) Balances with related parties as at March 31, 2015 (` crores) Holding  Company Fellow  Subsidiaries Key  Management  Personnel  and their  relatives Total Trade receivables, Unbilled revenue, Loans and advances,  Other assets (net)  4.00  117.46  -    121.46   74.68  538.49  -    613.17  Trade payables, Income received in advance, Advances from  customers, Other liabilities 113.70  35.87  -   149.57  108.15  15.18  -    123.33  Investment in debentures / mutual funds / bonds  -    676.70  -    676.70  1096.29 291.98  -   1388.27    Previous years’ ﬁgures are in italics.
Consolidated Financial Statements 167  Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements  D) Disclosure of material transactions with related parties (` crores) 2015 2014 Purchase of ﬁxed assets Tata Consulting Engineers Limited  18.66  16.71  Tata Realty and Infrastructure Limited  46.68  23.35  Loans and advances given  Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited  -    0.02  Inﬁniti Retail Limited  -    0.04  Loans and advances repaid  Inﬁniti Retail Limited  0.04  -    Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited  0.01  -    Inter-corporate deposits placed Tata Housing Development Company Limited  -    60.00  Tata Capital Financial Services Limited  -    280.00  Inter-corporate deposits matured Tata Realty and Infrastructure Limited  50.00  -    Tata Housing Development Company Limited  55.00  5.00  Tata Capital Financial Services Limited  280.00  -    Purchase of investments Tata Capital Housing Finance Limited  -    25.00  Tata Asset Management Limited  7370.64  -    Redemption of investment Tata Asset Management Limited  6726.41  -    Revenue (including reimbursements ) Tata Sky Limited  73.36  64.99  Inﬁniti Retail Limited  30.33  24.47  Tata Capital Financial Services Limited  42.89  54.63  Tata Industrial Services Limited  25.34  -    Interest income  Tata Sons Limited  49.61 126.42 Panatone Finvest Limited  8.85  19.00  Tata Capital Financial Services Limited  13.75  16.24  Purchase of goods, services and facilities (including reimbursement) Tata Capital Forex Limited (formerly TT Holdings & Services Limited) 218.30  223.62  Rent expense Tata Sons Limited 0.98  0.81  Tata Limited  1.61  1.52  Tata Africa Holdings (SA) (Proprietary) Limited  1.97  2.39  (Write back of provision) / provision for doubtful receivables, advances (net) Tata Sky Ltd  0.32  (0.49) Tata Realty and Infrastructure Limited  -    0.44  Drive India Enterprise Solutions Limited  (0.28)  0.28  Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited  0.03  0.11  Inﬁniti Retail Limited  0.35  -    Dividend paid on equity shares Tata Sons Limited 10825.89 3608.63 Remuneration to Key Management Personnel Mr. N. Chandrasekaran  21.28  18.68  Consolidated Financial Statements168  Annual Report 2014-15 Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements  E) Disclosure of material balances with related parties (` crores) As at  March 31, 2015 As at  March 31, 2014 Trade receivables, Unbilled revenue, Loans and advances, Other assets (net) Tata Sons Limited  4.00  74.68  Tata Realty and Infrastructure Limited  0.40  96.58  Tata Housing Development Company Limited  1.62  62.78  Tata Capital Financial Services Limited  19.56  316.67  Inﬁniti Retail Limited  16.46  13.79  Tata Industrial Services Limited 30.09  -    Trade payables, Income received in advance, Advances from customers,   Other liabilities Tata Sons Limited 113.70  108.15  Investment In debentures / mutual funds / bonds Tata Sons Limited  -   1096.29  Panatone Finvest Limited  -   200.00 Tata Asset Management Limited  676.70  -      35) OBLIGATION TOWARDS OPERATING LEASES  (` crores) Particulars As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 Non-cancellable operating lease obligation  Not later than one year 763.21 707.22  Later than one year but not later than ﬁve years 2243.34 1817.41  Later than ﬁve years 1403.30 1107.12  Total 4409.85 3631.75  Rental expenses of ` 825.21 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 694.63 crores) in respect of obligation under non-cancellable operating  leases and ` 744.25 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 726.64 crores) in respect of cancellable operating leases have been charged to the  statement of proﬁt and loss.
36) OBLIGATIONS TOWARDS FINANCE LEASES (` crores) Particulars As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 Assets acquired under ﬁnance lease i)  Minimum lease payments:  Not later than one year 70.03 57.56  Later than one year but not later than ﬁve years 109.59 124.00  Later than ﬁve years 44.35 55.80  Total 223.97 237.36 ii)  Present value of minimum lease payments:  Not later than one year 57.40 42.05  Later than one year but not later than ﬁve years 80.48 87.24  Later than ﬁve years 33.21 38.97 171.09 168.26  Add: Future ﬁnance charges 52.88 69.10  Total 223.97 237.36 Consolidated Financial Statements 169  Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements 37) RECEIVABLES UNDER SUB LEASES (` crores) Particulars As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 Not later than one year 17.81 18.71 Later than one year but not later than ﬁve years 36.44 53.44 Later than ﬁve years - - Total 54.25 72.15  The total amount recognised in the statement of proﬁt and loss for the year ended March 31, 2015 is ` 18.45 crores (March 31,  2014: ` 17.62 crores).
38) EARNINGS PER EQUITY SHARE (` crores) Particulars 2015 2014 Proﬁt for the year 19852.18 19163.87 Less: Dividend on preference shares (including dividend tax) - 33.65 Amount available for equity shareholders 19852.18 19130.22 Weighted average number of equity shares 195,87,27,979 195,87,27,979 Earning per share basic and diluted (`) 101.35 97.67 Face value per equity share (`) 1.00 1.00 39) CONTINGENT LIABILITIES (` crores) Particulars As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debt 191.75 167.64 Income tax demands (See (a) below) 3904.63 3898.43 Indirect tax demands (See (b) below) 170.31 132.31 Guarantees given by the Group (See (c) below) - 477.75 Other contingencies 0.34 0.56  a) In respect of income tax demands of ` 318.20 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 318.20 crores), not included above, the Company is  entitled to an indemniﬁcation from the seller of TCS e-Serve Limited.
b) In respect of indirect tax demands of ` 8.53 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 8.53 crores), not included above, the Company is  entitled to an indemniﬁcation from the seller of TCS e-Serve Limited.
c) The Group has provided guarantees aggregating ` Nil (GBP Nil) (March 31, 2014: 477.75 crores) (GBP 47.85 million) to third  parties on behalf of its subsidiary Diligenta Limited.
The Group does not expect any outﬂow of resources in respect of the  above.
d) The Group has examined the social security and tax aspects of contracts with legal entities which provide services to  overseas subsidiaries and, based on legal opinion, concludes that the subsidiaries are in compliance with the related  statutory requirements.
40) CAPITAL AND OTHER COMMITMENTS  a) Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided for (net of advances)   ` 1878.48 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 2862.86 crores).
b) The Company has a purchase commitment towards India Innovation Fund for the uncalled amount of balance ` 29618.47  per unit for 1000 units aggregating ` 2.96 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 3.64 crores).
41) DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  The Company and its subsidiaries, in accordance with its risk management policies and procedures, enter into foreign exchange  forward, option and futures contracts to manage its exposure in foreign exchange rates.
The counter party is generally a bank.
These contracts are for a period between one day and eight years.
Consolidated Financial Statements170  Annual Report 2014-15 Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements  The Group has following outstanding foreign exchange option contracts, which have been designated as Cash Flow Hedges, as at: Foreign Currency March 31, 2015 March 31, 2014 No.
of  Contracts Notional  amount  of  contracts  (million) Fair Value (` crores) No.
of  Contracts Notional  amount  of  contracts  (million) Fair Value (` crores) U.S. Dollar --- 4 410.00 21.36 Sterling Pound 18 297.00 67.05 6 177.00 18.23 Euro 9 171.00 87.78 3 120.00 19.87 Australian Dollar 6 97.00 31.15 3 75.00 2.71  The movement in Hedging Reserve for derivatives designated as Cash Flow Hedges is as follows: (` crores) Particulars Year ended March 31, 2015 Year ended March 31, 2014 Intrinsic value Time value Intrinsic Value Time Value Balance at the beginning of the year 24.88 4.76 46.11 - Changes in the fair value of effective portion of cash  ﬂow hedges 905.89 (440.18) (620.09) (140.11) (Gains)/losses transferred to statement of proﬁt and  loss on occurrence of forecasted hedge transactions (779.35) 434.75 599.22 144.87 Amount transferred from minority interest during  the year -- (0.36) - Balance at the end of the year 151.42 (0.67) 24.88 4.76  Net gain on derivative instruments of ` 150.75 crores recognised in Hedging Reserve as at March 31, 2015, is expected to be  transferred to the statement of proﬁt and loss by March 31, 2016.
In addition to the above Cash Flow Hedges, the Group has outstanding foreign exchange forward, option and futures contracts  with notional amount aggregating ` 19949.03 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 15883.01 crores) whose fair value showed a gain of   ` 159.65 crores as at March 31, 2015 (March 31, 2014 : gain of ` 267.07 crores).
Exchange gain of ` 1360.57 crores (March 31,  2014 : exchange loss of ` 60.54 crores) on foreign exchange forward, option and futures contracts for the year ended March 31,  2015, have been recognised in the statement of proﬁt and loss.
42) Research and development expenditure aggregating ` 225.07 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 198.91 crores), including capital  expenditure, was incurred during the year .
43) Trade payables include payable to micro, small and medium enterprises ` 12.35 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 11.28 crores).
44) The Group has revised its policy of providing depreciation on ﬁxed assets effective April 1, 2014.
Depreciation is now provide d  on a straight line basis for all assets as against the policy of providing on written down value basis for some assets and straight  line basis for others.
Further the remaining useful life has also been revised wherever appropriate based on an evaluation.
The carrying amount as on April 1, 2014 is depreciated over the revised remaining useful life.
As a result of these changes, the  depreciation charge for the year ended March 31, 2015 is higher by ` 155.70 crores and the ef fect relating to the period prior to  April 1, 2014 is net credit of ` 489.75 crores (excluding deferred tax of ` 118.90 crores) which has been shown as an ‘Exceptional  Item’ in the statement of proﬁt and loss.
45) During the year, an amount of  ` 2627.91 crores has been recognized in the statement of proﬁt or loss in respect of  one-time  bonus to eligible employees.
Consolidated Financial Statements 171  Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements 46) STATEMENT OF NET ASSETS AND PROFIT OR LOSS ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS AND MINORITY INTEREST Name of the entity Net Assets, i.e.
total assets  minus total liabilities Share in proﬁt or loss As % of  consolidated  net assets Amount  (` crores) As % of  consolidated  proﬁt or loss Amount  (` crores) Tata Consultancy Services Limited  80.91 45416.44  88.77 19256.96 Indian Subsidiaries APOnline Limited  0.06  35.36  0.11  24.92  MP Online Limited  0.08  44.88  0.08  16.47  C-Edge Technologies Limited  0.18  101.60  0.13  28.55  MahaOnline Limited  0.07  38.97  0.04  9.35  CMC Limited  2.12 1191.06  0.91  197.77  TCS e-Serve International Limited  0.31  171.27  0.19  40.33  TCS Foundation  0.26  146.44  0.67  145.44  Foreign Subsidiaries CMC Americas Inc.  0.27  153.12  0.37  80.18  CMC eBiz Inc.  0.03  18.83  -    (0.83) TCS e-Serve America, Inc.  0.05  25.69  0.01  3.22  Diligenta Limited  1.45  816.40  0.90  196.07  Diligenta 2 Limited  0.13  72.59  (0.03)  (7.01) Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc.  0.44  247.69  1.10  238.16  Tata America International Corporation  2.61 1463.56  3.37  731.26  MS CJV Investments Corporation  0.02  8.79  -    -    Tata Consultancy Services Asia Paciﬁc Pte Ltd.  1.05  588.49  0.33  71.96  Tata Consultancy Services (China) Co., Ltd.  0.23  130.35  (0.08)  (17.81) Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd.  1.16  657.90  0.56  117.46  Tata Consultancy Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd  0.14  76.79  0.11  23.14  PT Tata Consultancy Services Indonesia  0.06  33.25  0.08  17.77  Tata Consultancy Services (Philippines) Inc.  0.16  88.47  0.24  51.69  Tata Consultancy Services (Thailand) Limited  0.02  9.99  0.02  3.46  Tata Consultancy Services Belgium S.A.  0.20  114.90  0.30  64.23  Tata Consultancy Services Deutschland GmbH  0.21  115.42  0.25  54.42  Tata Consultancy Services Sverige AB  0.23  126.93  0.37  80.33  Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV  2.27 1272.81  1.02  221.56  TCS Italia SRL  0.02 8.47  0.01  2.04  Tata Consultancy Services Luxembourg S.A.  0.03 14.15  0.01  2.98  Tata Consultancy Services Switzerland Ltd.  0.15  83.70  0.07  16.25  Tata Consultancy Services France S.A.S.
(0.06)  (34.85)  (0.07)  (14.67) Tata Consultancy Services Osterreich GmbH  -    2.63  -    0.83  Tata Consultancy Services Danmark ApS  0.07  37.36  0.01  1.29  Tata Consultancy Services De Espana S.A.  (0.17)  (92.82)  (0.08)  (16.91) Tata Consultancy Services Portugal Unipessoal Limitada  (0.01)  (7.39)  (0.02)  (5.19) Alti S.A.  0.02  12.81  (0.72)  (155.65) Alti HR S.A.S.
0.02  11.16  -    (0.61) Tescom (France) Software Systems Testing S.A.R.L.
(0.01)  (5.54)  (0.01)  (2.42) Alti Switzerland S.A.  0.02  9.10  -    1.01  Consolidated Financial Statements172  Annual Report 2014-15 Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements Name of the entity Net Assets, i.e.
total assets  minus total liabilities Share in proﬁt or loss As % of  consolidated  net assets Amount  (` crores) As % of  consolidated  proﬁt or loss Amount  (` crores) Alti Infrastructures Systemes & Reseaux S.A.S.
-    1.18  (0.01)  (2.40) Alti NV  0.03  19.48  (0.01)  (1.51) Teamlink  -    (0.10)  -    (0.35) Planaxis Technologies Inc.  0.09  48.08  0.08  17.71  Tata Consultancy Services (Africa) (PTY) Ltd.  0.01  7.18  0.02  4.87  Tata Consultancy Services (South Africa) (PTY) Ltd.  0.12  64.59  0.06  13.53  TCS FNS Pty Limited  0.27  153.28  (0.10)  (20.96) TCS Financial Solutions Beijing Co., Ltd.  (0.03)  (18.53)  0.03  6.93  TCS Financial Solutions Australia Holdings Pty Limited  0.08  47.02  -    -    TCS Financial Solutions Australia Pty Limited  0.05  29.50  0.15  33.07  TCS Management Pty ltd.  -    -    0.08  16.28  PT Financial Network Services  -    (0.87)  -    (0.81) TCS Iberoamerica SA  1.79 1002.13  0.01  1.66  TCS Solution Center S.A.  (0.02)  (11.64)  (0.43)  (93.85) TCS Uruguay S.A.  0.11  63.40  0.16  35.28  Tata Consultancy Services Argentina S.A.  0.03  16.22  (0.04)  (9.68) Tata Consultancy Services Do Brasil Ltda  -    0.08  (0.33)  (71.06) Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A., De C.V.  0.67  376.98  0.37  79.70  MGDC S.C.  0.12  67.19  0.06  13.98  TCS Inversiones Chile Limitada  0.56  316.81  -    0.83  Tata Consultancy Services Chile S.A.  0.91  512.17  0.18  39.72  TATASOLUTION CENTER S.A.  0.34  192.51  0.47  101.11  Tata Consultancy Services Qatar S.S.C.
0.07  36.75  0.07  15.25  Tata consultancy Services Morocco SARL AU  -    -    0.16  34.86  Computational Research Laboratories Inc.  -    -    -    0.02  TOTAL 100.00 56130.18 100.00 21692.18 a) Adjustments arising out of consolidation (4367.66) (1632.48) b)Minority Interest Indian Subsidiaries APOnline Limited  (4.88)  (2.74) MP Online Limited  (5.40)  (1.81) C-Edge Technologies Limited  (47.33)  (15.20) MahaOnline Limited  (10.13)  (2.43) CMC Limited  (703.77)  (136.55) Foreign Subsidiaries Tata Consultancy Services (China) Co., Ltd.  (13.03)  1.83  Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd.  (327.11)  (45.14) Tata Consultancy Services (South Africa) (PTY) Ltd. (16.11)  (5.48) TOTAL (1127.76)  (207.52) Consolidated Net Assets / Proﬁt after tax 50634.76 19852.18  47) Figures pertaining to the subsidiary companies have been reclassiﬁed wherever necessary to bring them in line with the Group  ﬁnancial statements.
48) Previous years’ ﬁgures have been recast / restated.
46) STATEMENT OF NET ASSETS AND PROFIT OR LOSS ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS AND MINORITY INTEREST (Contd.)
Unconsolidated Financial Statements 173   Annual Report 2014-15 Unconsolidated Financial Statements174  TO THE MEMBERS OF TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES LIMITED Report on the Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying ﬁnancial statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited (‘the Company’), which comprise  the Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2015 and the Statement of Proﬁt and Loss and the Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended,  and a summary of the signiﬁcant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) with  respect to the preparation of these ﬁnancial statements that give a true and fair view of the ﬁnancial position, ﬁnancial performance  and cash ﬂows of the Company in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Accounting   Standards speciﬁed under Section 133 of the Act, read with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
This responsibility also  includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of   the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting  policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of  adequate internal ﬁnancial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting  records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of these ﬁnancial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from  material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors’ Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these ﬁnancial statements based on our audit.
We have taken into account the provisions of the Act, the accounting and auditing standards and matters which are required to be  included in the audit report under the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing speciﬁed under Section 143(10) of the Act.
Those Standards  require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether  the ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and the disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the   ﬁnancial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal ﬁnancial control  relevant to the Company’s preparation of the ﬁnancial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures  that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on whether the Company has in place an  adequate internal ﬁnancial controls system over ﬁnancial reporting and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
An audit a lso  includes evaluating the appropriateness of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates made   by the Company’s Board of Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the  ﬁnancial statements.
Opinion In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid ﬁnancial statements  give the information required by the Act in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting  principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2015, and its proﬁt and its cash  ﬂows  for the year ended on that date.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 1.
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2015 (‘the Order’) issued by the Central Government in terms of Section  143(11) of the Act, we give in the Annexure a statement on the matters speciﬁed in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.
2.
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:  (a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were  necessary for the purposes of our audit.
(b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from our  examination of those books.
(c) The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Proﬁt and Loss, and the Cash Flow Statement dealt with by this Report are in agreement   with the books of account.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT Unconsolidated Financial Statements 175   (d) In our opinion, the aforesaid ﬁnancial statements comply with the Accounting Standards speciﬁed under Section 133 of the  Act, read with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
(e) On the basis of the written representations received from the Directors as on March 31, 2015, taken on record by the Board   of Directors, none of the Directors is disqualiﬁed as on March 31, 2015 from being appointed as a Director in terms of  Section 164 (2) of the Act.
(f) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies  (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given  to us:   i) The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its ﬁnancial position in its ﬁnancial statements as of  March 31, 2015;   ii) The Company has made provision in its ﬁnancial statements, as required under the applicable law or accounting  standards, for material foreseeable losses on long term contracts;   iii) There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection  Fund by the Company.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No.
117366W/W-100018) P. R. RAMESH Partner (Membership No.
70928) Mumbai, April 16, 2015 Annual Report 2014-15 Unconsolidated Financial Statements176  ANNEXURE TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT (Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date) 1.
In respect of the ﬁxed assets of the Company:  (a) The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation of ﬁxed  assets.
(b) The ﬁxed assets were physically veriﬁed during the year by the Management in accordance with a regular programme of  veriﬁcation which, in our opinion, provides for physical veriﬁcation of the ﬁxed assets at reasonable intervals.
According to  the information and explanations given to us, no material discrepancies were noticed on such veriﬁcation.
2.
In respect of the inventories of the Company:  (a) As explained to us, the inventories were physically veriﬁed during the year by the Management at reasonable intervals.
(b) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the procedures of physical veriﬁcation of  inventories followed by the Management were reasonable and adequate in relation to the size of the Company and the  nature of its business.
(c) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has maintained proper records  of its inventories and no material discrepancies were noticed on physical veriﬁcation.
3.
The Company has not granted any loans, secured or unsecured, to companies, ﬁrms or other parties covered in the Register  maintained under Section 189 of the Act.
4.
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, having regard to the explanations that some of  the items purchased are of special nature and suitable alternative sources are not readily available for obtaining comparable  quotations, there is an adequate internal control system commensurate with the size of the Company and the nature of its  business with regard to purchase of inventory and ﬁxed assets and the sale of goods and services.
During the course of our audit,  we have not observed any major weakness in such internal control system.
5.
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not accepted deposits during  the year and does not have any unclaimed deposits.
Therefore, the provisions of the clause 3 (v) of the Order are not applicable  to the Company.
6.
The provisions of clause 3 (vi) of the Order are not applicable to the Company as the Company is not covered by the Companie s  (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014.
7.
According to the information and explanations given to us, in respect of statutory dues:  (a) The Company has generally been regular in depositing undisputed statutory dues, including Provident Fund, Employees’  State Insurance, Income Tax, Sales Tax and Value Added Tax, Wealth Tax, Service Tax, duty of Customs, duty of Excise, Cess  and other material statutory dues applicable to it with the appropriate authorities.
(b) There were no undisputed amounts payable in respect of Provident Fund, Employees’ State Insurance, Income Tax, Sales  Tax and Value Added Tax, Wealth Tax, Service Tax, duty of Customs, duty of Excise, Cess and other material statutory dues  in arrears as at March 31, 2015 for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable.
(c) Details of dues of Income Tax, Sales Tax and Value Added Tax and Service Tax which have not been deposited as at   March 31, 2015 on account of dispute are given below: Particulars Period to which the amount relates Forum where the dispute is  pending Amount (` crores) Income Tax 2005-06, 2008-09 Income Tax Appellate Tribunal 157.16 2007-08, 2008-09, 2009-10, 2012-13 Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) 505.15 Sales Tax and  Value Added Tax           2001-02, 2003-04, 2004-05, 2005-06,   2007-08, 2009-10, 2012-13 High court 22.82 2002-03, 2003-04, 2004-05, 2005-06,  2006-07, 2007-08 Tribunal 7.06 2008-09, 2009-10, 2010-11 Deputy Commissioner 7.56 2005-06, 2009-10, 2010-11, 2011-12, 2013-14 Joint Commissioner 4.42 2001-02, 2005-06, 2011-12 Assistant Commissioner 0.49 2007-08, 2008-09, 2009-10 Additional Commissioner 0.02 Service Tax 2004-05, 2005-06, 2006-07, 2007-08,   2008-09, 2009-10 Appellate Tribunal 12.12 2008-09, 2009-10 Commissioner of Service Tax (Appeals) 0.15   There were no dues of Wealth Tax, duty of Customs, duty of Excise and Cess which have not been deposited as at   March 31, 2015 on account of dispute.
Unconsolidated Financial Statements 177   (d) The Company has been regular in transferring amounts to the Investor Education and Protection Fund in accordance with  the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and Rules made thereunder within time.
8.
The Company does not have accumulated losses.
The Company has not incurred cash losses during the ﬁnancial year covered by  our audit and in the immediately preceding ﬁnancial year.
9.
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not defaulted in repayment of  dues to a bank during the year and did not have any amount outstanding to ﬁnancial institutions or debenture holders.
10.
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the terms and conditions of the guarantee giv en  by the Company for loan taken by a subsidiary from a bank is not prima facie prejudicial to the interest of the Company.
11.
According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company did not avail any term loan during the year.
12.
To the best of our knowledge and belief and according to the information and explanations given to us, no fraud by the  Company and no material fraud on the Company has been noticed or reported during the year.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No.
117366W/W-100018) P. R. RAMESH Partner (Membership No.
70928) Mumbai, April 16, 2015 Annual Report 2014-15 Unconsolidated Financial Statements178  As per our report attached For and on behalf of the Board For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Cyrus Mistry N. Chandrasekaran Prof. Clayton M. Christensen Chartered Accountants Chairman CEO and Managing Director Director  Aman Mehta Ishaat Hussain V. Thyagarajan  Director Director Director P. R. Ramesh Dr. Ron Sommer Dr. Vijay Kelkar Phiroz Vandrevala Partner Director Director Director  O. P. Bhatt Aarthi Subramanian Rajesh Gopinathan  Director Executive Director Chief Financial Ofﬁcer  Suprakash Mukhopadhyay  Company Secretary Mumbai, April 16, 2015  Mumbai, April 16, 2015 Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2015 (` crores) Note As  at March 31, 2015 As  at March 31, 2014 I.
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ funds (a) Share capital 3 195.87 195.87 (b) Reserves and surplus 4 45220.57 43856.01 45416.44 44051.88 Non-current liabilities (a) Long-term borrowings 5 64.71 89.69 (b) Deferred tax liabilities (net) 6(a) 271.46 226.87 (c) Other long-term liabilities 7 722.15 690.44 (d) Long-term provisions 8 126.91 279.61 1185.23 1286.61 Current liabilities (a) Short-term borrowings 9 185.56  -  (b) Trade payables 6767.25 3977.55 (c) Other current liabilities 10 2491.47 2460.32 (d) Short-term provisions 11 7019.35 5827.83 16463.63 12265.70 TOTAL 63065.30 57604.19 II.
ASSETS Non-current assets (a) Fixed assets   (i)   Tangible assets 12 7964.88 5887.09  (ii)   Intangible assets 31.41 42.10 (iii)   Capital work-in-progress 2706.94 3047.53 10703.23 8976.72 (b) Non-current investments 13 2651.23 5098.55 (c) Deferred tax assets (net) 6(b) 303.47 273.58 (d) Long-term loans and advances 14 8452.55 6875.54 (e) Other non-current assets 15 524.68 1544.99 22635.16 22769.38 Current assets (a) Current investments 16 747.47 733.87 (b) Inventories 17 12.34 8.57 (c) Unbilled revenue 18 2439.36 2626.08 (d) Trade receivables 19 17036.76 14471.89 (e) Cash and bank balances 20 16502.50 12566.26 (f) Short-term loans and advances 21 3352.18 3688.12 (g) Other current assets 22 339.53 740.02 40430.14 34834.81 TOTAL 63065.30 57604.19 III.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1-52 Unconsolidated Financial Statements 179  As per our report attached For and on behalf of the Board For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Cyrus Mistry N. Chandrasekaran Prof. Clayton M. Christensen Chartered Accountants Chairman CEO and Managing Director Director  Aman Mehta Ishaat Hussain V. Thyagarajan  Director Director Director P. R. Ramesh Dr. Ron Sommer Dr. Vijay Kelkar Phiroz Vandrevala Partner Director Director Director  O. P. Bhatt Aarthi Subramanian Rajesh Gopinathan  Director Executive Director Chief Financial Ofﬁcer  Suprakash Mukhopadhyay  Company Secretary Mumbai, April 16, 2015  Mumbai, April 16, 2015 (` crores) Note 2015 2014 I.
Revenue from operations   (Net of excise duty  of ` 4.09 crores (Previous year: ` 3.15 crores)) 23 73578.06 64672.93 II.
Other income (net) 24 4466.73 3114.71 III.
TOTAL REVENUE 78044.79 67787.64 IV.
Expenses: (a)  Employee beneﬁt expense 25 27368.32 21466.56 (b)  Operation and other expenses 26 25181.54 21672.65 (c)   Finance costs 27 79.57 23.41 (d)  Depreciation and amortisation expense 12 1393.77 1080.55 TOTAL EXPENSES 54023.20 44243.17 V. PROFIT BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL ITEM AND TAX (III-IV) 24021.59 23544.47 VI.
Exceptional item 48 528.38  -  VII.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX 24549.97 23544.47 VIII.
Tax expense: (a)   Current tax 28 5269.48 5130.03 (b)   Deferred tax 14.70  (22.18) (c)   MAT credit entitlement 28 8.83  (38.30) 5293.01 5069.55 IX.
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 19256.96 18474.92 X.
Earnings per equity share: - Basic and diluted (`) 35 98.31 94.15 Weighted average number of equity shares (face value of ` 1 each) 195,87,27,979 195,87,27,979 XI.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1-52 Statement of Proﬁt and Loss for the year ended March 31, 2015 Annual Report 2014-15 Unconsolidated Financial Statements180  (` crores) Note 2015 2014 I CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Proﬁt before tax 24549.97 23544.47 Adjustments for:  Depreciation and amortisation expense 865.39 1080.55 Bad Debts written of f (net) 5.69 2.37 Provision for doubtful receivables (net) 124.56 68.26 Provision for doubtful advances (net)  (13.10) 8.78 Advances written-off / (recovered) (net) 19.50  (0.12) Provision for diminution in value of long-term investments 2.50  -  Interest expense 79.57 23.41 Proﬁt on sale of ﬁxed assets (net)  (2.94)  (2.01) Unrealised exchange loss / (gain) 91.64  (173.12) Exchange difference on translation of foreign currency cash and cash equivalents 27.26  (43.66) Dividend income (including exchange gain) (1335.54) (1570.70) Interest income (1554.93) (1280.07) Proﬁt on redemption of mutual funds and sale of other current investments (net)  (225.99) (162.77) Operating proﬁt before working capital changes 22633.58 21495.39 Inventories (3.77) (2.23) Unbilled revenue 187.39 (320.84) Trade receivables (2694.09) (2976.90) Loans and advances and other assets (596.97) (66.41) Trade payables, other liabilities and provisions 3114.32 908.34  Cash generated from operations 22640.46 19037.35 Taxes paid (6320.57) (6095.42) Net cash provided by operating activites 16319.89 12941.93 II CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchase of ﬁxed assets (2568.72) (2702.41) Proceeds from sale of ﬁxed assets 4.23 7.97 Purchase of trade investments (60.83)  (25.00) Purchase of mutual funds and other investments (62938.73) (75191.82) Proceeds from sale / redemption of trade investments 253.36 54.66 Proceeds from redemption of mutual funds and sale of other investments 65389.79 73705.98 Loans repaid by subsidiaries 37.32 8.30 Inter -corporate deposits placed (1777.00) (2588.00) Inter-corporate deposits matured 1880.00 3454.77 Earmarked deposits placed with banks (49.00)  -  Earmarked deposits with banks matured 25.27  -  Fixed deposit placed with banks having original maturity over three months (15000.75) (11744.00) Fixed deposit with banks matured having original maturity over three months 12126.90 4960.33 Dividend received from subsidiaries (including exchange gain) 1354.31 1551.10 Dividend received from other investments 0.48 0.35 Interest received 1934.38 1318.45 Net cash used in investing activities                                                                              611.01 (7189.32) III CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Redemption of preference shares  -  (100.00) Repayment of long-term borrowings (0.47)  (1.24) Short-term borrowings (net) 185.56  (80.02) Dividend paid (including dividend tax) (17020.46) (5480.07) Interest paid  (78.83)  (22.99) Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities                                                                   (16914.20) (5684.32) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 16.70 68.29 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 438.37 323.85 Add: Transferred consequent to amalgamation of companies 1.97 2.57 Exchange difference on translation of foreign currency cash and cash equivalents  (27.26) 43.66 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 20 429.78 438.37 Earmarked balances with banks 69.97 14.99 Short-term bank deposits 16002.75 12112.90 Cash and bank balances at the end of the year 20 16502.50 12566.26 IV NOTES FORMING PART OF THE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1-52 Cash ﬂows have been adjusted for the balances transferred from the amalgamated companies.
Cash Flow Statement for the year ended March 31, 2015 As per our report attached For and on behalf of the Board For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Cyrus Mistry N. Chandrasekaran Prof. Clayton M. Christensen Chartered Accountants Chairman CEO and Managing Director Director  Aman Mehta Ishaat Hussain V. Thyagarajan  Director Director Director P. R. Ramesh Dr. Ron Sommer Dr. Vijay Kelkar Phiroz Vandrevala Partner Director Director Director  O. P. Bhatt Aarthi Subramanian Rajesh Gopinathan  Director Executive Director Chief Financial Ofﬁcer  Suprakash Mukhopadhyay  Company Secretary Mumbai, April 16, 2015  Mumbai, April 16, 2015 Unconsolidated Financial Statements 181  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 1) CORPORATE INFORMATION  Tata Consultancy Services Limited (referred to as “TCS Limited” or “the Company”) provides consulting-led integrated portfolio  of information technology (IT) and IT -enabled services delivered through a network of multiple locations around the globe.
The Company’s full services portfolio consists of IT and Assurance Services, Business Intelligence and Performance Management,  Business Process Services, Cloud Services, Connected Marketing Solutions, Consulting, Eco-sustainability Services, Engineering  and Industrial Services, Enterprise Security and Risk Management, Enterprise Solutions, iON-Small and Medium Businesses, IT  Infrastructure Services, Mobility Products and Services and Platform Solutions.
As at March 31, 2015, Tata Sons Limited owned 73.69% of the Company’s equity share capital and has the ability to control its  operating and ﬁnancial policies.
The Company’s registered ofﬁce is in Mumbai and it has 60 subsidiaries across the globe.
2) SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  a) Basis of preparation    These ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in  India (‘Indian GAAP’) to comply with the Accounting Standards speciﬁed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013,  read with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
The  ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention on accrual basis, except for certain ﬁnancial  instruments which are measured at fair value.
Comparative ﬁgures do not include the ﬁgures of erstwhile WTI Advanced Technology Limited which is amalgamated with  the Company effective April 1, 2014.
Consequently, the comparative ﬁgures are not comparable with the ﬁgures for the  year ended March 31, 2015.  b) Use of estimates   The preparation of ﬁnancial statements requires the management of the Company to make estimates and assumptions  that affect the reported balances of assets and liabilities and disclosures relating to the contingent liabilities as at the date  of the ﬁnancial statements and reported amounts of income and expense during the year.
Examples of such estimates  include provisions for doubtful receivables, employee beneﬁts, provision for income taxes, accounting for contract costs  expected to be incurred, the useful lives of depreciable ﬁxed assets and provision for impairment.
Future results could differ  due to changes in these estimates and the difference between the actual result and the estimates are recognised in the  period in which the results are known / materialise.
c) Fixed assets   Fixed assets are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation / amortisation.
Costs include all expenses incurred to bring t he  asset to its present location and condition.
Fixed assets exclude computers and other assets individually costing ` 50,000 or less which are not capitalised except when  they are part of a larger capital investment programme.
d) Depreciation / amortisation   In respect of ﬁxed assets (other than freehold land and capital work-in-progress) acquired during the year,   depreciation / amortisation is charged on a straight line basis so as to write-off the cost of the assets over the useful lives  and for the assets acquired prior to April 1, 2014, the carrying amount as on April 1, 2014 is depreciated over the remaining  useful life based on an evaluation.
Type of asset Period Leasehold land and buildings Lease period Freehold buildings 20 years Factory buildings 20 years Leasehold improvements Lease period Plant and machinery 10 years Computer equipment 4 years Vehicles 4 years Ofﬁce equipment 5 years Electrical installations 10 years Furniture and ﬁxtures 5 years Intellectual property / distribution rights 5 years Rights under licensing agreement License period   Fixed assets purchased for speciﬁc projects are depreciated over the period of the project or the useful life stated above,  whichever is shorter.
Annual Report 2014-15 Unconsolidated Financial Statements182  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements  e) Leases   Assets taken on lease by the Company in its capacity as lessee, where the Company has substantially all the risks and  rewards of ownership are classiﬁed as ﬁnance lease.
Such a lease is capitalised at the inception of the lease at lower of the  fair value or the present value of the minimum lease payments and a liability is recognised for an equivalent amount.
Each  lease rental paid is allocated between the liability and the interest cost so as to obtain a constant periodic rate of interest  on the outstanding liability for each year.
Lease arrangements where the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset substantially vest with the lessor, are  recognised as operating leases.
Lease rentals under operating leases are recognised in the statement of proﬁt and loss on  a straight-line basis.
f) Impairment   At each balance sheet date, the management reviews the carrying amounts of its assets included in each cash generating  unit to determine whether there is any indication that those assets were impaired.
If any such indication exists, the  recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of impairment.
Recoverable amount is the  higher of an asset’s net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ﬂows expected  from the continuing use of the asset and from its disposal are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount  rate that reﬂects the current market assessments of time value of money and the risks speciﬁc to the asset.
Reversal of impairment loss is recognised as income in the statement of proﬁt and loss.
g) Investments   Long-term investments and current maturities of long-term investments are stated at cost, less provision for other than  temporary diminution in value.
Current investments, except for current maturities of long-term investments, comprising  investments in mutual funds are stated at the lower of cost and fair value.
h) Employee beneﬁts   (i) Post-employment beneﬁt plans    Contributions to deﬁned contribution retirement beneﬁt schemes are recognised as expense when employees have  rendered services entitling them to such beneﬁts.
For deﬁned beneﬁt schemes, the cost of providing beneﬁts is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method,  with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full  in the statement of proﬁt and loss for the period in which they occur.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to  the extent that the beneﬁts are already vested, or amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the  beneﬁts become vested.
The retirement beneﬁt obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt  obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any  asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future  contributions to the scheme.
(ii) Other employee beneﬁts    The undiscounted amount of short-term employee beneﬁts expected to be paid in exchange for the services rendered  by employees is recognised during the period when the employee renders the service.
These beneﬁts include  compensated absences such as paid annual leave, overseas social security contributions and performance incentives.
Compensated absences which are not expected to occur within twelve months after the end of the period in which  the employee renders the related services are recognised as an actuarially determined liability at the present value of  the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the balance sheet date.
i) Revenue recognition   Revenue from contracts priced on a time and material basis are recognised when services are rendered and related costs  are incurred.
Revenue from turnkey contracts, which are generally time bound ﬁxed price contracts, are recognised over the life of  the contract using the proportionate completion method, with contract costs determining the degree of completion.
Foreseeable losses on such contracts are recognised when probable.
Revenue from the sale of equipment are recognised upon delivery, which is when title passes to the customer.
Revenue from sale of software licences are recognised upon delivery.
Revenue from maintenance contracts are recognised pro-rata over the period of the contract.
In respect of Business Process Services, revenue on time and material and unit priced contracts is recognised as the related  services are rendered, whereas revenue from ﬁxed price contracts is recognised using the proportionate completion  method with contract cost determining the degree of completion.
Revenue is reported net of discounts.
Dividend is recorded when the right to receive payment is established.
Interest income is recognised on time proportion  basis taking into account the amount outstanding and the rate applicable.
Unconsolidated Financial Statements 183  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements  j) Taxation   Current income tax expense comprises taxes on income from operations in India and in foreign jurisdictions.
Income tax  payable in India is determined in accordance with the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
Tax expense relating to  foreign operations is determined in accordance with tax laws applicable in countries where such operations are domiciled.
Minimum Alternative Tax (MAT) paid in accordance with the tax laws in India, which gives rise to future economic beneﬁts  in the form of adjustment of future income tax liability, is considered as an asset if there is convincing evidence that the  Company will pay normal income tax after the tax holiday period.
Accordingly, MAT is recognised as an asset in the balance  sheet when the asset can be measured reliably and it is probable that the future economic beneﬁt associated with it will  fructify.
Deferred tax expense or beneﬁt is recognised on timing differences being the difference between taxable income and  accounting income that originate in one period and is likely to reverse in one or more subsequent periods.
Deferred tax  assets and liabilities are measured using the tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the  balance sheet date.
In the event of unabsorbed depreciation and carry forward of losses, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent  that there is virtual certainty supported by convincing evidence that sufﬁcient future taxable income will be available  to realise such assets.
In other situations, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that there is reasonable  certainty that sufﬁcient future taxable income will be available to realise these assets.
Advance taxes and provisions for current income taxes are presented in the balance sheet after off-setting advance tax paid  and income tax provision arising in the same tax jurisdiction for relevant tax paying units and where the Company is able  to and intends to settle the asset and liability on a net basis.
The Company offsets deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities if it has a legally enforceable right and these relate to  taxes on income levied by the same governing taxation laws.
k) Foreign currency transactions   Income and expense in foreign currencies are converted at exchange rates prevailing on the date of the transaction.
Foreign  currency monetary assets and liabilities other than net investments in non-integral foreign operations are translated at the  exchange rate prevailing on the balance sheet date and exchange gains and losses are recognised in the statement of proﬁt  and loss.
Exchange difference arising on a monetary item that, in substance, forms part of an enterprise’s net investments  in a non-integral foreign operation are accumulated in a foreign currency translation reserve.
Premium or discount on foreign exchange forward, options and futures contracts are amortised and recognised in the  statement of proﬁt and loss over the period of the contract.
Foreign exchange forward, options and future contracts  outstanding at the balance sheet date, other than designated cash ﬂow hedges, are stated at fair values and any gains or  losses are recognised in the statement of proﬁt and loss.
l) Derivative instruments and hedge accounting   The Company uses foreign exchange forward, options and future contracts to hedge its risks associated with foreign  currency ﬂuctuations relating to certain ﬁrm commitments and forecasted transactions.
The Company designates these  hedging instruments as cash ﬂow hedges.
The use of hedging instruments is governed by the Company’s policy approved by the Board of Directors, which provide  written principles on the use of such ﬁnancial derivatives consistent with the Company’s risk management strategy.
Hedging instruments are initially measured at fair value, and are remeasured at subsequent reporting dates.
Changes in  the fair value of these derivatives that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash ﬂows are recognised directly in  shareholders’ funds and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the statement of proﬁt and loss.
The Company  separates the intrinsic value and time value of an option and designates as hedging instruments only the fair value change  in the intrinsic value of the option.
The change in fair values of the time value of option, is accumulated in hedging reserve,  a component of shareholders’ funds and is transferred to the statement of proﬁt and loss when the forecast transaction  occurs.
Changes in the fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the  statement of proﬁt and loss as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer  qualiﬁes for hedge accounting.
Cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in shareholders’ funds is  retained there and is transferred to the statement of proﬁt and loss when the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged  transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in shareholders’ funds is transferred  to the statement of proﬁt and loss.
Annual Report 2014-15 Unconsolidated Financial Statements184  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements  m) Inventories   Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined  on a weighted average basis.
Purchased goods-in-transit are carried at cost.
Work-in-progress is carried at the lower of  cost and net realisable value.
Stores and spare parts are carried at lower of cost and net realisable value.
Finished goods  produced or purchased by the Company are carried at lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes direct material  and labour cost and a proportion of manufacturing overheads.
n) Provisions, Contingent liabilities and Contingent assets   A provision is recognised when the Company has a present obligation as a result of past event and it is probable that an  outﬂow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, in respect of which reliable estimate can be made.
Provisions  (excluding retirement beneﬁts and compensated absences) are not discounted to its present value and are determined  based on best estimate required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
These are reviewed at each balance  sheet date and adjusted to reﬂect the current best estimates.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the ﬁnancial  statements.
A contingent asset is neither recognised nor disclosed in the ﬁnancial statements.
o) Cash and cash equivalents   The Company considers all highly liquid ﬁnancial instruments, which are readily convertible into known amount of cash  that are subject to an insigniﬁcant risk of change in value and having original maturities of three months or less from the  date of purchase, to be cash equivalents.
3) SHARE CAPITAL  The Authorised, Issued, Subscribed and Fully paid-up share capital comprises of equity shares and redeemable preference shares   having a par value of ` 1 each as follows: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 Authorised (i) 420,05,00,000 equity shares of ` 1 each (March 31, 2014 : 420,05,00,000 equity shares of ` 1 each) 420.05 420.05 (ii) 105,02,50,000 redeemable preference shares of ` 1 each (March 31, 2014 : 105,02,50,000 redeemable preference shares of ` 1 each) 105.03 105.03 525.08 525.08 Issued, Subscribed and Fully paid up 195,87,27,979 equity shares of ` 1 each 195.87 195.87 (March 31, 2014 : 195,87,27,979 equity shares of ` 1 each) 195.87 195.87  The Authorised Share Capital was increased to 420,05,00,000 equity shares of ` 1 each and 105,02,50,000 redeemable preference  shares of ` 1 each pursuant to the amalgamation of two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Retail FullServe Limited and Computational  Research Laboratories Limited vide Order dated March 22, 2013 and TCS e-Serve Limited vide Order dated September 6, 2013 of  the Hon’ble High Court of Judicature at Bombay.
(a) Reconciliation of number of shares As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 Number of shares Amount (` crores) Number of shares Amount (` crores) Equity shares Opening balance 195,87,27,979 195.87 195,72,20,996 195.72 Issued during the year -- 15,06,983 0.15 Closing balance 195,87,27,979 195.87 195,87,27,979 195.87 Preference shares Opening balance -- 100,00,00,000 100.00 Redeemed during the year -- (100,00,00,000) (100.00) Closing balance - - - - Unconsolidated Financial Statements 185  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements  (b) Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares   Equity shares   The Company has one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 1 each.
Each shareholder is eligible for one vote per  share held.
The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing  Annual General Meeting, except in case of interim dividend.
In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders are  eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, in proportion to their  shareholding.
Preference shares   Preference shares carried a ﬁxed cumulative dividend of 1% per annum and a variable non-cumulative dividend of   1% of the difference between the rate of dividend declared during the year on the equity shares of the Company and the  average rate of dividend declared on the equity shares of the Company for three years preceding the year of issue of the  redeemable preference shares.
(c) Shares held by Holding company, its Subsidiaries and Associates (` crores) As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 Equity shares Holding company 144,34,51,698 equity shares (March 31, 2014 : 144,34,51,698 equity shares) are held  by Tata Sons Limited 144.35 144.35 Subsidiaries and Associates of Holding company 10,29,700 equity shares (March 31, 2014 : 10,29,700 equity shares) are held by Tata  Industries Limited 0.10 0.10 5,90,452 equity shares (March 31, 2014 : 5,90,452 equity shares) are held by Tata  Investment Corporation Limited 0.06 0.06 200 equity shares (March 31, 2014 : 200 equity shares) are held by Tata Capital  Limited * - - 83,232 equity shares (March 31, 2014 : 83,232 equity shares) are held by Tata  International Limited 0.01 0.01 24,400 equity shares (March 31, 2014 : 24,400 equity shares) are held by Tata  Steel Limited * - - 452 equity shares (March 31, 2014 : 452 equity shares) are held by The Tata Power  Company Limited * - - Total 144.52 144.52   * Equity shares having value less than ` 50,000  (d) Details of shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate shares in the Company As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 Equity shares Tata Sons Limited, the Holding company 144,34,51,698 144,34,51,698 73.69% 73.69%    (e) Equity shares allotted as fully paid up (during 5 years preceding March 31, 2015) including equity shares issued  pursuant to contract without payment being received in cash   15,06,983 equity shares of ` 1 each have been issued to the shareholders of TCS e-Serve Limited in terms of the composite  scheme of arrangement (“the Scheme”) sanctioned by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay vide their order dated  September 6, 2013.
Annual Report 2014-15 Unconsolidated Financial Statements186  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 4) RESERVES AND SURPLUS  Reserves and surplus consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Capital redemption reserve (i) Opening balance 100.00 - (ii) Transferred on amalgamation (Refer Note 29) 0.40 - (iii) Addition during the year (net) - 100.00 100.40 100.00 (b) Capital reserve (i) Opening balance - - (ii) Transferred on amalgamation (Refer Note 29) 0.34 - 0.34 - (c) Securities premium reserve (i) Opening balance 1918.87 1918.47 (ii) Transferred on amalgamation - 0.40 1918.87 1918.87 (d) Foreign currency translation reserve (i) Opening balance 225.85 174.61 (ii) (Deduction) / addition during the year (net) (7.39) 51.24 218.46 225.85 (e) Hedging reserve account (Refer Note 39) (i) Opening balance 29.64 55.49 (ii) Transferred on amalgamation - (8.33) (iii) Addition / (deduction) during the year (net) 121.11 (17.52) 150.75 29.64 (f) General reserve (i) Opening balance 5161.20 5515.11 (ii) Adjustment on amalgamation (Refer Note 29) (34.20) (2201.40) (iii) Transferred from surplus in statement of proﬁt and loss 1925.69 1847.49 7052.69 5161.20 (g) Surplus in statement of proﬁt and loss (i) Opening balance 36420.45 24602.85 (ii) Add: Transferred on amalgamation (Refer Note 29) 71.78 2375.22 (ii) Add : Proﬁt for the year 19256.96 18474.92 55749.19 45452.99 Less : Appropriations (a)  Interim dividends on equity shares 10772.92 2349.87 (b)  Proposed ﬁnal dividend on equity shares 4700.95 3917.46 (c)  Dividend on redeemable preference shares - 28.76 (d)  Tax on dividend 2591.54 788.96 (e)  Write back of tax on dividend of prior year (20.97) - (f)  Capital redemption reserve - 100.00 (g)  General reserve 1925.69 1847.49 35779.06 36420.45 45220.57 43856.01  The Board of Directors at their meeting held on April 16, 2015 recommended a ﬁnal dividend of ` 24 per equity share.
Unconsolidated Financial Statements 187  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 5) LONG–TERM BORROWINGS  Long-term borrowings consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Secured loans Long-term maturities of obligations under ﬁnance lease (Refer Note 34) 64.13 88.64 (b) Unsecured loans Borrowings from entity other than banks 0.58 1.05 64.71 89.69  Obligations under ﬁnance lease are secured against ﬁxed assets obtained under ﬁnance lease arrangements.
6) DEFERRED TAX BALANCES  Deferred tax balances consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Deferred tax liabilities (net) (i) Foreign branch proﬁt tax 256.03 217.88 (ii) Depreciation and amortisation 15.43 8.99 271.46 226.87 (b) Deferred tax assets (net) (i) Depreciation and amortisation (146.58) (57.57) (ii) Employee beneﬁts 180.90 152.74 (iii) Operating lease liabilities 65.69 55.47 (iv) Provision for doubtful receivables, loans and advances 129.04 93.68 (v) Others 74.42 29.26 303.47 273.58 7) OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES  Other long-term liabilities consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Capital creditors 67.53 92.27 (b) Operating lease liabilities 310.90 254.18 (c) Others 343.72 343.99 722.15 690.44  Others include advance taxes paid of ` 333.28 crores (March 31, 2014:  ` 333.28 crores) by the seller of TCS e-Serve Limited which,  on refund by tax authorities, is payable to the seller.
8) LONG-TERM PROVISIONS  Long-term provisions consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Provision for employee beneﬁts : (i)  Gratuity - 137.70 (ii)  Other post retirement beneﬁts 32.43 31.23 (b) Provision for foreseeable loss on a long-term contract 94.48 110.68 126.91 279.61 Annual Report 2014-15 Unconsolidated Financial Statements188  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 9) SHORT–TERM BORROWINGS  Short-term borrowings consist of the following: (` crores) As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 Unsecured Loans Overdraft from bank 185.56 - 185.56 -     10) OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES  Other current liabilities consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Current maturities of long-term debt 0.47 0.47 (b) Current maturities of obligations under ﬁnance lease (Refer Note 34) 22.11 25.32 (c) Interest accrued but not due on borrowings 0.02 0.03 (d) Income received in advance 854.67 753.74 (e) Unclaimed dividends 19.41 13.49 (f) Advance received from customers 26.18 21.96 (g) Operating lease liabilities 44.86 26.26 (h) Fair value of foreign exchange forward and currency option contracts secured  against trade receivables 19.75 22.95 (i) Statutory liabilities 568.83 585.98 (j) Capital creditors 299.05 418.74 (k) Liabilities for cost related to customer contracts 615.99 566.37 (l) Other payables 20.13 25.01 2491.47 2460.32  Obligations under ﬁnance lease are secured against ﬁxed assets obtained under ﬁnance lease arrangements.
11) SHORT-TERM PROVISIONS  Short-term provisions consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Provision for employee beneﬁts 951.52 761.99 (b) Proposed ﬁnal dividend on equity shares 4700.95 3917.46 (c) Proposed dividend on redeemable preference shares - 28.76 (d) Tax on dividend 939.91 670.66 (e) Current income taxes (net) 323.93 411.35 (f) Provision for foreseeable loss on a long-term contract 103.04 37.61 7019.35 5827.83  Provision for employee beneﬁts include provision for compensated absences and other short-term employee beneﬁts.
Unconsolidated Financial Statements 189  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 12) FIXED ASSETS  Fixed assets consist of the following:   (i) Tangible assets (` crores) Description Freehold  land Leasehold  land Freehold  builidings Factory  builidings Leasehold  builidings Leasehold  improvements Plant and  machinery Computer  equipment Vehicles Ofﬁce  equipment Electrical  installations Furniture and  ﬁxtures Total Gross Block as at April 1, 2014 326.21 209.48 3137.73 2.77 9.81 976.73 10.29 3464.15 25.01 1318.34 942.76 754.73 11178.01325.57 193.97 2622.72 2.77 9.81 769.50 10.67 2818.87 22.12 1032.00 759.37 540.15 9107.52 Additions 0.30 1.01 1242.32 - - 207.97 116.40 709.86 4.72 207.95 241.02 200.90 2932.450.64 15.51 515.01 - - 165.80 - 544.12 2.85 220.03 151.36 179.45 1794.77 Assets acquired on amalgamation - - - - - - - 1.78 0.08 1.74 0.09 0.22 3.91- - - - - 63.92 - 222.07 2.26 79.86 46.09 40.31 454.51 Deletions / Adjustments - - (0.34) - - (0.59) (0.01) (41.89) (3.33) (1.70) (0.87) (2.01) (50.74)- - - - - (22.49) (0.38) (120.91) (2.22) (13.55) (14.06) (5.18) (178.79) Gross Block as at March 31, 2015 326.51 210.49 4379.71 2.77 9.81 1184.11 126.68 4133.90 26.48 1526.33 1183.00 953.84 14063.63326.21 209.48 3137.73 2.77 9.81 976.73 10.29 3464.15 25.01 1318.34 942.76 754.73 11178.01 Accumulated depreciation as at April 1, 2014 - (15.45) (577.96) (1.43) (8.53) (512.98) (10.27) (2483.94) (15.79) (589.27) (409.69) (665.61) (5290.92)- (12.58) (451.33) (1.23) (8.34) (405.62) (10.60) (1966.49) (13.13) (426.63) (304.61) (447.48) (4048.04) Depreciation for the year - (2.97) 138.11 (0.08) (0.21) (119.56) (5.99) (555.67) (5.58) (259.60) 1.75 (44.38) (854.18)- (2.87) (126.64) (0.20) (0.21) (93.75) (0.05) (449.53) (2.81) (113.26) (88.10) (187.88) (1065.30) Adjustments on amalgamation - - - - - - - (1.53) (0.08) (1.21) (0.06) (0.22) (3.10)- - - - - (35.41) - (184.75) (1.65) (67.94) (35.94) (35.41) (361.10) Deletions / Adjustments - - 0.08 - - 0.59 0.01 41.29 3.26 1.63 0.68 1.91 49.45- - 0.01 - 0.02 21.80 0.38 116.83 1.80 18.56 18.96 5.16 183.52 Accumulated depreciation as at March 31, 2015 - (18.42) (439.77) (1.51) (8.74) (631.95) (16.25) (2999.85) (18.19) (848.45) (407.32) (708.30) (6098.75)- (15.45) (577.96) (1.43) (8.53) (512.98) (10.27) (2483.94) (15.79) (589.27) (409.69) (665.61) (5290.92) Net book value as at March 31, 2015 326.51 192.07 3939.94 1.26 1.07 552.16 110.43 1134.05 8.29 677.88 775.68 245.54 7964.88326.21 194.03 2559.77 1.34 1.28 463.75 0.02 980.21 9.22 729.07 533.07 89.12 5887.09               Annual Report 2014-15 Unconsolidated Financial Statements190  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 12) FIXED ASSETS (contd.)
(ii) Intangible assets  (` crores) Description Intellectual  property /  distribution  rights Rights under  licensing  agreement Total Gross Block as at April 1, 2014 13.21 124.51 137.72 12.63 63.21 75.84 Additions - 0.06 0.06 0.58 3.02 3.60 Assets acquired on amalgamation - 3.84 3.84 - 57.94 57.94 Deletions / Adjustments --- - 0.34 0.34 Gross Block as at March 31, 2015 13.21 128.41 141.62 13.21 124.51 137.72 Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2014 (12.43) (83.19) (95.62) (11.82) (19.22) (31.04) Amortisation for the year (0.68) (10.53) (11.21) (0.61) (14.64) (15.25) Adjustments on amalgamation - (3.38) (3.38) - (49.19) (49.19) Deletions / Adjustments --- - (0.14) (0.14) Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2015 (13.11) (97.10) (110.21) (12.43) (83.19) (95.62) Net book value as at March 31, 2015 0.10 31.31 31.41 0.78 41.32 42.10  (iii)  Capital work-in-progress (` crores) Description Total Capital work-in-progress 2706.94 3047.53  Previous years’ ﬁgures are in italics.
(a) Freehold buildings include ` 2.67 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 2.67 crores) being value of investment in shares of Co-operative  Housing Societies and Limited Companies.
(b) Net book value of computer equipment of ` 18.49 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 30.54 crores) and leasehold improvements of   ` 56.65 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 67.13 crores) are under ﬁnance lease.
(c) Legal formalities relating to conveyance of freehold buildings having net book value ` 5.18 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 9.81 crores)  are pending completion.
Unconsolidated Financial Statements 191  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 13) NON-CURRENT INVESTMENTS  Non-current investments consist of the following: (` crores) In Numbers Currency Face Value  Per share Description As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 (A) TRADE INVESTMENTS (at cost) (i) Subsidiary companies (a) Fully paid equity shares (quoted) 1,54,89,922 INR 10 CMC Limited 379.89 379.89 (b) Fully paid equity shares (unquoted) 2,12,27,83,424 Peso 1 TCS Iberoamerica SA 461.31 461.31 15,75,300 INR 10 APOnline Limited - - 1,300 EUR - Tata Consultancy Services Belgium S.A. 1.06 1.06 66,000 EUR 1000 Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV 402.87 402.87 1,000 SEK 100 Tata Consultancy Services Sverige AB 18.89 18.89 1 EUR - Tata Consultancy Services Deutschland GmbH 1.72 1.72 20,000 USD 10 Tata America International Corporation 452.92 452.92 75,82,820 SGD 1 Tata Consultancy Services Asia Paciﬁc Pte Ltd. 18.69 18.69 - INR - WTI Advanced Technology Limited - 38.52 (Shares cancelled on amalagamation)   (Refer Note 29) 3,72,58,815 AUD 1 TCS FNS Pty Limited 211.72 211.72 10,00,001 GBP 1 Diligenta Limited 429.05 429.05 1,000 USD - Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc. * - - 100 CAD 70653.61 Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc. 31.25 31.25 51,00,000 INR 10 C-Edge Technologies Limited 5.10 5.10 8,90,000 INR 10 MP Online Limited 0.89 0.89 - Dirhams - Tata Consultancy Services Morocco SARL AU - 8.17 (Shares cancelled on voluntary liquidation) 1,40,00,000 RAND 1 Tata Consultancy Services (Africa) (PTY) Ltd. 65.75 4.92 (56,00,000 shares subscribed during the year) 18,89,000 INR 10 MahaOnline Limited 1.89 1.89 - QAR - Tata Consultancy Services Qatar S.S.C.
2.44 2.44 - USD - Computational Research Laboratories Inc. - - (Shares cancelled on voluntary liquidation) 10,00,000 INR 100 TCS e-Serve International Limited 10.00 10.00 10,00,000 INR 10 TCS Foundation - - (c) Fully paid preference shares (unquoted) 1,10,00,000 GBP 1 Diligenta Limited 101.75 359.45 10% cumulative redeemable preference shares (2,50,00,000 cumulative preference shares  redeemed during the year) (ii) Others (a) Fully paid equity shares (quoted) 46,386 USD 0.001 Yodlee, Inc. - - (b) Fully paid equity shares (unquoted) 25,00,000 INR 10 National Power Exchange Limited 2.50 2.50 1,90,00,000 INR 10 Taj Air Limited 19.00 19.00 69 EUR 297 ALMC HF * - - 20,00,000 INR 10 KOOH Sports Private Limited 3.00 3.00 1 INR 10 Ruralshores Business Services Private Limited* - - Annual Report 2014-15 Unconsolidated Financial Statements192  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements (` crores) In Numbers Currency Face Value  Per share Description As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 (c) Fully paid preference shares (unquoted) 4,86,617 INR 10 Ruralshores Business Services Private Limited 25.00 25.00 (B) OTHERS (i) Mutual and other funds (unquoted) 1,000 INR 100000 India Innovation Fund (` 70,384 paid up per share) 7.04 6.36 (ii) Government securities (unquoted) - INR - 8.26% Government of India Bond (2027) - 25.00 (iii) Bonds and Debentures (unquoted) - The Industrial Development Bank of  India - INR - 8.00% IDBI Bonds (2018) - 0.10 Infrastructure Development Finance  Company Limited - INR - 9.225% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 98.08 - INR - 8.49% non-convertible debentures (2016) - 19.05 - INR - 9.15% non-convertible debentures (2016) - 48.63 LIC Housing Finance Limited - INR - 8.76% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 29.36 - INR - 9.02% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 97.32 - INR - 9.21% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 29.35 - INR - 9.38% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 24.36 - INR - 9.39% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 49.25 - INR - 9.60% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 73.83 - INR - 9.62% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 14.76 - INR - 9.62% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 9.92 - INR - 9.90% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 24.70 - INR - 9.75% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 4.93 - INR - 9.75% non-convertible debentures (2016) - 19.85 Panatone Finvest Limited - INR - 9.50% non-convertible debentures (2016) - 200.00 Power Finance Corporation Limited - INR - 9.46% Bonds (2015) - 24.45 State Bank of India - INR - 9.05% Bonds (2020) - 33.40 Tata Capital Housing Finance Limited - INR - 10.05% non-convertible debentures (2017) - 25.00 Tata Chemicals Limited - INR - 10.00% non-convertible debentures (2019) - 25.00 Tata Housing Development Company  Limited - INR - 10.20% non-convertible debentures (2017) - 66.98 Tata Motors Limited - INR - 9.05% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 96.84 - INR - 9.15% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 43.67 - INR - 9.22% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 24.10 - INR - 9.69% non-convertible debentures (2019) - 75.00 - INR - 10.00% non-convertible debentures (2019) - 125.00 13) NON-CURRENT INVESTMENTS (contd.)
Unconsolidated Financial Statements 193  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements (` crores) In Numbers Currency Face Value  Per share Description As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 Tata Sons Limited - INR - 8.80% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 53.48 - INR - 9.98% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 144.78 - INR - 9.30% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 4.89 - INR - 9.67% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 58.95 - INR - 9.78% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 172.80 - INR - 9.75% non-convertible debentures (2016) - 7.00 - INR - 9.68% non-convertible debentures (2017) - 127.12 - INR - 9.85% non-convertible debentures (2017) - 19.76 - INR - 9.87% non-convertible debentures (2017) - 86.61 - INR - 9.87% non-convertible debentures (2017) - 114.44 - INR - 8.85% non-convertible debentures (2018) - 47.35 - INR - 8.97% non-convertible debentures (2020) - 50.00 - INR - 9.10% non-convertible debentures (2020) - 15.00 ALMC HF 69 EUR 297 0 % Bonds (2014) 0.12 0.12 2653.85 5106.84 Provision for diminution in value of  investments (2.62) (8.29) 2651.23 5098.55 Book value of quoted investments 379.89 379.89 Book value of unquoted investments (net of  provision) 2271.34 4718.66 Market value of quoted investments 2974.41 2151.32  * Non-current investments having a value of less than ` 50,000.
The Company has given an undertaking to the investors of KOOH Sports Private Limited not to transfer its shareholding prior  to the expiry of thirty-six months from the completion date of the investment agreement except with the prior written consent  of the other parties to the agreement.
The restriction is valid as on March 31, 2015.
The Company has given letter of comfort to various banks for credit and / or foreign exchange hedging facilities availed  by its subsidiaries (a) Tata America International Corporation, (b) Tata Consultancy Services Switzerland Limited, (c) Tata  Consultancy Services Sverige AB, (d) Tata Consultancy Services Belgium S.A., (e) Tata Consultancy Services Deutschland GmbH,  (f) Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A. De CV, (g) Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV (h) Tata Consultancy Services  Asia Paciﬁc Pte Ltd, (i) Tata Consultancy Services Qatar S.S.C.
(j) TCS Italia SRL, (k) Tata Consultancy Services France S.A.S.,   (l) Tata Consultancy Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd, and (m) Tata Consultancy Services Luxembourg S.A. As per the terms of letter of  comfort, the Company undertakes not to divest its ownership interest directly or indirectly in the subsidiaries and provide such  managerial, technical and ﬁnancial assistance to ensure continued successful operations of the subsidiaries.
On July 1, 2014, the Company through its wholly owned subsidiary Tata Consultancy Services Asia Paciﬁc Pte Ltd., acquired a  controlling interest (51%) in IT Frontier Corporation (referred to as ITF) from Mitsubishi Corporation in Japan in exchange for   a total purchase consideration of ` 357.93 crores (USD 59.60 million) consisting of a transfer of 49% ownership interest in Tata  Consultancy Services Japan Ltd. to Mitsubishi Corporation and a cash consideration of  ` 288.88 crores (USD 48.10 million).
On August 7, 2014, Tata Consultancy Services Morocco SARL AU, a wholly owned subsidiary, has been voluntarily liquidated.
On February 18, 2015, Computational Research Laboratories Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary, has been voluntarily liquidated.
On September 16, 2014, the Company acquired additional 40% ownership interest in Tata Consultancy Services (Africa) (Pty) Ltd,  for a purchase consideration of ` 60.83 crores (USD 10 million) from Tata Africa Holdings (SA) Proprietary Limited and thereby  making it a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
On March 23, 2015, TCS Management Pty Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of TCS FNS Pty Limited, has been voluntarily liquidated.
On March 25, 2015 the Company subscribed to 100% Share Capital of TCS Foundation, a not for proﬁt initiative registered under  Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 with a paid-up capital of ` 1 crore.
TCS Foundation aims at promoting projects and / or  programmes relating to Corporate Social Responsibility activities of the Company and its subsidiaries.
13) NON-CURRENT INVESTMENTS (contd.)
Annual Report 2014-15 Unconsolidated Financial Statements194  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 14) LONG-TERM LOANS AND ADVANCES  Long-term loans and advances (unsecured) consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Considered good (i) Capital advances 201.90 351.99 (ii) Security deposits 538.00 548.23 (iii) Loans and advances to employees 8.88 7.04 (iv) Loans and advances to related parties 21.98 138.41 (v) Advance tax (including refunds receivable (net)) 3884.22 2913.02 (vi) MAT Credit entitlement 1801.78 1810.61 (vii) Indirect tax recoverable 48.89 54.76 (viii) Inter-corporate deposits 1572.00 858.00 (ix) Prepaid expenses 354.18 189.68 (x) Other amounts recoverable in cash or kind or for value to be received 20.72 3.80 (b) Considered doubtful (i) Security deposits 0.15 0.15 (ii) Loans and advances to related parties - 19.37 Less : Provision for doubtful loans and advances (0.15) (19.52) 8452.55 6875.54 Loans and advances to related parties, considered good, comprise: Tata Sons Limited 2.74 2.74 TCS FNS Pty Limited 6.18 10.02 CMC Limited 12.67 0.26 Tata Realty and Infrastructure Limited 0.39 45.39 Tata Capital Financial Services Limited - 80.00 Loans and advances to related parties, considered doubtful, comprise: Tata Consultancy Services Morocco SARL AU - 19.37 15) OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS  Other non-current assets consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Interest receivable 24.33 34.52 (b) Long-term bank deposits 500.00 1477.00 (c) Earmarked balances with banks 0.35 25.00 (d) Discount on bonds and debentures receivable on maturity - 8.47 524.68 1544.99 Unconsolidated Financial Statements 195  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 16) CURRENT INVESTMENTS  Current investments consist of the following: (` crores) In Numbers Currency Face Value  Per share Description As at   March 31, 2015 As at    March 31, 2014 (i) Mutual and other funds (unquoted) 60,00,000 INR 10 HDFC Debt Fund for Cancer Cure - 50%  Dividend Donation Option 6.00 6.00 42,98,238 INR 100 Birla Sun Life Cash Plus - Growth-Direct Plan 96.47 - 2,60,751 INR 1000 L&T Liquid Fund Direct Plan - Growth 50.00 - 11,42,663 INR 1000 Tata Liquid Fund Direct Plan - Growth 295.00 - 13,61,292 INR 10 Tata Money Market Fund Direct Plan 300.00 - (ii) Bonds and Debentures (unquoted) Housing Development Finance  Corporation Limited - INR - 9.20% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 34.83 Housing Urban Development  Corporation Limited - INR - 10.00% Bonds (2014) - 1.50 Infrastructure Development Finance  Company Limited - INR - 9.20% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 49.20 - INR - 9.36% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 73.42 LIC Housing Finance Limited - INR - 9.80% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 19.84 National Housing Bank - INR - 9.37% Bonds (2015) - 39.15 Power Finance Corporation Limited - INR - 8.60% non-convertible debentures (2014) - 34.26 - INR - 8.85% non-convertible debentures (2014) - 68.15 - INR - 9.63% Bonds (2014) - 98.19 - INR - 9.55% Bonds (2015) - 49.03 Rural Electriﬁcation Corporation - INR - 8.84% Bonds (2014) - 19.45 Tata Motors Limited - INR - 9.85% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 39.43 Tata Sons Limited - INR - 10.25% non-convertible debentures (2014) - 25.00 - INR - 9.78% non-convertible debentures (2015) - 164.13 Pre-acquisition interest - 12.29 747.47 733.87 Annual Report 2014-15 Unconsolidated Financial Statements196  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 17) INVENTORIES  Inventories consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components 10.07 7.23 (b) Finished goods and Work-in-progress 0.46 0.61 (c) Goods-in-transit (raw materials) 1.81 0.73 12.34 8.57  Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
18) UNBILLED REVENUE  Unbilled revenue as at March 31, 2015 amounting to ` 2439.36 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 2626.08 crores) primarily includes  revenue recognised in relation to ef forts incurred on turnkey contracts priced on a ﬁxed time, ﬁxed price basis.
19) TRADE RECEIVABLES  Trade receivables (Unsecured) consist of the following: (` crores) As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 (a) Over six months from the date they were due for payment (i) Considered good 1825.69 1658.48 (ii) Considered doubtful 322.17 224.68 (b) Others (i) Considered good 15211.07 12813.41 (ii) Considered doubtful 22.93 - 17381.86 14696.57 Less: Provision for doubtful receivables (345.10) (224.68) 17036.76 14471.89 20) CASH AND BANK BALANCES  Cash and bank balances consist of the following: (` crores) As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 (a) Cash and cash equivalents (i) Balances with banks In current accounts 303.90 264.69 In deposit accounts with original maturity less than three months 77.64 141.85 (ii) Cheques on hand 46.49 14.81 (iii) Cash on hand 0.50 1.00 (iv) Remittances in transit 1.25 16.02 429.78 438.37 (b) Other bank balances (i) Earmarked balances with banks 69.97 14.99 (ii) Short-term bank deposits 16002.75 12112.90 16502.50 12566.26 Unconsolidated Financial Statements 197  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 21) SHORT-TERM LOANS AND ADVANCES  Short–term loans and advances (Unsecured) consist of the following: (` crores) As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 (a) Considered good (i) Loans and advances to employees 272.59 260.20 (ii) Loans and advances to related parties 12.32 348.71 (iii) Security deposits 104.17 63.07 (iv) Indirect tax recoverable 157.82 183.88 (v) Inter-corporate deposits 1063.00 1500.00 (vi) Prepaid expenses 1143.00 888.62 (vii) Advance to suppliers 59.76 56.40 (viii) Fair value of foreign exchange forward and currency option contracts 365.38 346.34 (ix) Other amounts recoverable in cash or kind or for value to be received 174.14 40.90 (b) Considered doubtful (i) Loans and advances to employees 49.13 42.28 (ii) Security deposits 2.60 3.11 (iii) Indirect tax recoverable 1.74 - (iv) Advance to suppliers `2.89 3.89 (v) Other amounts recoverable in cash or kind or for value to be received 2.00 2.96 Less : Provision for doubtful loans and advances (58.36) (52.24) 3352.18 3688.12 Loans and advances to related parties, considered good, comprise: TCS FNS Pty Limited 5.10 39.46 Tata Consultancy Services Asia Paciﬁc Pte Ltd. - 1.02 CMC Limited 0.73 0.68 CMC America Inc. - 0.01 Tata Consultancy Services (Africa) (Pty) Limited 0.55 - TCS e-Serve International Limited 0.40 - C-Edge Technologies Limited 5.49 7.48 Tata America International Corporation 0.03 - APOnline Limited 0.01 - Tata Realty and Infrastructure Limited - 50.00 Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited 0.01 0.02 Tata Housing Development Company Limited - 50.00 Tata Capital Financial Services Limited - 200.00 Inﬁniti Retail Limited - 0.04 22) OTHER CURRENT ASSETS  Other current assets consist of the following: (` crores) As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 (a) Interest receivable 339.53 715.61 (b) Dividend receivable - 19.25 (c) Discount on bonds and debentures receivable on maturity - 5.16 339.53 740.02 Annual Report 2014-15 Unconsolidated Financial Statements198  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 23) REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS  Revenue from operations consist of revenue from: (` crores) 2015 2014 (a) Information technology and consultancy services 72160.74 63332.83 (b) Sale of equipment and software licenses 1417.32 1340.10 73578.06 64672.93 24) OTHER INCOME (NET)  Other income (net) consist of the following: (` crores) 2015 2014 (a) Interest income 1554.93 1280.07 (b) Dividend income 1335.13 1610.95 (c) Proﬁt on redemption of mutual funds and sale of other investments (net) 225.99 162.77 (d) Rent 2.85 4.70 (e) Proﬁt on sale of ﬁxed assets (net) 2.94 2.01 (f) Exchange gain (net) 1278.63 5.00 (g) Miscellaneous income 66.26 49.21 4466.73 3114.71 Interest income comprise: Interest on bank deposits 1165.11 676.84 Interest on inter-corporate deposits 264.14 330.50 Interest on long-term bonds and debentures 120.32 254.05 Interest on loan given to subsidiary 1.12 2.48 Others 4.24 16.20 Dividend income comprise: Dividends from subsidiaries (non-current trade investments) 1334.65 1610.60 Dividends from mutual funds (current investments) 0.48 0.35 Proﬁt on redemption of mutual funds and sale of other investments (net) comprise : From non-current investments (net) 24.78 0.36 From current investments (net) 201.21 162.41 Exchange gain (net) include: Gain / (Loss) on foreign exchange forward and currency option contracts which  have been designated as Cash Flow Hedges.
(Refer Note 39) 344.60 (749.49) 25) EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSE  Employee beneﬁt expense consist of the following: (` crores) 2015 2014 (a) Salaries and incentives (Refer Note 50) 24441.85 19039.28 (b) Contributions : (Refer Note 30) (i) Provident fund 571.65 514.91 (ii) Superannuation scheme 163.47 136.29 (iii) Gratuity fund 301.42 130.02 (iv) Social security and other plans for overseas employees 501.25 382.66 (c) Staff welfare expenses 1388.68 1263.40 27368.32 21466.56 Unconsolidated Financial Statements 199  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 26) OPERATION AND OTHER EXPENSES  Operation and other expenses consist of the following: (` crores) 2015 2014 (a) Overseas business expenses 11817.63 10149.37 (b) Services rendered by business associates and others 5046.61 4398.42 (c) Software, hardware and material costs 2932.16 2442.64 (d) Communication expenses 641.50 529.48 (e) Travelling and conveyance expenses 812.94 671.40 (f) Rent 1072.70 1044.05 (g) Legal and professional fees 333.54 277.84 (h) Repairs and maintenance 491.18 404.36 (i) Electricity expenses 493.36 463.25 (j) Bad debts written off (net) 5.69 2.37 (k) Provision for doubtful receivables (net) 124.56 68.26 (l) Advances written off / (recovered) (net) 19.50 (0.12) (m) Provision for doubtful advances (net) (13.10) 8.78 (n) Recruitment and training expenses 235.10 205.06 (o) Diminution in value of long-term investments 2.50 - (p) Printing and stationery 39.75 40.91 (q) Insurance 22.33 22.32 (r) Rates and taxes 95.59 79.05 (s) Entertainment 44.97 40.04 (t) Other expenses (Refer Note 36) 963.03 825.17 25181.54 21672.65 (i) Overseas business expenses comprise: Travel expenses 930.73 833.09 Employee allowances 10886.90 9316.28 (ii) Repairs and maintenance comprise: Buildings 227.72 207.17 Ofﬁce and computer equipment 263.46 197.19 (iii) Software, hardware and material costs include: Material costs (a) Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components consumed 64.62 39.77 (b) Opening stock:  Finished goods and work-in-progress 0.61 0.54 (c) Less: Closing stock:  Finished goods and work-in-progress 0.46 0.61 0.15 (0.07) 64.77 39.70 (iv) Other expenses include: (a) Stores and spare parts consumed 0.06 0.02 (b) Donation to Electoral Trust 1.49 - 27) FINANCE COSTS  Finance costs consist of the following: (` crores) 2015 2014 Interest expense 79.57 23.41 79.57 23.41 Annual Report 2014-15 Unconsolidated Financial Statements200  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 28) Current tax includes additional provision (net) of ` 61.33 crores (March 31, 2014 : additional provision (net) ` 467.62 crores)  in domestic and certain overseas jurisdictions relating to earlier years.
The impact of MA T entitlement of earlier period is   ` 8.83 crores (March 31, 2014 : ` 451.92 crores).
29) AMALGAMATION OF COMPANIES  WTI Advanced Technology Limited   a)  Nature of business    WTI Advanced Technology Limited is engaged in the business of Information Technology (IT) and Information  Technology Engineering Services (ITES).
The Company holds 100.00% of the voting power of WTI Advanced   Technology Limited.
b) WTI Advanced Technology Limited has been amalgamated with the Company with effect from April 1, 2014   (“the appointed date”) in terms of the scheme of amalgamation (Scheme) sanctioned by the High Court of  Judicature at Bombay vide their Order dated March 27, 2015.
Pursuant thereto all assets, unbilled revenue, debts,  outstandings, credits, liabilities, beneﬁts under income tax, service tax, excise, value added tax, sales tax (including  deferment of sales tax), beneﬁts for and under Software Technology Parks of India (STPI), duties and obligations of   WTI Advanced Technology Limited, have been transferred to and vested in the Company retrospectively with effect from   April 1, 2014.
Since WTI Advanced Technology Limited, amalgamated as aforesaid, was wholly owned by the Company, no shares  were exchanged to effect the amalgamation.
c) The amalgamation has been accounted for under the ‘pooling of interests’ method as prescribed by Accounting  Standard 14 speciﬁed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013, read with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts)  Rules, 2014.
Accordingly, the assets, liabilities and reserves of WTI Advanced Technology Limited as at April 1, 2014  have been taken over at their book values and in the same form.
The difference between the amounts recorded as investments of the Company and the amount of Share Capital of  WTI Advanced Technology Limited has been adjusted in the General Reserve.
Accordingly, the amalgamation has resulted in transfer of assets, liabilities and reserves in accordance with the terms  of the Scheme at the following summarised values: Particulars Amalgamation of WTI  Advanced Technology  Limited Appointed date of amalgamation April 1, 2014 Assets Fixed Assets (Net) 1.27 Trade receivables 18.26 Cash and bank balances 41.59 Investments 7.75 Loans and advances and other assets 9.83 Less: Liabilities Trade payables, other liabilities and provisions 1.86 Total net assets acquired 76.84 Less: Adjustment for cancellation of Company’s investment in WTI Advanced Technology  Limited 38.52 Less: Transfer of Capital subsidy reserve of WTI Advanced Technology Limited 0.34 Less: Transfer of Capital redemption reserve of WTI Advanced Technology Limited 0.40 Less: Transfer of balances of Surplus in Statement of Proﬁt and Loss account of WTI  Advanced Technology Limited 71.78 Balance transferred to general reserve as at appointed date (34.20) Unconsolidated Financial Statements 201  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 30) EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT BENEFITS  (a) Deﬁned contribution plans   The  Company makes Provident fund, Superannuation fund and foreign deﬁned contribution fund contributions to deﬁned  contribution retirement beneﬁt plans for eligible employees.
Under the schemes, the Company is required to contribute  a speciﬁed percentage of the payroll costs to fund the beneﬁts.
In respect of Provident fund contributions to trust set up  for this purpose, the Company is generally liable for annual contribution and any deﬁciency in interest cost compared  to interest computed based on the rate of interest declared by the Central Government under the Employees’ Provident  Fund Scheme, 1952.
In addition to such contributions, the Company also recognises potential deﬁciency in interest, if any,  computed as per acturial valuation of interest as an expense in the year it is determined.
As of March 31, 2015, the fair value of the assets of the fund and the accumulated members’ corpus is ` 7939.41 crores  and ` 7419.41 crores respectively.
In accordance with an actuarial valuation, there is no deﬁciency in the interest cost as  the present value of the expected future earnings on the fund is greater than the expected amount to be credited to  the individual members based on the expected guaranteed rate of interest of 8.75%.
The actuarial assumptions include  discount rate of 8.00% and an average expected future period of 7.35 years.
The Company recognised ` 571.65 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 514.91 crores) for provident fund contributions and   ` 163.47 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 136.29 crores) for superannuation contributions in the statement of proﬁt and loss.
The  contributions payable to these plans by the Company are at rates speciﬁed in the rules of the schemes.
The Company has contributed ` 267.63 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 177.75 crores) towards foreign deﬁned contribution plans.
(b) Deﬁned beneﬁt plans   The Company makes annual contributions to the Employees’ Group Gratuity-cum-Life Assurance Scheme, a funded deﬁned  beneﬁt plan for eligible employees.
The scheme provides for lump sum payment to vested employees at retirement, death  while in employment or on termination of employment of an amount equivalent to 15 days salary for service less than 15  years, three-fourth month’s salary for service of 15 years to 19 years and one month salary for service of 20 years and more,  payable for each completed year of service or part thereof in excess of six months.
Vesting occurs upon completion of ﬁve  years of service.
The present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation and the related current service cost are measured using the Projected  Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
The following table sets out funded status of the gratuity plan and the amounts recognised in the Company’s ﬁnancial  statements as at March 31, 2015.
(` crores) As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 i) Change in beneﬁt obligations: Projected beneﬁt obligation, beginning of the year 987.22 830.16 Service cost 163.69 151.72 Interest cost 95.87 68.46 Liabilities transferred on amalgamation 0.47 21.58 Actuarial loss / (gain) 131.41 (21.14) Beneﬁts paid (114.54) (67.48) Past service cost 0.20 3.92 Projected beneﬁt obligation, end of the year 1264.32 987.22 (` crores) As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 ii) Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets, beginning of the year 849.52 593.50 Expected return on plan assets 83.79 51.04 Employers’ contributions 616.53 227.88 Assets transferred on amalgamation 0.65 22.68 Beneﬁts paid (114.54) (67.48) Actuarial gain 5.96 21.90 Fair value of plan assets, end of the year 1441.91 849.52 Excess / (deﬁcit) of plan assets over obligations 177.59 (137.70) Accrued asset / (liability) 177.59 (137.70) Annual Report 2014-15 Unconsolidated Financial Statements202  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements (` crores) iii) Net gratuity cost: 2015 2014 Service cost 163.69 151.72 Interest on deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 95.87 68.46 Expected return on plan assets (83.79) (51.04) Net Actuarial losses / (gains) recognised in the year 125.45 (43.04) Past service cost 0.20 3.92 Net gratuity cost 301.42 130.02 Actual return on plan assets 89.75 72.94 (` crores) iv) Category of assets: As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 Corporate Bonds 174.55 - Insurer managed funds 737.67 849.49 Government Securities 265.55 - Bank balance 217.33 - Others 46.81 0.04 Total 1441.91 849.53 As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 v) Assumptions used in accounting for gratuity plan: % % Discount rate 8.00 9.00 Salary escalation rate 6.00 6.00 Expected rate of return on plan assets 8.00 9.00  The estimate of future salary increase considered in actuarial valuation takes account of inﬂation, seniority, promotion and  other relevant factors such as supply and demand factors in the employment market.
The expected return on plan assets is determined considering several applicable factors mainly the composition of the plan  assets held, assessed risk of asset management, historical results of the return on plan assets and the Company’s policy for plan  asset management.
(` crores) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Experience adjustment On plan liabilities loss / (gain) 32.06 (56.09) (18.10) 43.75 35.00 On plan assets gain 5.96 21.90 4.00 6.63 5.67 Present value of beneﬁt obligation 1264.32 987.22 830.16 679.25 552.80 Fair value of plan assets 1441.91 849.52 593.50 542.04 494.42 Excess / (deﬁcit) of plan assets over obligations 177.59 (137.70) (236.66) (137.21) (58.38)  The expected contribution is based on the same assumptions used to measure the Company’s gratuity obligations as at   March 31, 2015.
The Company is expected to contribute ` 8.49 crores for the year ended March 31, 2016.
30) EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT BENEFITS (contd.)
Unconsolidated Financial Statements 203  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 31) SEGMENT REPORTING  The Company has identiﬁed business segments (industry practice) as its primary segment and geographic segments as its  secondary segment.
Business segments comprise banking, ﬁnance and insurance services, manufacturing, retail and consumer packaged goods,  telecom, media and entertainment and others such as energy, resources and utilities, Hi-tech, life science and healthcare,  s-Governance, travel, transportation and hospitality, products, etc.
Revenue and expenses directly attributable to segments are reported under each reportable segment.
Expenses which are not  directly identiﬁable to speciﬁc segment have been allocated on the basis of associated revenue of the segment and manpower  efforts.
All other expenses which are not attributable or allocable to segments have been disclosed as unallocable expenses.
Assets and liabilities that are directly attributable or allocable to segments are disclosed under each reportable segment.
All  other assets and liabilities are disclosed as unallocable.
Fixed assets that are used interchangeably among segments are not  allocated to primary and secondary segments.
Geographical revenue is allocated based on the location of the customer.
Geographic segments of the Company are Americas  (including Canada and South American countries), Europe, India and Others.
(` crores) Particulars Business Segments Banking,  Financial  Services and  Insurance Manufacturing Retail and  Consumer  Packaged  Goods Telecom,   Media and   Entertainment Others Total Year ended March 31, 2015 Revenue 28871.39 6514.53 10876.56 9217.83 18097.75 73578.06 26574.48 5675.56 9705.09 8070.53 14647.27 64672.93 Segment result 8801.09 1821.43 2863.46 2490.17 5054.55 21030.70 9708.21 1798.36 3258.34 2440.33 4328.48 21533.72 Unallocable expenses (net) 1475.84 1103.96 Operating income 19554.86 20429.76 Other income (net) 4466.73 3114.71 Proﬁt before Exceptional item and tax 24021.59 23544.47 Exceptional item 528.38 - Proﬁt before tax 24549.97 23544.47 Tax expense 5293.01 5069.55 Proﬁt for the year 19256.96 18474.92 Annual Report 2014-15 Unconsolidated Financial Statements204  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements (` crores) Particulars Business Segments Banking,  Financial  Services and  Insurance Manufacturing Retail and  Consumer  Packaged  Goods Telecom,  Media and  Entertainment Others Total As at March 31, 2015 Segment assets 6164.34 1809.16 2620.90 2947.68 6509.17 20051.25 5534.01 1518.29 2366.27 2729.88 5653.86 17802.31 Unallocable assets 43014.05 39801.88 Total assets 63065.30 57604.19 Segment liabilities 1774.71 290.22 472.25 490.29 1049.27 4076.74 774.45 135.37 114.71 145.11 505.71 1675.35 Unallocable liabilities 13572.12 11876.96 Total liabilities 17648.86 13552.31 Year ended March 31, 2015  Other Information Capital Expenditure (unallocable) 2599.67 3594.50 Depreciation and amortisation  (unallocable) 865.39 1080.55 Other signiﬁcant non cash expense  (allocable) 19.34 6.46 47.08 1.08 62.69 136.65 9.67 2.90 1.96 27.12 37.64 79.29 Other signiﬁcant non cash expense  (net) (unallocable) 2.50 -  The following geographic segments individually contribute 10 percent or more of the Company’s revenue and segment assets: (` crores) Geographic segments Revenue for the year   ended March 31, 2015 Segment assets as at   March 31, 2015 Americas 41969.70 9331.78 37315.21 7210.97 Europe 19965.38 5931.83 17159.39 5856.30 India 4875.99 4202.63 4420.91 4062.84  Previous years’ ﬁgures are in italics.
31) SEGMENT REPORTING (contd.)
Unconsolidated Financial Statements 205  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 32) RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES  A) Related parties and their relationship I)  Holding Company Tata Sons Limited II)(A) Subsidiaries (Direct holding) II)(B) Subsidiaries (Indirect holding) 1.
CMC Limited i. CMC Americas Inc. ii.
CMC eBiz Inc. 2.
Tata Consultancy Services Sverige AB 3.
Tata Consultancy Services Asia Paciﬁc Pte  Ltd. i. Tata Consultancy Services Japan Ltd. (merged with  IT Frontier Corporation (a susbsidiary of Mitsubishi  Corporation) w.e.f 01.07.2014) ii.
Tata Consultancy Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd iii.
Tata Consultancy Services (China) Co., Ltd. iv.
PT Tata Consultancy Services Indonesia v. Tata Consultancy Services (Thailand) Limited vi.
Tata Consultancy Services (Philippines) Inc. vii.
Nippon TCS Solution Center Limited   (merged with Tata Consultancy Services Japan Ltd.   w.e.f 01.07.2014) viii.
Tata Information Technology (Shanghai) Co. Limited  (Amalgamated with Tata Consultancy services (China)   Co., Ltd. w.e.f.
05.11.2013) ix.
Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd. (new entity formed  w.e.f 1.07.2014 pursuant to the merger of Tata Consultancy  Services Japan Ltd. and IT Frontier Corporation) 4.
TCS Iberoamerica SA i. TCS Solution Center S.A. ii.
Tata Consultancy Services Argentina S.A. iii.
Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A., De C.V. iv.
TCS Inversiones Chile Limitada v. Tata Consultancy Services Do Brasil Ltda vi.
Tata Consultancy Services Chile S.A. vii TATASOLUTION CENTER S.A. viii.
TCS Uruguay S.A. ix.
MGDC S.C. 5.
Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV i. Tata Consultancy Services Luxembourg S.A. ii.
Tata Consultancy Services Switzerland Ltd. iii.
Tata Consultancy Services France S.A.S.
iv.
TCS Italia SRL v. Tata Consultancy Services Osterreich GmbH vi.
Tata Consultancy Services Danmark ApS vii.
Tata Consultancy Services De Espana S.A. viii.
Tata Consultancy Services Portugal Unipessoal Limitada ix.
Alti S.A. x. Planaxis Technologies Inc. xi.
Alti HR S.A.S.
xii.
Alti Infrastructures Systemes & Reseaux S.A.S.
xiii.
Alti NV xiv.
Tescom (France) Software Systems Testing S.A.R.L.
xv.
Alti Switzerland S.A. xvi.
Teamlink Annual Report 2014-15 Unconsolidated Financial Statements206  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements II)(A) Subsidiaries (Direct holding) II)(B) Subsidiaries (Indirect holding) 6.
TCS FNS Pty Limited i. TCS Financial Solutions Australia Holdings Pty Limited ii.
TCS Financial Solutions Australia Pty Limited iii.
PT Financial Network Services iv.
TCS Management Pty Ltd. (Liquidated w.e.f.
23.03.2015) v. TCS Financial Solutions Beijing Co., Ltd. 7.
APOnline Limited 8.
Tata America International Corporationi.
MS CJV Investments Corporation 9.
Tata Consultancy Services Belgium S.A. 10.
Tata Consultancy Services Deutschland GmbH 11.
Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc. 12.
Diligenta Limitedi.
Diligenta 2 Limited 13.
WTI Advanced Technology Limited  (Amalgamated with Tata Consultancy  Services Limited pursuant to the order  dated 27.03.2015 of the Hon’ble High Court  of Judicature at Bombay.
Effective Date:  01.04.2015.
Appointed Date: 01.04.2014) 14.
C-Edge Technologies Limited 15.
MP Online Limited 16.
Tata Consultancy Services Morocco SARL AU  (liquidated w.e.f.
30.05.2014 vide court order  dated 07.08.2014) 17.
Tata Consultancy Services (Africa)(PTY) Ltd. i. Tata Consultancy Services (South Africa) (PTY) Ltd. 18.
TCS e-Serve International Limited i. TCS e-Serve America, Inc. 19.
MahaOnline Limited 20.
Tata Consultancy Services Qatar S.S.C.
21.
Computational Research Laboratories Inc.  (liquidated w.e.f.
18.02.2015) 22.
TCS Foundation (entity incorporated  on 13.03.2015 under Section 8 of the  Companies Act, 2013) III) Fellow Subsidiaries with whom the Company has transactions s Inﬁniti Retail Limited s Panatone Finvest Limited s Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited s Tata AIA Life Insurance Company Limited s Tata Investment Corporation Limited s Tata Limited s Tata Asset Management Limited s Tata Business Support Services Limited s Tata Capital Limited 32) RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (contd.)
A) Related parties and their relationship (contd.)
Unconsolidated Financial Statements 207  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements s Tata Housing Development Company Limited s Tata Consulting Engineers Limited s Tata Sky Limited s Tata Realty and Infrastructure Limited s e-Nxt Financials Limited s Tata Industries Limited s Tata International Limited s Tata Autocomp Systems Limited s Drive India Enterprise Solutions Limited s Tata Advanced Systems Limited s Tata Lockheed Martin Aerostructures Limited (formerly Tata Aerostructures Limited) s Tata Capital Housing Finance Limited s TC Travel and Services Limited s Tata Securities Limited s Tata Capital Forex Limited s Tata Capital Financial Services Limited s Tata Interactive Systems GmbH s TATA Africa Holdings (Kenya) Limited s Tata Zambia Limited s Tata Sikorsky Aerospace Limited (formerly Tara Aerospace Systems Limited) s Tata Cleantech Capital Limited s Tata Interactive Systems AG s Tata Industrial Services Limited s Tata Uganda Limited s Tata SIA Airlines Limited s Tata Africa Holdings (SA) (Proprietary) Limited s TRIL Infopark Limited (ceased to be an associate and is a subsidiary w.e.f.
23.03.2015) s Tata Africa Services (Nigeria) Limited IV) Key Management Personnel s Mr. N. Chandrasekaran, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Managing Director s Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer s Ms. Aarthi Subramanian, Executive Director (w.e.f.
12.03.2015) 32) RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (contd.)
A) Related parties and their relationship (contd.)
Annual Report 2014-15 Unconsolidated Financial Statements208  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements  B) Transactions with related parties for the year ended March 31, 2015 (` crores) Holding  Company Subsidiaries Fellow  Subsidiaries Key  Management  Personnel  and their  relatives Total Brand equity contribution  75.00  -    -    -    75.00   76.22  -    -    -    76.22  Purchase of ﬁxed assets  -    1.20  66.19  -    67.39   -    6.93  40.32  -    47.25  Loans and advances given  -    14.40  -    -    14.40   -    13.59  0.06  -    13.65  Loans and advances repaid  -    40.33  0.05  -    40.38   -    17.40  -    -    17.40  Inter-corporate deposits placed  -    -    -    -    -     -    -    330.00  -    330.00  Inter-corporate deposits matured  -    -    380.00  -    380.00   -    -    -    -    -    Purchase of investments  -    -   6917.57  -   6917.57   -    -    25.00  -    25.00  Redemption of investments  29.43  253.36 6284.56  -   6567.35   348.33  2.80  -    -    351.13  Revenue (including reimbursements)  2.37 45575.72  231.68  -   45809.77   1.39 40015.45  186.48  -   40203.32  Interest income  49.61  1.31  29.40  -   80.32   126.09  6.62  54.80  -   187.51  Dividend income  -   1334.65  -    -   1334.65   -   1610.60  -    -   1610.60  Rent income  -     2.50  -    -   2.50   -    4.70  -    -   4.70  Other income  -    35.91  -    -   35.91   -    42.10  -    -   42.10  Purchase of goods, services  and facilities  (including reimbursement)  0.64 3045.17  266.62  -   3312.43   0.91 2315.50  261.65  -   2578.06  Rent expense  0.98  89.02  1.69  -   91.69   0.81  62.67  1.68  -   65.16  Provision / (Write back of provision) for  doubtful receivables, advances   0.02  (19.72)  0.40  -   (19.30)  0.02  0.43  0.37  -   0.82  Bad debts written off   -    0.34  -    -   0.34   -    -    -    -    -    Advances written off  -    19.37  -    -   19.37   -    -    -    -    -    Dividend paid on equity shares 10825.89  -   12.78 0.66 10839.33  3608.63  -    4.26  0.22 3613.11  Dividend  paid on redeemable preference  shares  28.68  -    -    -   28.68   19.00  -    -    -   19.00  Guarantees given  -    0.25  -    -   0.25   -   493.51  -    -   493.51  Remuneration  -    -    -   23.50 23.50  -    -    -    20.05 20.05  Repayment of preference share capital  -    -    -    -    -     100.00  -    -    -   100.00  32) RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (contd.)
Unconsolidated Financial Statements 209  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 32) RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (contd.)
C)  Balances with related parties as at March 31, 2015 (` crores) Holding  Company Subsidiaries Fellow  Subsidiaries Key  Management  Personnel  and their  relatives Total Trade receivables, Unbilled revenue, Loans and  advances, Other assets (net)  3.77 10016.37  109.89  -   10130.03   73.70 7918.91  528.42  -   8521.03  Trade payables, Income received in advance,  Advances from customers, Other liabilities  68.67 1509.14  35.60  -   1613.41   68.72 1246.95  15.11  -   1330.78  Guarantees  -   3310.95  -    -   3310.95   -   4082.31  -    -   4082.31  Investment in debentures / mutual funds / bonds  -    -    595.00  -    595.00  1091.32  -    291.98  -   1383.30    Previous years’ ﬁgures are in italics  D) Disclosure of material transactions with related parties (` crores) 2015 2014 Purchase of ﬁxed assets CMC Limited  1.20  6.81  Tata Consulting Engineers Limited  18.66  16.71  Tata Realty and Infrastructure Limited  46.68  23.35  Loans and advances given during the year TCS Financial Solutions Australia Pty Limited  0.94  4.16  C-Edge Technologies Limited  -    7.48  CMC Limited  12.46  0.93  Loans and advances repaid during the year CMC Limited  -    4.07  TCS Financial Solutions Australia Pty Limited  37.31  11.54  Inter-corporate deposits placed Tata Housing Development Company Limited  -    50.00  Tata Capital Financial Services Limited  -    280.00  Inter-corporate deposits matured  Tata Realty and Infrastructure Limited  50.00  -    Tata Housing Development Company Limited  50.00 - Tata Capital Financial Services Limited  280.00 - Purchase of investments Tata Capital Housing Finance Limited  -    25.00  Tata Asset Management Limited 6856.74  -    Redemption / sale of investments Tata Sons Limited  29.43  348.33  Tata Asset Management Limited 6284.56  -    Revenue (including reimbursements) Tata America International Corporation 36962.35 32678.88  Interest income Tata Sons Limited  49.61  126.09  Panatone Finvest Limited  8.85  19.00  Tata Capital Financial Services Limited  13.75  16.24  Dividend income Tata America International Corporation 766.17 1275.02  Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc.  193.37  303.30  TCS e-Serve International Limited  202.00  -    Annual Report 2014-15 Unconsolidated Financial Statements210  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements (` crores) 2015 2014 Rent income C-Edge Technologies Limited  -    1.62  TCS e-Serve International Limited  2.19  2.66  Other income Diligenta Limited  25.07  30.90  TCS e-Serve International Limited  6.34  6.28  Purchase of goods, services and facilities (including reimbursement) CMC Americas Inc.1110.19  941.22  Tata America International Corporation  578.86  392.98  Rent expense CMC Limited  69.44  45.72  Diligenta Limited  17.23  16.95  Provision / (Write back of provision) for doubtful receivables, advances Tata Consultancy Services Morocco SARL AU  (liquidated w.e.f.
May 30, 2014 vide  court order dated Aug 7, 2014)  (19.37)  -    Tata Consultancy Services (Thailand) Limited   (0.33)  0.33  Tata Sky Limited  0.32  (0.49) Tata Realty and Infrastructure Limited  -    0.44  Drive India Enterprise Solutions Limited  (0.28)  0.28  Bad debts written off Tata Consultancy Services (Thailand) Limited   0.33  -    Advances written off Tata Consultancy Services Morocco SARL AU  (liquidated w.e.f.
May 30, 2014 vide  court order dated Aug 7, 2014)  19.37  -    Dividend paid on equity shares Tata Sons Limited 10825.89 3608.63  Guarantees given during the year Tata America International Corporation  -   70.28  Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV  -   245.78  TCS Financial Solutions Beijing Co., Ltd. (formerly Financial Network Services  (Beijing) Co., Ltd.)  -   149.04  Tata Consultancy Services Asia Paciﬁc Pte Ltd.  0.25 0.72  Remuneration to Key Management Personnel  Mr. N.Chandrasekaran  21.28  18.68   E) Disclosure of material balances with related parties As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 Trade receivables, unbilled revenue, loans and advances and other assets (net) Tata America International Corporation 7266.20 5625.53  Trade payables, income received in advance, advances from customers,  other liabilities Tata America International Corporation  629.20  474.78  CMC Americas Inc.  274.79  156.63  Guarantees outstanding Diligenta Limited 2694.55 3167.02  Investment in debentures/mutual funds/bonds  Tata Sons Limited  -   1091.32 Panatone Finvest Limited  -   200.00 Tata Asset Management Limited  595.00  -    32) RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (contd.)
D) Disclosure of material transactions with related parties (contd.)
Unconsolidated Financial Statements 211  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 33) OBLIGATIONS TOWARDS OPERATING LEASES (` crores) Particulars As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 Non-cancellable operating lease obligation  Not later than one year 511.72 528.77  Later than one year but not later than ﬁve years 1590.64 1325.51  Later than ﬁve years 1474.45 1214.37  Total 3576.81 3068.65  Rent expense of ` 550.93 crores ( Previous year: ` 507.83 crores ) in respect of obligation under non-cancellable operating  leases and ` 521.77 crores ( Previous year: ` 536.22 crores) in respect of cancellable opearting leases have been charged to the  statement of proﬁt and loss.
34) OBLIGATIONS TOWARDS FINANCE LEASES (` crores) Particulars As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 Assets acquired under ﬁnance lease (i) Minimum lease payments: Not later than one year 33.08 38.24 Later than one year but not later than ﬁve years 59.27 83.39 Later than ﬁve years 44.35 55.80 Total 136.70 177.43 (ii) Present value of minimum lease payments: Not later than one year 22.11 25.32 Later than one year but not later than ﬁve years 30.92 49.67 Later than ﬁve years 33.21 38.97 86.24 113.96 Add : Future ﬁnance charges 50.46 63.47 Total 136.70 177.43 35) EARNINGS PER EQUITY SHARE  (` crores) Particulars 2015 2014 Proﬁt for the year 19256.96 18474.92 Less : Dividend on preference shares (including dividend tax) - 33.65 Amount available for equity shareholders 19256.96 18441.27 Weighted average number of equity shares 195,87,27,979 195,87,27,979 Earning per share basic and diluted (`) 98.31 94.15 Face value per equity share (`) 1.00 1.00 Annual Report 2014-15 Unconsolidated Financial Statements212  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 36) AUDITOR’S REMUNERATION (` crores) Particulars 2015 2014 Services as statutory auditors (including quarterly audits) 3.75 3.75 Audit of ﬁnancial statements as per IFRS 2.50 2.50 Tax audit 0.53 0.53 Services for tax matters 0.70 - SSAE 16 and other certiﬁcations 1.47 1.45 Reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses 0.16 0.13 Service tax 1.13 1.03  Service tax credit has been / will be availed.
In addition to the above, fees amounting to ` 1.97 crores ( Previous year: ` 2.24 crores) for attest and other professional services  rendered have been paid to ﬁrms of Chartered Accountants in which some of the partners are also partners in the ﬁrm of  statutory auditors.
37) CONTINGENT LIABILITIES (` crores) Particulars As at   March 31, 2015 As at   March 31, 2014 Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debt 40.72 29.57 Income tax demands (See (a) below) 3901.82 3890.20 Indirect tax demands (See (b) below) 61.01 63.27 Guarantees given by the Company on behalf of subsidiaries (See (c) and (d) below) 3310.95 4082.31 a) In respect of income tax demands of ` 318.20 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 318.20 crores), not included above, the Company is  entitled to an indemniﬁcation from the seller of TCS e-Serve Limited.
b) In respect of indirect tax demands of ` 8.53 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 8.53 crores), not included above, the Company is entitled  to an indemniﬁcation from the seller of TCS e-Serve Limited.
c) The Company has provided guarantees aggregating ` 2694.55 crores (GBP 291.30 million) (March 31, 2014: ` 3167.02 crores)  (GBP 317.20 million) to third parties on behalf of its subsidiary Diligenta Limited.
The Company does not expect any outﬂow of  resources in respect of the above.
d) The Company has provided guarantees aggregating ` 87.42 crores (USD 13.97 million) (March 31, 2014: ` 83.91 crores)   (USD 13.97 million) to third parties on behalf of its subsidiary Tata America International Corporation.
The Company does not  expect any outﬂow of resources in respect of the above.
38) CAPITAL AND OTHER COMMITMENTS a) Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided for (net of advances)   ` 1844.08 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 2811.44 crores).
b)  The Company has a purchase commitment towards India Innovation Fund for the uncalled amount of balance ` 29618.47 per  unit of 1000 units aggregating to ` 2.96 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 3.64 crores).
Unconsolidated Financial Statements 213  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 39) DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  The Company, in accordance with its risk management policies and procedures, enters into foreign exchange forward, options  and future contracts to manage its exposure in foreign exchange rates.
The counter party is generally a bank.
These contracts  are for a period between one day and eight years.
The Company has outstanding foreign exchange option contracts, which have been designated as Cash Flow Hedges, as at: Foreign Currency March 31, 2015 March 31, 2014 No.
of  Contracts Notional  amount of  contracts  (million) Fair Value (` crores) No.
of  Contracts Notional  amount of  contracts  (million) Fair Value (` crores) U.S. Dollar --- 4 410.00 21.36 Sterling Pound 18 297.00 67.05 6 177.00 18.23 Euro 9 171.00 87.78 3 120.00 19.87 Australian dollar 6 97.00 31.15 3 75.00 2.71  The movement in Hedging Reserve for derivatives designated as Cash Flow Hedges is as follows: (` crores) Particulars Year ended March 31, 2015 Year ended March 31, 2014 Intrinsic value Time value Intrinsic Value Time Value Balance at the beginning of the year 24.88 4.76 55.49 - Transferred on amalgamation -- (8.33) - Changes in the fair value of effective portion of  Cash Flow Hedges 905.89 (440.18) (619.65) (140.11) (Gains) / losses transferred to the statement of  proﬁt and loss on occurrence of forecasted hedge  transactions (779.35) 434.75 597.37 144.87 Balance at the end of the year 151.42 (0.67) 24.88 4.76  Net gain on derivative instruments of ` 150.75 crores recognised in Hedging Reserve as at March 31, 2015, is expected to be  transferred to the statement of proﬁt and loss by March 31, 2016.
In addition to the above Cash Flow Hedges, the Company has outstanding foreign exchange forward, options and future  contracts with notional amount aggregating ` 19949.03 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 15774.90 crores) whose fair value showed  a gain of ` 159.65 crores as at March 31, 2015 (March 31, 2014: gain of ` 261.23 crores).
Exchange gain of ` 1363.87 crores   (March 31,2014 : Exchange loss of ` 66.60 crores) on foreign exchange forward, options and future contracts for the year ended  March 31, 2015 have been recognised in the statement of proﬁt and loss.
As at March 31, 2015, the Company has net foreign currency exposures that are not hedged by derivative instruments or  otherwise amounting to ` 2884.79 crores (March 31, 2014: ` 681.53 crores).
40) MICRO AND SMALL ENTERPRISES (` crores) Particulars As at March 31, 2015 As at March 31, 2014 Principal Interest Principal Interest Amount due to vendor 7.74 0.02 9.79 0.04 Principal amount paid (includes unpaid) beyond the appointed  date 247.61 - 138.71 - Interest due and payable for the year - 0.75 - 0.44 Interest accrued and remaining unpaid (includes interest  disallowable of ` 2.16 crores ( Previous year: ` 1.41 crores)) - 2.16 - 1.41  Dues to Micro and Small enterprises have been determined to the extent such parties have been identiﬁed on the basis of  information collected by the management.
Annual Report 2014-15 Unconsolidated Financial Statements214  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 41) INCOME IN FOREIGN CURRENCY (` crores) Particulars 2015 2014 (a) Consultancy services 70211.12 60373.81 (b) FOB value of exports of equipment and licenses 469.58 261.15 (c) Interest income 5.41 6.76 (d) Dividend income 1090.29 1582.38 (e) Other income (net) 41.92 36.74 42) EXPENDITURE IN FOREIGN CURRENCY (` crores) Particulars 2015 2014 (a) Royalty 1.85 2.57 (b) Legal and professional fees 189.27 181.32 (c) Interest 9.27 1.47 (d) Overseas employee costs 5193.50 3713.91 (e) Overseas business expenses 11636.80 9670.58 (f) Services rendered by business associates and others 4682.61 3940.66 (g) Software, hardware and material cost 1002.32 753.32 (h) Communication expenses 317.87 239.96 (i) Travelling and conveyance expenses 258.43 192.01 (j) Other operating expenses 678.26 882.55 (k) Foreign taxes 775.38 697.05 43) VALUE OF IMPORTS CALCULATED ON CIF BASIS (` crores) Particulars 2015 2014 Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components 47.37 32.96 Capital goods 523.21 589.60 Stores and spare parts 0.03 - 44) VALUE OF IMPORTED AND INDIGENOUS RAW MATERIALS, SUB-ASSEMBLIES AND COMPONENTS, STORES AND SPARE  P ARTS CONSUMED 2015 2014 Particulars  ( ` crores) %  ( ` crores) % Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components Imported: 46.08 71.31 31.40 78.96 Indigenous: 18.54 28.69 8.37 21.04 64.62 100.00 39.77 100.00 Stores and spare parts Imported: 0.03 50.00 -- Indigenous: 0.03 50.00 0.02 100.00 0.06 100.00 0.02 100.00  Consumption ﬁgures shown above are after adjusting excess and shortages ascertained on physical count, unserviceable items, etc.
Unconsolidated Financial Statements 215  Notes forming part of the Financial Statements 45) REMITTANCE IN FOREIGN CURRENCIES FOR DIVIDENDS  The Company has remitted ` Nil (March 31, 2014: ` Nil ) in foreign currencies on account of dividends during the year and does  not have information as to the extent to which remittance, if any , in foreign currencies on account of dividends have been made  by / on behalf of non-resident shareholders.
The particulars of dividends declared and paid to non-resident shareholders for the  year ended March 31, 2014 and interim dividends for the year ended March 31, 2015, are as under: Number of  non-resident  shareholders Number of  equity shares  held Gross amount of dividend (` crores) 2015 2014 Final dividend for 2012-13 declared in June 2013 10062 31,07,28,113 - 403.95 Interim dividend declared in July 2013 9970 31,38,30,865 - 125.53 Interim dividend declared in October 2013 10009 31,98,81,202 - 127.95 Interim dividend declared in January 2014 10276 32,24,19,506 - 128.97 Final dividend for 2013-14 declared in June 2014 10690 32,47,83,907 649.57 - Interim dividend declared in July 2014 10605 32,79,02,995 1475.56 - Interim dividend declared in October 2014 11497 32,96,36,378 164.82 - Interim dividend declared in January 2015 11970 33,23,64,092 166.18 - 46) DISCLOSURE UNDER CLAUSE 32 OF THE LISTING AGREEMENT  Amount of loans and advances in nature of loans outstanding from subsidiaries as at March 31, 2015: (` crores) Subsidiary Company Outstanding as at   March 31, 2015 Maximum amount   outstanding   during the year TCS FNS Pty Limited * 6.18 45.53 45.32 53.52 Tata Consultancy Services Morocco SARL AU -5 .
5 1 5.47 7.72  * TCS FNS Pty Limited has made the following investments in its subsidiaries: No.
of Shares  TCS Financial Solutions Australia Holdings Pty Limited  65,58,424  Previous years’ ﬁgures are in italics 47) Research and development expenditure aggregating ` 192.62 crores (Previous year: ` 176.31 crores), including capital expenditure  was incurred during the year .
48) The Company has revised its policy of providing depreciation on ﬁxed assets effective April 1, 2014.
Depreciation is now provided  on a straight line basis for all assets as against the policy of providing on written down value basis on some assets and strai ght  line basis on others.
Further the remaining useful life has also been revised wherever appropriate based on an evaluation.
The carrying amount as on April 1, 2014 is depreciated over the revised remaining useful life.
As a result of these changes, th e  depreciation charge for the year ended March 31,2015 is higher by ` 131.16 crores and the ef fect relating to the period prior to  April 1, 2014 is a net credit of ` 528.38 crores (excluding deferred tax of ` 129.62 crores) which has been shown as an ‘Exceptional  Item‘ in the statement of proﬁt and loss.
49) At their respective meetings held on October 16, 2014, the Boards of the Company and of its subsidiary, CMC Limited have  approved a Scheme of Amalgamation of CMC Limited with the Company .
The appointed date for the proposed Scheme is   April 1, 2015.
The Scheme is subject to sanction of the Hon’ble High Courts and all other statutory approvals as may be required  under law.
50) During the year, an amount of ` 2326.42 crores has been recognised in the Statement of Proﬁt and Loss in respect of one-time  bonus to eligible employees.
51) During the year, the Company has incurred an amount of ` 218.42 crores towards Corporate Social Responsibility expenditure.
52) Previous years’ ﬁgures have been recast / restated.
216  Annual Report 2014-15 Statement pursuant to ﬁrst proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013, read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014    in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies (` crores) Sr.  No.
Name of the Subsidiary Company Reporting  Currency Exchange  Rate   Share  Capital   Reserves  & Surplus   Total  Assets   Total   Liabilities   Investments Turnover  Proﬁt  before  Taxation    Provision  for  Taxation   Proﬁt  after  Taxation    Proposed  Dividend  % of  Shareholding  Country  1 APOnline Limited INR  1.000000  1.77  33.59  126.19  90.83  36.00  118.01  38.02  13.10  24.92  12.21 89% India 2 MP Online Limited INR  1.000000  1.00  43.88  72.62  27.74  -  55.02  25.09  8.62  16.47  4.20 89% India 3 C-Edge Technologies Limited INR  1.000000  10.00  91.60  172.04  70.44  1.12  219.22  43.56  15.01  28.55  - 51% India 4 MahaOnline Limited INR  1.000000  2.55  36.42  179.06  140.09  -  280.58  14.08  4.73  9.35  - 74% India 5 CMC Limited INR  1.000000  30.30  1160.76  1592.92  401.86  226.86  1288.46  204.80  7.03  197.77  83.33 51.12% India 6 CMC Americas Inc. USD  62.577500  10.01  143.11  431.70  278.58 -  1525.64  130.79  48.82  81.97  - 100% U.S.A. 7 CMC eBiz Inc. USD  62.577500  0.01  18.82  21.93  3.10  -  4.74  (1.34)  (0.46)  (0.88)  - 100% U.S.A. 8 TCS e-Serve International Limited INR  1.000000  10.00  161.27  208.71  37.44  153.00  88.18  61.21  20.88  40.33  227.00 100% India 9 TCS e-Serve America, Inc. USD  62.577500  1.73  23.96  32.62  6.93  -  42.95  5.15  1.88  3.27  - 100% U.S.A. 10 Diligenta Limited GBP  92.502121  111.00  705.40  1414.97  598.57  409.02  2175.51  234.21  51.22  182.99  - 100% U.K. 11 Diligenta 2 Limited GBP  92.502121  0.01  72.58  107.05  34.46  -  223.45  (8.56)  (1.83)  (6.73)  - 100% U.K. 12 Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc. CAD  49.115062  34.70  212.99  749.33  501.64  -  2656.14  295.07  76.28  218.79  171.90 100% Canada 13 Tata America International Corporation USD  62.577500  1.25  1462.31  9808.85  8345.29  118.79 43277.65  1163.33  416.25  747.08  782.22 100% U.S.A. 14 MS CJV Investments Corporation USD  62.577500  8.79  -  8.79  -  8.79  -  -  -  -  - 100% U.S.A. 15 Tata Consultancy Services Asia Paciﬁc Pte Ltd. USD  62.577500  27.53  560.96  915.29  326.80  423.20  1895.61  87.37  13.92  73.45  - 100% Singapore 16 Tata Consultancy Services (China) Co., Ltd. CNY  10.092657  203.81  (73.46)  185.15  54.80  -  383.75  (18.11)  -  (18.11)  - 90% China 17 Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd. JPY  0.521067  225.49  432.41  1374.21  716.31  -  2402.49  171.04  75.64  95.40  - 51% Japan 18 Tata Consultancy Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd MYR  16.892293  3.38  73.41  116.66  39.87  0.01  189.06  29.62  7.91  21.71  - 100% Malaysia 19 PT Tata Consultancy Services Indonesia IDR  0.004787  0.48  32.77  46.75  13.50  -  61.64  23.09  6.11  16.98  - 100% Indonesia 20 Tata Consultancy Services (Philippines) Inc. PHP  1.400007  1.20  87.27  203.53  115.06 -  376.04  53.51  1.49  52.02  - 100% Philippines 21 Tata Consultancy Services (Thailand) Limited THB  1.923627  1.54  8.45  16.83  6.84  -  28.74  4.63  1.11  3.52  - 100% Thailand 22 Tata Consultancy Services Belgium S.A. EUR  67.133156  1.27  113.63  392.57  277.67  0.01  717.83  90.00  29.98  60.02  67.13 100% Belgium 23 Tata Consultancy Services Deutschland GmbH EUR  67.133156  1.01  114.41  486.29  370.87  -  1524.60  65.18  20.87  44.31  - 100% Germany 24 Tata Consultancy Services Sverige AB SEK  7.233473  0.07  126.86  593.59  466.66  -  1132.90  90.57  20.01  70.56  52.08 100% Sweden 25 Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV EUR  67.133156  443.08  829.73  1465.21  192.40  962.63  1450.72  259.55  64.93  194.62  - 100% Netherlands 26 TCS Italia SRL EUR  67.133156  14.77  (6.30)  78.85  70.38  -  163.29  5.42  3.56  1.86  - 100% Italy 217  Statement pursuant to ﬁrst proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013, read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014    in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies (` crores) Sr.  No.
Name of the Subsidiary Company Reporting  Currency Exchange  Rate   Share  Capital   Reserves  & Surplus   Total  Assets   Total   Liabilities   Investments Turnover  Proﬁt  before  Taxation    Provision  for  Taxation   Proﬁt  after  Taxation    Proposed  Dividend  % of  Shareholding  Country  27 Tata Consultancy Services Luxembourg S.A. EUR  67.133156  37.59  (23.44)  87.01  72.86  -  126.96  1.61  (0.41)  2.02  - 100% Capellen  (G.D. de  Luxembourg) 28 Tata Consultancy Services Switzerland Ltd. CHF  64.234757  9.64  74.06  447.00  363.30  48.18  1149.78  9.10  (7.24)  16.34  - 100% Switzerland 29 Tata Consultancy Services France S.A.S.
EUR  67.133156  2.01  (36.86)  237.97  272.82  -  451.81  (9.34)  2.11  (11.45)  - 100% France 30 Tata Consultancy Services Osterreich GmbH EUR  67.133156  0.23  2.40  9.22  6.59  -  20.65  1.03  0.26  0.77  - 100% Austria 31 Tata Consultancy Services Danmark ApS DKK  8.988954  0.90  36.46  46.25  8.89  -  40.68  1.50  0.38  1.12  1.80 100% Denmark 32 Tata Consultancy Services De Espana S.A. EUR  67.133156  0.40  (93.22)  114.93  207.75  0.04  211.13  (14.50)  -  (14.50)  - 100% Spain 33 Tata Consultancy Services Portugal Unipessoal Limitada EUR  67.133156  0.04  (7.43)  14.03  21.42  -  19.50  (4.26)  -  (4.26)  - 100% Portugal 34 Alti S.A. EUR  67.133156  2.46  10.35  571.00  558.19  98.01  700.80  (134.63)  5.68  (140.31)  - 100% France 35 Alti HR S.A.S.
EUR  67.133156  0.25  10.91  22.76  11.60  -  7.16  (0.55)  (0.02)  (0.53)  - 100% France 36 Tescom (France) Software Systems Testing S.A.R.L.
EUR  67.133156  0.67  (6.21)  17.76  23.30  -  16.64  (2.11) -  (2.11)  - 100% France 37 Alti Switzerland S.A. CHF  64.234757  0.55  8.55  20.26  11.16  -  50.08  1.30  0.42  0.88  - 100% Switzerland 38 Alti Infrastructures Systemes & Reseaux S.A.S.
EUR  67.133156  0.34  0.84  21.58  20.40  -  11.72  (2.13)  (0.04)  (2.09)  - 100% France 39 Alti NV EUR  67.133156  5.50  13.98  37.46  17.98  0.20  81.35  (1.35)  (0.03)  (1.32)  - 100% Belgium 40 Teamlink EUR  67.133156  0.42  (0.52)  (0.18)  (0.08)  -  2.98  (0.30) -  (0.30)  - 100% Belgium 41 Planaxis Technologies Inc. EUR  67.133156  -  48.08  106.18  58.10  -  86.28  18.54  3.10  15.44  - 100% Canada 42 Tata Consultancy Services (Africa) (PTY) Ltd. ZAR  5.119693  7.17  0.01  7.21  0.03  6.91  -  4.48  0.01  4.47  4.66 100% South Africa 43 Tata Consultancy Services (South Africa) (PTY) Ltd. ZAR  5.119693  9.22  55.37  155.95  91.36  -  438.45  15.64  3.10  12.54  5.99 75% South Africa 44 TCS FNS Pty Limited AUD  47.552642  177.18  (23.90)  163.45  10.17  159.53  -  (20.48)  -  (20.48)  - 100% Australia 45 TCS Financial Solutions Beijing Co., Ltd. CNY  10.092657  1.95  (20.48)  56.62  75.15  -  65.82  7.01  -  7.01  - 100% China 46 TCS Financial Solutions Australia Holdings Pty Limited AUD  47.552642  66.24  (19.22)  47.02  -  1.79  -  -  -  -  - 100% Australia 47 TCS Financial Solutions Australia Pty Limited AUD  47.552642  0.01  29.49  119.58  90.08  1.53  58.84  34.91  5.34  29.57  - 100% Australia 48 PT Financial Network Services USD  62.577500  0.38  (1.25)  0.28  1.15  -    -    (0.82)  -    (0.82)  -   100% Indonesia 49 TCS Iberoamerica SA UYU  2.432556  615.88  386.25  1119.05  116.92  1119.01  -  1.61  -  1.61  - 100% Uruguay 50 TCS Solution Center S.A. UYU  2.432556  37.70  (49.34)  208.81  220.45  -    311.30  (71.70)  4.13  (75.83)  -   100% Uruguay 51 Tata Consultancy Services Argentina S.A. ARS  7.099462  29.91  (13.69)  56.28  40.06  -    74.70  (9.47)  -    (9.47)  -   99.99% Argentina 218  Annual Report 2014-15 Statement pursuant to ﬁrst proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013, read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014    in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies (` crores) Sr.  No.
Name of the Subsidiary Company Reporting  Currency Exchange  Rate   Share  Capital   Reserves  & Surplus   Total  Assets   Total   Liabilities   Investments Turnover  Proﬁt  before  Taxation    Provision  for  Taxation   Proﬁt  after  Taxation    Proposed  Dividend  % of  Shareholding  Country  52 Tata Consultancy Services Do Brasil Ltda BRL  19.377439  262.84  (262.76)  241.31  241.23  -  318.17  (56.00)  -  (56.00)  - 100% Brazil 53 Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A., De C.V. MXN  4.083254  1.07  375.91  745.77  368.79  -  1124.54  86.71  14.51  72.20  - 100% Mexico 54 Tata Consultancy Services Chile S.A. CLP  0.099778  169.59  342.58  612.20  100.03  55.91  405.17  35.82  (1.61)  37.43  -   100% Chile 55 TCS Inversiones Chile Limitada CLP  0.099778  152.56  164.25  320.67  3.86  320.55  -  0.81  0.03  0.78  - 99.99% Chile 56 TATASOLUTION CENTER S.A. USD  62.577500  18.78  173.73  394.20  201.69  -  677.91  132.63  29.25  103.38  43.80 100% Ecuador 57 TCS Uruguay S.A. UYU  2.432556  0.13  63.27  97.40  34.00  0.02  198.41  34.94  1.34  33.60  5.95 100% Uruguay 58 MGDC S.C. MXN  4.083254  0.02  67.17  206.49  139.30  -  709.14  32.77  19.18  13.59  - 100% Mexico 59 Tata Consultancy Services Qatar S.S.C.
QAR  17.186427  3.44  33.31  67.59  30.84  -  139.68  17.27  1.74  15.53  - 100% Qatar 60 TCS Foundation INR  1.000000  1.00  145.44  146.44  -  - 145.44 145.44  - 145.44  - 100% India Notes: 1.
Indian rupee equivalents of the ﬁgures given in foreign currencies in the accounts of the subsidiary companies, are based on the exchange rates as on March 31, .2015.2.
The reporting period for all the subsidiaries is March 31, 2015.3.
On July 1, 2014, Nippon TCS Solution Center Limited got merged with Tata Consultancy Services Japan Ltd. 4.
WTI Advanced Technology Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary, was amalgamated with the Company vide Court Order dated March 27, 2015.5.
On August 7, 2014, Tata Consultancy Services Morocco SARL AU, a wholly owned subsidiary, has been voluntarily liquidated.6.
On February 18, 2015, Computational Research Laboratories Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary, has been voluntarily liquidated.7.
On March 23, 2015, TCS Management Pty Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of TCS FNS Pty Limited, has been voluntarily liquidated.
For and on behalf of the Board  Cyrus Mistry N. Chandrasekaran Prof. Clayton M. Christensen  Chairman CEO and Managing Director Director  Aman Mehta Ishaat Hussain V. Thyagarajan Director Director Director  Dr. Ron Sommer Dr. Vijay Kelkar Phiroz Vandrevala Director Director Director  O. P. Bhatt Aarthi Subramanian Rajesh Gopinathan  Director Executive Director Chief Financial Ofﬁcer  Suprakash Mukhopadhyay  Company Secretary   Mumbai, April 16, 2015 PROXY FORM [Pursuant to Section 105(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 19(3) of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014] Name of the Member(s) : .......................................................................................................................................................................................
Registered address : ....................................................................................................................................................................................... E-mail Id : ....................................................................................................................................................................................... Folio No.
/ Client ID No.
: .............................................................................................. DP ID No.
.......................................................................
I / We, being the member(s) of ………..............….
Shares of Tata Consultancy Services Limited, hereby appoint 1.
Name: ………………………...................................................................................... E-mail Id: ......................................................................
Address: ...................................................................................................................   .................................................................................................................................. Signature: ……………...................................................  or failing him 2.
Name: ………………………...................................................................................... E-mail Id: ......................................................................
Address: ...................................................................................................................   .................................................................................................................................. Signature: ……………...................................................  or failing him 3.
Name: ………………………...................................................................................... E-mail Id: ......................................................................
Address: ...................................................................................................................   .................................................................................................................................. Signature: ……………................................................... as my/our proxy to attend and vote (on a poll) for me/us and on my/our behalf at the twentieth Annual General Meeting of the Company  to be held on Tuesday, June 30, 2015 at 3.30 p.m. at Birla Matushri Sabhagar, 19, Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Marg, New Marine Lin es,   Mumbai 400 020 and at any adjournment thereof in respect of such resolutions as are indicated below: 1.
To receive, consider and adopt (a) the Audited Financial Statements of the Company for the ﬁnancial year ended March 31, 2015, together  with the Reports of the Board of Directors and the Auditors thereon; and (b) the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of t he  Company for the ﬁnancial year ended March 31, 2015, together with the Report of the Auditors thereon.
2.
Conﬁrmation of payment of Interim Dividends (including a special dividend) and declaration of Final Dividend on Equity Share s for the  ﬁnancial year 2014-15.
3.
Re-appointment of Mr. Cyrus Mistry as a Director of the Company.
4.
Appointment of Auditors.
5.
Re-appointment of Mr. N. Chandrasekaran as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Managing Director of the Company.
6.
Appointment of Ms. Aarthi Subramanian as a Director of the Company.
7.
Appointment of Ms. Aarthi Subramanian as an Executive Director of the Company.
8.
Appointment of Branch Auditors.
Signed this ……… day of ……………….
2015 Signature of shareholder.................................................................... Signature of Proxyholder(s)............................................................................ CIN: L22210MH1995PLC084781  Registered Ofﬁce: 9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 Phone: 91 22 6778 9595 Fax: 91 22 6778 9660 E-mail: investor.relations@tcs.com Website: www.tcs.com ATTENDANCE SLIP (To be presented at the entrance) 20TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING ON TUESDAY, JUNE 30, 2015 AT 3.30 P.M. at Birla Matushri Sabhagar,19, Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Marg, New Marine Lines, Mumbai 400 020 Folio No.
_________________________________ DP ID No.
_________________________________ Client ID No.
_________________________________ Name of the Member_________________________________________________________________Signature ___________________________________ Name of the Proxyholder______________________________________________________________Signature___________________________________ 1.
Only Member/Proxyholder can attend the Meeting.
2.
Member/Proxyholder should bring his/her copy of the Annual Report for reference at the Meeting.
NOTES: 1.
This Form in order to be effective should be duly completed and deposited at the Registered Ofﬁce of the Company at   9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021, not less than 48 hours before the commencement of the Meeting.
2.
Those Members who have multiple folios with different jointholders may use copies of this Attendance slip/Proxy.
Afﬁx   Revenue   Stamp  CIN: L22210MH1995PLC084781  Registered Ofﬁce: 9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 Phone: 91 22 6778 9595 Fax: 91 22 6778 9660 E-mail: investor.relations@tcs.com Website: www.tcs.com  CMYK AWARDS BUSINESS LEADERSHIP n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n Forbes: World's 100 Most Innovative  Companies  Brand Finance: Fastest growing IT  industry brand over the last five years  Achieves Superbrands status in the UK The Economic Times: Company  of the Year  Gold Stevie: Best Human Resources  Department 2014  Top Employers Institute: Certified as  Top Employer North America 2015 Whitelane Research Europe Survey:  Ranked #1 on performance &  customer satisfaction Business Standard: Best Company  of 40 years Top Employers Institute:  Ranked # 1 Employer in Europe  Top Employers Institute:  Ranked # 1 Employer in UK Golden Peacock National Training  Award 2014 Six awards at Asia's Best Employer  Brand Awards 2014, Singapore Diversity and Inclusion (DANDI) awards:  Top Workforce honour  TCS BaNCS won Global Custodian award  for Best Custody second time in a row NASSCOM 2014 Awards: Excellence in  Gender Inclusivity & Best IT Services  and Product Company NASSCOM Silver Jubilee Awards:  Leading IT Company for 25 years   National Award for e-Governance  (Gold Award): Passport Seva for  Outstanding Performance in Citizen- centric Service Delivery  World HRD Congress RASBIC awards:   Best Overall Recruiting & Staffing  Organization & Best Use of Technology  for Recruiting n n n n n n n n n n n Informatica: Innovation Award  for Test Data Management SAP: Run SAP Partner of the Year &  Customers’ Choice Award (SAP Pinnacle) Renault-Nissan: Best Service Support  2014 Award  NXP Semiconductors: Best Supplier  for Indirect Services  TESTA 2014: Leading Vendor Award  for Quality Assurance(QA) and Testing  services JD Edwards: Partner Excellence award CA Technologies:  Country Partner of the Year Partner of the Year - Security solutions Public Sector Partner of the Year Oracle Excellence Awards  Global System Integrator Customer  Experience (CX) Applications Specialised Partner of the Year  N Chandrasekaran:  CNN-IBN: Indian of the Year (Business)  Finance Asia's Best Companies Poll:  India's Best CEO  Institutional Investor's 2014 All-Asia  Executive Team Rankings: Best CEO  Business Today: Best CEO  CNBC TV 18: Voted one of India's  Top 15 business icons  n n n n n LEADERSHIP n n n n n n Gold Stevie: Corporate Social  Responsibility Program  JSW-Times of India: Earth Care Award  Lumity Community Corps Corporate  Champion: Enhancing quality of STEM  Education  Dow Jones Sustainability World Index:  Ranked Global Leader  Asian Sustainability Ranking:   Ranked #1 of Top 100 Companies  The CDP Climate Performance  Leadership Index: A-List world leader  in corporate action on climate change  SUSTAINABILITY Historians may remember this decade for the rapid changes in the geo-political situation in many countries.
But History will also record this  time as one in which a large proportion of humanity underwent a tectonic shift powered by a set of new technologies collectively called  Digital, which have profoundly changed the way they work, play, and live.
In the context of business, these fast-evolving Digital technologies (cloud, mobile, Big Data & analytics, social, and Artificial Intelligence &  Robotics), as well as newer, composite technologies such as the Internet of Things and 3D printing are forcing enterprises to reimagine their  business processes, adopt new business models, or fundamentally change the way they operate and engage their customers and other  stakeholders in this ‘Digital Consumer Economy’ .
Today, we have an unprecedented volume of data about every aspect of our business and  the ability to monitor, sift, and analyse this data, and by doing so, adapt to changing customer preferences on a real-time basis.
The shift to a ‘ Digital Consumer Economy’ has already begun to rearrange the pecking order in the media, retail, high-tech,  telecommunications and other industries.
The scale and pace of change is so dramatic that not only is it impacting industry structures but  also rapidly blurring boundaries across industries.
Over the last decade, we have seen computer firms transform into telecommunications  device and music distribution firms; movie rental firms morph into TV production companies; and online retailers offer technology services.
The theme of TCS’ 2014-15 Annual Report reflects these trends and attempts to give colour to the way everything is being reimagined –  underlining the fact that Digital is the new Default.
The Annual General Meeting will be held on Tuesday, June 30th, 2015, at Birla Matushri Sabhagar, Sir.
V.T.
Marg, New Marine Lines, Mumbai 400020, at 3.30 p.m.  As a matter of Go Green initiative, copies of the Annual Report will not be distributed at the Annual General Meeting .
PARTNER Produced and designed by Corporate Marketing and  Corporate Communications, Tata Consultancy Services