Annual Report 2016-17 REIMAGINING THE ENTERPRISE www.tcs.com The Annual General Meeting will be held on Friday, June 16, 2017 at Birla Matushri Sabhagar, Sir V. T.
Marg., New Marine Lines, Mumbai 400020, at 3:30pm.
Towards preserving  our environment, printed copies of the Annual Report will not be distributed at the Annual General Meeting.
Members are requested to bring their copies to the meeting.
Recent Annual Report Themes About TCS Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) is a global leader in providing information technology services,  consulting, and digital and business solutions to large enterprises through its unique Global  Network Delivery Model™, recognized as the benchmark of excellence in software  development.
TCS' customer-centricity, deep domain expertise, agility in building new capabilities, and focus  on constant innovation and IP development, and execution excellence have resulted in  enduring customer relationships.
With over 387,000 employees in 55 countries, and a global  delivery footprint that covers over 141 solution centers across 19 countries, TCS is among the  world’s top 10 IT service providers.
The Company’s compounded annual growth rate (CAGR)  since FY 05 is 21.6%, with industry-leading operating margins.
Founded in 1968 as part of the Tata group, TCS is headquartered in Mumbai, India and is  a public limited company, listed on the National Stock Exchange (NSE) and BSE Ltd. (Bombay  Stock Exchange) in India.
FY 2014: One TCS ONE TCS FY 2016: Shaping the Future  FY 2015: Default is Digital About the Theme TCS has successfully navigated through multiple technology cycles over the last five decades, pivoting and adapting each time to build new capabilities and  help our clients realize the benefits of these new technologies.
Our responsiveness, agility, and adaptability to change have been core to our longevity.
The theme for this year’s Annual Report, Reimagining the Enterprise, captures the depth and profoundness of the transformation that enterprises – both TCS  and our customers – are going through in the Digital age.
In the thematic section, we have showcased a few examples of customers partnering with TCS to reimagine parts of their businesses to become data-driven,  smarter, and agile to deliver a superior experience for their customers.
Alongside, we have interviews with key leaders in TCS describing the change we are  executing within the organization – at scale and with agility – to lead in the Digital age.
TCS Annual Report 2016-17 Contents Board of Directors 02 Management Team 04 Letter from the Chairman 06 Letter from the CEO 08 Performance Highlights 11 Reimagining Digital Skilling 12 Reimagining Elderly Care 13 Reimagining Energy Management 14 Building the TCS Brand 15 Reimagination across Industries 16 Reimagining Ecommerce 18 Reimagining Boiler Controls 19 Reimagining Research and Innovation 20 Reimagining IT Landscapes 22 Reimagining Business Models 23 Reimagining IT Services 24 Reimagining Business Structures 26 Reimagining Payments 27 Reimagining Software Delivery 28 Reimagining Talent Management 30 Reimagining Citizen Services 32 Consolidated Financial Statements  Independent Auditors’ Report 122 Consolidated Balance Sheet 126 Consolidated Statement of 127 Profit and Loss  Consolidated Statement of 128 Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of 129 Cash Flows Notes forming part  130 of the Consolidated  Financial Statements Unconsolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditors’ Report 184 Balance Sheet 190 Statement of Profit and Loss 191 Statement of Changes in Equity 192 Statement of Cash Flow 193 Notes forming part of  194 the Financial Statements  Statement under Section 129 of the 236  Companies Act, 2013 relating to  Subsidiary Companies  020202 Directors' Report 34 Management Discussion and Analysis 62  Corporate Governance Report 88 Corporate Sustainability Report 110 Business Responsibility Report 116 Awards and Recognition 120 010101 040404 030303 Glossary 239 Board of Directors 02  Board of DirectorsI  Board of Directors  03I TCS Annual Report 2016-17 A Mehta Director V Thyagarajan Director N G Subramaniam  Chief Operating Officer  & Executive Director O P Bhatt Director R Sommer Director I Hussain Director Aarthi Subramanian Executive Director C M Christensen Director V Kelkar Director Rajesh Gopinathan Chief Executive Officer  & Managing Director N Chandrasekaran Chairman (Seated – Left to Right) (Standing – Left to Right) Aarthi Subramanian Global Head,  Delivery Excellence,  Governance & Compliance Management Team Corporate Geography Heads Surya Kant North America,  UK & Europe Ravi Viswanathan India, Middle-East & Africa Henry Manzano Latin America AS Lakshminarayanan Japan Girish Ramachandran  Asia Pacific Strategic Growth Unit Heads Rajendra Moholkar Company Secretary Vishwanathan Iyer Legal K Ananth Krishnan Research & Development Pradipta Bagchi Communication Ajoyendra Mukherjee Global Head,  Human Resources 04  Management Team I Rajesh Gopinathan Chief Executive Officer  & Managing Director V Ramakrishnan Chief Financial Officer Venkateshwaran Srinivasan BaNCS Venguswamy Ramaswamy iON N G Subramaniam Chief Operating Officer  & Executive Director  Industry Service Unit Heads Debashis Ghosh Life Sciences,  Manufacturing & Energy Milind Lakkad Manufacturing Service Unit Heads Krishnan Ramanujam Enterprise Solutions &  Global Consulting Practice Regu Ayyaswamy Engineering &  Industrial Services Pratik Pal Retail, Travel &  Consumer Products Kamal Bhadada Communication, Media  & Information Services Ramanamurthy Magapu Banking &  Financial Services K Krithivasan  Banking &  Financial Services Suresh Muthuswami Insurance & Healthcare Susheel Vasudevan Banking &  Financial Services Management Team I 05 Dinanath Kholkar Business Process Services P R Krishnan IT Infrastructure Services TCS Annual Report 2016-17 06  Letter from the ChairmanI Letter from the Chairman Global business is transitioning to a new age where  technology is playing a central role in the growth of  every industry by delivering a superior customer  experience anytime, anywhere.
The power of a  business now depends on its ability to manage the  transition from process maturity to data maturity.
TCS Annual Report 2016-17 Letter from the Chairman  07I Dear Shareholders, It is with a great sense of pride that I write to you  after being appointed as the Chairman of this  exceptional Company.
In the past seven years,  when I had the privilege of leading this  organization in an executive capacity, it has been  an exhilarating journey.
The commitment and passion of a diverse, global  employee base helped your Company exhibit  strong leadership during this period, against the  backdrop of immense volatility in our key markets  and the world economy.
Amidst the rise of new  Digital technologies, your Company remained  focused on staying relevant to customers,  employees, and the society at large, while  delivering significant returns to shareholders.
My thirty years with TCS have given me a ringside  seat to the evolution and growth of your  Company.
I have witnessed your Company's  ability to emerge from every technology cycle  stronger than ever and be in a position to capture  a greater share of market opportunities.
Your Company is in a growth industry where the  demand for technology continues to expand.
In  earlier decades, IT played a key role in supporting  business.
The Internet era then saw business  strategy being defined by technology strategy.
As a result, technology was embedded into  business.
Today we are entering a new world  where technology is now defining what the  business can or should do.
The global business is transitioning to a new age  where technology is playing a central role in the  growth of every industry by delivering a superior  customer experience anytime, anywhere.
The  power of a business now depends on its ability to  manage the transition from process maturity to  data maturity.
The Internet of Things (IoT) is about  capturing data from machines and sensors; cloud  is helping make the data available at scale as and  when needed; automation and artificial  intelligence are helping sift through enormous  quantities of data; and analytics is helping derive  insights and make useful predictions from that  data.
Businesses have to change and understand  the impact and influence of these technologies.
Those who can do it faster and smarter will be the  leaders in the new economic world.
Your Company is once again at the forefront of this  transformation.
TCS has made significant  investments in driving innovation in Digital, as well  as by building new capabilities and skills in  technologies like cloud, artificial intelligence,  automation, and analytics.
It continues to  transform its engagement models to fit the  customer's needs.
To succeed in the Digital age,  customers need the right technology partners with  the strategic commitment and sustained  investments necessary to stay relevant to their  business.
With its focus on long-term  relationships, your Company is well placed to help  customers leverage these technologies by being  able to deploy these on a global scale in an easy- to-consume, experiential, and all-pervasive  environment.
In the Tata group, our ethos is shaped by the core  belief that our founder articulated almost hundred  and fifty years ago  that the community is not just  another stakeholder of business, but the very  purpose of its existence.
That ethos guides all our  actions and initiatives.
Your Company has focused  on helping communities in three core areas:  education and skills, health and wellness, and  environmental sustainability.
This concentration of  effort on a few areas has allowed us to make a  bigger impact in those chosen areas.
I am delighted  to see each of those programs scale up  significantly to start making a difference to the  targeted communities.
As our business transitions into a new and  exciting phase of growth and innovation, the  future of your Company could not be in better  hands than under a dynamic new executive  leadership team led by Rajesh Gopinathan as the  Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director,  ably supported by N G Subramaniam as the Chief  Operating Officer and V Ramakrishnan as the  Chief Financial Officer, together with a strong  team of senior business leaders.
The new team  will continue to drive an organizational culture  that embraces change, believes in growing  talent, and invests ahead of time, anticipating the  future needs of our customers.
With the new leadership team and huge  opportunities ahead, I am very excited about the  future and sincerely believe that TCS' best days  are yet to come.
On behalf of the entire Board of Directors of  Tata Consultancy Services, I would like to thank  you – our valued stakeholders – for the continuing  confidence you have placed in the organization.
Warm regards, N Chandrasekaran Chairman 08  Letter from the CEOI Letter from the CEO During the past few months, I have met many  customers, each of them at different stages in their  Digital transformation journeys.
Every one of them is  looking at further accelerating those programs and  becoming more technology-driven.
Speaking with the  CXOs of these organizations, I was humbled and re- energized, by the uniformly high esteem in which they  hold your Company.
TCS Annual Report 2016-17 Dear Shareholders, FY 2017 was a year of leadership transitions,  globally, and in your Company too.
In January  this year, N Chandrasekaran (Chandra), who led  Tata Consultancy Services as the Chief Executive  Officer and Managing Director for the past seven  years, stepped down from his executive role  to become the Chairman of the Board.
In the seven years under Chandra’s leadership,  your Company’s stellar financial performance  made it a bellwether, with industry-leading  metrics in every respect.
Revenue grew almost  four-fold, from 30,029 crore in FY 2010 to`   ` 117,966 crore in FY 2017, a compounded  annual growth rate of 21.6%.
Our operating profit  margin – the highest in the industry – stayed  stable in the 26-28% band throughout this period.
Most importantly, the customer-centric vision to  make early, far-sighted investments in emerging  technologies allowed us to gain a leadership  position in the Digital space, positioning us well  for the future.
On behalf of the shareholders, the Board of  Directors, and all my colleagues at TCS, I would  like to thank Chandra for the executive leadership,  vision, and mentorship he provided.
In FY 2017, your Company delivered a steady  performance, with a reported revenue of  ` 117,966 crore, growing 8.6% over the prior  year.
TCS continues to be the most profitable  Company in the IT services industry, with a net  profit of  26,289 crore, which is a net margin ` of 22.3%.
In keeping with our tradition of directing surplus  cash to shareholders, the Board has  recommended a final dividend of  27.50.
` Including the three interim dividends paid earlier  this fiscal, the total dividend payout in FY 2017  amounts to  47 per share, a payout ratio ` of 42.0%.
In addition to that, your Company  announced a proposal to buy back up to  56,140,351 equity shares of the Company,  at  2,850 per share, for an aggregate amount ` not exceeding  16,000 crore.` Business Performance From a segmental point of view, revenue from  the Banking, Financial Services, and Insurance  industry grew close to the Company average.
With the exception of Retail and HiTech, all the  other industry verticals grew in double digits over  the prior year.
Our investments in geographies are paying off  very handsomely, with all regions reporting  considerable growth on a full year basis.
Continental Europe, Latin America, and Middle  East-Africa grew in the mid-teens, while the other  geographies grew in the 6 to 10% range on  a constant currency basis.
Among the service  lines, I’m happy to report that our Enterprise  Solutions and Consulting business crossed $3 Bn  in revenue this year, while our BPS business  crossed the $2 Bn milestone.
Digital technologies account for most of the net  new IT spending by customers today.
Your  Company continues to fare very well in this area,  emerging as the preferred partner for many large  enterprises in their Digital transformation  journeys.
Over 55% of our clients engage with us  today on Digital Services, and that percentage is  much higher among larger clients.
Digital revenue  crossed the $3 Bn milestone this year, making up  16.7% of revenue and growing 28.8% over the  prior year.
In FY 2017, your Company was the technology  partner of choice for many leading corporations  across the world in their business transformational  and Digital reimagination journeys.
We helped the  world’s largest bauxite mining and aluminium  manufacturing company split into two entities by  engineering a flawless IT separation.
One of the  largest healthcare organizations in the world chose  TCS to standardize and simplify its vast and complex  supply chain footprint.
We helped one of the world’s  largest banks identify and publish some of the critical  APIs to their back-office systems that account for  85% of the bank’s transactions, inviting the global  developer community to build innovative new apps  that extend the bank’s services to newer customer  segments.
The key differentiators that enable TCS to  strategically partner with these large global  progressive corporations are our deep contextual  knowledge of customers’ business models,  functions, processes, and systems; our proactive  approach to innovation; and our commitment to  delivery excellence.
At the core of all this is our  ability to attract, develop, and retain talent.
People Your Company’s talent management practices  continue to be a benchmark in the industry.
In FY  2017, we added about 79,000 employees  on a gross basis, ending the year with over  387,000 employees across 130 nationalities.
Women make up 34.7% of our workforce.
Our local hiring programs in various geographies  are progressing well.
In FY 2017, we recruited  over 11,500 employees outside India, including  students from leading engineering campuses and  business schools in the US.
This has allowed us  to bring down our dependence on work visas  significantly.
Your Company has made significant progress in  reskilling the workforce on newer technologies.
Our Digital competency development program  has resulted in over 200,000 TCS associates  getting Digitally trained, possessing nearly  600,000 competencies.
We are experimenting  with ever more innovative ways to accelerate  Digital learning.
One such recent initiative is  a mobile-first app that uses gamification to  deliver an immersive learning experience.
Our progressive policies, culture of empowerment,  and continual investments in people have  historically resulted in industry-best retention rates.
In FY 2017, our attrition rate in the IT Services  Letter from the CEO  09I segment was 10.5%; once again, the lowest in the  industry.
Research and Innovation A significant part of our innovation effort this  year was focused on harnessing the power  of artificial intelligence (AI) and automation.
This includes exciting new areas such as  conversational systems, natural language  processing systems, IoT platforms, robotics, and  image processing capabilities.
Your Company has filed more than 3,350 patent  applications to date, with 493 filings in FY17.
It has been 478 granted patents as of March 31,  2017.
In addition, TCS Researchers presented  350+ papers in premier conferences.
The work we have done for our banking clients  on the Blockchain technology has established  us as a credible player in this emerging space.
The Blockchain platform built by our Research and  Innovation group has now been integrated into  the TCS BaNCS software.
In addition to the in-house effort, we also leverage  the innovation capabilities of our technology  partners, startups, and academic alliances.
Our Co-Innovation Network (COIN™) expanded in  FY 2017 to cover over 150 ecosystem partners,  2,000 startups, and 27 partnerships in academia.
All our products and platform offerings – industry- focused ones such as TCS BaNCS, Optumera™,  Advanced Drug Development platform, and HOBS,  as well as horizontal and technology platforms  such as ignio™, TAP™, iON, CHROMA™, and TCS  MasterCraft™ – are achieving new milestones in  terms of customer adoption.
Agile, Cloud, and Automation Competitive differentiation in the Digital world  will come from enterprises becoming smarter,  faster, and lighter.
In terms of technology  imperatives, this requires adopting distributed  and location-independent Agile services,  embracing a cloud-first strategy, and deploying  automation at every level.
TCS is aligning its  internal initiatives, investments in capability  development, and solution offerings to these  three focus areas.
Beyond Business Your Company has a long tradition of being  a responsible corporate citizen in all the  communities we work with across the world.
The  guiding principle of TCS’ CSR programs is “Impact  through Empowerment” through interventions in  Education, Health and Environment.
I am proud to note that in FY 2017, TCSers  volunteered over 6.9 lakh hours for social and  environmental causes in their respective  communities.
The guiding philosophy behind our CSR programs  is to make an impact on communities by  empowering individuals.
Many of our programs  are focused on imparting education and skills  which help individuals become productive.
Our long-running Adult Literacy Program, which  uses computers to impart functional literacy, now  supports nine Indian languages and continues to  expand its reach.
In FY 2017, this program alone  reached 126,000 persons.
Other programs in  India, like BridgeIT and our BPS and IT  Employability Programs help individuals from  underprivileged backgrounds find employment  and become catalysts of change in their  communities.
The TCS Research Scholarship Program is now in  its thirteenth cycle, covering 245 PhD scholars  across 33 institutes across India.
55 persons have  obtained their PhD through this program.
In North America, our flagship program goIT and  other initiatives to promote STEM education and  careers among students, continue to gather pace.
In FY 2017, our various programs touched the lives  of over 17,600 students.
I am very happy to note  that the Million Women Mentors (MWM) initiative  which we support in the US has crossed the  milestone of 1 million pledges to mentor girls and  young women in STEM education and careers.
10  Letter from the CEOI We launched a new program in the US called  'Ignite My Future in School' in partnership with  Discovery Education.
It will engage over 20,000  teachers and help prepare over 1 million students  over the next five years in 10 US cities for Digital  careers.
In the field of healthcare, we continue to support  the Tata Medical Center.
TCS initiated the  Outpatient Department Transformation  (TransOPD) at TMC for a better Patient Experience.
The TCS Fit4Life continues to energize employees  and increase their wellness.
In FY 2017,  employees spent over 3 million hours logging 13.5  million kilometres of physical exercise and activity.
I am delighted that your Company has been  recognized and rewarded across multiple  dimensions by industry peers and stakeholders.
TCS is among the Top Three Global Brands in  IT Services.
TCS has been recognized as the  Global Top Employer across 27 countries.
TCS  retained the No.
1 position in Europe for customer  satisfaction for the fourth consecutive year.
During the past few months, I have met many  customers, each of them at different stages in  their Digital transformation journeys.
Every one of  them is looking at further accelerating those  programs and becoming more technology- driven.
Speaking with the CXOs of these  organizations, I was humbled and re-energized,  by the uniformly high esteem in which they hold  your Company.
The business opportunity for us is huge, and we  are well placed in terms of industry expertise,  technology capabilities, customer relationships,  people, and execution model to participate in this  opportunity and continue to create value for all  our stakeholders.
I thank you all for your  continued support and encouragement.
With Warm Regards Yours Sincerely Rajesh Gopinathan Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director April 18, 2017 Performance Highlights 11I  Performance Highlights Employee metrics n Net Additions n Total Headcount FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 276K 387K 354K 320K300K 38K 24K 19K 34K 33K FY17FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 Client metrics n $100 Mn+ Clients n $50 Mn+ Clients 52 84 7368 53 17 24 29 37 35 Cash usage 29.4% 56.7% 12.8% 1.0% n Capex n Dividend paid* n Invested funds n Acquisitions, etc *including dividend tax and final dividend for fiscal 2017  (FY 2013 to FY2017) Revenue trend CAGR 19.3% FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 62,989 81,809 94,648 108,646 117,966 ` crore Earnings per share CAGR 20.2% Amount in ` Earnings trends  (Operating # Income) FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 30,32428,790 25,424 27.0% 29.1% 26.9% 26.5% 25.7% n Operating Margin n Operating Income 23,808 17,008 Cash flow from  operating activities FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 25,223 19,10919,369 14,751 11,615 Shareholder payouts n Dividends (Excl spl divs) n Special dividends n Shareholder payout ratio      (incl special dividend) ` crore FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 11,071 36.2% 91.1% 42.0% 42.0% 7,058 5,030 9,166 8,92236.9% 18088 10,206 # The Company transitioned into Ind AS with effect from April 01,2015.
The IFRS operating profit being in line with the Ind AS operating profit, IFRS numbers have been considered for prior years for continuity purpose in  the above chart instead of the Indian GAAP numbers that were actually reported in those financial years.
Also note that FY 2015 numbers exclude a one-time employee reward  of  ` 2,628 crores paid by the Company.
FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 133.4 123.3 111.9 97.7 71 ` crore ` crore TCS Annual Report 2016-17 12  Reimagining Digital SkillingI TCS is working at the grassroot level to address the shortage of STEM  skills through goIT— our flagship student engagement program in North  America.
goIT seeks to spark an interest in technology among middle- school students through design thinking, mobile app development, and  mentorship from TCS employee volunteers.
Students work in teams to  identify problems, generate possible solutions, wireframe their  prototypes, develop and test their solutions, and present their work to  peers and judges.
Each TCS volunteer completes extensive training,  covering youth psychology, design thinking, educational systems, and  tools for mobile app development to aid their preparation as a mentor.
Till date, we have engaged over 13,000 middle and high school students  across 50 cities in US and Canada.
More than half of them reported an  increased interest in STEM disciplines, and 86% agreed that the  program encouraged them to consider a STEM career.
Reimagining Digital  Skilling Reimagining Elderly Care TCS, along with Singapore Management University, is reimagining  elderly care in Singapore, using remote-monitoring technology.
The  scalable solution allows senior citizens living alone to receive prompt  care, unobtrusively.
Motion sensors and connected medication boxes  embedded in the homes of the elderly alert caregivers in the event of  inactivity for unusual periods of time, and warn them if prescribed  medication is not taken regularly.
The solution allows senior citizens to  live a dignified and independent lifestyle.
Reimagining Elderly Care 13  I 14  TCS Energy Management SolutionI 35 MILLION SQ.
FT. AREA 150 FACILITIES IN INDIA 280,000 ASSOCIATES 13,000+ ENERGY AND  OCCUPANCY SENSORS 20,000 TONNES ANNUAL CARBON SAVING Large enterprises incur significant energy costs in maintaining  comfortable ambient conditions at their workplaces.
TCS has  reimagined energy management with its cloud-based energy- management-as-a-service platform that leverages TCS IP , IoT, machine  learning, and predictive analytics to monitor energy consumption on a  real-time basis, detect anomalies, and identify ways to reduce  consumption.
The largest deployment of this platform has been across  TCS’ facilities in India – over 150 of them, housing 280,000 employees.
By using real-time data and intelligent decision support, TCS saved  26.6 million kwh of power last year and kept electricity spend flat  year-on-year across the connected facilities, despite a 15% increase  in seating capacity.
Reimagining Energy  Management Building the TCS Brand  15I Building the TCS Brand The TCS brand has been built on a solid foundation of trust that we have  established with our stakeholders over decades.
Our customer- centricity and focus on execution excellence is recognized by customers  who continue to reward us with more business every year.
Third party  surveys show that we are an industry benchmark in customer  satisfaction – we have been ranked no  1 in customer satisfaction in  Europe four years in a row.
Likewise, our employee-friendly workplace  and HR policies have resulted in consistently high employee retention  levels.
We have been ranked Top Employer in the US and other major  markets every year for the last few years.
On the investor front, our  disclosure levels, transparency, accessibility and track record of  dividend payouts have gotten us top place in local and regional investor  polls.
We crossed an important milestone in our brand building journey in  FY 2017.
In a formal brand valuation and ranking exercise, TCS broke into  the list of the Top 3 brands in the IT services industry globally.
Brand TCS’ #DigitalEmpowers brand campaign, launched at the World Economic Forum in Davos in January 2017,  won the ‘Creative of the Future’ award from the World Communications Forum.
Institutional Investor's 2016 All Asia Executive Team recognized TCS as the Most Honored Company Asia: CustomerEmployee Investor 2017 16  Reimagination Across IndustriesI Every new technology historically changed the  way work got done.
What makes Digital so  different?
What makes Digital different is that it empowers  people and businesses to get things done  interactively and instantaneously.
There is an  unprecedented volume, variety, and velocity of  innovation that is leading to revolutionary change.
Newer business models are based purely on  technology, are asset-light, and yet pose a  serious challenge to incumbents.
These virtual  entities have used Digital technologies to set very  high standards of customer experience, changing  the equation between business and technology.
Historically, technology was an enabler of  business and a source of efficiency.
Today, Digital  technologies are defining business, and are an  active driver of competitiveness, business  models, and even business viability.
Digital is one diverse, yet inter-operable,  constantly evolving family of technologies  enabling continuous availability of data, systems,  applications, and business processes.
Such an  architecture allows enterprises to completely  reimagine different aspects of their businesses,  and you will see some of those reimagination  stories in this report.
How do brick and mortar enterprises reimagine  themselves?
Digital reimagination is all about looking at the  end objective of delivering convenience and  simplicity of interaction and working backwards,  examining every link or hand-off in the value  chain, and figuring out what needs to be done  differently to enable that outcome.
TM The TCS Digital Reimagination  framework is a  proven way to structure that exercise, taking up  the business model, products and services,  customer segments, channels, business  processes, the workplace, and the customer /  employee experience, and looking at how Digital  can make a difference in each of them.
What is the roadmap that you would prescribe  for an enterprise seeking to Digitally transform  itself?
With the objective of delivering a simple, yet  great customer experience, every organization  has to work on three broad areas, all at the same  time.
First, there has to be a solid foundation or what  we call a Digital spine, which is made up of three  parts – a cloud-first strategy that makes  infrastructure, applications, and data shareable;  then APIfication or building a services fabric that  will allow business services to be consumed  internally and externally at will; and finally,  renovation of core systems and automation  frameworks as necessary.
"We are advocating three common  themes to customers: Agile,  Automation, and Cloud.
All three  are critical building blocks for any  organization’s Digital  transformation."
The explosion of possibilities brought about by Digital  technologies is changing the relationship between  business and technology, driving Digital reimagination  across industries, structurally increasing technology  spending, and opening up new growth opportunities  for TCS Reimagination across  Industries  N G Subramaniam,  Chief Operating Officer TCS Annual Report 2016-17 Reimagination Across Industries 17I  The second area is intelligence.
Organizations  have to learn to work with large volumes of real- time data and move to insights-driven decision  making.
Deployment of Big Data analytics, IoT,  AI-based personalization and autonomous  operations are examples of that.
Lastly, there is the front-end enterprise and  consumer apps.
Immersive technologies,  consistent data representation, customer  experience across channels and touchpoints – all  personalized, and backed by intelligence and  insights – are what go towards making the  customer feel understood.
Why do clients pick TCS to partner them in  their reimagination journey?
What does TCS  bring to the table?
I think the number one reason is contextual  knowledge.
This is a deep understanding of our  customers’ businesses, their processes, and the  underlying systems and IT environment.
Having  worked with them for years, we possess a  granular understanding that we have been able to  successfully institutionalize and translate into  superior quality work.
Secondly, we possess greater scale in Agile  and Digital technologies, having spotted these  trends sufficiently early and invested in reskilling  our workforce.
Digital programs are growing in  scope and size, and customers can ill afford to  work with an IT partner who cannot meet their  time-to-market imperatives.
Third, our investments in research and  innovation have delivered innovations that find  application in different industry verticals.
The work in AI, for example, results in intelligence  getting embedded into boiler control systems  and in investment advisory chatbots.
We have  been showcasing these innovations to our  customers, helping seed ideas for their own  reimagination journeys.
Customers appreciate that our full services  capability backed by a rich portfolio of  frameworks, products, and platforms allows us to  craft comprehensive Digital solutions which are  seamless, and for which TCS takes full  accountability and ownership.
Our delivery engine is seen by our customers  and even peers as the best in the industry.
Our  unwavering focus on quality results in superior  outcomes and the experience of certainty which  shows through in how we top customer  satisfaction surveys year after year.
agenda is by making current operations more  efficient through greater automation – ranging  from simple transaction enrichment, straight- through processing, and robotic process  automation, to insights-driven automation.
Lastly, we strongly advocate cloud adoption  and cloud-first strategies.
Virtualization of assets  is key to unlocking value within the enterprise.
Computing power, storage, software, data  analytics – all lend themselves to cloud-based  models that deliver greater flexibility, agility, and  efficiency.
How is Digital shaping the future opportunity for  the IT services business?
We are seeing increased spending by companies  across industry verticals on Digital technologies.
Our services are getting embedded into their core  products and services and becoming a source of  competitive differentiation.
This is a huge structural  change.
You have new generation, intelligent cars  whose parking-assist feature or intelligent cruise- control feature is programmed by us.
"Our services are getting  embedded into their core products  and services and are a source of  competitive differentiation.
This is a  huge structural change.
You have  new generation, intelligent cars  whose parking-assist feature or  intelligent cruise-control feature is  programmed by us."
What are the key themes you are advocating to  customers for FY 2018?
Rajesh [Gopinathan] and I met over 75 customers  across the world in the last couple of months.
It  was clear from those interactions that every  customer has a transformative agenda, and they  are looking for help navigating through real life  challenges in accomplishing that agenda.
Looking at those imperatives, we are  advocating three common themes to customers:  Agile, Automation, and Cloud.
All three are critical  building blocks for any organization’s Digital  transformation.
Location-independent agility at scale, that is  the ability to orchestrate Agile development  across globally distributed teams is very critical  for enterprises undertaking large Digital programs  where time-to-market is critical.
Automation is the other essential item on  every CXO’s agenda.
With budgets remaining  constrained, one way to fund the transformation  "Our delivery engine is seen by our  customers and even peers as the  best in the industry.
Our unwavering  focus on quality results in superior  outcomes and the experience of  certainty which shows through in  how we top customer satisfaction  surveys year after year."
All these structural changes are expanding the  overall spending on technology.
Within that spend, there is a greater propensity  to outsource because the shelf life of  technologies is reducing, and it is hard to predict  how long a certain technology will stay relevant.
We are therefore positive on our longer-term  growth prospects.
n 18  Reimagining e-CommerceI Dick’s Sporting Goods (DSG), a leading omni-channel sporting goods  retailer in the United States is reimagining its e-commerce strategy.
They have chosen TCS as their partner in this journey, recognizing our  thought leadership, expertise, and experience in developing omni- channel solutions in retail.
TCS helped DSG insource their e-commerce  operations onto their proprietary platform, using an Agile delivery model  for quicker time to market, and relaunch dicks.com on time and within  budget.
The new e-commerce platform will provide DSG greater agility,  easier access to data, better leverage of cross-channel data, and deliver  a differentiated online experience for their customers.
It will further  accelerate DSG’s e-commerce business growth and deliver superior  profitability.
Reimagining Ecommerce Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems is reimagining power plant  operations, equipping operators with real-time adaptive control and  actionable insights to help them optimize performance.
They chose TCS  to help build an AI-based boiler control system for efficiently regulating  coal-fired thermal power plants.
The system brings the power of Big  Data analytics and artificial intelligence to check nearly 250 parameters  and over 10,000 combinations to tune the boiler for maximum  efficiency, depending on the kind of coal.
More efficient combustion  from the new system not only reduces costs for the plant operators but  also cuts NOx emissions.
Reimagining Boiler Controls Reimagining Boiler Controls  19I 20  Reimagining Research & InnovationI How has TCS’ approach to research and  innovation changed in the Digital world?
The Digital world has opened up completely new  avenues for TCS Research and Innovation.
The innovation opportunity lies in two broad  areas.
First, the Digital reimagination of industry  domains and society at large.
With its stakeholders  increasingly becoming digital, the industry is  reimagining itself to become part of the experiences  they seek.
Businesses today aim to deliver unique,  curated experiences to stakeholders in every value  chain — to the customer and to the Digital citizen,  employee, partner, and regulator.
Secondly, the industrialization of computing has  set new benchmarks for scale, reliability, security,  and cost.
Enterprises have an enormous opportunity  to innovate in all these areas.
Research is catalyzed by Digital technologies as  they make large-scale data capture, referencing,  simulation, and modeling easier.
There is exciting  growth at the intersections of computing and  multiple sciences.
For instance, at the cusp of  computing and human behavior, we are studying  interactions in the spheres of work, health, business,  entertainment, and society.
In life sciences, we  study a wide spectrum of work related to genomics,  metagenomics, and health.
In physical sciences,  there are dramatic advancements in the use of  computation for design of materials and related  engineering processes.
AI is the buzzword these days.
What is TCS doing  in this space?
Artificial intelligence algorithms aim to solve  problems by learning, or creating rules, and can  tackle a very large number of variables and  uncertainties.
AI today is being applied in the  consumer domain like image and speech recognition  and natural language processing.
We are applying AI  in enterprise scenarios through Ignio™, our neural  automation product for enterprise IT operations.
We are also working on a range of conversational  and visual perception systems, augmented reality  applications, speech biometrics, and cognitive  optimization.
We have also been working with  manufacturing units to help predict machine failures  for condition-based maintenance and to intelligently  control manufacturing or utility operations for  improved efficiency.
We are also exploring the role of  ‘humans in the loop’ in the context of enterprise AI.
Tell us about some of your initiatives to align your  research and innovation effort with customers.
Can you talk about the outcomes from some of  these?
Our Innovation Evangelists connect TCS Research  and Innovation, customers, and business  stakeholders through various platforms.
These  include focused co-innovation events and  workshops that help teams jointly identify  opportunities and shape solution ideas through use  cases.
Customer-centric Innovation Days have  become a strong platform for TCS to connect to  customer leadership.
Customers request Research  and Innovation solutions across domains,  sometimes resulting in research collaborations.
A recent one was for energy demand forecasting for  a utility company.
Another outcome is technology  proofs of concept, like the one we did for a capital  markets customer who wanted these in themes  ranging from operational efficiency to customer  "Research is catalyzed by Digital  technologies as they make large- scale data capture, referencing,  simulation, and modeling easier.
There is exciting growth at the  intersections of computing and  multiple sciences."
Reimagining  Research and Innovation  K Ananth Krishnan, CTO Digital technologies have opened up exciting new  avenues for research and innovation.
By aligning our  efforts in this space with customers’ business  imperatives and leveraging the start-up ecosystem,  TCS’ Research and Innovation is seeding the  reimagination journeys of our customers across  industries.
Reimagining Research & Innovation 21I  What is different about the current wave of  automation?
How is this captured in ignio™, TCS’  cognitive automation product for IT operations?
The software industry has been driving automation  for several decades.
In fact, the word software is  synonymous with automation.
Traditionally,  automation has been designed to be ‘robotic’; it  simply performs actions that it has been  programmed for.
With ignio™, we are taking automation to the  highest level where the ‘software’ itself becomes  intelligent.
Instead of simply replaying what it has  been programmed for, ignio™ emulates the human  brain and its reasoning processes.
ignio™ has the  ability to self-learn and understand the enterprise  context.
It can decipher what is happening and why,  predict what is likely to happen in the future, and  prescribe actions to handle them.
Finally, much like  humans, it can construct without explicit  instructions, end-to-end procedures for performing  complex activities on-the-fly based on the context  and simple reusable skills.
The combination of these  features allows ignio™ to take responsibility for  running enterprise IT environments autonomously.
What has triggered this sudden interest in AI?
AI or machine learning techniques have been around  for decades and have been improving incrementally  over the years.
The current quantum leap towards  intelligent automation is driven by three basic  trends.
The first is hyper-instrumentation.
Everything  – people, technologies, household appliances or  even industrial systems – is getting heavily  instrumented and monitored, providing us with  enormous amount of data and unprecedented  visibility into their behavior and operations.
The  second is software-defined everything, or to put it  differently, there’s an app for everything!
This makes  it possible to perform actions on anything through  software.
Third, there is on-demand availability of  abundant compute capacity from the cloud.
Combine these three trends, and you have a  strong foundation for intelligent automation.
You  have access to data about every system, you have  the compute capacity at your fingertips to process  such large data volumes and derive insights, and you  have the ability to operationalize these insights  through software (the app!).
When you unleash a new automation product like  ignio™ in a customer’s production environment,  how are the risks managed?
We have introduced several checks and balances in  the design of ignio™ to ensure safety and security.
ignio™ performs only the activities that it is allowed  to do and everything is logged and auditable.
To  prevent accidental errors, we have also designed an  intelligent filter, called an ‘action firewall’, which  blocks actions that are either not allowed or deemed  to have high impact.
Lastly, we implement ignio™  using incremental rollout sprints, to build confidence  and trust.
How does ignio™ help our customers?
ignio™ augments human intelligence and  empowers people to do more making enterprises  smarter, faster and more efficient.
Our experience  to-date indicates that ignio™ can reduce business- impacting outage duration by 80-90% through  proactive actions and autonomous self-healing;  reduce the time taken to perform complex activities  y 90-95%, and eliminate 40-50% of manual effort.
b These benefits will keep increasing as we train  ignio™ to take on more and more.
n TCS Annual Report 2016-17 TM "With ignio , we are taking  intelligent automation to  the highest level."
Prof Harrick Vin, VP & Global Head, Digitate,  TM a TCS venture, talks about ignio .
experience.
We have also worked on new business  ideas like contactless payment for an untapped  segment of a financial services company.
How is TCS engaging with start-ups?
TM TCS’ Co-Innovation Network (COIN ) has been  connecting with start-ups, venture capitalists, and  academia for over a decade.
The COIN footprint has  expanded globally.
With COIN’s maturity, more  engagements, faster connects, and standard  processes have been forged.
We are able to engage  with entities large and small in win-win partnerships.
TCS’ ability to orchestrate an external network to  bring in new technologies at lowered risk is seen as a  valuable capability by customers and partners.
"Customer-centric Innovation Days  have become a strong platform for  TCS to connect to customer  leadership.
Customers request  Research and Innovation solutions  across domains, sometimes  resulting in research  collaborations... technology proofs- of-concept... [and implementing]  new business ideas."
Tell us about TCS’ relationships with academia.
While we have partnered several notable institutes  around the world in new technology research, this  year’s highlight has been the India Academic  Alliance story.
We have signed comprehensive  research agreements with the Indian Institute of  Science (IISc), the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI),  five premier Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs),  two Indian Institutes of Information Technology  (IIITs), and other premier technology institutes.
Outcomes from our academic alliances have been  encouraging.
For instance, the robot created by TCS  and IIT-Kanpur did very well in the 2016 Amazon  Picking Challenge, beating many established  players.
Our Research Scholar program is the largest  corporate support program for PhDs in Computer  Science and related disciplines in India.
n When 129-year old Alcoa, the world’s largest aluminium company, split  into an upstream mining and refining company (Alcoa) and a  downstream components manufacturing business (Arconic) to become  more competitive and drive shareholder value, they picked TCS to  perform the critical task of separating the underlying IT systems and  infrastructure.
TCS set up an enterprise-class private cloud for Alcoa,  and upgraded, remediated, and migrated over 1300 systems without  any business disruption, while adhering to a non-negotiable deadline.
The flexible cloud platform built by TCS is aligned with Alcoa’s business  strategy, and well placed to support their future growth.
22  Reimagining IT LandscapesI Reimagining IT Landscapes Reimagining Business Models  23I In a data- and content-driven Digital world, BT, UK’s leading telecom  company, reimagined its broadband and mobile businesses to go  beyond being a passive carrier of third party content.
BT TV is today a  leading converged operator in the UK delivering its own IPTV content  to subscribers.
TCS has been their strategic partner in this journey,  helping engineer, deploy, and support BT TV’s products and solutions to  deliver an exceptional experience to viewers anywhere, anytime, and on  any device.
Reimagining Business  Models 24  Reimagining IT ServicesI How has Digital adoption changed the IT  services business?
The adoption of Digital technologies and the  changed equation between business and  technology have brought about newer buying  behaviors among customers.
Today, IT is no longer the exclusive domain of  the CIO.
Every business leader has to constantly  look at how technology can reshape their area,  and engage with technology to transform.
This  has created multiple buyers of technology within  the enterprise.
Second, there is an immense speed-to-market  imperative.
So Agile and DevOps is a default  preference in newer engagements, and that  changes software delivery models.
Then, there is virtualization.
Hardware and  software which were earlier purchased and  installed within the customer’s premises are now  being accessed from the cloud on a rental basis.
Customers don’t want to get locked into any one  proprietary technology but want systems  integrators like us to stitch together multiple  best-in-class point solutions which they can  consume as a service.
Virtualization of IT services results in what is  known as Shared Services.
These are basically a  set of capabilities, say, ERP maintenance, which  are not dedicated to any one customer but shared  across multiple customers.
Customers benefit  from the standardization, flexibility in handling  workloads, and lower cost while TCS can  standardize, automate, and better govern the  service delivery.
Last, when many of the newer technologies  are not fully understood, customers look to us to  simplify matters and use our contextual  knowledge of their business to explore the  boundaries of what is possible.
Related to that is the rise of integrated solution  offerings.
Customers want us to take  responsibility for delivering the overall  transformation program that often entails  orchestrating the delivery of multiple service  lines.
This is in contrast to  separately purchasing  individual services such as application  development and maintenance or package  implementation.
"Customers want us to take  responsibility for delivering the  overall transformation program that  often entails orchestrating the  delivery of multiple service lines.
This is in contrast to separately  purchasing individual services."
"Every business leader has to  constantly look at how  technology can reshape their  area, and engage with  technology to transform."
The changed buying behavior of customers in the  Digital world is reshaping the IT services landscape,  resulting in integrated delivery, greater virtualization,  more automation and non-linear business models.
With its full services portfolio, TCS is participating in  the entire spectrum of customer spending.
Reimagining IT Services Krishnan Ramanujam,  President  Reimagining IT Services  25I Can you give an example of an offering that  involves multi-service orchestration?
How do  you see this working on scale?
A good example is the work we are doing for a  large Fortune 500 company which is  contemplating a series of divestitures.
We are building a replicable model for  carrying out IT system separations with minimal  disruptions every time they go through a  divestiture.
System separations are immensely  complex and require capabilities spanning the  end-to-end transformation lifecycle covering  assessment, evaluation of solutions, finalization  of a roadmap, deployment and governance, with  emphasis on change management.
From a service delivery point of view, it is a  consulting-led program that requires multiple  teams from streams such as enterprise  solutions, cyber-security, cloud, infrastructure  services, and business process services to  come together and deliver a seamless  capability.
This leverages our domain expertise,  business knowledge, technology skills, and  program management capability, and also our  ecosystem partnerships.
Most importantly, it is  built on our unique collaborative and fluid  service delivery structure that enables the easy  coalescing of different capabilities into a One  TCS team.
At the other end of the spectrum, we have  automation replacing a lot of human effort.
What are TCS' initiatives on this front?
The fears of automation leading to job losses are  overdone.
People had similar concerns when  computers first entered the workplace.
Today we  know that the increased efficiency from  computerization only resulted in greater  economic growth.
At TCS, we have focused on  automation from our early days, going back to the  code generators and reverse engineering parsers  we built during the Y2K era.
Automation is an  integral part of the industrial model of software  engineering that we pioneered.
We see the growing interest in automation  among customers as a revenue opportunity, and  are now building greater focus.
We work with all  the leading automation product vendors and also  have our own cognitive automation product,  Ignio™, which is doing very well in the market.
Both automation and the Shared Services  model you spoke of earlier bring costs down.
How will this affect the IT services business?
Automation and Shared Services are both ways  of boosting productivity, requiring lesser effort to  achieve the same outcomes.
One might look at  that deflation and conclude that it is a negative for  IT service providers.
But historically, if you see,  whenever advances in technology or delivery  models resulted in deflation of individual  elements of spend, that never reduced overall  spending.
On the contrary, overall spending on  technology has only risen.
Our experience has been that whenever we  deliver greater efficiency and cost savings on  lower value areas using cloud, automation,  shared services and other ‘Digital for Efficiency’  initiatives, it frees up customers spending  for  higher-end, transformational initiatives such as  omni-channel, customer experience or data  analytics platforms that are a source of  competitive differentiation.
So, at the overall  portfolio level, there is growth, and despite the  "At TCS, we have focused on  automation from our early days,  going back to the code generators  and reverse engineering parsers we  built during the Y2K era.
Automation is an integral part of  the industrial model of software  engineering that we pioneered."
deflation at one end of the spectrum, the higher  realization at the other end keeps our margins  steady.
Where do products and platforms fit into the  services framework?
TCS has developed a lot of domain expertise in the  course of working with customers in different  industry verticals over long periods of time.
That  expertise results in more repeat business and  higher value work.
The other form of monetizing  that knowledge is by building intellectual property  in the form of software products and platforms.
Products and platforms entail an initial  investment in the development but thereafter,  once they gain traction in the marketplace,  incremental revenues do not carry proportional  costs.
That is why they are referred to as non- linear revenues, and are a way of boosting  productivity in the services business.
When we say products and platforms, there is a  value continuum there.
We start with high value,  customizable software products for mission- critical operations – such as lending at a bank or  merchandizing at a retailer.
Next is the Software  as a Service (SaaS) model where multiple  customers subscribe to centrally hosted,  standardized software to automate less critical,  non-differentiated operations.
At the other end is  the convergence of SaaS and Shared Services into  a platform-based utility model where the centrally  hosted software and the operations team are  shared across multiple customers who pay per  transaction.
To me, any activity which is not a source of  competitive differentiation will eventually  gravitate to this kind of a utility model because of  the sheer economies of scale such platforms can  achieve.
To participate in the entire spectrum of  customer spend, we need to have a portfolio of  offerings with pure services at the highest end of  the value chain and platform-based outcomes at  the other extreme.
n 26  Reimagining Business StructuresI Reimagining Business  Structures State Bank of India, the country’s largest bank, reimagined its business  structure by merging the operations of six associate banks with itself.
The bank turned to its trusted technology partner, TCS, to manage  the most critical part of the integration – the migration of product and  customer data from six core banking platforms onto SBI’s TCS BaNCS  platform.
The final merger was accomplished in a tight 48-hour window  before the bank opened for business in the new fiscal year.
Post merger,  the TCS BaNCS instance at SBI supports over 550 million customers,  725 million accounts, and 180 million transactions per day.
These are  staggering numbers unmatched by any other core banking software in  the world.
The merger gives further scale-related benefits and puts SBI  into the league of the top 50 global banks by asset size.
DNB, Norway’s largest financial services group, wanted to gain first  mover advantage by offering a simple mobile-based person-to-person  (P2P) payment app.
They partnered TCS to leverage our deep expertise  in the payments domain and strength in mobile technologies.
TCS built  Vipps, a simple and interactive app, in just five months — making DNB a  first mover in the P2P space in Norway.
The app beat all estimates of  user adoption, and became the highest downloaded app in Norway.
Over half the population uses it, of which 55% are non DNB customers.
Norwegians don’t make payments anymore, they just Vipps it!
Reimagining Payments  27I Reimagining Payments It seems Agile and DevOps are the buzzwords  in software delivery today.
Can you explain  these and put them in context?
In the Digital era, enterprises are under pressure  to cater to heightened expectations from  consumers within and outside the enterprise.
Users are always looking for the next release and  the next feature-rich version of software.
Secondly, consumers of technology expect  software to be ‘Always-On’ — always available  and accessible from anywhere.
Traditional methods of software development,  which have taken a more phased and sequential  approach to building software, make it hard to  keep up with today’s time-to- market demands.
Agile and DevOps represent a new way of  working to build and deliver software.
Agile is an  iterative approach that allows enterprises to  develop software incrementally and faster.
DevOps uses high levels of automation and  tooling to rapidly deploy the software in  production.
So, while Agile gave us speed to  develop, DevOps has extended this by giving us  speed to seploy.
Together these have truly  enabled enterprises to achieve speed to market.
For this reason, Agile/DevOps has become a core  capability for enterprises going through a Digital  transformation.
Applied at scale, it is helping IT  organizations deliver at a much faster pace while  ensuring stability and quality.
The iterative approach of Agile would need  close proximity to users in the client’s  organization.
How do you do that in a globally  distributed delivery model?
There are proven operating models for effective  communication and collaboration in distributed  Agile that don’t compromise agility.
To make the  distributed Agile model work we need to invest  in building business knowledge across the teams,  placing the right roles at the right locations,  immersive collaboration tools, constant  communication, and a structured approach  to planning.
Enterprises already working with distributed  teams in traditional delivery models have typically  built significant knowledge of the enterprise’s  business processes and mutual trust.
These are  important enablers for effective transition  to Agile.
Making distributed Agile work requires careful  joint planning of delivery processes with the  customer such as frequency of deployments,  calibrated work hours, collaborative workspaces,  and creating a One Team culture.
TCS has made  "To make the distributed  Agile model work we need to  invest in building business  knowledge across the teams,  placing the right roles at the  right locations, immersive  collaboration tools, constant  communication and a  structured approach to  planning."
28  Reimagining Software DeliveryI Reimagining Software  Delivery Aarthi Subramanian,  Executive Director The speed of technology change, demands from  business in a Digital era, and the consumerization of  enterprise IT are driving a profound change in software  delivery.
Agile and DevOps have become the preferred  approach to meet the time-to-market demands  placed on today’s IT organizations.
TCS Annual Report 2016-17 significant investments in adopting the Agile way  of working across multiple customer  engagements and establishing an Agile culture  among our workforce through extensive training  and promotional campaigns.
An industrial model of service delivery relies on  well-defined roles, responsibilities, processes  and controls.
Are these still relevant in an Agile  world?
These fundamental aspects of industrialization of  service delivery are very much an integral part of  the Agile way of working.
With Agile, the focus is on delivering the  program in increments — called sprints — with a  well-defined shorter duration (usually in weeks).
This means that Agile teams are typically sets of  smaller teams who work on a finite set of clearly  defined items of work.
The work items are  digitized using tools providing full visibility across  distributed teams.
Focus on programming excellence is core to  Agile/DevOps.
Clearly defined practices and a  plethora of tools are available to enable this.
That  is key to the increased productivity of the  development teams.
Process centricity, another hallmark of the  industrialized model, is embedded into the Agile  way of working much more organically than in  traditional models.
A simple but effective  example is the concept of daily stand-up  meetings, a collaboration and planning process  fundamental to the Agile way of working.
DevOps takes process centricity to the next  level through its focus on extreme process  automation.
To that extent, it is a hyper- industrialized approach to software deployment.
When the emphasis is on speed-to-market,  how are the operational risks around system  stability managed?
The Agile approach is designed to ensure quality  and predictability while delivering faster in  smaller increments creating a continuous flow- through to the business.
Agile/DevOps brings together a number of  enablers to ensure focus on quality and de-risking  of operational risks related to stability.
These  include integrated working of IT — developers,  testers and operations and business teams —  from day one.
Heavy focus on automation of  testing to ensure production deployments are of  high quality and most importantly the philosophy  and associated tooling that ensures that software  is production-ready every day.
In addition, the instrumentation and self- healing capability in operations that tooling and  automation enable is key to ensuring high stability  and availability.
Give us a flavour of the cultural challenges in  transforming the delivery organization to an  Agile mindset?
Agile transformation is very much a mindset  change and should not be seen just as a new way  of delivering software.
So it is important for  enterprises to see this as an organization-wide  change management initiative with very strong  enablement from the leadership.
This should  include awareness-building, re-skilling through  training, support with change in roles, structural  changes, creation of role models (people as well  as projects), investment in Agile/Devops  infrastructure and collaboration tools.
The clear articulation of Agile values and  principles remain fundamental to Agile execution  and is very important in sustaining the culture  across multiple teams.
This means that the entire  team operates as a single unit towards a shared  vision.
A strong focus on cultural integration is  another important piece.
Conducting cultural  awareness sessions and enabling a ‘culture  coach’ role at distributed locations aid continuous  integration of the teams.
Finally, other measures like travel of key roles  to distributed locations, gamification, simulated  scenarios and fun events establish strong ties  amongst distributed teams, improving their  ability to work together as one cohesive team.
n AGILE IMPACT: BENEFITS REALIZED  BY BUSINESS AS WELL AS IT Leading European  Telecom Network Time to Market  40% reduction Product Quality  80% improvement Leading  Australian Bank Time to Market  65% reduction Test effort  70% improvement Leading US  Cable Operator Time to Market  25% reduction Product Quality  70% improvement US Financial  Services Company Time to Market  20-50% reduction Product Quality  60% improvement "Agile transformation is very much  a mindset change and should  not be seen just as a new way  of delivering software.
So it is important for enterprises  to see this as an organization-wide  change management initiative  with very strong enablement  from the leadership."
Reimagining Software Delivery  29I Reimagining Talent  Management  Ajoy Mukherjee,  EVP — Human Resources The emergence of a new class of technologies and a  generational shift in the workforce has necessitated  reimagining every aspect of talent management.
The  power of Digital is being harnessed to reskill the  workforce with speed and scale, and to enrich  employee engagement.
These investments and an  empowering, enabling culture have made TCS an  industry benchmark.
How are you building Digital capabilities in TCS?
Are you hiring big numbers from the market?
We do hire a few individuals where required but  remember, there just won’t be sufficient people  with skills in newer technologies in the market.
On the scale at which we operate, there are no  shortcuts to capability development.
We have to  do what we have always done — invest in re- skilling our employees.
The task is made easier because we have a  young and highly motivated workforce which  recognizes the importance of Digital, and is eager  to learn.
The challenge is to do this quickly and at  scale.
That is where we are ourselves leveraging  the power of Digital.
Tell us more about how you do that.
We have fundamentally reimagined our approach  to training.
The starting point is to acknowledge  that Gen Y’s learning style is different.
They don’t  learn by reading manuals.
They pick up a  technology skill only when they need it, only to the  extent they require, and by trying it out on their  own, and consulting peers when they need help.
To cater to this generational shift, we have built  the TCS’ Digital Learning Platform — an integrated  ecosystem that combines virtual, physical, and  experiential learning infrastructure with high  quality content, and is available any place, any  time, and on any device.
There are virtual  development environments where they can try out  their learning, with a social connect so they can  consult peers.
This globally available learning platform has  removed geographic boundaries, giving us the  benefit of both scale and speed.
In a Digital world, how has recruitment  changed?
What do you look for in a prospective  employee today?
We have completely reimagined talent acquisition  using Digital technologies.
Today, the end-to-end  employee experience — starting from student  engagement to applying for a job, getting an offer  letter, accepting it and thereafter — is digitized  and completely paperless.
Even before we recruit them, we engage with  students through Campus Commune, our online  student engagement portal.
It helps them in their  Digital learning through webinars, educational  videos, and blog posts by experts in various fields,  and in collaborating with their peer groups globally.
We have started using programming contests  on Campus Commune — such as TESTimony,  EngiNx, GameOn, and CodeVita — to spot and hire  top talent from the student community.
Last year,  we recruited over a thousand talented students  this way.
Post recruitment, we have onboarding  platforms to engage with both trainees and lateral  hires.
For laterals hiring, we use job boards, social  media, and the TCS internal reference portal.
We  are also using new generation online recruitment  tools that use analytics and AI to cast the net wider  and screen a large numbers of candidates faster  and with lesser effort.
Our constant innovation has  made us a benchmark in the talent acquisition  domain.
"On the scale at which  we operate, there are no shortcuts  to capability development.
We have  to do what we have always done  — invest in re-skilling our employees."
30  Reimagining Talent Management I TCS Annual Report 2016-17 Coming to the second part of the question,  some things never change.
The two key attributes  that we continue to look for are willingness to learn  and positive attitude.
Other skills that are very  important in today’s world are the ability to work  with a diverse workforce cultural sensitivity, deal  with complexity and ambiguity, balance opposing  views, and see the big picture.
How has the quality of fresh engineering  graduates changed over time?
In my experience, the quality of fresh engineering  graduates in India has improved over time.
There  are two reasons for this.
First, millennials are more exposed to  technology, much earlier, and come with a better  awareness of the digital world.
Unlike past  generations, they start working with computers in  school itself and even study a lot of programming in  college.
TALENT RETENTION 10.5% attrition rate in IT services:  Best in class TALENT ACQUISITION  78,912 employees hired in FY 2017  67,328 in India and  11,584 outside India TALENT DEVELOPMENT  200,000+ associates trained in Digital,  598,996 Digital competencies acquired we will require fewer people to generate the same  unit of revenue.
To see this trend, you have to compare longer  periods.
If you look at the incremental revenue  generated in the last five years on a constant  currency basis, you will see that it took far fewer  additional people compared to the prior five - year  period.
I think this trend will continue into  the future.
There is a lot of news on visa restrictions in the  US.
How dependent are you on such visas?
Historically, we have always recruited local talent  in all our major markets.
We have significantly  ramped it up in the last couple of years, replicating  many of the programs that have worked very well  for us in India – such as partnering academic  institutions and engaging with high school  students.
These are now delivering results.
We are hiring from over a hundred engineering  campuses in the US and also hiring MBAs from top  B-schools, and the experience has been excellent.
We believe we were the top recruiter on a net basis  in the United States in FY2017.
We have been  certified as a ‘Top Employer in North America 2017’  by the Top Employers Institute for the third  consecutive year.
All this is helping us bring down our dependence  on work visas.
In 2016 and again this year, we have  applied for only a third of the visas we had applied  for in 2015.
TCS has historically had the best retention rates  in the industry.
What has made that possible?
There are many things that go into creating an  empowering environment that values and fosters  talent and enables individuals to realize their  potential.
In my opinion, our caring and enabling  culture steeped in Tata values and ethos is the  most critical element from which everything else  follows.
Role rotation programs allow employees to  develop all-round capabilities and grow their  careers exposing them to newer roles, newer  technologies, other domains, and other  geographies.
TCS’ full services capability, broad  industry coverage, and large geographic footprint  offer employees phenomenal opportunities to keep  trying out new things all the time.
The organization’s business growth also  offers individuals very strong career growth  opportunities.
The cutting- edge Digital  transformational work we are doing for leading  corporations across the world makes TCS the best  place for talented engineers looking to work on the  latest and most exciting assignments.
Other key HR interventions and investments  that have made our retention rates the industry  benchmark are our progressive policies, focus on  diversity, investments in training and reskilling,  career management, leadership development  programs, and the multiple social platforms for  employee engagement.
n GLOBAL, DIVERSE  WORKFORCE 387,000+ EMPLOYEES 34.7% women 130NATIONALITIES 55 countries Reimagining Talent Management  31I "Millennials are more exposed  to technology, much earlier, and  come with a better awareness  of the digital world."
Second, many progressive engineering  institutes are working closely with us, as partners  in the TCS Academic Interface Program, to align  their curriculum and pedagogy with the needs of  the industry.
We help them by organizing faculty  training programs, technical workshops, project  sponsorships, soft skill programs, and so on.
You have recruited fewer people this year in  absolute terms compared to FY 2016.
What is  happening?
Year-on-year comparisons can be misleading  because we brought down our attrition  significantly this year compared to the prior year  and therefore had fewer positions to backfill.
That  aside, in the longer term, newer technologies.
and  our adoption of automation and non-linear models  will keep driving greater productivity.
That means  TCS first partnered the Government of India in reimagining passport  services nearly a decade ago.
While the Ministry managed the sovereign  functions, TCS set up the IT and non-IT infrastructure, and managed the  front-office operations, delivering a superior customer experience.
There has been more than a 100% jump in throughput — we issue  nearly a million passports every month today.
But in a country as vast as  India, the 92 facilitation centers run in 77 cities are proving inadequate.
Applicants from smaller towns still travel hundreds of kilometers to the  nearest center for completing their application formalities.
In the next  level of reimagination, TCS is working with the Ministry of External  Affairs and the Department of Posts to extend our award-winning  services to those in the hinterlands using the network of Post Offices  across the country.
This will set a new global benchmark in technology- enabled citizen services.
Reimagining  Citizen Services 32  Reimagining Citizen ServicesI Directors' Report TCS Siruseri, Chennai Directors' Report To the Members, The Directors present the Annual Report of Tata Consultancy Services Limited (the Company or TCS) along with the audited financial statements for the financial  year ended March 31, 2017.
The consolidated performance of the Company and its subsidiaries has been referred to wherever required.
Pursuant to the notification dated February 16, 2015 issued by the Ministry of C orporate Affairs, the Company has adopted the Indian Accounting Standards (”Ind A ”) notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 with effect from April 1, 2016.
S Financial statements for the year ended and as  at March 31, 2016 have been restated to conform to Ind AS Note 3 to the consolidated financial statement provides further explanation on the transition to Ind AS.
1.
Financial results 34 Directors’ Report  Unconsolidated Consolidated  Financial Year 2016-17  (FY 2017) Financial Year 2015-16 (FY 2016) Financial Year 2016-17 (FY 2017) Financial Year 2015-16 (FY 2016) Revenue from operations 92,693 85,864  117,966  108,646 Other income (net) 4,568 3,757 4,221 3,084 Total income 97,261 89,621 122,187 111,730 Expenses Operating expenditure 65,604 58,810 85,655 77,969 Depreciation and amortization expense 1,575 1,459 1,987 1,888 Total expenses 67,179 60,269 87,642 79,857 Profit before finance cost and tax 30,082 29,352 34,545 31,873 Finance costs 16 13 32 33 Profit before tax (PBT) 30,066 29,339 34,513 31,840 Tax expense 6,413 6,264 8,156 7,502 Profit for the year 23,653 23,075 26,357 24,338 Attributable to:      Shareholders of the Company 23,653 23,075 26,289 24,270      Non-controlling interests NA NA 68 68 Opening balance of retained earnings 53,576 42,370 56,113 43,904 Adjustment with other equity 59 (102) 25 (103) Amount available for appropriation 77,288 65,343 82,427 68,071 Appropriations Dividend on equity shares (excluding tax) 9,162 7,993 9,162 7,993 Tax on dividends 1,785 1,486 1,785 1,486 Capital redemption reserve - - - 110 General reserve - 2,288 - 2,304 Statutory reserve - - 33 65 Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve 376 - 376 - Closing balance of retained earnings 65,965 53,576 71,071 56,113 (` 1 crore = ` 10 million) (` crore) Annual Report 2016-17 35Directors’ Report 2.
Buyback of Equity Shares  The Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting held on February 20, 2017, has approved buyback up to 56,140,351 equity shares of `1 each, on a  proportionate basis, at a price of ` 2,850 per equity share payable in cash for an aggregate consideration not exceeding `16,000 crore, excluding transaction  costs viz.
brokerage, applicable taxes such as securities transaction tax, service tax, stamp duty, etc., by way of a Tender Offer route through Stock Exchange  Mechanism.
This is in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (Act), and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy Back of  Securities) Regulations, 1998, and other applicable laws and regulations.
The buyback is a capital allocation decision taken with the objective of seeking a fairer valuation of the Company’s stock while improving the Company’s  Return on Equity, and increasing shareholder value in the longer term.
The offer size of the buyback is within the prescribed limit of 25% of the aggre gate of paid up capital and free reserves of the Company, and represents 2.85%  of the total issued and paid-up equity share capital of the Company.
3.   Dividend  Based on the Company’s performance, the directors are pleased to recomme nd for approval of the members a final dividend of `27.50 per share for FY 2017  taking the total dividend to `47.00 per share (previous year `43.50 per share).
The final dividend on equity shares, if approved by the members would involve  a cash outflow of ` 6,522 crore, including dividend tax.
The total dividend on equity shares including dividend tax for the FY 2017 would aggregate ` 11,071  crore, resulting in a payout of 46.8% of the unconsolidated profits of the Company.
4.
Transfer to reserves  The Company proposes to retain the entire amount of ` 65,965 crore in the profit and loss account.
5.
Company’s performance  On a consolidated basis, the revenue from operations for FY 2017 at ` 117,966 crore was higher by 8.6% over the last year (`108,646 crore in FY 2016).
The profit for the year attributable to shareholders and non-controlling  interests was ` 26,357 crore, recording a growth of 8.3% over the last year  (` 24,338 crore of FY 2016).
The profit after tax attributable to shareholders of the Company was ` 26,289 crore, 8.3% higher than that of the previous year  (` 24,270 crore).
On an unconsolidated basis, the revenue from operations for FY 2017 at `92,693 crore, was higher by 8.0% over the last year (`85,864 crore in FY 2016).
The profit for the year was `23,653 crore, registering a growth of 2.5% over the PAT of ` 23,075 crore in FY 2016.
6.
Human resource development  The Company is responding to the evolving needs of the Digital era by leveraging Digital technologies to enhance the scale, quality and experience of our  Talent Acquisition, Talent Engagement and Talent Development programs.
In FY 2017, TCS hired 78,912 employees across the world.
The Company’s onboarding p latforms give new employees a consistent, world-class integration  experience.
Our diversity initiatives are showing good progress.
The Company has employees from 130 nationalities and is one of the largest employers of  women, who constitute 34.7% of our global workforce.
The Company had 387,223 employees across 55 countries, as on March 31, 2017.
TCS’ Digital Learning platform is helping the Company reskill the global workforce quickly, and at scale.
The Company’s various employee engagement  platforms and initiatives have resulted in a vibrant, productive and enjoyable work environment.
A structured approach to career development, leadership  development, internal job rotations, and mentoring helps employees grow their careers and realize their potential.
Programs like Fit4life, Safety First, Employee Assistance Program, and Purpose4Life are p art of the total employee experience, helping to promote individual  wellness while balancing the needs of work, family and society.
PULSE, the Company’s employee satisfaction survey, provides critical insights into the needs  of the workforce and forms the basis of refining organizational policies and programs.
Through all these initiatives, the Company continues to remain the indu stry benchmark for Talent Retention.
Attrition in FY 2017 reduced to 10.5% in IT  Services and to 11.5% on an overall basis.
7.
Quality initiatives  The Company continues to sustain its commitment to the highest levels of quality, superior service management, robust information security practices and  mature business continuity management.
In FY 2017, the Company was re-appraised enterprise-wide at the highest maturity Level 5 of CMMI-DEV®  36 Directors’ Report (Development) and CMMI-SVC® (Services) version 1.3.
The Company also achieved e nterprise-wide ISO certification for Quality Management (ISO  9001:2015), IT Service Management (ISO 20000-1:2011), Information Security Management (ISO 27001:2013), and Business Continuity Management  (ISO 22301:2012).
TCS’ strong commitment to the environment and occupational health and safety of its employees and business partners is demonstrated  through the enterprise-wide Environmental Management (ISO 14001:2004) and Occupational Health and Safety Management (BS OHSAS 18001:2007)  certifications.
The Company also maintain domain-specific quality certifications including AS 9100 (Aerospace), TL 9000 (Telecom) and ISO 13485 (Medical  Devices).
TM TM  TCS’ Global Network Delivery Model (GNDM ), built on a strong process-driven and customer-centric integrated Quality Management System (iQMS ),  TM continues to deliver outstanding value and experience to our customers.
iQ MS  is continually enhanced for emerging service offerings, new delivery  methodologies, industry best practices and latest technologies.
The Company continues to invest in knowledge management platforms for effective  collaboration, learning and sharing.
The Company received the prestigious Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (MAKE) award in the Global Independent  Operating Unit (IOU) category for the seventh time, Asian and Indian categories for the twelfth time.
For a second successive year in 2016, the Company  was ranked first in the Global IOU MAKE award category.
Our customer-centricity, process rigor, and focus on delivery excellence have resulted in consistent improvements in customer satisfaction levels in the  periodic surveys conducted by us.
This is validated by top rankings in third-party surveys as well.
8.
Subsidiary companies  The Company has 58 subsidiaries as on March 31, 2017.
There are no associate companie s or joint venture companies within the meaning of Section 2(6) of  the Act.
There has been no material change in the nature of the business of the subsidiaries.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 129(3) of the Act, a statement co ntaining the salient features of financial statements of the Company’s subsidiaries in  Form AOC-1 is attached to the financial statements of the Company.
Further, pursuant to the provisions of Section 136 of the Act, the fina ncial statements of the Company, consolidated financial statements along with relevant  documents, and separate audited accounts in respect of subsidiaries, are available on the website of the Company.
Restructuring or closure of unlisted wholly-owned subsidiaries during the year:  a. Tata Consultancy Services (South Africa) (Pty) Limited(TCS South Africa) : Tata Consultancy Services (Africa) (Pty) Limited (TCS Africa), wholly owned  subsidiary of TCS, acquired the 25% ownership interest in TCS South Africa held by a minority shareholder in July 2016 and consequently, TCS South  Africa became a wholly owned subsidiary of TCS Africa.
TCS South Africa is engaged in IT services and consulting business, catering to the customers  in the South Africa region.
b. Diligenta 2 Limited: A subsidiary of Diligenta Limited, the UK based subsidiary of the Company was dissolved with effect from March 14, 2017, by  transfer of its employees, trade, and assets to Diligenta Limited, with the permission of the Financial Conduct Authority of the United Kingdom.
c. PT Financial Network Services Indonesia: The process of closure of this company, which is a subsidiary of Financial Network Services (Holdings) Pty.
Limited, was completed and the same was effective March 16, 2017.    d. MS CJV Investment Corporation: A corporation, incorporated in the state of Nevada, USA, was dissolved with effect from January 24, 2017.
MS CJV  Investment Corporation’s 4.75% holding in Tata Consultancy Services (China) Limited was transferred on December 29, 2016, to Tata Consultancy  Services Asia Pacific Pte.
Limited, based on a valuation report, for a consideration of RMB 9.6 million (USD 1.38 million).
This company had no other  investments or business.
9.
Directors’ responsibility statement  Pursuant to Section 134(5) of the Act, the board of directors, to the  best of their knowledge and ability, confirm that:    i. in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable account ing standards have been followed and there are no material departures;  ii.
they have selected such accounting policies and applied them consistent ly and made judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as  to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company at the end of the financial year and of the profit of the Company for that period;  iii.
they have taken proper and sufficient care for the maintenance of a dequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act fo r  safeguarding the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities;    iv.
they have prepared the annual accounts on a going concern ba sis;  v. they have laid down internal financial controls to be followed by the Company and such internal financial controls are adequate and operatin g  effectively; Annual Report 2016-17 37Directors’ Report  vi.
they have devised proper systems to ensure compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and that such systems are adequate and operating  effectively.
Based on the framework of internal financial controls and compliance systems established and maintained by the Company, the work performed by the  internal, statutory, and secretarial auditors and external consultants, including the audit of internal financial controls over financial reporting by the statutory  auditors, and the reviews performed by management and the relevant board committees, including the audit committee, the board is of the opinion that the  Company’s internal financial controls were adequate and effective during FY 2017.
10.
Directors and key managerial personnel  Mr. N. Chandrasekaran relinquished his position as the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of the Company with effect from February 21, 2017, on  his appointment as Executive Chairman of Tata Sons Limited.
Mr. N Chandrasekaran demonstrated exemplary leadership during his tenure as the Chief  Executive Officer and Managing Director of the Company.
Prior to his elevation to the position of the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of the  Company on October 6, 2009, he held the office of the Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director of the Company from September 6, 2008, till October 5,  2009.
He joined the Company in 1987 and has held several key positions within the Company.
The Directors place on record their appreciation of the  invaluable services of Mr. N. Chandrasekaran as the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director.
Tata Sons Limited nominated Mr. N. Chandrasekaran as the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company in place of Mr. Ishaat Hussain, with effect  from February 21, 2017.
The nomination was duly noted by the Board of Directors at its meeting held on February 20, 2017.
Consequent to this, Mr. N. Chandrasekaran took charge as the Non-Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company with effect from February 21, 2017.
Mr. Ishaat Hussain was nominated as the Chairman of the Board by Tata Sons Limited on November 9, 2016, in place of Mr. Cyrus Mistry.
Mr. Hussain  presided over as the Chairman of the Board till the nomination of Mr. Chandrasekaran as the Chairman with effect from February 21, 2017.
The Directors  place on record their appreciation of Mr. Ishaat Hussain for presiding over the Company as the interim Chairman.
Based on the requisition of the holding company, Tata Sons Limited, an Extra-Ordinary General Meeting of the Company was convened on December 13,  2016, at which the shareholders voted in favor of removal of Mr. Cyrus Mistry as a Director.
Mr. Cyrus Mistry ceased to be a Director of the Company with  effect from December 13, 2016.
Mr. Phiroz Vandrevala stepped down as a Director with effect from July 8, 2016.
In a career spanning over 25 years with the Company, Mr. Phiroz Vandrevala  worked in various leadership roles including as the Executive Director from September 7, 2007 to May 13, 2011, and as a non-executive Director with effect  from May 13, 2011.
Mr. Phiroz Vandrevala took over as the Managing Director and Vice Chairman of Diligenta Limited in May 2011 to drive its business and  execution globally.
The Directors place on record their appreciation for the valuable contribution of Mr. Phiroz Vandrevala to the Company.
Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan, who was the Chief Financial Officer of the Company, was elevated to the position of Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of  the Company with effect from February 21, 2017.
Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan started his professional career with the Company in 2001.
He was appointed as  the Chief Financial Officer of the Company in February 2013.
He has played a key role in helping the Company become a $17.6 billion global turnover  company.
The Board also appointed Mr. N. Ganapathy Subramaniam as the Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director of the Company with effect from February  21, 2017.
Prior to this, Mr. N. Ganapathy Subramaniam was the President, Financial Services, a strategic business unit of the Company.
He has been a part  of the Company and the Indian IT Industry for the past 34 years and has had opportunities to perform a variety of roles in delivering solutions to customers  globally, especially in the Banking and Financial Services sector.
Ms. Aarthi Subramanian retires by rotation and being eligible has offered herself for re-appointment.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 149 of the Act, Mr. Aman Mehta, Mr. V. Thyagarajan, Prof. Clayton M. Christensen, Dr. Ron Sommer, Dr. Vijay Kelkar,  and Mr. O. P .
Bhatt were appointed as independent directors at the annual general meeting of the Company held on June 27, 2014.
They have submitted a  declaration that each of them meet the criteria of independence as provided in Section 149(6) of the Act and there has been no change in the circumstances  which may affect their status as an independent director during the year.
During the year, the non-executive directors of the Company had no pecuniary relationship or transactions with the Company, other than sitting fees,  commission, and reimbursement of expenses incurred by them for the purpose of attending meetings of the Company.
The Board appointed Mr. V. Ramakrishnan as the Chief Financial Officer of the Company, to take over from Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan, with effect from February  21, 2017.
Mr. Ramakrishnan has been a key member of TCS Finance for more than 17 years and has served in various leadership roles in TCS Finance.
He is  a graduate in commerce from Loyola College, Chennai, and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, the Institute of Company  Secretaries of India and the Institute of Cost & Management Accountants of India.
38 Directors’ Report  Pursuant to the provisions of Section 203 of the Act, the Key Manageria l Personnel of the Company as on March 31, 2017 are:    Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan, Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director, Mr. N Gana pathy Subramanian, Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director,  Ms. Aarthi Subramanian, Executive Director,  Mr. V. Ramakrishnan, Chief Financial Officer, and Mr. Suprakash Mukhopadhyay, Company Secretary.
Mr. N. Chandrasekaran ceased to be a Key Managerial Personnel of the Company with effect from February 21, 2017.
11.
Number of meetings of the board  Nine meetings of the board were held during the year.
For details of meetings of the board, please refer to the Corporate Governance Report, which is a part  of this report.
12.
Board evaluation  The Board of Directors has carried out an annual evaluation of its own pe rformance, board committees, and individual directors pursuant to the provisions of  the Act and the corporate governance requirements as prescribed by the  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements), Regulations 2015 (‘SEBI Listing Regulations’).
The performance of the board was evaluated by the board after seekin g inputs from all the directors on the basis of criteria such as the board composition  and structure, effectiveness of board processes, information and functioning, etc.
as provided by the Guidance Note on Board Evaluation issued by the  Securities and Exchange Board of India on January 5, 2017.
The performance of the committees was evaluated by the board after seek ing inputs from the committee members on the basis of criteria such as the  composition of committees, effectiveness of committee meetings, etc.
The Board and the Nomination and Remuneration Committee reviewed th e performance of individual directors on the basis of criteria such as the  contribution of the individual director to the board and committee meetings like preparedness on the issues to be discussed, meaningful and constructive  contribution and inputs in meetings, etc.
In a separate meeting of independent directors, performance of non-ind ependent directors and the board as a whole was evaluated, taking into account the  views of executive directors and non-executive directors.
The same was discussed in the board meeting that followed the meeting of the independent  directors, at which the performance of the board, its committees, and individual directors was also discussed.
Performance evaluation of independent  directors was done by the entire board, excluding the independent director being evaluated.
13.
Policy on directors’ appointment and remuneration and other details   The Company’s policy on directors’ appointment and remuneration and other matters provided in Section 178(3) of the Act has been disclosed in the  Corporate Governance Report, which is a part of this report.
14.
Internal financial control systems and their adequacy   The details in respect of internal financial control and their adequacy are  included in the Management Discussion and Analysis, which is a part of this report.
15.
Audit committee    The details pertaining to the composition of the audit committee are included in the Corporate Governance Report, which is a part of this report.
16.
Auditors    Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP , Chartered Accountants, the statutory aud itors of the Company, hold office till the conclusion of the 22nd Annual Ge neral  Meeting of the Company.
The Board has recommended the appointment of B S R & Co. LLP , Chartered Accountants as the statutory auditors of the Company  in their place, for a term of five consecutive years, from the conclusion of the 22nd Annual General Meeting of the Company scheduled to be held in the year  2017 till the conclusion of the 27th Annual General Meeting to be held in the year 2022, for approval of shareholders of the Company, based on the  recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Further, based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee of t he Company, the Board has appointed KPMG India, Chartered Accountants, to audit the  financial statements under the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for a period of five financial years from FY 2017-18 to FY 2021-22.
17.
Auditors’ report and secretarial auditors’ report   The auditors’ report and secretarial auditors’ report do not contain any qualifications, reservations, or adverse remarks.
Report of the secretarial auditor is  given as an annexure to this report.
Annual Report 2016-17 39Directors’ Report 18.
Risk management    The Board of Directors of the Company has formed a risk management committee  to frame, implement, and monitor the risk management plan for the  Company.
The committee is responsible for reviewing the risk management plan a nd ensuring its effectiveness.
The Audit Committee has additional  oversight in the area of financial risks and controls.
The major risks identified by the businesses and functions are systematically addressed through  mitigating actions on a continual basis.
The development and implementation of risk management policy has been covered in the Management Discussion and Analysis, which is a part of this report.
19.
Particulars of loans, guarantees, and investments   The particulars of loans, guarantees, and investments have been disclosed in  the financial statements.
20.
Transactions with related parties   None of the transactions with related parties fall under the scope of Section 188(1) of the Act.
The information on transactions with related part ies  pursuant to Section 134(3)(h) of the Act read with Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 are given in Annexure I in Form AOC-2 and the same  form a part of this report.
21.
Corporate social responsibility    The brief outline of the corporate social responsibility (CSR) policy of the C ompany and the initiatives undertaken by the Company on CSR activities during  the year are set out in Annexure II of this report in the format prescribed in the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014.
For other  details regarding the CSR Committee, please refer to the Corporate Governance Report, which is a part of this report.
The policy is available on the website  of the Company.
22.
Extract of annual return   As provided under Section 92(3) of the Act, the extract of the annual return is given in Annexure III in the prescribed Form MGT-9, which is a part of this report.
23.
Particulars of employees    The information required under Section 197 of the Act read with rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel)  Rules, 2014 are given below:  a.
The ratio of the remuneration of each director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company for the financial year: Name of the directors Ratio to median  remuneration Non-executive directors: Mr. N. Chandrasekaran * 514.78 Mr. Cyrus  Mistry **^ Mr. Aman Mehta 46.30 Mr. V. Thyagarajan 31.90 Prof. Clayton M. Christensen 23.35 Dr. Ron Sommer 33.35 Dr. Vijay Kelkar 29.83 Mr. Ishaat Hussain 37.02 Mr. O. P .
Bhatt 30.29 Mr. Phiroz Vandrevala  *** ^ Executive directors: Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan # @ Mr. N. Ganapathy Subramaniam ## @ Ms. Aarthi Subramanian 63.47 ^ Since the remuneration of these Directors is only for part of the year, the ratio of their remuneration to median remuneration is not comparable 40 Directors’ Report  b.
The percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary in the  financial year: *  Relinquished the office of Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director and appointed as a Chairman of the Company w.e.f.
February 21, 2017 **   Ceased to be a Director of the Company w.e.f.
December 13, 2016 ***  Relinquished the office of Non-Executive Director w.e.f.
July 8, 2016 #    Appointed as  Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of the Company w.e.f.
February 21, 2017 ##  Appointed as Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director w.e.f.
February 21, 2017 c. The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year: 4.91% d. The number of permanent employees on the rolls of Company: 387,223 e. Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in the last financial year and  its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and point out if there are any  exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration:    The average annual increase was around 8% in India.
However, during the course of the year, the total increase is approximately 10%, after  accounting for promotions and other event based compensation revisions.
Employees outside India received wage increase varying from 2% to 6%.
Increase in the managerial remuneration for the year was 31.38%.
f. Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company:  The Company affirms that the remuneration is as per the remuneration po licy of the Company.
g. The statement containing names of top ten employees in terms of remun eration drawn and the  particulars of employees as required under  Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule 5(2) of the Companies (Appoint ment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, is  provided in a separate annexure forming part of this report.
Further, the report and the accounts are being sent to the members excluding the  aforesaid annexure.
In terms of Section 136 of the Act, the said annexure is open for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company.
Any  shareholder interested in obtaining a copy of the same may write to the Company Secretary.
Directors, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary % increase in remuneration  in the financial year Mr. N. Chandrasekaran* 17.55 Mr. Cyrus Mistry ** @@ Mr. Aman Mehta 15.25 Mr. V. Thyagarajan 12.18 Prof. Clayton M. Christensen 7.38 Dr. Ron Sommer 11.78 Dr. Vijay Kelkar 25.04 Mr. Ishaat Hussain 20.23 Mr. O. P .
Bhatt 20.09 Mr. Phiroz Vandrevala *** @@ Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan  # @ Mr. N. Ganapathy Subramaniam ## @ Ms. Aarthi Subramanian 35.15 Mr. Ramakrishnan V, Chief Financial Officer w.e.f February 21, 2017 @ Mr. Suprakash Mukhopadhyay, Global Treasury Head and Company Secretary 30.76 @  Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan, Mr. N. Ganapathy Subramaniam and Mr. Ramakrishnan V  were appointed on February 21, 2017.
Accordingly, the  disclosures with respect to increase in their salary and median are not given.
@@ Increase in remuneration is not given as the concerned directors were only for the part of the year.
Annual Report 2016-17 41Directors’ Report 24.
Disclosure requirements  As per SEBI Listing Regulations, the Corporate Governance Report with the  Auditors’ Certificate thereon, and the Management Discussion and Analysis are  attached, which form part of this report.
As per Regulation 34 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, a Business Responsibility Rep ort is attached and is a part of this annual report.
As per Regulation 43A of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Dividend Distributio n Policy is disclosed in the Corporate Governance Report and on the website  of the Company.
25.
Deposits from public  The Company has not accepted any deposits from public and as such, no amount on account of principal or interest on deposits from public was outstanding  as on the date of the balance sheet.
26.
Conservation of energy, technology absorption, foreign exchange earnings, and outgo  Conservation of energy:  The Company is committed to reduce its energy consumption through four k ey levers: green buildings, efficient operations, green IT and the use of  renewable energy.
Green buildings are energy efficient by design and hence help us reduce energy footprint.
Over half of the Company’s real estate portfolio  are green buildings.
Some 80% of all the TCS-owned offices are LEED/IGBC certified.
The Company’s Remote Energy Monitoring and Control initiative has  enabled real-time energy monitoring and performance optimization, including that of data centers.
All the owned campuses have onsite solar photovoltaic  power generation.
The Company has significantly increased its use of renewable power year on year.
These initiatives collectively resulted in the Company’s  energy consumption reducing by 8.3% over the prior year, on a per FTE per annum basis.
Technology absorption, adaption, and innovation:   The Company continues to adopt and use the latest technologies to improve the productivity and quality of its services and products.
The Compa ny’s  operations do not require significant import of technology.
Research and Development (R&D): Specific areas in which R&D was carried out by the Company   TCS research deepened its exploration in the areas of intersection be tween computing and sciences; focusing on Artificial Intelligence (AI), the  industrialization of software and computing, and the Digitization of business a nd society.
Other areas of research include: an Integrated Computational  Materials Platform in the materials space, the use of data science and high performance computational methods in genome analysis, metagenomic  bio-markers and systems biology, and modeling of human behavior to understand the needs of a Digital citizen, Digital workplaces, and Digital customer in  behavioral, social, and business sciences.
TCS Research and Innovation (R&I) remained closely connected to customers.
Our marquee event, the TCS Innovation Forum, attracted over 700  customers, partners, and technology experts across New York City, London, Medellin, and Sao Paulo.
We conducted a track called the ’The TCS Slush  Experience’ at Slush – Europe’s premier startup event.
Innovation Days and workshops held for customers in various locations resulted in several pilots and  proofs of concept.
The Company’s Entrepreneur-in-Residence program as well a s the Co-Innovation Network (TCS COIN™) continued to accelerate  innovation.
The latter expanded its footprint in several geographies and also deepened its academic alliances in India, extending it to Tier 1 institutions.
Your Company is again named in the Forbes list of the `World’s Most Inno vative Companies’, ninth year in a row.
The Company was also awarded the WIPO  IP Enterprise Trophy.
VeriAbs, TCS’ V&V framework offering, came first in the Loops category in 6th International Competition on Software V&V.
The TCS  Remote Energy Monitoring System won the 2016 IoT Connected Building Award and the 17th National Award on Excellence in Energy Management.
TCS  and IIT Kanpur together ranked fifth in the Amazon Picking Challenge.
TCS had three winners in Tata Innovista 2016; all six winners of the Challenges Worth  Solving were from TCS.
Several associates have won individual honors.
Looking forward, the Digital reimagination of industry and society and the  industrialization of software and computing will continue to be focus areas for  TCS R&I.
Expenditure on R&D    TCS Innovation Labs are located in India and other parts of the world.
These R&D centers, certified by the Department of Scientific & Industrial Research  (DSIR) function from Pune, Chennai, Bengaluru, Delhi- NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Mumbai.
42 Directors’ Report  Expenditure incurred in the R&D centers and innovation centers of TCS d uring FY 2017 and FY 2016 are given below: (` crore) Expenditure on R&D and innovation Unconsolidated Consolidated FY 2017 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2016 a.
Capital 1 3 1 3 b. Recurring 281 229 281 234 c. Total R&D expenditure (a+b) 282 232 282 237 d. Innovation center expenditure 878 780 996 884 e. Total R&D and innovation expenditure (c+d) 1,160 1,012 1,278 1,121 f. R&D and innovation expenditure as a percentage of total turnover 1.2% 1.2% 1.1% 1.0%  Foreign exchange earnings and outgo   Export revenue constituted 92.4% of the total unconsolidated revenue in FY 2017 (92.8% in FY 2016).
Foreign exchange earnings and outgo FY 2017 FY 2016 a.
Foreign exchange earnings 86,370 81,885 b. CIF Value of imports 561 502 c. Expenditure in foreign currency 31,553 29,555 27.
Acknowledgement  The Directors thank the Company's employees, customers, vendors, investors, and aca demic partners for their continuous support.
The Directors also thank the governments of various countries, the Government  of India, governments of various states in India, and concerned government  departments and agencies for their co-operation.
The Directors appreciate and value the contribution made by every member o f the TCS family.
On behalf of the Board of Directors                                                                     N. Chandrasekaran Mumbai, April 18, 2017                Chairman (` crore) Annual Report 2016-17  Form No.
AOC-2 (Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013 and  Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014) Form for disclosure of particulars of contracts or arrangements entered into by the Company with related parties referred to in sub-section (1) of section 188 of  the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arm’s length transactions under third proviso thereto: 1.
Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis: Tata Consultancy Services Limited (the Company) has not entered into  any contract/arrangement/transaction with its related parties which is not in ordinary course of business or at arm’s length during FY 2017.
The Company  has laid down policies and processes/procedures so as to ensure compliance to the subject section in the Companies Act, 2013 (Act) and the  corresponding Rules.
In addition, the process goes through internal and external checking, followed by quarterly reporting to the Audit Committee.
(a)  Name(s) of the related party and nature of relationship: Not  Applicable  (b)  Nature of contracts/arrangements/transactions: Not Applicable  (c)  Duration of the contracts / arrangements/transactions: Not Applicable  (d)  Salient terms of the contracts or arrangements or transactions includin g the value, if any: Not Applicable  (e)  Justification for entering into such contracts or arrangements or tran sactions: Not Applicable  (f)  Date(s) of approval by the Board: Not Applicable  (g)  Amount paid as advances, if any: Not Applicable   (h)  Date on which the special resolution was passed in general meeting as required under first proviso to section 188: Not Applicable 2.
Details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm’s length basis:   a.
Name(s) of the related party and nature of relationship: Not Applicable  b.
Nature of contracts / arrangements / transactions: Not Applicable  c.  Duration of the contracts / arrangements / transactions: Not Applicable  d.  Salient terms of the contracts or arrangements or transactions including the value, if any: Not Applicable  e.  Date(s) of approval by the Board, if any: Not Applicable  f.  Amount paid as advances, if any: None  Note: The above disclosures on material transactions are based on the principle that transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries are exempt for purpose of  section 188(1) of the Act.
On behalf of the Board of Directors                           N. Chandrasekaran Mumbai, April 18, 2017              Chairman 43 Directors’ Report Annexure I Annual Report on CSR Activities 1.
A brief outline of the company’s CSR policy, including overview of projects or programmes proposed to be undertaken and a reference to the web- link to the CSR policy and projects or programmes:    TCS’ CSR policy is aimed at demonstrating care for the community through its focus on education & skill development, health & wellness and environmental  sustainability including biodiversity, energy & water conservation.
Also embedded in this objective is support to the marginalised cross section of the society  by providing opportunities to improve their quality of life.
The projects undertaken will be within the broad framework of Schedule V II of the Companies Act, 2013.
Details of the CSR policy and projects or  programmes undertaken by the Company are available on the website of the Company.
In other countries of operation, the Company’s CSR projects are design ed and implemented to address the needs of the local community.
Projects such as  goIT, IT Futures and work experience programme have been created to specifically address the science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM)  education skill gap.
The Company’s global CSR expenditure and details of global programmes are elaborated in the Business Responsibility Report.
2.
The composition of the CSR committee:  The Company has a CSR committee of directors comprising of Mr. N. Chandraseka ran, Chairman of the  Committee, Mr. O. P .
Bhatt, Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan and Ms. Aarthi Subramanian.
3.
Average net profit of the company for last three financial years for the purpose of computation of CSR:  ` 22,275 crores.
4.
Prescribed CSR Expenditure (two per cent of the amount as in item 3 above): ` 446 crores.
5.
Details of CSR spent during the financial year:  a.
Total amount to be spent for the financial year: ` 446 crores.
b.
Amount unspent:  ` 66 crores.
Some of the large programmes in the areas of healthcare, education and promoting employability are multiyear projects  c.  Manner in which the amount spent during the financial year: Attache d 6.
In case the company has failed to spend the two per cent of the average net profit of the last three financial years or any part thereof, the company  shall provide the reasons for not spending the amount in its Board report.
Please refer to item no.
5(b) above.
7.
A responsibility statement of the CSR committee that the implementation and monitoring of CSR policy, is in compliance with CSR objectives and  policy of the Company.
We hereby declare that implementation and monitoring of the CSR po licy are in compliance with CSR objectives and policy of the Company.
Rajesh Gopinathan  Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director N. Chandrasekaran  Chairman, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Mumbai, April 18, 2017 44 Directors’ Report Annexure II Annual Report 2016-17 5(c) Manner in which amount spent during the financial year is detailed below: Sr.  No.
CSR Project or Activity  identified Sector in which the project is covered Projects or  programs   (1) Local area or  other (2) Specify the  State and District  where projects or  programmes were  undertaken Amount  Outlay  (budget)  project or  programmes  wise (` crore) Amount spent  on the projects  or programmes  Subheads :  (1) Direct  Expenditure (2) Overheads (` crore) Cumulative  Expenditure  upto the  reporting  period (` crore) Amount Spent:  Direct or  through  implementing  agency 1.
Training and educating  children, women, elderly,differently abled, scholarships and special education and increasing employability Promoting education, including special education and employment  enhancing vocation skills especially among children, women, elderly, and the differently abled and livelihood enhancement projects Pan India    206.81 88.08 159.80 Through  implementing  agency 2.
Disaster Relief, tech support  for hospitals including Cancer Institutes,financing hygenic sanitation.
Eradicating hunger, poverty and malnutrition, promoting preventive  health care and sanitation including contribution to the Swach Bharat Kosh set-up by the Central Government for the promotion of sanitation and making available safe drinking water Pan India   285.47 85.63 164.59 Through  implementing  agency 3.
Childline  software support to  track missing children Promoting gender equality, empowering women, setting up homes  and hostels for women and orphans; setting up old age homes, day care centres and such other facilities for senior citizens and measures for reducing inequalities faced by socially and economically backward groups Pan India 1.35 0.26 1.35 Direct 4.
Desilting, repair and  maintenance of Chinnappanahalli Lake, Siruseri lakes Watershed Restoration for sustainability and flood  protection Ensuring environmental sustainability, ecological balance,  protection of flora and fauna, animal welfare, agroforestry, conservation of natural resources and maintaining quality of soil, air and water including contribution to the Clean Ganga Fund set-up by the Central Government for rejuvenation of river Ganga  Bengaluru Chennai 1.38 0.54 0.60 Direct 5.
Contribution to Prime  Minister's National Relief Fund & other Central Government Funds Contribution to the Prime Minister's National Relief  Fund or any  other fund set up by the Central Government for socio-economic development and relief and welfare of the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes, other backward classes, minorities and women Pan India 4.44 - 4.44 Through  implementing  agency 6.
Contribution to Trusts engaged  in CSR Flood relief [Disaster relief covered under items of Schedule VII of  the companies Act, 2013] Chennai 13.80 - 13.80 Through  implementing  agency 7.
Contribution to TCS Foundation Various sectors covered by Schedule VII of the Companies Act,  2013.
Pan India 320.00 200.00 318.07 Through  implementing  agency 8.
Support for the restoration and  renovation of the heritage structure Protection of national heritage, art and culture including restoration  of buildings and sites of historical importance and works of art;  setting up public libraries; promotion and development of traditional  arts and handicrafts Mumbai 4.70 0.20 3.86 Direct Sub-total 837.95 374.71 666.51 Overheads 5.00 Total CSR Spend 379.71 45Directors’ Report Annexure III Form No.
MGT-9 Extract of Annual Return as on the financial year ended on March 31, 2017 [Pursuant to Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 12(1) of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014] I.
REGISTRATION AND OTHER DETAILS:  i. CIN: L22210MH1995PLC084781  ii.
Registration Date: January 19, 1995  iii.
Name of the Company: Tata Consultancy Services Limited  iv.
Category / Sub-Category of the Company: Company Limited by shares / Indian Non-Government Company  v. Address of the Registered office and contact details: th   9  Floor, Nirmal Building,    Nariman Point,    Mumbai 400 021.
Tel: 91 22 6778 9595   Fax: 91 22 6778 9660   Email:  investor.relations@tcs.com   Website: www.tcs.com  vi.
Whether listed company: Yes  vii.
Name, Address and Contact details of Registrar and Transfer Agent, if any   TSR DARASHAW Limited   6-10, Haji Moosa Patrawala Industrial Estate   20, Dr. E. Moses Road   Mahalaxmi   Mumbai 400 011   Tel: 91 22 6656 8484   Fax: 91 22 6656 8494   Email:  csg-unit@tsrdarashaw.com   Website: www.tsrdarashaw.com II.
PRINCIPAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY  All the business activities contributing 10% or more of the total turnover of the company shall be stated:- 46 Directors’ Report Sl.
No.
Name and Description of main products /  services NIC Code of the Product / service % to total turnover of the company 1.
Computer Programming, Consultancy and  Related Activities 620 100 Annual Report 2016-17 47Directors’ Report Sr. No.
Name and Address of the Company CIN / GLN Holding/  Subsidiary/  Associate % of  shares  held Applicable  Section 1.
Tata Sons Limited Bombay House, 24, Homi Modi Street, Mumbai 400 001.
U99999MH1917PLC000478 Holding 73.26 2(46) 2.
APTOnline Limited (formerly known as APOnline Limited) Kohinoor, e-Park Plot No.1, Jubilee Gardens, Hyderbad -500081, Telangana, India U75142TG2002PLC039671 Subsidiary 89 2(87) 3.
C-Edge Technologies Limited Palm Centre, Banyan Park, Suren Road, Andheri East, Mumbai 400 093, Maharashtra, India U72900MH2006PLC159038 - do - 51 2(87) 4.
MP Online Limited Nirupam, Shopping Mall, 2nd Floor, Ahmedpur, Hoshangabad Road, Bhopal - 462026, Madhya Pradesh, IndiaU72400MP2006PLC018777 - do - 89 2(87) 5.
TCS e-Serve International Limited 9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400021, Maharashtra, India U72300MH2007PLC240002 - do - 100 2(87) 6.
MahaOnline Limited Directorate of Information Technology, Mantralaya Annex, 7th Floor, Mumbai - 400032, Maharashtra, India U72900MH2010PLC206026 - do - 74 2(87) 7.
TCS Foundation 9th floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 Maharashtra, India U74999MH2015NPL262710 - do - 100 2(87) 8.
Tata Consultancy Services (Africa) (PTY) Ltd. 39 Ferguson Road, Illovo, Johannesburg 2196, South Africa Not applicable - do - 100 2(87) 9.
Tata Consultancy Services (South Africa) (PTY) Ltd. 39 Ferguson Road, Illovo, Johannesburg 2196, South Africa - do - - do - 100 2(87) 10.
Tata Consultancy Services Qatar S. S. C. 935 Al Fardan Office Tower, Al Fardan 61, P .O.
Box No.
31316, Doha, State of Qatar - do - - do - 100 2(87) 11.
Tata Consultancy Services Saudi Arabia th Akaria, Centre II, 7  Floor, Office No 712, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia - do - - do - 76 2(87) 12.
Tata Consultancy Services Asia Pacific Pte Ltd. 60, Anson Road, # 18-01,Mapletree Anson, Singapore 079914 - do - - do - 100 2(87) 13.
Tata Consultancy Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd Suite 21-16, Level 21, G Tower, 199, Jalan Tun Razak, 50400 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
- do - - do - 100 2(87) 14.
Tata Consultancy Services (China) Co., Ltd. 1st floor, Tower D 3rd Block Zhongguancun Software Park Building No.
9, No.
8 Dongbeiwang West Road, Haidian District, Beijing, Peoples Republic of China- do - - do - 93.20 2(87) 15.
PT Tata Consultancy Services Indonesia Gedung Menara Prima Lt.6 Unit F , Jl.
Dr. Ide Anak Agung Gde Agung Blok 6.2, Kawasan Mega Kuningan Kel.
Kuningan Timur, Kec.
Setiabudi Jakarta Selatan 12950- do - - do - 100 2(87) III.
PARTICULARS OF HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES – 48 Directors’ Report Sr. No.
Name and Address of the Company CIN / GLN Holding/  Subsidiary/  Associate % of  shares  held Applicable  Section 16.
Tata Consultancy Services (Thailand) Limited 32/46, Sino-Thai Tower, 18th Floor, Sukhumvit 21 Road (Asoke) Road, Klongtoey-Nua Sub-District,  Wattana District, Bangkok -do- -do- 100 2(87) 17.
Tata Consultancy Services (Philippines) Inc. 10th Floor Accralaw Tower, 30th St., cor 2nd Ave. E-Square IT Zone, Crescent Park West, Bonifacio Global City, Taguig City Philippines 1634 - do - - do - 100 2(87) 18.
Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd. 4th Floor, 38 Masonic Mt Building, 4-1-4 Shibakoen, Minato Ku, Tokyo 105-8551, Japan - do - - do - 51 2(87) 19.
Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc. 400 University Avenue, 25th Floor, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1S5, Canada - do - - do - 100 2(87) 20.
Tata Consultancy Services De Espana S.A. a C/ Santa Leonor 65, Edificio F 2  planta 28037, Madrid, Spain - do - - do - 100 2(87) 21.
Tata Consultancy Services Deutschland GmbH Messeturm, D-60308 Frankfurt a.M., Germany - do - - do - 100 2(87) 22.
Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV Symphony Towers, 20th Floor, Gustav Mahlerplein 85-91, 1082 MS Amsterdam, The Netherlands - do - - do - 100 2(87) 23.
Tata Consultancy Services Sverige AB Mäster Samuelsgatan, 42 SE 111 57, Sweden - do - - do - 100 2(87) 24.
Tata Consultancy Services Belgium S.A. Lenneke Marelaan 6, 1932 Sint-Stevens-Woluwe, Belgium - do - - do - 100 2(87) 25.
TCS Italia SRL Corso Italia 1, Milano 20122, Italy - do - - do - 100 2(87) 26 Diligenta Limited Lynch Wood, Peterborough, Cambridgeshire, PE2 6FY , United Kingdom - do - - do - 100 2(87) 27.
Tata Consultancy Services Portugal Unipessoal Limitada Av.
José Gomes Ferreira, 15.7 U, 1495-139 Algés Portugal - do - - do - 100 2(87) 28.
Tata Consultancy Services Luxembourg S.A. Rue Pafebruch 89D, L - 8308 Capellen, Luxembourg - do - - do - 100 2(87) 29.
Tata Consultancy Services Switzerland Ltd Thurgauerstrasse 36/38, 8050 Zurich, Switzerland - do - - do - 100 2(87) 30.
Tata Consultancy Services France S.A.S.
Tour Franklin - La Defense, 8 100-101 Quartier Boieldieu, 92042 Paris La Defense Cedex, Paris 92053, France - do - - do - 100 2(87) Annual Report 2016-17 49Directors’ Report Sr. No.
Name and Address of the Company CIN / GLN Holding/  Subsidiary/  Associate % of  shares  held Applicable  Section 31.
Tata Consultancy Services Osterreich GmbH Schottengasse 1, 1010 Wien, Austria - do - - do - 100 2(87) 32.
Tata Consultancy Services Danmark ApS C/o CityCallCenter ApS, Hammerensgade 1, 2, 1267 Kobenhavn K, Denmark - do - - do - 100 2(87) 33.
Alti S.A. 88 de Villers, 92300 Levallois Perret, Paris, France - do - - do - 100 2(87) 34.
Planaxis Technologies Inc. 505, Boulevard de la Maisonneuve, Ouest H3A 3C2 Montréal (Quebec), Canada - do - - do - 100 2(87) 35.
ALTI HR S.A.S.
88, rue de Villiers, 92300 Levallois Perret, Paris, France - do - - do - 100 2(87) 36.
ALTI INFRASTRUCTURES SYSTEMES & RESEAUX S.A.S.
88, rue de Villiers, 92300 Levallois Perret, Paris, France - do - - do - 100 2(87) 37.
ALTI NV Lenneke Marelaan 6 – 1932 Sint-Stevens-Woluwe (Belgium) - do - - do - 100 2(87) 38.
Tescom (France) Software Systems Testing S.A.R.L.
88, rue de Villiers, 92300 Levallois Perret, Paris, France - do - - do - 100 2(87) 39.
ALTI Switzerland S.A. ALTI SWITZERLAND SA, avenue Louis-Casaî 18, 1209 Genève (Suisse) - do - - do - 100 2(87) 40.
TEAMLINK Lenneke Marelaan 6 – 1932 Sint-Stevens-Woluwe (Belgium) - do - - do - 100 2(87) 41.
TCS FNS Pty Limited Level 6, 76 Berry Street, North Sydney, NSW 2060 Australia - do - - do - 100 2(87) 42.
TCS Financial Solutions Australia Holdings Pty Limited Level 6, 76 Berry Street, North Sydney, NSW 2060 Australia - do - - do - 100 2(87) 43.
TCS Financial Solutions Australia Pty Limited Level 6, 76 Berry Street, North Sydney, NSW 2060 Australia - do - - do - 100 2(87) 44.
TCS Financial Solutions Beijing Co., Ltd. (04) Floor 3, 10 Futong East Street, Chaoyang District, Beijing, Peoples Republic of China - do - - do - 100 2(87) 45.
TCS Iberoamerica SA Colonia 1329; piso 3, Montevideo, Uruguay - do - - do - 100 2(87) 46.
TCS Solution Center S.A. Ruta 8 km 17500, Zonamerica, Ed 600, Uruguay - do - - do - 100 2(87) 47.
Tata Consultancy Services Argentina S.A. Uspallata 3046; Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires, Argentina (CP: C1437JCJ) - do - - do - 99.99 2(87) 50 Directors’ Report Sr. No.
Name and Address of the Company CIN / GLN Holding/  Subsidiary/  Associate % of  shares  held Applicable  Section 48.
Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A., De C.V. Av.
Insurgentes Sur 664, 2nd Floor, Colonia Del Valle, México, D.F .
, México (Postal Code: 03100) - do - - do - 100 2(87) 49.
TCS Inversiones Chile Limitada Curico 18, Santiago, Chile - do - - do - 99.99 2(87) 50.
Tata Consultancy Services Do Brasil Ltda Av.
Aruanã, 70.
Tamboré - Barueri; São Paulo, Brazil (Postal Code: 06460-010) - do - - do - 100 2(87) 51.
Tata Consultancy Services Chile S.A. Curicó 18, piso 3, Oficina 502, Santiago, Chile - do - - do - 100 2(87) 52.
TATASOLUTION CENTER S.A Francisco Salazar E10-61 and Camilo Destruge Building INLUXOR 7th Floor; Quito, Ecuador - do - - do - 100 2(87) 53.
TCS Uruguay S.A. Monte Caseros 2600, Montevideo, Uruguay (Postal Code: 11100) - do - - do - 100 2(87) 54.
Technology Outsourcing S.A.C.
Av.
Nicolas Ayllon Nº 2491 (3er.
Piso) El Agustino, Peru - do - - do - 100 2(87) 55.
MGDC S.C. Camino al iteso 8699 el mante tlaquepaque Jalisco, México, (Postal Code: 45609) - do - - do - 100 2(87) 56.
Tata America International Corporation 101, Park Avenue, 26th Floor, New York 10178, U.S.A. - do - - do - 100 2(87) 57.
CMC Americas Inc. 379 Thornall Street, Edison 08837, New Jersey, U.S.A. - do - - do - 100 2(87) 58.
TCS e-Serve America, Inc.
Corporation Trust Center, 1209, Orange Street, Wilmington, New Castle County, Delaware – 19801 U.S.A. - do - - do - 100 2(87) 59.
CMC eBiz Inc 379 Thornall Street, Edison 08837, New Jersey, U.S.A. - do - - do - 100 2(87) Annual Report 2016-17 IV.
SHAREHOLDING PATTERN (Equity Share Capital Breakup as percentage of Total Equity)  i.)
Category-wise Shareholding Category of Shareholders No.of Shares held at the beginning of the year  i.e.
01.04.2016 No.of Shares held at the end of the year  i.e.
31.03.2017 % Change  during the  yearDemat Physical Total % of Total  Shares Demat Physical Total % of Total  Shares A. Promoters (1) Indian (a)Individuals / Hindu Undivided Family 0 0 0 0.000 0 0 0 0.000 0.000 (b) Central Government /  State  Governments(s) 0 0 0 0.000 0 0 0 0.000 0.000 (c) Bodies Corporate 1,445,125,286 0 1,445,125,286 73.341 1,444,515,152 0 1,444,515,152 73.310 (0.031) (d) Financial Institutions / Banks 0 0 0 0.000 0 0 0 0.000 0.000 (e) Others - Trust 1,607,624 0 1,607,624 0.082 0 0 0 0.000 (0.082) Sub-Total (A) (1) 1,446,732,910 0 1,446,732,910 73.423 1,444,515,152 0 1,444,51 5,152 73.310 (0.113) (2) Foreign (a) Individuals (Non-Resident Individuals / Foreign Individuals) 0 0 0 0.000 0 0 0 0.000 0.000 (b) Bodies Corporate 0 0 0 0.000 0 0 0 0.000 0.000 (c) Institutions 0 0 0 0.000 0 0 0 0.000 0.000 (d) Qualified Foreign Investor 0 0 0 0.000 0 0 0 0.000 0.000 (e) Any Other (specify) 0 0 0 0.000 0 0 0 0.000 0.000 Sub-Total (A) (2) 0 0 0 0.000 0 0 0 0.000 0.000 Total Shareholding of  Promoter and Promoter  Group (A)  1,446,732,910 0 1,446,732,910 73.423 1,444,515,152 0 1,444,515,152 73.31 0 (0.113) (B) Public Shareholding (1) Institutions   (a) Mutual Funds / UTI 21,568,174 1,773 21,569,947 1.095 18,522,768 1,773 18,524,541 0.940 (0.155) (b) Financial Institutions  / Banks 1,006,863 2,703 1,009,566 0.051 731,730 2,703 734,433 0.037 (0.014) (c) Cental Government /  State  Governments(s) 700,233 0 700,233 0.036 1,044,253 0 1,044,253 0.053 0.017 (d) Venture Capital  Funds 0 0 0 0.000 0 0 0 0.000 0.000 (e) Insurance Companies 78,604,759 0 78,604,759 3.989 86,330,709 0 86,330,709 4.381 0.392 (f)Foreign Institutional  Investors200,246,839 0 200,246,839 10.163 35,648,888 0 35,648,888 1.809 (8.354) 51Directors’ Report Category of  Shareholders No.of Shares held at the beginning of the year  i.e.
01.04.2016 No.of Shares held at the end of the year  i.e  31.03.2017 % Change  during the  year  (01.04.16  31.03.17)Demat Physical Total % of  Total  Shares Demat Physical Total % of  Total  Shares (g) Foreign Venture  Capital Investors 0 0 0 0.000 0 0 0 0.000 0.000 (h) Qualified Foreign  Investor 0 0 0 0.000 0 0 0 0.000 0.000 (I) Foreign Portfolio  Investors (Corporate)131,330,700 0 131,330,700 6.665 297,284,243 0 297,284,243 15.087 8.422 (j) Any Other (specify) Sub-Total (B) (1) 433,457,568 4,476 433,462,044 21.999 439,562,591 4,476 439 ,567,067 22.307 0.308 (2) Non-Institutions (a) Bodies Corporate 6,752,570 207,186 6,959,756 0.353 4,657,240 207,186 4,864,426 0.247 (0.106) (b) Individuals i Individual  shareholders holding         nominal share capital  upto ` 1 lakh  64,948,729 948,677 65,897,406 3.344 62,098,566 912,518 63,011,084 3.198 (0.146) ii Individual  shareholders holding  nominal share capital  in excess of ` 1 lakh  14,112,114 0 14,112,114 0.716 14,091,398 0 14,091,398 0.715 (0.001) (c) Qualified Foreign  Investor 0 0 0 0.000 0 0 0 0.000 0.000 (d) Any Other 0 0 0 0.000 0 0 0 0.000 0.000 i Trusts 1,804,991 0 1,804,991 0.092 2,295,183 0 2,295,183 0.116 0.024 ii Foreign Companies 28 0 28 0.000 28 0 28 0.000 0.000 iii Clearing Members /  Clearing House1,458,692 0 1,458,692 0.074 2,083,603 0 2,083,603 0.106 0.032 Sub-total (B) (2) 89,077,124 1,155,863 90,232,987 4.579 85,226,018 1,119,704 86,3 45,722 4.382 (0.197) Total Public Shareholding  (B) = (B)(1)+(B)(2) 522,534,692 1,160,339 523,695,031 26.578 524,788,609 1,124,180 525,91 2,789 26.690 0.112 TOTAL (A)+(B) 1,969,267,602 1,160,339 1,970,427,941 100.000 1,969,303,761 1 ,124,180 1,970,427,941 100.00 0.000 (C) Shares held by  Custodians and  against which  Depository Receipts  have been issued 0 0 0 0.000 0 0 0 0.000 0.000 GRAND TOTAL  (A)+(B)+(C) 1,969,267,602 1,160,339 1,970,427,941 100.000 1,969,303,761 1,124,180 1 ,970,427,941 100.00 0.000 52 Directors’ Report Annual Report 2016-17 Sr.  No.
Shareholder's Name Shareholding at the end of the year 01.04.2016 Shareholding at the end of the year 31.03.2017 % change in shareholding during the  yearNo.of Shares % of total  Shares of the  company % of Shares  Pledged/encumber ed to total shares No.of Shares % of total  Shares of the  company % of Shares  Pledged/encu mbered to  total shares 1 Tata Sons Limited 1,443,451,698 73.26 2.31 1,443,451,698 73.26 2.13 0.00 2 Jamsetji Tata Trust 1,160,280 0.06 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 (0.06) 3 Tata Industries Limited 363,700 0.02 0.00 3,700 0.00 0.00 (0.02) 4 AF-Taab Investment Company  Limited 611,352 0.03 0.00 484,902 0.02 0.00 (0.01) 5 Tata Investment Corporation  Limited 590,452 0.03 0.00 550,000 0.03 0.00 0.00 6 Navajbai Ratan Tata Trust 447,344 0.02 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 (0.02) 7 Tata International Limited 83,232 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 8 Tata Steel Limited 24,400 0.00 0.00 24,400 0.00 0.00 0.00 9 The Tata Power Company Limited 452 0.00 0.00 452 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total 1,446,732,910 73.42 2.31 1,444,515,152 73.31 2.13 (0.11) ii) ShareHolding of Promoters (including Promoter Group) iii) Change in Promoters' (including Promoter Group) Shareholding (please Specify, if there is no change) Sr.  No.
Name of the Shareholder Shareholding at the  beginning of the year  as on 01.04.2016 Date Reason Increase/ Decrease in  Shareholding Cumulative Shareholding during  the Year No.
of  Shares % of Total  Shares of  the  Company No.
of Shares % of Total  Shares of the  Company No.
of  Shares % of Total Shares  of the Company  1 AF-Taab Investment Company  Limited  611,352  0.03  611,352  0.03 26.08.2016 Sale of  Shares (6,450) 16.09.2016 Sale of  Shares (80,000) 23.09.2016 Sale of  Shares (260,000) 30.09.2016 Purchase of  shares 2,20,000  0.01 484,902 0.02  2 Tata Industries Limited  363,700  0.02   363,700  0.02 20.01.2017 Sale of  Shares (250,000) 24.01.2017 Sale of  Shares (110,000) 0.02 3,700 0.00  3  Jamsetji Tata Trust 1,160,280 0.06 1,160,280 0.06 20.05.2016 Sale of  Shares (118,500) 27.05.2016 Sale of  Shares (1,041,780)  0.06  0 0.00 53Directors’ Report Sr.  No.
Name of the Shareholder Shareholding at the  beginning of the year  as on 01.04.2016 Date Reason Increase/ Decrease in  Shareholding Cumulative Shareholding  during the Year No.
of  Shares % of Total  Shares of  the  Company No.
of Shares % of Total  Shares of the  Company No.
of  Shares % of Total Shares  of the Company 4 Tata Investment Corporation Ltd 590,452  0.03 590,452  0.03 23.09.2016 Sale of  Shares (40,452) 0.00 550,000  0.03 5 Navajbai Ratan Tata Trust 447,344 0.02 447,344 0.02 20.05.2016 Sale of  Shares (48,100) 27.05.2016 Sale of  Shares (399,244)  0.02  0 0 6 Tata International Limited 83,232 0.00 83,232 0.00 29.04.2016 Sale of  Shares (83,232) 0 0 0 iv) Shareholding Pattern of top ten shareholders (other than Directors, Promoters and Holder of GDRs and ADRs):      Sr.  No.
Top Ten Shareholders* Shareholding at the beginning of  the year 01.04.2016 Cummulative Shareholding at end of  the year 31.03.2017 No of shares % of total shares  of the company No of shares % of total shares  of the company 1 Life Insurance Corporation of India 58,521,537 2.97 71,841,104 3.65 2 First State Investments ICVC- Stewart Investors Asia Pacific Leaders Fund  (formerly National Westminster Bank Plc As Depository of First State Asia  Pacific Leaders Fund a sub Fund of First State Investments ICVC) 8,285,641 0.42 16,035,510 0.81 3 Abu Dhabi Investment Authority** 14,165,505 0.72 11,033,526 0.56 4 Lazard Emerging Markets Portfolio (formerly Lazard Asset Management LLC  A/C Lazard Emerging Markets Portfolio) 7,682,828 0.39 10,532,329 0.53 5 Government of Singapore** 11,299,187 0.57 9,857,425 0.50 6 Oppenheimer Developing Markets Fund 8,309,112 0.42 9,472,685 0.48 7 Vanguard Emerging Markets Stock Index Fund, A series of Vanguard International Equity Index Fund 7,211,765 0.37 7,500,802 0.38 8 Europacific Growth Fund 7,966,000 0.40 6,854,315 0.35 9 Aberdeen Global Indian Equity Limited (formerly Aberdeen Global Indian  Equity (Mauritius) Limited  7,122,473 0.36 6,272,473 0.32 10 Copthall Mauritius Investment Limited 7,361,719 0.37 6,107,314 0.31 * The shares of the Company are traded on daily basis and hence the datewise increase / decre ase in shareholding is not indicated.
Shareholding is  consolidated based on  permanent account number (PAN) of the shareholder.
** Various other accounts 54 Directors’ Report Annual Report 2016-17 v) Shareholding of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel: SR. No Name of the Shareholder Date Reason Shareholding at the beginning of  the  year 01.04.2016 Cumulative Shareholding at the  end of the year  31.03.2017 No.
of shares % of total  shares of the  company No.
of shares % of total  shares of the  company Directors 1  Mr. Cyrus Pallonji Mistry* 01-Apr-2016 4,163,526 0.21 4,163,526 0.21 13-Dec-2016 4,163,526 0.21 2  Mr. N Chandrasekaran 01-Apr-2016 88,528 0.00 88,528 0.00 31-Mar-2017 88,528 0.00 3  Mr. Ishaat Hussain 01-Apr-2016 1,740 0.00 1,740 0.00 31-Mar-2017 1,740 0.00 4  Ms. Aarthi  Subramanian 01-Apr-2016 2,800 0.00 2,800 0.00 31-Mar-2017 2,800 0.00 5  Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan 01-Apr-2016 1,130 0.00 1,130 0.00 31-Mar-2017 1,130 0.00 6  Mr. N Ganapathy Subramaniam 01-Apr-2016 98,880 0.00 98,880 0.00 31-Mar-2017 98,880 0.00 Key Managerial Personnel  1 Mr. Ramakrishnan V 01-Apr-2016 300 0.00 300 0.00 31-Mar-2017 300 0.00 * ceased to be Director w.e.f.
13.12.2016  V. INDEBTEDNESS Indebtedness of the Company including interest outstanding/accrued but not due for payment 55Directors’ Report Secured Loans  excluding deposits Unsecured Loans Deposits Total  IndebtednessNote 1 Note 2 Note 3 Indebtedness at the beginning of the financial year i)  Principal Amount ii) Interest due but not paid iii) Interest accrued but not due 177 0 0 2 0 0 12 0 0 191 0 0 Total (i+ii+iii) 177 2 12 191 Change in Indebtedness during the financial year Ÿ Addition Ÿ Reduction 0 (127) 198 0 0 (9) 198 (136) Net Change (127) 198 (9) 62 Indebtedness  at the end  of the financial year i)  Principal Amount ii)  Interest due but not paid iii)  Interest accrued but not due 50 0 0 200 0 0 3 0 0 253 0 0  Total (i+ii+iii) 50 200 3 253 Notes: 1)  These liabilities represent obligations under finance lease including current portion of obligations of ` 50 crore as of March 31, 2017.
2)  These represent the bank overdraft of ` 200 crore and other borrowings as of March 31, 2017.
3)  These are deposits received on account of sub-lease of premises and from vendors for contracts to be executed.
(` crore) VI.
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL A. Remuneration to Managing Director, Whole-time Directors and / or Manager: 56 Directors’ Report (` lakh)  B. Remuneration to other directors: (` lakh) Sr.  No.
Particulars of Remuneration Fee for attending board /  committee meetings Commission Others, please  specify Total Amount 1 Independent Directors Mr. Aman Mehta 6.30 265.00 - 271.30 Mr. V. Thyagarajan 6.90 180.00 - 186.90 Prof. Clayton M. Christensen 1.80 135.00 - 136.80 Dr. Ron Sommer 5.40 190.00 - 195.40 Dr. Vijay Kelkar 4.80 170.00 - 174.80 Mr. O. P .
Bhatt 7.50 170.00 - 177.50 Total (1) 32.70 1,110.00 - 1,142.70 2 Other Non-Executive Directors Mr. N. Chandrasekaran 0.90 - - 0.90 Mr. Cyrus Mistry 1.80 - - 1.80 Mr. Ishaat Hussain 6.90 210.00 - 216.90 Mr. Phiroz Vandrevala 0.60 15.00 - 15.60 Total (2) 10.20 225.00 235.20 Total (B)=(1+2) 42.90 1,335.00 - 1,377.90 Total Managerial Remuneration 1,335.00 - Ceiling as per the Act (@ 1% of profits calculated  under Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013)29,769.92 Sr.  No.
Particulars of Remuneration Name of MD/WTD/Manager Mr. N.  Chandrasekaran  (Chief Executive  Officer and  Managing Director  upto February  21, 2017) Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan Chief Executive Officer  and Managing Director (w.e.f February  21, 2017)# Mr. N. Ganapathy  Subramaniam Chief Operating  Officer and  Executive Director (w.e.f February  21, 2017)## Ms. Aarthi  Subramanian,  Executive  Director Total Amount 1 Gross salary (a) Salary as per provisions contained in  Section 17(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 244.93 66.68 76.06 81.69 469.36 (b) Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) of the  Income-tax Act, 1961 0.35 0.40 0.40 0.40 1.55 (c) Profits in lieu of salary under Section  17(3) of the Income tax Act, 1961 - - 2 Stock Option - - 3 Sweat Equity 4 Commission - as % of profit 2,500.00 0.084 400.00 0.013 350.00 0.012 200.00 0.007 3,450.00 0.116 5 Others, Allowances 270.00 155.55 188.90 89.80 704.25 Total (A) 3,015.28 622.63 615.36 371.89 4,625.16 Ceiling as per the Act (@ 10% of profits  calculated under Section 198 of the  Companies Act, 2013) 2,97,699.16 #  The remuneration includes compensation for full year i.e., as Chief Financial Officer from April 1, 2016 to February 21, 2017 and as Chief  Executive  Officer and Managing Director from February 21, 2017 to March 31, 2017 ##  The remuneration includes compensation for full year i.e., as President, Financial Services from April 1, 2016 to February 21, 2017 and as Chief  Operating Officer and Executive Director from February 21, 2017 to March 31, 2017 Annual Report 2016-17  C. Remuneration to Key Managerial Personnel other than MD / Manager / WTD   57Directors’ Report VII.
PENALTIES / PUNISHMENT/ COMPOUNDING OF OFFENCES: There were no penalties, punishment or compounding of offences during the year ended March 31, 2017.
(` lakh) Sr.  No.
Particulars of Remuneration Key Managerial Personnel Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan Chief Financial Officer (From April 1, 2016 to  February 21, 2017)* Mr. Ramakrishnan V, Chief Financial Officer  (w.e.f February  21, 2017)** Mr. Suprakash  Mukhopadhyay, Global  Treasury Head and Company Secretary Total 1 Gross salary (a) Salary as per provisions contained in  Section 17(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 66.68 43.43 35.13 145.24 (b) Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) of the Income  tax Act, 1961 0.40 - 26.72 27.12 (c) Profits in lieu of salary under Section 17(3) of  the Income tax Act, 1961 - - - - 2 Stock Option - - - - 3 Sweat Equity - - - - 4 Commission - as % of profit - - 5 Others, Allowances 155.55 193.07 170.60 519.22 Total 622.63 236.50 232.45 1,091.58 400.00 0.013 400.00 0.013 * The remuneration includes compensation for full year i.e., as Chief Financial Officer from April 1, 2016 to February 21, 2017 and as Chief Executive  Officer and Managing Director from February 21, 2017 to March 31, 2017.
**The remuneration includes compensation for full year i.e., as Vice President-Finance from April 1, 2016 to February 21, 2017 and as Chief Financial  Officer  from February 21, 2017 to March 31, 2017.
Note: Please refer to the note given under section III.
iv.
b. of the Corporate Governance Report.
Form No.
MR-3 (Pursuant to section 204 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No.
9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014) To, The Members, Tata Consultancy Services Limited We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate practices by Tata Consultancy  Services Limited (hereinafter called “the Company”).
Secretarial Audit was cond ucted in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating t he  corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company, the information  provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorised representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, the explanations and clarifications given to  us and the representations made by the Management, we hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering the financial year  ended on 31st March, 2017, generally complied with the statutory provisions listed he reunder and also that the Company has proper Board processes and  compliance mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter: We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records made available to us and maintained by the Company for the  financial year ended on 31st March, 2017 according to the applicable provisions of: (i) The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made there under; (ii) The Securities Contract (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the rules made there under; (iii) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed there under; (iv) Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made there unde r to the extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct  Investment and External Commercial Borrowings; (v) The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’): (a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; (b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; (c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 and amendments from time to time; (d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employee Stock Option S cheme and Employee Stock Purchase Scheme) Guidelines, 1999 and The  Securities and Exchange Board of India ( Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014; (Not applicable to the Company during the audit period) (e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008; (Not applicable to the Company during the audit  period) (f) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and  dealing with client;(Not applicable to the Company during the audit period) (g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; (Not applicable to the Company during the audit period)  and (h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 1998;  Secretarial Audit Report For The Financial Year Ended 31st March, 2017 58 Directors’ Report Annual Report 2016-17 (vi)  Other laws specifically applicable to the Company namely:- (a) Information Technology Act, 2000 and the rules made thereunder; (b) Special Economic Zones Act, 2005 and the rules made thereunder;  (c) Software Technology Parks of India rules and regulations  (d)  The Indian Copyright Act, 1957  (e)  The Patents Act, 1970  (f) The Trade Marks Act, 1999 We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following: ( i)   Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India with respect to board and general meetings.
(ii) The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited read with the SEBI (Listing Obligations  and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
During the period under review, the Company has complied with the provision s of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, standards etc.
mentioned above.
However, the Company has spent an amount of `380 crore against the amount of `446 crore to be spent during the year towards Corporate Social Responsibility,  for which an explanation has been provided in the Directors’ Report.
Further, the Company was unable to file certain forms with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs  (MCA), due to technical issues at the MCA’s end.
We further report that: The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and Independent Director s. The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place during the period under review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice was given to all directors to schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at least seven days in advance for  meetings other than those held at shorter notice, and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda items before  the meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
As per the minutes, the decisions at the Board Meetings were taken unanimously.
We further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the Company commensurate with the size and operations of the Company to monitor and  ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines etc .
We further report that during the audit period, the Company had following event which had bearing on the Company’s affairs in pursuance of the above referred  laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, standards etc.
:  The Board of Directors of the Company has approved buyback of equity shares of the Company by way of a Tender Offer route through Stock Exchang e  Mechanism.
For Parikh & Associates                                                              Company Secretaries                                P .
N. Parikh                                                                          Partner Mumbai, April 18, 2017                   FCS No: 327 CP No:  1228 This Report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure A and Forms an integral part of this report.
59 Directors’ Report ‘Annexure A' To, The Members Tata Consultancy Services Limited Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these secretarial  records based on our audit.
2.
We have followed the audit practices and process as were appropriate to  obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness of the contents o f the  secretarial records.
The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial records.
We believe that the process and  practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4.
Whereever required, we have obtained the Management Representation about the Compliance of laws, rules and regulations and happening of events etc.
5.
The Compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of management.
Our examination  was limited to the verification of procedure on test basis.
6.
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which the management  has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Parikh & Associates                                                              Company Secretaries                                P .
N. Parikh                                                                          Partner Mumbai, April 18, 2017                   FCS No: 327 CP No:  1228 60 Directors’ Report Annual Report 2016-17 Management Discussion  and Analysis TCS House, Mumbai  Management Discussion and Analysis 1.0 Overview of the Industry In FY 2017, the global market for Outsourced IT-BPM services grew by 3.9%  1 over the prior year, to $1.2 Trillion.
Within that larger market, IT Services  grew by 2.5% year on year, driven largely by cloud adoption and package  implementation.
Business Process Management (BPM) grew by 4% over the  prior year.
It is worth noting that in a largely fragmented market landscape, TCS has  historically grown much faster than the market, driven by significant market  share gains on account of a superior execution model.
In the latest five-year  1 period, while the market has expanded by a CAGR of 1.7%  (IT Services  CAGR: 0.5%), TCS showed a CAGR of 11.6% in USD terms.
Growth drivers for the industry in FY 2017 remained largely the same as in the  prior years, which are efficiency spends and transformational spends of  customers.
The broad components of industry growth drivers are listed below.
2.0 Our business a.
An overview  Tata Consultancy Services is an IT services, consulting, and business  solutions organization offering transformational as well as  outsourcing services to global enterprises.
2  TCS uses its global delivery capability and full services  portfolio –  consulting and enterprise solutions, application development and  maintenance, assurance services, engineering and industrial  services, IT infrastructure services, business process services, and  asset leveraged solutions – to deliver high quality, high impact  solutions leveraging the latest technologies to customers across  multiple regions and industry verticals.
Our geographic footprint consists of North America, Latin America,  the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Asia-Pacific, India, and  Middle East and Africa.
IT Services IT Infrastructure  Services Business Process  Services Ÿ Digital transformation Ÿ Core system  renovation Ÿ Simplification,  automation, efficiency Ÿ Cloud adoption Ÿ IT infrastructure  rationalization Ÿ Market penetration Ÿ Robotic and cognitive  automation Ÿ Analytics Ÿ Regulatory and  compliance  [1] Source: NASSCOM Strategic Review FY 2017 [2] See Glossary for description of service lines  TCS considers industry verticals as the primary segment for the  business.
The four key verticals are: Banking, Financial Services, and  Insurance (BFSI); Retail and Consumer Business; Communications,  Media, and Technology; Manufacturing; and Others.
Others includes  Life Sciences and Healthcare; and Energy, Resources, and Utilities.
b.
Strategy  Customer-centricity is at the core of TCS’ strategy and drives all  investment decisions.
The philosophy is to be technology agnostic  and to keep investing in building capabilities in newer areas that  customers are looking at, so we can continually expand our  participation in customers’ spend and stay relevant to them through  business and technology cycles.
The outcome of our strong  relationship focus and unwavering pursuit of execution excellence is  a superior service experience for our customers and long, enduring  relationships.
This strategy may be visually represented as below: 62 Management Discussion and Analysis Annual Report 2016-17 Scale More Repeat  Business Deep,  Enduring  Relationships Profitable Revenue Growth Client-centric model Agile Global Delivery Model Innovation Full Service Capability Domain Expertise Delivery Excellence Contextual Knowledge Expand Addressable Market Continual Reinvestment Superior, Differentiated Solutions Greater Value LEFT RIGHT A more detailed breakup of the various elements of strategy, their outcomes, and the validation metrics is provided below:  63Management Discussion and Analysis Strategic Element Outcomes Validation Metrics Continually investing in improving our customer-centric execution  capabilities by: Ÿ  Focusing on delivery excellence Ÿ  Deepening domain expertise Ÿ Offering a full services capability, delivered through an agile, globally  distributed delivery model Ÿ  Building innovative IP and solution frameworks that leverage our domain  expertise, contextual knowledge, and our technology skills Superior, differentiated outcomes Increased customer satisfaction levels Deep, enduring  relationships Improved share of wallet More defendable share of wallet Superior client metrics Strong references and testimonials Growing revenue from Digital  engagements Resilient pricing Superior margins Sustainability of margins Investing to expand our addressable market by:  Ÿ  Acquiring new clients in existing geographies and verticals Ÿ  Scaling newer geographies and industry verticals Ÿ Building new capabilities and launching new business models that  leverage our core strengths Diversified, de-risked revenue base Greater scale of operations More headroom for sustainable growth  Greater resiliency through different  business cycles Change in segmental mix over time Market share by geography and  verticals 3.0 Leading in a Digital world TCS has successfully navigated through multiple technology cycles over the last five decades, pivoting and adapting each time to build relevant new capabilities  and helping our clients realize the benefits of that new technology.
Our responsiveness, agility, and adaptability to change have been core to our longevity.
With clients launching large scale Digital transformation programs that have deep, complex interlinkages to existing systems, our contextual knowledge, depth,  and scale in Digital capabilities position us uniquely to meet their need for certainty and quick time to market.
In certain industry verticals like Financial Services  and Retail, TCS has gained a significant share of wallet and is the preferred partner for global companies in their Digital initiatives.
In the below sections, we discuss the key strategic decisions and investments which gave TCS a head start in racing to the leadership position.
a.
Strategic decisions  Three key strategic decisions taken in the past decade have played a major role in TCS’ ability to successfully navigate this latest technology change to gain  leadership in the Digital era: Strategic Decision What TCS did Why it matters now Shift to solution-selling For over a decade, TCS has been steadily building   solutioning skills as well as solution-selling capabilities,  and developing business-focused bespoke software  solutions for customers.
This transformation entailed developing a deep  contextual understanding of the business need,  crafting a technology solution to address that need, and  selling a business value proposition to a broader set of  stakeholders in the client organization.
Enterprises are consuming Digital services not so much in  the form of discrete technology skills, but more as holistic  business solutions encompassing multiple technologies  and services, to serve a greater transformational need.
Experience in selling solutions for over a decade has  positioned TCS very well to participate in the opportunity  that Digital adoption has presented, selling to Business  Heads, COOs, CFOs, CMOs, and other CXOs, gaining share  from others who are attempting that shift only now.
Full Services Capability In 2005, TCS took a strategic decision to build  capabilities in adjacent areas like IT Infrastructure  Services and Business Process Services.
In the last few  years, these service lines have grown very well and  today make up nearly a fourth of our revenue.
The end-to-end capability allows TCS to develop  comprehensive Digital solutions that best suit clients'  longer-term business requirements, and are free from  biases or capability constraints.
[3] Ref MD&A – AR FY 2011, CEO's Letter – AR FY 2012 [4] See Pages 17 to 32 for insights of the transformation underway at TCS [5]   https://www.ge.com/digital/blog/introducing-2016-digital-innovator-year-award-winners 64 Management Discussion and Analysis Annual Report 2016-17 Strategic Decision What TCS did Why it matters now Customer-centric  organization structure  Reorganizing TCS into multiple verticalized business  units in 2008, brought about greater customer  centricity – which allowed for building deep contextual  knowledge – while at the same time creating a deep  and broad pool of domain experts in each industry  vertical.
Proximity to clients has helped identify opportunities  better addressed with software products and  platforms.
TCS has a differentiated portfolio of top  performing, industry specific IP , products and platforms.
(See page 69.)
The customer's purchase decision when it comes to Digital  solutions is based on the quality of the solution proposed,  the contextual understanding demonstrated by TCS, and  the business value that the solution represents.
The verticalized, client-centric model has allowed TCS to be  very proactive in creating bespoke solutions leveraging our  unique contextual knowledge of a client's business.
TCS' portfolio of products and platforms has helped  establish the Company's domain expertise.
Asset leveraged  solutions help deliver quicker time to market to clients  looking for a competitive edge.
b.
Strategic Investments  In this decade, TCS recognized the potential of Digital technologies  long before the word itself gained mainstream currency, and made  3 investments ahead of time  in building relevant capabilities.
Those  early investments gave TCS a head start in participating in our  customers’ Digital journeys.
As those journeys progressed and every  large enterprise embarked on ambitious Digital transformation  4 programs, we scaled up our investments and transformed  ourselves  to ensure that we had what it took to partner with them.
As detailed in the Annual Report for FY 2016, the investments have  been in the following areas:  • Gaining scale on newer technologies and capabilities through a  massive reskilling exercise and hiring individuals with specialized  skills   • Re-tooling the Global Network Delivery Model (GNDM™) to  incorporate greater levels of automation and collaborative  workspaces for adoption of Agile and DevOps models   • Building intellectual property (IP) and solution frameworks  leveraging our deep domain expertise, technology depth, and  partner-solutions from our Co-Innovation Network (TCS COIN™).
• Setting up unique co-innovation workspaces designed to  encourage joint ideation, creativity, participation, and collaboration  with clients.
c. Outcomes  Today, TCS has a significant market share in the Digital space.
Over  55% of our customers, spanning every single industry vertical, have  engaged TCS to partner them in their Digital journey.
Revenues from  Digital engagements constituted 16.7% of the Company’s revenues  in FY 2017, growing by 28.8% in constant currency over FY 2016.
Customers are recognizing TCS’ capacity for innovation.
In November  2016, GE awarded TCS the Digital Innovator of the Year for Ecosystem  Excellence.
“As a strategic GE Digital partner, TCS is a leading  contributor to advancing the industrial app economy.
It’s Digital  Store—an innovative and differentiated approach to application  development—includes more than 150 applications, including 50  5 implemented on the Predix platform,” their announcement  read.
The growing market share in Digital and glowing client testimonials of  TCS’ capabilities are also reflected in the high rankings assigned to  TCS in the various competitive assessments pertaining to Digital  capabilities, published by various industry analyst firms.
In FY 2017,  TCS was ranked a Leader among peers in 21 competitive  assessments in Digital areas such as Big Data and Analytics (5), IoT  (5), Digital Services (4), Mobility (3), Digital Marketing (2), Cloud (1),  and Cyber security (1).
4.0 Talent acquisition, Talent Development, and Retention At a time of profound and rapid technology change, TCS’ HR strategy is  focused on providing our global, diverse workforce a stimulating environment  which is flexible, nurtures social contract, fosters innovation, builds a result- "TCS has demonstrated exceptional contextual knowledge in  building a suite of digital solutions on the TCS Digital Store,  leveraging GE’s Predix platform for the Industrial Internet...  TCS’ capacity for innovation, broad expertise using Predix  and strong track record in driving digital transformation for  their customers makes them a significant player within our  partner ecosystem."
— Bill Ruh, CEO - GE Digital Management Discussion and Analysis 65 oriented, high performance culture, and motivates today’s multi- generational and mobile workforce to develop themselves personally and  professionally.
The Company has been leveraging Digital technologies extensively to  reimagine its talent acquisition, talent development, and engagement  functions.
This, and our traditional philosophy of empowering individuals and  helping them realize their potential, has made TCS’ HR processes and  outcomes an industry benchmark.
See Reimagining Talent Management on  Page 30. a.
Talent Acquisition  TCS’ talent acquisition strategy is to hire the right competencies  required by the business at the right time.
In FY 2017, we hired and  integrated 78,912 employees – 67,328 in India and 11,584 outside  India – a judicious mix of experienced professionals and trainees.
Besides being the largest IT recruiter in India for the last many years,  we believe we are also the largest net recruiter in the IT Services  industry in the US in FY 2017.
TCS continues to remain the preferred employer at leading  engineering campuses in India.
The Company’s college recruitment  efforts in USA, Canada, Latin America, China, and Hungary have been  progressing well with very encouraging outcomes.
TCS has also been  recruiting graduates from the Top 10 B-Schools in the US for key  business roles.
Academic institutes are key partners in TCS’ talent acquisition  strategy.
Our Academic Interface Program (AIP) is a structured  approach to building strong, enduring relationships with top  universities globally.
In FY 2017, our AIP outreach covered a total of  1,232 institutes globally through both student and faculty-focused  activities like workshops, internships, sponsorship of contests,  faculty development programs, research scholarships, curriculum  review, establishing technical institutes, and so on.
Campus Commune, our unique student engagement portal that help s  students collaborate and network with their peer groups globally now  has over 1 million students in 19 countries as registered users.
It also  helps them in Digital learning through webinars, educational videos,  and blog posts by experts in various fields, grooming them for the  ensuing professional life.
We use programming contests such as TESTimony, EngiNx, GameOn,  and CodeVita to spot and hire top talent.
In FY 2017, we recruited over  1,100 crack programmers through this gamified approach.
CodeVita,  the global programming competition organized through Campus  Commune has found its place in the Limca Book of Records.
Running  for 5 seasons, it witnessed over 260,000 registrations from more  than 3,000 colleges across 18 countries in FY 2017. b.
Talent Diversity  TCS is an Equal Opportunity Employer and subscribes to the Tata Code  of Conduct in embracing diversity in race, nationality, religion,  ancestry, marital status, gender, age, ethnic origin, physical ability,  and sexual orientation.
Compensation levels are merit-based,  determined by qualification, experience levels, special skills if any,  and performance.
Gender and any of the other diversity parameters  do not play a part in determining compensation levels.
TCS has a well- defined Diversity and Inclusion Policy.
TCS’ diversity-focused talent acquisition strategy has resulted in  greater diversity of gender, geographic locations, and academic  discipline.
TCS is today one of the world’s largest employer of  women.
Progressive policies such as extended parental leave, special focus on  security of women employees, mentoring program for junior women  employees (nWin), discussion circles to help women through major  life stages; a reorientation program to re-connect employees after  long leave; projecting profiles of inspirational women leaders (Be- Inspired); special leadership development programs to address the  needs and aspirations of women; a learning module to equip mid- level managers to work with diverse teams; a virtual support group  called ‘Workplace Parents Group’ on child psychology; and parenting  workshops for working parents have all gone toward making the  workplace more gender-equal.
TCS was named as one of the UK’s leading employers for women in  The Times Top 50 Employers for Women , in recognition of our  commitment to gender equality and for providing women avenues to  pursue their professional aspirations.
"Huge congratulations to TCS … They have demonstrated a  commitment to fundamentally changing workplace  processes and cultures to make them inclusive to all,  benefitting women and men at every level in their  organization, and I hope they inspire other employers to do  the same."
— Kathryn Nawrockyi, Gender Equality Director Business in the Community, UK 66 Management Discussion and Analysis Annual Report 2016-17  TCS celebrated the second anniversary of its all-women BPS and IT  Centre at Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
The center employs over 1,000  women, of which 85% are local hires.
This innovative socio-economic  development model promotes long-term career opportunities for  Saudi women.
Our Center of Excellence for Accessibility works on IT solutions for  differently-abled individuals, aiding their integration int o the  workforce.
In addition to building diversity within our own workforce, TCS works  actively to encourage greater diversity in the workforce in the  communities we work in.
More details are available in the Corporate  Sustainability section of this report.
c. Talent Development  Investment in human capital by equipping employees with skills – soft  skills, design skills, multi-technology skills, and domain skills – has been  one of the biggest drivers of value creation at TCS.
TCS has navigated  through the Digital wave by investing in re-skilling its workforce and  working to continually deepen and broaden employees’ skills in those  new technologies.
The sheer scale and rapidity of technology change  has required a reimagined approach to reskilling, quickly and on scale.
More details are provided on pages 30-31.
Leadership training is a big focus area for TCS.
A newly designed  Leadership Development Program (LDP) for entry-level managers has  been launched globally.
The reach of LDP for middle-level managers  has been expanded.
A number of senior leaders at TCS are certified  coaches, and they mentor and coach upcoming leaders.
A special  program designed for grooming mid-level women managers for  leadership roles has started showing positive results.
Cultural and Language Initiatives  (CLI) focus on the three Cs -  culture, communication, and collaboration.
Some of these initiatives  are: country-specific ‘culture shots’ offering training for first-time  visitor to a new country, training on English language for non-English  speaking employees, and training on 11 foreign languages.
d. Career Management  TCS has started multiple initiatives to help employees grow in their  careers: • ‘CareerHub’ is a platform that captures employees’ career  aspirations and provides mentoring services.
Employees can  choose their own mentor based on a match with their aspirational  skill sets.
• Inspire: A specialized program used to groom and provide fast- track career progression to high potential employees.
• Structured coaching programs at senior leadership levels to make  them realize their full potential.
• Leadership review and assessment profile of all leaders to  maintain a healthy succession pipeline.
e. Talent Engagement  Some of the platforms and initiatives we have at TCS to enhance an d  enrich employee engagement are: • Knome, KnowMax, GEMS:  Platforms for social collaboration  within the organization, learning, sharing, and for reward and  recognition.
• Safety First: Initiative focused on employee safety and security.
• Fit4life: Builds a fraternity of health and fitness conscious   employees and creates a culture of fitness.
• Purpose4life: Forum for volunteering for community projects in  the areas of Education, Health and Environment.
• Maitree: Helps in improving employee bonding within the  organization and promoting work-life balance, thereby, increasing  employee retention.
• PULSE: Our annual employee engagement and satisfaction  survey; the organization’s formal listening forum.
f. Talent Retention  TCS’ employee retention record has been an industry benchmark,  with our attrition rates being the lowest in the industry.
In FY 2017, TCS’ attrition rate in IT Services was 10.5% and overall  attrition, and including BPS was 11.5% (FY 2016: 14.7% and 15.5%  respectively).
This is not only a best-in-class metric, but also the  lowest attrition rate at TCS in the last three years.
g. Compliance  A robust internal check process is deployed to prevent and limit the  risk of non-compliance.
TCS’ HR Compliance Cell tracks the various  acts and laws pertaining to immigration, employment, and labor, in all  the countries of operation.
The Company approaches compliance  from both, reactive and proactive standpoints.
5.0 FY 2017 Revenue Performance  TCS’ consolidated revenue in FY 2017 was ` 117,966 crore (FY 2016: ` 108,646 crore), a revenue growth of 8.6% (FY 2016: 14.8%).
Movements in currency exchange rates through the year resulted in a  positive impact of +0.3% on the revenue.
The constant currency revenue  There are only legacy technologies, no legacy people.
— N Chandrasekaran, Chairman, TCS LatAm 2.1%MEA 2.5%APAC 9.8% India 6.3% Europe 11.6% UK 13.9% N America 54.0% ALS, 2.9%EIS, 4.9% Assurance, 9.0% ITIS, 16.1% EntSol, 17.6% BPS, 11.7% ADM, 38.0% Revenue by Service LineRevenue by Geography BFSI 40.3% Revenue by Industry Verticals Others 15.3% Mfg 10.6% CMT 16.5% Retail & Con Biz 17.3% 67Management Discussion and Analysis growth for the year, which is reported revenue growth stripped of the currency impact, was 8.3%.
The revenue break-up by Industry Vertical, Geography, and Service Line is provided below: Details of the Company’s Financial Performance are provided in Section 8.0.
The current section covers the nature of demand for our services this year that drove  our revenue performance and segmental performance, along with qualitative commentary.
a. Segmental Performance   Industry verticals make up the primary reporting segments for TCS.
From a segmental point of view, with the exception of the Retail and Consumer Business segment, all the other segments contributed revenue growth  close to the company average or higher.
In particular, the Manufacturing, Life Sciences (including healthcare), and Energy, Resources, & Utilities verticals  grew in the mid-teens or above.
Segment revenues, year on year growth, a brief commentary, and segment margins are provided below.
Please note that the HiTech segment has been reclassified under the Communication, Media, and Technology (previous reported as Telecom, Media, and  Entertainment) reportable segment.
Likewise, the Travel, Transportation, an d Hospitality segment has been reclassified under Retail and Consumer  Business (previously reported as Retail and Consumer Packaged Goods).
Industry Vertical FY 17 Segment  Revenue  (FY 16) YoY Rev  Growth Commentary FY 17  Segment  Margin % (FY 16) Banking, Financial  Services, and  Insurance 47,505  (44,163) 7.6% The BFSI industry revenue growth has been in line with the Company's overall  growth.
Focus on cost optimization, simplification and agility led to greater  spending on automation and cloud adoption.
Risk management and compliance  continues to drive spending.
However, uncertainties arising from key political  events like Brexit and US elections led to holding back of discretionary spending  – especially by large global banks – on account of which revenue growth in FY  2017 was lower than that in FY 2016.
27.6% (29.0%) Manufacturing 12,486  (10,909) 14.5% The Manufacturing business segment significantly outperformed the rest of the  Company in terms of revenue growth, driven by (a) cloud adoption and co re  system modernization, (b) IT integration in M&A scenarios, (c) greater demand  for embedded software and (d)  Digital adoption (IoT, robotics, AI, and so on).
TCS' successful leverage of domain expertise, technology depth.
IP and  consulting capability helped the organization win key transformational deals.
28.4% (26.7%) (` crore) 68 Management Discussion and Analysis Annual Report 2016-17 Industry Vertical FY 17 Segment  Revenue  (FY 16) YoY Rev  Growth Commentary Segment  Margin % Retail and Consumer  Business 20,459 (19,204) 6.5% After years of outperformance, the Retail and Consumer Business segment  underperformed this year, with revenue growth lagging behind the Compa ny  average, mainly on account of a slowdown in the Retail sector.
Buffeted by weak  sales and strong competition from online players, traditional retailers are cuttin g  operating expenses as evidenced by news of store closures and layoffs by major  retailers in the US and elsewhere.
Clients continue to invest in their Digital programs  but the spending is under pressure.
28.1% (27.6%) Communication,  Media, and  Technology 19,521 (18,040) 8.2% The Communication, Media and Technology segment had revenue growth in  line  with the Company average after many years of underperformance.
Growing  convergence of the telecom and media worlds is resulting in greater investments –  largely Digital - in moving upstream and into adjacencies.
TCS' strong domain  expertise and intellectual property is also giving us better traction in this segment.
28.2% (28.6%) Others 17,995  (16,330) 10.2% Under Others, the biggest components namely, Life Sciences &Healthcare an d  Energy, Resources & Utilities grew by 14% and 18% respectively, driven by our  continued demonstration of deep domain expertise, capacity for innovation and  intellectual property in the respective areas.
Overall growth was dragged down by  the miscellaneous segment which declined year on year.
24.0% (26.1%) The key areas of customer spending that drove across the different verticals this year were: Ÿ Experience first: Customer-centric initiatives focusing on superior user experience in an omni-channel context Ÿ Business model transformations and strategic investments in response to new, technology-led disruptions  Ÿ Data for competitive advantage: Investments in enterprise data fabric and insights platforms  Ÿ Supply chain transformation for greater responsiveness and to realize omni-channel proposition Ÿ Modernization of core systems to support Digital strategies and enable innovation in product development Ÿ Governance, Risk, and Compliance (GRC) initiatives in industries like BFSI, and Life Sciences and Healthcare, in response to a shifting regulatory environment Ÿ Enterprise-wide Agile delivery model adoption for quicker time to market and for constant innovation Ÿ Automation, simplification, rationalization, shared services, and cloud-first strategies to optimize cost and bring agility New customers 95+ FY 17 in  Patents 3,359 478   filed  I  granted TCS BaNCS:  - The universal financial platform - Processed more than  global  1.3bn   accounts, comprising approximately  15%   of the global population  -  new customers in   22 FY17 - TCS BaNCS Insurance serviced  life 20mn   annuity and pension policies, and  135mn   property policies TM iON  Assessment:   - Over  candidates assessed 81 million TM Ignio :  - World's first neural automation system for    IT operations in enterprises -  new customers in   17 FY17 -  patents filed 71 TCS’ Advanced Drug Development  Platform:  - Transforming clinical research,    by harnessing digital technologies to    minimize human intervention -  global customers including two new   11   customers in in Q4 FY17 - Handled data of over  patients 65,000 TCS HOBS:  - Pre-integrated end-to-end platform    for telecom business and operations    support systems -  new customers in  8 FY17 - Filed  new patents2 TM Optumera  : - Digital merchandising suite -  of the world’s leading retail customers 5 TM TAP  : - Accounts payable platform  - Processed over  accounts in 20mn  FY17 TM TCS MasterCraft  : - Digital platforms to optimally    automate and manage IT processes -  customers including  new  80 20   customers in FY17 - Over  patents filed130 TCS MasterCraft HOBS ADD TM Optumera 69Management Discussion and Analysis b. TCS Products and Platforms 70 Management Discussion and Analysis Annual Report 2016-17 6.0 Business Outlook 6 The world output is expected to accelerate to 3.4%  in 2017, with across the board acceleration in GDP growth.
The advanced economies as a set are expected to  grow by 1.9%, a 30 bps acceleration year on year.
However, within that set, the outlook is mixed, with US accelerating to 2.3% while the UK and Euro Area are  expected to decelerate year on year to 1.5% and 1.6% respectively.
Most of the emerging market and developing economies are expected to perform better  in 2017.
Analyst forecasts point to a modest acceleration in worldwide IT spend forecasts.
Based on extensive conversations with customers, TCS expects continued  investments in the ongoing journey to building a Digital enterprise.
Investments in Digital are expected along the following themes: Ÿ Digital Spine: Core modernization, Digitization, Simplification, Automation, Robotics, Cyber Security, IoT, Blockchain, APIfication, and Cloud Ÿ Intelligent Enterprise: Big Data Analytics, Cognitive Computing, Machine Learning, Customer insights, Monetization of data, Social  Ÿ Experience First: Seamless transactions across channels and touchpoints, Virtual / Augmented / Mixed Reality, gamification, chatbots  7.0 Risk Management and Compliance A robust enterprise compliance management (ECM) framework and process has been deployed across TCS.
The process is enabled by a Digital platform that  provides an enterprise-wide view of compliance across global locations.
The Company ensures compliance of all applicable laws globally, including those relating  to employment, visas, taxation, forex and export controls, health, safety and environment (HSE), company laws, establishment, SEZ regulations, data privacy,  anti-bribery and anti-corruption regulations, and IT security.
A committee at  the corporate level oversees and monitors the deployment of the complian ce  function.
Changes in the applicable regulations are tracked on a global basis.
Key Risks Impact on the Company Mitigation Global Political and  Economic Scenario Technology investments by corporates have shown  strong correlations with GDP growth.
TCS derives a material portion of its revenues from customers' discretionary  spending which is linked to their business outlook.
With  changing political dynamics in major markets such as the US,  the UK, and elections in some key European countries,  uncertainties in economic outlook in these markets can  impact technology spend, and thereby constrain the  Company's growth potential.
Ÿ Broad-based, de-risked business mix, well diversified across  geographies and industry verticals Ÿ Capabilities and value propositions addressing the discretionary as  well as non-discretionary portions of client spend Ÿ Target market segments which might provide counter-cyclical  support Restrictions on  Global Mobility Distributed software development models require the free  movement of people across countries.
Growing  protectionism in many key markets poses a threat to the  global mobility of skilled professionals.
There are multiple  draft legislations in the United States to restrict the  availability of work visas.
Similar protectionist steps are being  considered by some other countries.
If implemented, this  could result in project delays, increased costs and margin  pressures.
Ÿ Reducing our dependency on work visas through increased local  hiring and focusing on local mobility and training across all major  geographies of operation Ÿ Increased outreach to legislative / regulatory stakeholders, important  trade bodies, think tanks and research institutes.
Ÿ Showcasing investments, employment generation and innovation  capabilities to the appropriate audiences Ÿ Active engagement in STEM initiatives designed to structurally  increase the availability of engineering talent in major markets  Business Model  Changes Rapidly evolving technologies are changing technology  consumption patterns, creating new classes of buyers within  the enterprise, giving rise to entirely new business models  and therefore new kinds of competitors.
This is resulting in increased demands on the Company's  agility to keep pace with the changing customer  expectations.
Ÿ Continued investments in Digital through large scale reskilling,  external hiring, IP development and successful leverage of deep  contextual knowledge  Ÿ Focus on Research and Innovation efforts leveraging in-house  expertise, alliance partnerships, and strong connections in the  startup ecosystem Ÿ Strategic focus on Agile, Cloud, and Automation Ÿ Strong customer-centricity which results in organization structures  (and reorganizations) that are always aligned to customer needs [6] http://www.imf.org/en/Publications/WEO/Issues/2016/12/27/A-Shifting-Global-Economic-Landscape 71Management Discussion and Analysis Key Risks Impact on the Company Mitigation Litigation Risks Given the scale and geographic spread of the company's  operations, litigation risks can arise from commercial disputes,  perceived violation of intellectual property rights and employment  related matters.
Our rising profile and scale also makes us a target  to litigations without any legal merit.
This risk is inherent to doing  business across the various countries and commensurate with the  risks faced by other players similarly placed in the industry.
In  addition to incurring legal costs and distracting management,  litigations garner negative media attention and pose reputation  risk.
Adverse rulings can result in substantive damages.
Ÿ Internal processes and controls adequately ensure the  protection of intellectual property and also that potential  disputes are promptly brought to the attention of management  and dealt with appropriately.
Ÿ The company has a team of in-house counsel in all major  geographies it operates in.
It also engages a network of highly  respected global law firms in the countries it operates in.
Ÿ There is a robust mechanism to track and respond to notices as  well as defend the Company's position in all claims and litigation.
Currency Volatility Volatility in currency exchange movements results in transaction  and translation exposure.
The Company's functional currency is  the Indian Rupee.
Appreciation of the Rupee against any major  currency results in the revenue denominated in that currency to  appear lesser in reported terms.
Further, there could be collection  losses if the exchange rates move between the time revenue is  booked and the invoice amount is collected.
Ÿ TCS follows a currency hedging policy that is aligned with  market best practices, to limit the impact of exchange volatility  on earnings and collections Ÿ Hedging strategy is monitored by the Risk Management  Committee on a regular basis Data Privacy and  Protection  Privacy and protection of personal data is an area of increasing  concern across countries.
Sensitive data has to be protected from  individuals trying to gain unauthorized access or misusing access  provided in business context.
Any violation or security breach can  result in liabilities, penalties and reputational impact.
Ÿ A global Privacy Policy is in place covering all applicable  geographies and areas of operations.
Ÿ The Company has continued focus on employee related  agreements with respect Personally Identifiable Information (PII)  and Sensitive Personal Data and  Information (SPDI) Ÿ Data protection controls are a part of the engagement security  management process.
Ÿ Robust risk response mechanisms are in place to cater to  protection of sensitive data in TCS ecosystem as well protection  of such data in client-managed networks in Offshore/Global  Delivery Centers.
Ÿ Sensitive and complex engagements leverage industry standard  practice of data masking technologies to protect PII and SPDI Ÿ The Company also utilizes a combination of online training,  educational tools, social media and other awareness initiatives  regarding data privacy and protection to foster a culture of  awareness and responsibility among its employees.
Cyber Security Risks of cyber attacks on the Company's networks are forever a  threat on account of the fast evolving nature of the threat, with  perpetrators continually seeking to bypass known defenses.
The  impact of a breach could range from reputational to legal and  financial.
Ÿ Investments in automated prevention and detection solutions Ÿ Continued reinforcement of stringent security policies &  procedures;  Ÿ Collaboration with CERT and other private Cyber Intelligence  agencies, and enhanced awareness of emerging cyber threats Ÿ Enterprise-wide training and awareness programs on  Information Security Ÿ Internal and external audits.
Global Regulatory  Compliance Increasing complexity of global regulatory compliance landscape  continues to be a focus area.
As a global organization, the company has to demonstrate  compliance to laws across jurisdictions, covering areas such as  Employment & Immigration laws, Taxation, Foreign Exchange &  Export Controls, HSE regulations, Anti-corruption laws, Data  Privacy requirements, and so on.
Failure could result in penalties and reputational damage.
Ÿ A comprehensive global compliance management framework  has been deployed across the Company.
Ÿ Global regulatory compliance certification is fully digitized and  covers compliance across all the locations of the Company.
FY 2017 % of  Revenue % Growth  Compared to FY  2016 FY 2016 % of  Revenue Revenue from operations      117,966       100.0                         8.6           108,646          100.0  Expenses       Employee benefit expense 61,621 52.2 11.3 55,348 50.9 Other Operating expenses 24,034 20.4 6.3 22,621 20.8  Total expenditure 85,655 72.6 9.9 77,969 71.8 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA)  32,311 27.4 5.3 30,677 28.2  Depreciation and amortisation expense 1,987 1.7 5.2 1,888 1.7 Finance costs 32 0.0  (3.0) 33 0.0  Other income (net) 4,221 3.6 36.9 3,084 2.8 Profit before taxes (PBT) 34,513         29.3                         8.4             31,840            29.3  Tax expense 8,156 6.9 8.7 7,502 6.9 Profit after taxes and before Non Controlling Interest 26,357         22.3 8.3             24,338            22.4  Earnings per share (in `) 133.41  8.3             123.18   Profit for FY 2017 attributable to: Shareholders of the Company 26,289 22.3 8.3 24,270 22.3 Non controlling interests 68                                 68   8.0 Analysis of Financials  The financial statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as TCS or the Company) are prepared in compliance  with the Companies Act, 2013 and Indian Accounting Standards, Rules 2015 (Ind AS).
In accordance with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards), Rules, 2015 of the Companies Act, 2013, read with Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013,  TCS has adopted the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) for preparation of its financial statements with effect from April 1, 2016, with comparative financials  for the earlier period beginning April 1, 2015.
TCS had been earlier publishing its financial statements prepared under the Indian GAAP and IFRS.
The company has  made available a note explaining the areas of difference between Indian GAAP and Ind AS and explained the reconciliation between the two GAAPs.
The same  can be found at https://www.tcs.com/investor-relations The discussions herein below relate to the consolidated statement of profit and loss for the year ended March 31, 2017, the consolidated balance sheet as at  March 31, 2017 and the consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended March 31, 2017.
The consolidated results are more relevant for understanding the  performance of TCS.
Significant accounting policies used for the preparation of the financial statements are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 (a) to (r).
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL RESULTS  The following table gives an overview of the financial results of the Company:   Summary: • Revenue: The revenue of the Company aggregated ` 117,966 crore in FY 2017 (` 108,646 crore in FY 2016), registering a growth of 8.6%.
• Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA): The EBITD A aggregated ` 32,311 crore in FY 2017 (` 30,677 crore in FY 2016) – a  growth of 5.3%.
• Profit before tax (PBT): PBT aggregated ` 34,513 crore in FY 2017 (` 31,840 crore in FY 2016) – a growth of 8.4%.
• Profit after tax (PAT): PAT aggregated ` 26,289 crore in FY 2017 (` 24,270 crore in FY 2016) – a growth of 8.3%.
• Earnings per share (EPS): EPS aggregated ` 133.41 in FY 2017 (` 123.18 in FY 2016) – a growth of 8.3%.
(` crore) 72 Management Discussion and Analysis Annual Report 2016-17 Employee benefit expenses        Employee benefit expenses include salaries which have fixed and variable components, contribution to retirement funds and pension schemes.
It also includes  expenses incurred on staff welfare.
Employee benefit expenses aggregated ` 61,621 crore in FY 2017, representing 52.2% of revenue as compared to an expense of ` 55,348 in FY 2016,  representing 50.9% of revenue.
The increase in Employee benefit expenses is in line with the business growth and increase in local hires.
Analysis of revenue growth The total revenue growth in FY 2017 (8.6%) was lower than that of FY 2016  (14.8%), primarily due to lower discretionary spending by customers in two  key business segments: Banking Financial Services and Insurance and the  Retail and Consumer business.
Growth attributable to FY 2017 (%) FY 2016 (%) Business growth 8.3 11.9 Impact of Exchange rate 0.3 2.9  Total Growth 8.6 14.8  FY 2017 witnessed significant volatility in exchange rates particularly  affecting GBP , YEN throughout the year.
Average currency rates during FY  2017 compared to those in FY 2016 are given below: Currency Weightage FY 2017  (Average) FY 2016  (Average) Change in  Average  Rates USD 57.0% 67.13 65.45 2.6% GBP 12.1% 87.35 98.62 (11.4%) EUR 8.0% 73.27 72.29 1.3% CAD 2.9% 51.01 49.96 2.1% AUD 3.9% 50.41 48.17 4.7% YEN 2.7% 0.62 0.56 11.0% The net impact of such movement in exchange rates on revenue of the  Company has been a positive variance of 0.3% in FY 2017 (positive variance  of 2.9% in FY 2016).
FY 2017  FY 2016  ` crore % of revenue ` crore % of revenue % growth Salaries, incentives and allowances 55,537             47.1 49,902                     45.9            11.3  Contributions to provident and other funds 4,189               3.5 3,939                       3.6              6.4  Staff welfare expenses 1,895               1.6 1,507                       1.4            25.8  Total      61,621             52.2 55,348                     50.9            11.3  73Management Discussion and Analysis Operations and other expenses   Operations and other expenses aggregated ` 24,034 crore in FY 2017, representing 20.4% of revenue as compared to an expense of ` 22,621 crore in FY 2016,  representing 20.8% of revenue.
Operations and other expenses, as a percentage of revenue, have remained steady.
FY 2017  FY 2016  ` crore % of revenue ` crore % of revenue % growth Fees to external consultants 8,854 7.5 8,412 7.7 5.3 Facility running expenses 3,685 3.1 3,406 3.1 8.2 Cost of equipment and software licenses 2,808 2.4 2,571 2.4 9.2  Travel expenses 2,786 2.4 2,664 2.5 4.6  Communication expenses 1,067 0.9 1,107 1.0  (3.6) Bad debts and advances written off, allowance for doubtful receivables  and advances (net) 125 0.1 135 0.1  (7.4) Other expenses 4,709 4.0 4,326 4.0 8.9  Total 24,034 20.4 22,621 20.8 6.2 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) In FY 2017, EBITDA was ` 32,311 crore (` 30,677 crore in FY 2016).
EBITDA  as a percentage of Total Revenue is down from 28.2% in FY 2016 to 27.4% in  FY 2017.
The decline in EBITDA margin is primarily attributable to increase in  employee benefit expenses.
Other Income (net) Other income increased from ` 3,084 crore in FY 2016 to ` 4,221 crore in FY  2017 primarily due to an increase in exchange gain (net) by ` 498 crore  and an increase in interest on investments by ` 518 crore, arising out of  effective treasury management.
Other Income as a percentage of revenue  increased from 2.8% in FY 2016 to 3.6% in FY 2017.
Depreciation and amortisation expense Depreciation and amortisation expense increased from ` 1,888 crore in  FY 2016 to ` 1,987 crore in FY 2017.
As a percentage of revenue, this group  of expenses remained constant at 1.7% in FY 2016 and FY 2017.
Profit before taxes (PBT) In FY 2017, PBT was ` 34,513 crore ( ` 31,840 crore in FY 2016).
As a  percentage of revenue, PBT remained constant at 29.3%.
Decline in EBITDA  Margin was offset by an increase in Other Income.
Tax expense Tax expense increased to ` 8,156 crore in FY 2017 from ` 7,502 crore as  reported in FY 2016.
The effective tax rate has remained steady.
(FY 2017: 23.6%, FY 2016:  23.6%) Profit after tax attributable to shareholders Profit after tax attributable to shareholders in FY 2017 was `26,289 crore as  compared to ` 24,270 crore in FY 2016.
Net Profit Margin remained  unchanged Y-o-Y at 22.3%.
74 Management Discussion and Analysis Annual Report 2016-17 FINANCIAL POSITION — CONSOLIDATED  Share Capital There has been no change in the Share Capital of the Company in FY 2017.
Reserves and Surplus   Reserves and Surplus at the end of FY 2017 stood at `86,017 crore, an  increase of 21.4% over `70,875 crore at the end of FY 2016.
A brief description of the Company’s Reserves and Surplus is provided below: Ÿ Capital Redemption Reserve primarily arises when companies redeem  preference shares.
In the absence of such activity, this reserve has not  shown any movement during FY 2017.
As at March  31, 2017 As at March 31, 2016 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders' funds 86,214 71,072 Non Controlling interest 366 355  Non-current liabilities 2,160 2,100  Current liabilities 14,512 15,569 TOTAL 103,252 89,096 ASSETS Goodwill 1,597 1,669 Non-current investments 344 343 Other non-current assets including  property, plant and equipment 20,785 23,871 Current investments 41,636 22,479 Trade receivables 22,684 24,073 Unbilled revenue 5,351 3,992 Cash and bank balances 3,597 6,295 Short-term loans and advances 2,909 2,743 Other current assets 4,349 3,631 TOTAL 103,252 89,096  As at March  31, 2017 As at March  31, 2016 Authorised    460.05 crore equity shares of ` 1 each 460 460 105.03 crore redeemable preference  shares of ` 1 each 105 105 Total 565 565 Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up - - 197.04 crore equity shares of ` 1 each  (197.04 crore equity shares of ` 1 each as  at March 31,2016) 197 197 Total 197 197 Ÿ Share Premium represents the surplus of proceeds received over the  face value of shares, at the time of issue of shares.
There was  no movement in this reserve because there was no share issue during  FY 2017.
Ÿ For the purpose of consolidation of subsidiaries with the financial  statement of the holding company, income and expenses are translated  at average rates and the assets and liabilities are stated at closing rate.
Use of such different rates for translation gives rise to exchange  difference which is accumulated in Foreign Currency Translation  Reserve.
The movement in this reserve is due to fluctuation in exchange  rates of currencies in FY 2017.
Ÿ The gains / losses in cash flow hedges are reflected in the Cash Flow  Hedging Reserve.
Note 28 (b) to the consolidated financial statements  gives details of the movement.
Ÿ In the absence of any transfer to the General Reserve, there has been no  movement in the General Reserve this year.
Ÿ Statutory Reserve represents the amounts maintained by certain foreign  subsidiaries who are required to maintain such a reserve under specific  local regulations.
The movement is due to statutory transfer from  Retained earnings in those foreign subsidiaries.
Ÿ Special Economic Zone Re-investment Reserve  has been created  under the Income Tax Act - Sec 10AA - to avail the extension of exemption  benefit relating to business in SEZ areas.
Ÿ Investment Revaluation Reserve  represents the net mark to market  gains on investments measured at fair value through other  comprehensive income.
Note 17 (B) (a) to the consolidated financial  statements gives details of the movement.
Ÿ The balance in the Retained Earnings primarily represents the surplus  after payment of dividend (including tax on dividend) and transfer to  reserves.
(` crore) (` crore)  As at  March  31, 2017  As at  March 31,  2016 Capital Reserve 75 75  Capital Redemption Reserve 523 523  Share Premium 1,919 1,919  Foreign Currency Translation  Reserve 939 1,408  Cash Flow Hedging Reserve 88 49  General Reserve 10,549 10,549  Statutory Reserve 218 185  Special Economic Zone Re- investment Reserve 97 -    Investment Revaluation Reserve 538 54  Retained Earnings 71,071 56,113  Total 86,017 70,875  (` crore) 75Management Discussion and Analysis Short Term and Long Term Borrowings  Secured overdraft was NIL as at March 31, 2017 (` 112 crore in FY 2016) and unsecured overdraft was ` 200 crore as at March 31, 2017 (` 1 crore in FY 2016).
The decrease in Secured loans for long-term maturities of finance lease obligations from ` 83 crore in FY 2016 to ` 71 crore in FY 2017 was due to net payments  on finance leases during the year.
The Company’s long-term obligations under finance lease, are secured against fixed assets obtained under finan ce lease  arrangements.
The maturity profile of the finance lease obligations (both long term as shown in this table and short term as shown under "other liabilities") is  disclosed in detail in Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Trade Payables Ÿ Trade payables (current liabilities), representing payables for purchase of goods and services decreased from ` 7,541 crore as at March 31, 2016 to ` 6,279  crore as at March 31, 2017.
As a percentage of revenue, trade payables have decreased from 6.9% in FY 2016 to 5.3% in FY 2017.
Short-term and long-term provisions Ÿ The increase in short-term provisions from ` 1,750 crore in FY 2016 to ` 1,928 crore in FY 2017 is mainly attributable to increase in Provision for employee  benefits amounting to ` 1,862 crore as at March 31, 2017 (`1,635 crore as at March 31, 2016).
Provision for employee benefits, short-term and long-term   represent the provision on 1) Gratuity 2) Other employee benefit obligations / plans 3) Leave.
Note 23 (A) & (B) to the consolidated financial statements gives  the breakup of the employee benefit obligation.
Ÿ Short-term provision for foreseeable loss on a long term contract declined to ` 66 crore as at March 31, 2017 (`115 crore as at March 31, 2016).
Provision for  foreseeable loss on a long term contract occurs when the estimated cost to completion exceeds the future revenue.
Ÿ Long Term Provisions increased from ` 277 crore in FY 2016 to ` 284 crore in FY 2017.
Other current and non-current liabilities  Other current liabilities increased from ` 2,996 crore as at March 31, 2016 to ` 3,143 crore as at March 31, 2017.
The increase was primarily due to: Ÿ Increase in Unearned and Deferred Revenue from ` 1,359 crore as at March 31, 2016 to ` 1,398 crore as at March 31, 2017.
Ÿ Advance received from customers increased from ` 164 crore as at March 31, 2016 to ` 330 crore as at March 31, 2017.
Ÿ Increase in other liabilities to ` 114 crore as at March 31, 2017 (` 92 crore as at March 31, 2016) mainly on account of operating lease liabilities recognised in  advance, on account of straightlining the rental over the lease period.
Ÿ Indirect tax payable and other statutory liabilities decreased from ` 1,381 crore as at March 31, 2016 to ` 1,301 crore as at March 31, 2017.
Other non-current liabilities decreased from ` 442 crore as at March 31, 2016 to ` 432 crore as at March 31, 2017.
As at March  31, 2017 As at March  31, 2016 As at March  31, 2017 As at March  31, 2016 As at March  31, 2017 As at March  31, 2016  Short-term borrowings Long-term borrowings  Total borrowings Secured loans: overdraft from banks                              -  112 -   -   -   112  Unsecured loans: overdraft from banks 200 1 -   -   200 1  Secured loans: long-term maturities of  finance lease obligations -   -   71 83 71 83  Total 200 113 71 83 271 196  (` crore) 76 Management Discussion and Analysis Annual Report 2016-17  As at March 31,  2017 As at March 31,  2016 As at March 31,  2017 As at March 31,  2016 As at March 31,  2017 As at March 31,  2016  Short-term provisions Long-term provisions Total provisions Provision for employee benefits 1,862 1,635 245 237 2,107 1,872  Provision for foreseeable loss on  a long term contract 66 115 39 40 105 155  Total 1,928 1,750 284 277 2,212 2,027  (` crore) Other Financial Liabilities Other financial liabilities decreased from ` 2,857 crore as at March 31, 2016 to ` 2,004 crore as at March 31, 2017.
Ÿ Liabilities for cost related to customer contracts increased from ` 882 crore as at March 31, 2016 to `1,001 crore as at March 31, 2017 Ÿ Liabilities on account of Capital creditors decreased from ` 393 crore as at March 31, 2016 to ` 304 crore as at March 31, 2017 Ÿ The decrease in other payables from ` 1,512 crore as at March 31, 2016 to ` 656 crore as at March 31, 2017 is primarily on account of settlement of liabilities  towards purchase of government securities in the previous financial year and decrease in fair value of foreign exchange forward and currency option contracts.
Ÿ Operating lease and other liabilities include current maturities of obligation under finance lease.
The decline from ` 70 crore as at March 31, 2016 to ` 43 crore  as at March 31, 2017 was primarily  due to decline in net payments in finance lease obligations.
Goodwill on consolidation Goodwill on consolidation represents the excess of purchase consideration over net asset value of acquired subsidiaries on the date of such acquisition.
Such  goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently, if there are indications for impairment.
Goodwill on consolidation as at March 31, 2017 stood at ` 1,597 crore (` 1,669 crore as at March 31, 2016).
The change in Goodwill has been on account of  exchange fluctuation.
Property, Plant, and Equipment  The company has been investing in infrastructure development across various locations across the globe to meet its growing business needs.
The Net Book Value of Property, Plant, and Equipment amounted to ` 10,057 crore as at March 31, 2017 (` 9,971 crore as at March 31, 2016).
Incremental cash  outflows toward capital expenditure in FY 2017 was mainly offset by the depreciation and amortisation expense resulting in a marginal increase in net block of  Property, plant and equipment.
As at March 31,  2017 As at March 31,  2016 As at March  31, 2017 As at March 31,  2016 As at March  31, 2017 As at March  31, 2016  Other current liabilities Other non current liabilities Total other liabilities Unearned and Deferred revenue 1,398 1,359 -   -   1,398 1,359  Advance received from customers 330 164 -   -   330 164  Indirect tax payable and other statutory  liabilities  1,301 1,381 -   -   1,301 1,381  Operating lease & other liabilities 114 92 432 442 546 534  Total 3,143 2,996 432 442 3,575 3,438  (` crore) (` crore)  As at March 31,  2017 As at March 31,  2016 As at March  31, 2017 As at March 31,  2016 As at March  31, 2017 As at March  31, 2016  Other current financial liabilities Other non current financial  liabilities Total financial liabilities Liabilities for cost related to customer  contracts 1,001 882 -    - 1,001 882  Capital Creditors 287 331 17 62 304 393 Other payables 219 1,081 437 431 656 1,512 Other liabilities 43 70 - - 43 70 Total 1,550 2,364 454 493 2,004 2,857  77Management Discussion and Analysis Note no 2 (m) to the consolidated financial statements gives the details of the rates and method of depreciation on property, plant and equipment.
Trade Receivables and Unbilled Revenue   As a percentage of revenue, Trade Receivables decreased to 19.2% as at March 31, 2017 from 22.2% as at March 31, 2016.
The Unbilled Revenue as a  percentage of revenue increased to 4.5% in FY 2017 from 3.7% in FY 2016.
The Company monitors Trade Receivables and Unbilled Revenue, net of Unearned Revenues separately and collectively.
The close monitoring, follow-up on  collections and favorable exchange rates have ensured that the Trade Receivables and Unbilled Revenue, net of Unearned Revenues as a percentage of revenue  has declined (22.6% in FY 2017, 24.6% in FY 2016).
The Days Sales Outstanding for FY 2017 has come down to 70 days as compared to 81 days for FY 2016.
Current investments and non-current investments  Total Investments of the Company grew from ` 22,822 crore in FY 2016 to ` 41,890 crore in FY 2017: • ’Investments carried at fair value through OCI’ increased from ` 20,423 crore in FY 2016 to ` 22,140 crore in FY 2017.
The increase of ` 1,717 crore is due to  net purchase of government securities of ` 1,745 crore, partially offset by decrease due to sale of equity shares of ` 28 crore.
A significant part of treasury  investments of the Company is in government securities, which are carried at fair value through OCI.
• The increase in ’Investments carried at fair value through P&L’ from ` 1,767 crore in FY 2016 to ` 19,692 crore in FY 2017  is due to net purchase of mutual  funds amounting to ` 17,925 crore.
• The net decrease of ` 484 crore in ’Investment carried at amortized cost’ from `632 crore in FY 2016 to ` 148 crore in FY 2017 is primarily due to redemption  of certificates of deposit.
Particulars Gross block as  at March 31,  2017 Gross block as  at March 31,  2016 Accumulated  Depreciation as  on March 31,  2017 Accumulated  Depreciation as  on March 31,  2016 Net book value  as on March  31, 2017 Net book value  as on March 31,  2016 Freehold land 348 348 -   -   348 348  Buildings 6,708 6,119  (1,467)  (1,139) 5,241 4,980  Leasehold Improvements 1,973 1,840  (1,143)  (977) 830 863  Plant and equipment 395 322  (75)  (40) 320 282  Computer equipment 6,082 5,591 (4,630) (4,155) 1,452 1,436  Vehicles 32 32 (24) (21) 8 11  Office equipment 2,112 2,004 (1,518) (1,284) 594 720  Electrical Installations 1,722 1,620 (871) (732) 851 888  Furniture and fixtures 1,519 1,432 (1,106) (989) 413 443  Total 20,891 19,308 (10,834) (9,337) 10,057 9,971  (` crore) As at March 31, 2017 As % of Revenue As at March 31, 2016 As % of Revenue Trade Receivables 22,684 19.2% 24,073 22.2% Unbilled Revenue 5,351 4.5% 3,992 3.7% Total 28,035 23.8% 28,065 25.8% (` crore) 78 Management Discussion and Analysis Annual Report 2016-17 (` crore) Overview of funds invested  Funds invested exclude earmarked balances with bank, equity shares measured at fair value through OCI and liabilities for purchase of government securities.
Investible funds went up by `14,832 crore (` 33,602 crore as at March 31, 2016 to ` 48,434 crore as at March 31, 2017), mainly driven by: • increase in investments of ` 19,186 crore primarily due to investment in mutual funds and government securities during FY 2017 • offset by decrease in bank deposits by ` 2,453 crore, decrease in inter-corporate deposits by ` 1,618 crore and decrease in cash and bank balances by   ` 283 crore.
Short-term and long-term loans and advances Loans and advances as at March 31, 2016 decreased by ` 2,297 crore from ` 5,215 crore in FY 2016 to ` 2,918 crore in FY 2017, mainly due to decrease in long- term loans and advances by ` 2,463 crore, partly offset by increase in short-term loans and advances by ` 166 crore.
Ÿ The increase in short-term loans and advances was primarily attributable to increase in inter-corporate deposits by ` 844 crore offset partly by a decrease in  loans and advances to employees by ` 677 crore.
In FY 2016, there had been a one-time assistance provided to associates impacted by Chennai floods.
Ÿ The decrease in long-term loans and advances was primarily attributable to decrease in inter-corporate deposits by ` 2,463 crore.
Other current and non-current financial assets  Ÿ Other current and non-current financial assets amounted to ` 2,241 crore as at March 31, 2017 (` 2,299 crore as at March 31, 2016).
Ÿ Interest receivable increased to ` 715 crore as at March 31, 2017 from ` 279 crore as at March 31, 2016.
Ÿ Long-term bank deposits have gone down from ` 415 crore as at March 31, 2016 to NIL as at March 31, 2017.
Ÿ Security deposits increased from ` 876 crore as at March 31, 2016 to ` 963 crore as at March 31, 2017.
Ÿ Others increased from ` 585 crore as at March 31, 2016 to ` 620 crore as at March 31, 2017.
‘Others’ primarily comprise of fair value of foreign exchange  forward and currency option contracts.
As at March 31,  2017 As at March 31,  2016 As at March  31, 2017 As at March  31, 2016 As at March  31, 2017 As at March  31, 2016  Current investments Non-current investments Total Investments Investments carried at fair value through OCI 21,999 20,254 141 169 22,140 20,423  Investments carried at fair value through P&L 19,637 1,709 55 58 19,692 1,767  Investment carried at amortized cost -   516 148 116 148 632  Total 41,636 22,479 344 343 41,980 22,822   As at March 31,  2017 As at March 31,  2016 As at March  31, 2017 As at March  31, 2016 As at March  31, 2017 As at March 31,  2016  Current Non-current Total funds invested Investments in mutual funds, government  securities and others 41,636 22,479 203 174 41,839 22,653  Deposits with banks 896 2,934 - 415 896 3,349  Inter-corporate deposits 2,565 1,721 3 2,465 2,568 4,186  Cash and bank balances 3,131 3,414 - - 3,131 3,414  Total 48,228 30,548 206 3,054 48,434 33,602  (` crore) 79Management Discussion and Analysis  As at March 31,  2017 As at March 31,  2016 As at March  31, 2017 As at March  31, 2016 As at March  31, 2017 As at March  31, 2016  Short-term loans Long-term loans Total loans Loans and advances to employees 344 1,021 6 7 350 1,028  Inter-corporate deposits 2,565 1,721 3 2,465 2,568 4,186  Others - 1 - - - 1 Total 2,909 2,743 9 2,472 2,918 5,215  (` crore) ` crores Other current and non-current assets      Other current and non-current assets amounted to ` 2,965 crore as at March  31, 2017 (` 3,100 crore as at March 31, 2016).
Ÿ Decrease in prepaid expenses from ` 1,824 crore in FY 2016 to ` 1,789  crore in FY 2017 pertains to long term prepaid assets converted into short  term over time, and amortization of prepaid assets in the normal course of  business.
Ÿ ‘Others’ which include advance to suppliers, advance to related parties,  indirect tax recoverable, other advances declined from ` 1,127 crore in FY  2016 to ` 1,033 crore in FY 2017.
Note 11 (A) & (B) to the Consolidated  Financial Statements gives the details of the same.
As at March 31,  2017 As at March 31,  2016 As at March 31,  2017 As at March 31,  2016 As at March 31,  2017 As at March 31,  2016  Other current financial assets Other non-current financial assets Total financial assets Interest receivable 715 206 -   73 715 279 Long - term bank deposits - - - 415 - 415 Security deposits 147 143  816 733 963 876  Earmarked balances with banks - - 1 86 1 86 Others 612 567 8 18 620 585 Total 1,474 916 825 1,325 2,299 2,241  (` crore) (` crore)   As at  March  31, 2017 As at  March  31, 2016 As at  March  31, 2017 As at  March  31, 2016 As at  March  31, 2017 As at  March  31, 2016  Other current  assets Other non-current  assets Total Prepaid  expenses 1,508 1,376 281                     448                   1,789             1,824  Capital  advances – – 143                     149                      143                149  Others 768 798 265 329 1,033 1,127  Total 2,276 2,174 689 926 2,965       3,100  CASH FLOW — CONSOLIDATED The Company’s cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities,  is summarised below.
Summary of cash flow statement: Cash flows from operating activities  Cash generated from operations (before payment of taxes) was ` 33,169  crore in FY 2017 (` 26,687 crore in FY 2016), registering an increase of 24.3%  over the previous FY .
The net cash provided by operating activities (after  payment of taxes) was ` 25,223 crore in FY 2017 (` 19,109 crore in FY 2016) Better working capital management has resulted in lower outflow of cash  thereby increasing the Operating Cash flow ratio.
Cash generated from  operations (post taxes) as a percentage of revenue has gone up from 17.6%  in FY 2016 to 21.4% in FY 2017.
FY 2017 FY 2016 Net cash provided by / (used in)    Operating activities 25,223 19,109  Investing activities (16,732) (5,150) Financing activities (11,026) (9,666) Exchange difference on translation of foreign currency                       (163)                 140  Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash  equivalents after translation                    (2,698)              4,433   FY 2017 FY 2016  Profit for the year 26,357 24,338  Adjustments: depreciation and amortization 1,987 1,888  Other non-cash adjustments 5,456 5,405  Effect of working capital changes (631) (4,944) Cash generated from operations 33,169 26,687  Taxes paid (7,946) (7,578) Net cash provided by operating activities 25,223 19,109  (` crore) (` crore) 80 Management Discussion and Analysis Annual Report 2016-17 Cash flows from investing activities  During FY 2017, cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable  to: Ÿ The net investment in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets  amounted to ` 1,953 crore in FY 2017 ( ` 1,968 crore in FY 2016).
The  same was in line with the Company's infrastructure policies.
Ÿ The net purchase of investments were ` 18,625 in FY 2017 ( ` 19,693  crore in FY 2016), which consists mainly of mutual funds and government  securities.
Ÿ The net proceeds from bank deposits were ` 438 crore in FY 2017  (` 16,144 crore in FY 2016).
Ÿ The net inflow on account of Inter-corporate Deposits was ` 1,619 crore  in FY 2017 (purchase of ` 1,460 crore in FY 2016).
Interest received in  FY 2017 amounted to ` 1,788 crore (` 1,816 crore in FY 2016) Cash flows from financing activities   Dividend paid to shareholders amounted to ` 10,973 crore for FY 2017  (` 9,515 crore in FY 2016) and it includes the final dividend payout and tax  thereon for FY 2016 approved by the shareholders at the last annual general  meeting held in June 2016 ( ` 27 per share).
In addition the dividend paid  includes the interim dividend of FY 2017 (` 19.5 per share) Other payments of ` 53 crore in FY 2017 (` 151 crore in FY 2016) include net  payments related to borrowings.
FY 2017 FY 2016 Property, plant and equipment &  intangible assets(net) (1,953) (1,968) Other investments (net) (18,625) (19,693) Deposits with banks (net)  438 16,144  Inter - corporate deposits (ICD) (net) 1,619 (1,460) Interest received 1,788 1,816  Other items (net) 1 11  Net cash used in investing activities (16,732)      (5,150)  FY 2017 FY 2016 Dividends paid including dividend tax (10,973) (9,515) Other payments (53) (151) Net cash used in financing activities            (11,026)       (9,666) (` crore) (` crore) 81Management Discussion and Analysis TCS’ PERFORMANCE TREND (CONSOLIDATED)  Note: The Company transitioned into Ind AS from April 1, 2015 * Excluding the impact of one-time employee reward Ind AS Indian Gaap Amounts in ` crore FY  2016-17 FY  2015-16 FY 2014-15* FY 2014- 15 FY 2013- 14 FY 2012- 13 FY 2011- 12 FY 2010- 11 FY 2009- 10 FY 2008- 09 FY 2007- 08 Revenues             Total revenue   117,966   108,646   94,648   94,648   81,809   62,989   48,894   37,325   30,029   27,813   22,620  Revenue By geographic segments             North America   63,646   57,892   49,086   49,086   43,386   33,854   26,064   20,107   15,855   14,291   11,388  UK   16,404   17,171   15,783   15,783   14,251   10,761   7,453   5,771   4,860   5,282   4,498  Europe   13,634   11,921   10,946   10,946   9,181   6,053   4,928   3,480   3,149   2,930   2,106  India   7,415   6,729   6,108   6,108   5,488   4,890   4,202   3,435   2,598   2,182   2,046  Rest of the world   16,867   14,933   12,725   12,725   9,503   7,431   6,246   4,531   3,566   3,128   2,582  Cost             Employee Cost   61,621   55,348   48,296   50,924   40,486   31,922   24,683   18,806   15,066   14,483   11,411  Other Operating Cost   24,034   22,621   19,242   19,242   16,170   13,028   9,775   7,340   6,269   6,160   5,497  Total Cost (excluding interest & depreciation)   85,655   77,969   67,539   70,167   56,657   44,950   34,459   26,146   21,334   20,643   16,908  Profitability             EBIDTA (before other income)   32,311   30,677   27,110   24,482   25,153   18,040   14,435   11,178   8,695   7,170   5,711  Profit before tax   34,513   31,840   28,437   25,809   25,402   18,090   13,923   11,021   8,290   6,150   5,846  Profit after tax attributable to  shareholders of the Company   26,289   24,270   21,912   19,852   19,164   13,917   10,413   9,068   7,001   5,256   5,026  Financial Position             Equity Share capital   197   197   196   196   196   196   196   196   196   98   98  Reserves and surplus   86,017   70,875   58,140   50,439   48,999   38,350   29,284   24,209   18,171   15,502   12,102  Gross block (property plant and equipment including  intangible assets)   21,391   19,917   17,316   17,316   13,897   11,623   9,448   7,792   6,420   5,844   4,292  Total investments   41,980   22,822   1,662   1,662   3,434   1,897   1,350   1,763   3,682   1,614   2,606  Net current assets   66,014   47,644   36,189   28,495   27,227   19,734   12,673   9,790   7,395   7,544   5,553  Earnings per share in `             EPS - as reported   133.41   123.18   111.87   101.35   97.67   70.99   53.07   46.27   35.67   53.63   51.36  EPS - adjusted for Bonus Issue   133.41   123.18   111.87   101.35   97.67   70.99   53.07   46.27   35.67   26.81   25.68  Headcount (number)             Headcount (including subsidiaries)  as on March 31st   387,223   353,843   319,656   319,656   300,464   276,196   238,583   198,614   160,429   143,761   111,407  82 Management Discussion and Analysis Annual Report 2016-17 RATIO ANALYSIS Ind AS Indian GAAP Ratio Analysis Units  FY  2016-17   FY  2015-16  FY  2014-15*   FY  2014-15   FY  2013-14   FY  2012-13   FY  2011-12   FY  2010-11   FY  2009-10   FY  2008-09  FY 2007-08  Ratios - Financial Performance   Employee Cost/Total Revenue % 52.2 50.9 51.0   53.8   49.5   50.7   50.5   50.4   50.2   52.1   50.4  Other Operating Cost/ Total Revenue %   20.4   20.8   20.3   20.3   19.8   20.7   20.0   19.7   20.9   22.1   24.3  Total Cost/Total Revenue %   72.6   71.8   71.4   74.1   69.3   71.4   70.5   70.1   71.0   74.2   74.8  EBIDTA (before other  Income)/Total Revenue %   27.4   28.2   28.6   25.9   30.7   28.6   29.5  30.0   29.0   25.8   25.3  Profit before tax/Total Revenue %   29.3   29.3   30.0   27.3   31.1   28.7   28.5   29.5   27.6   22.1   25.8  Tax/Total Revenue %   6.9   6.9   7.2   6.6   7.4   6.4   7.0   4.9   4.0   3.0   3.5  Effective Tax Rate - Tax/PBT %   23.6   23.6   23.5   23.7   23.9   22.2   24.4   16.6   14.4   13.6   13.5  Profit after tax/Total Revenue %   22.3   22.3   23.2   21.0   23.4   22.1   21.3   24.3   23.3   18.9   22.2  Ratios - growth   Total Revenue %   8.6   14.8   15.7   15.7   29.9   28.8   31.0   24.3   8.0   23.0   21.1  EBIDTA (before other Income) %   5.3   25.3   7.8  (2.7)   39.4   25.0   29.1   28.6   21.3   25.5   11.1  Profit after tax %   8.3   22.3   14.3   3.6   37.7   33.6   14.8   29.5   33.2   4.6   19.3  Ratios - Balance Sheet   Debt-Equity Ratio Times   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  Current Ratio Times   5.5   4.1   3.9 2.4   2.7   2.7   2.2   2.4   1.9   2.3   2.2  Days Sales Outstanding (DSO)  in ` terms Days   70   81   79   79   81   82   86   80   71   79   87  Days Sales Outstanding (DSO)  in $ termsDays   73   80   78   78   82   82   81   82   74   74   87  Invested Funds / total assets %   54.6   44.2   38.0 43.5   43.0   36.4   34.8   36.8   45.7   26.3   29.0  Capital expenditure /  total revenue %   1.7   1.8   3.1   3.1   3.8   4.2   4.1   4.9   3.4 4.0   5.6  Operating cash flows /  total revenue %   21.4   17.6   20.5   20.5   18.0   18.4   14.3   17.7   24.7 19.5   17.2  Free Cash Flow/Operating  Cash Flow Ratio  %   92.3   89.7   84.8   84.8   78.9   77.3   71.5   72.7   86.1   79.7   67.6  Depreciation / average  gross block %   9.6   10.1   11.5   11.5   10.6   10.3 10.7 10.4   10.8   11.1   15.1  Ratios - per share   EPS - adjusted for Bonus ` ` 133.41 123.18   111.87 101.35   97.67   70.99   53.07   46.27   35.67   26.81   25.68  Price Earning Ratio,end of year Times   18.2   20.4   22.8   25.1   21.8   22.1   22.0   25.6   21.9   10.1   15.8  Dividend Per Share `   47.00   43.50   79.00   79.00   32.00   22.00   25.00   14.00   20.00   14.00   14.00  Dividend Per Share -  adjusted for Bonus ` `   47.00   43.50   79.00   79.00   32.00   22.00   25.00   14.00   20.00   7.00   7.00  Market Capitalization/ total revenue Times   4.1   4.6   5.3   5.3   5.1   4.9   4.7   6.2   5.1   1.9   3.5  Note: The Company transitioned into Ind AS from April 1, 2015.
* Excluding the impact of one-time employee reward 83 Management Discussion and Analysis UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL RESULTS  The following table gives an overview of the financial results of the Company:  Discussion on the Financial Performance – Unconsolidated  Ÿ Revenue: Revenue from operations aggregated ` 92,693 crore in FY 2017 (`85,864 crore in FY 2016), registering a growth of 8.0%.
Ÿ Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA): The EBITDA  aggregated ` 27,089 crore in FY 2017 ( ` 27,054 crore in FY 2016) –  a growth of 0.1%.
Ÿ Profit before tax (PBT): PBT aggregated ` 30,066 crore in FY 2017 (` 29,339 crore in FY 2016) – a growth of 2.5%.
Ÿ Profit after tax (PAT): PAT aggregated ` 23,653 crore in FY 2017 (`  23,075 crore in FY 2016) – a growth of 2.5%.
Ÿ Earnings per share (EPS): EPS aggregated ` 120.04 in FY 2017 (` 117.11 in FY 2016) – a growth of 2.5%.
For schedules on the unconsolidated financial results, please refer detailed “Unconsolidated Financial Statements” which form part of this Annual Report.
FINANCIAL POSITION — UNCONSOLIDATED  For schedules on the unconsolidated financial position, please refer detailed “Unconsolidated Financial Statements” which form part of this Annual Report.
FY 2017 % of Revenue % Growth Compared to FY 2016 FY 2016 % of Revenue Revenue from operations 92,693 100.0 8.0 85,864 100.0 Expenses Employee benefit expense 48,116 51.9 13.4 42,420 49.4 Other Operating expenses 17,488 18.9 6.7 16,390 19.1 Total expenditure 65,604 70.8 11.6 58,810 68.5 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation  and amortisation (EBITDA) 27,089 29.2 0.1 27,054 31.5 Depreciation and amortisation expense 1,575 1.7 8.0 1,459 1.7 Finance costs 16 0.0 23.1 13 0.0 Other income (net) 4,568 4.9 21.6 3,757 4.4 Profit before taxes (PBT) 30,066 32.4 2.5 29,339 34.2 Tax expense 6,413 6.9 2.4 6,264 7.3 Profit after taxes (PAT) 23,653 25.5 2.5 23,075 26.9 Earnings per share (in `) 120.04 2.5 117.11 As at March 31, 2017 As at March 31, 2016 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders' funds 78,022 65,013 Non-current liabilities 1,035 1,095 Current liabilities 10,701 11,309 TOTAL 89,758 77,417 ASSETS Non-current assets including property, plant and equipment 21,139 24,040 Current investments 40,729 21,930 Trade receivables 16,649 19,058 Unbilled revenue 4,235 2,712 Cash and bank balances 1,316 4,806 Short-term loans and advances 2,704 2,523 Other current assets 2,986 2,348 TOTAL 89,758 77,417 (` crore) (` crore) 84 Management Discussion and Analysis Annual Report 2016-17 CASH FLOW – UNCONSOLIDATED The Company’s cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, is summarised below.
Summary of cash flow statement:  FY 2017 FY 2016 Net cash provided by / (used in)   Operating activities 23,132 17,986 Investing activities (15,782) (4,518) Financing activities (10,891) (9,586) Exchange difference on translation of foreign currency (52) 40  Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents after translation (3,593) 3,922  Cash flows from operating activities  TCS generated net cash from operating activities of ` 23,132 crore in FY 2017 (` 17,986 crore in FY 2016)   Cash flows from investing activities  During FY 2017, cash used in investing activities was ` 15,782 crore in FY 2017 (` 4,518 crore in FY 2016).
FY 2017 FY 2016  Profit for the year 30,066  29,339  Adjustments: depreciation and amortization 1,575 1,459  Other non-cash adjustments (3,037) (2,773)  Effect of working capital changes 994 (3,575) Cash generated from operations 29,598 24,450  Taxes paid (6,466) (6,464) Net cash provided by operating activities 23,132 17,986   FY 2017 FY 2016 Property, plant and equipment (net) (1,636) (1,759) Other investments (net) (18,252) (19,558) Deposits with banks (net) 400 15,652  Inter - corporate deposits (ICD) (net) 1,572 (1,362) Interest received 1,740 1,798  Dividend received from subsidiaries  (including exchange gain) 394 705 Other items (net) – 6  Net cash used in investing activities (15,782)  (4,518) Cash flows from financing activities   During FY 2017, cash used in financing activities was ` 10,891 crore in  FY 2017 (` 9,586 crore in FY 2016).
For schedules on the unconsolidated statement of cash flows, please refer  detailed “Unconsolidated Financial Statements” which form part of this  Annual Report.
FY 2017 FY 2016 Dividends paid including dividend tax (10,947) (9,479) Other payments 56 (107) Net cash used in financing activities (10,891) (9,586) (` crore) (` crore) (` crore) (` crore) 85Management Discussion and Analysis 9.0 Internal Financial Control Systems and their Adequacy TCS has aligned its current systems of internal financial control with the  requirement of the Companies Act 2013, on lines of the globally accepted  risk based framework as issued by the Committee of Sponsoring  Organizations (COSO) of the Treadway Commission.
The Internal Control –  Integrated Framework (the 2013 framework) is intended to increase  transparency and accountability in an organization’s process of designing and  implementing a system of internal control.
The framework requires a  company to identify and analyze risks and manage appropriate responses.
The Company has successfully laid down the framework and ensured its  effectiveness.
TCS’ internal controls are commensurate with its size and the nature of its  operations.
These have been designed to provide reasonable assurance with  regard to recording and providing reliable financial and operational  information, complying with the applicable statutes, safeguarding assets  from unauthorized use, executing transactions with proper authorization, and  ensuring compliance with corporate policies.
TCS has a well-defined  delegation of power with authority limits for approving revenue as well as  expenditure.
Processes for formulating and reviewing annual and long-term  business plans have been laid down.
TCS uses a state-of-the-art enterprise  resource planning (ERP) system to record data for accounting, consolidation,  and management information purposes and connects to different locations  for efficient exchange of information.
It has continued its efforts to align all its  processes and controls with global best practices.
Our management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal  control over financial reporting (as defined in Clause 17 of SEBI Regulations  2015) as of March 31, 2017.
Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP , the statutory auditors of TCS, has audited the  financial statements included in this annual report and has issued an  attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting (as defined  in section 143 of the Companies Act 2013).
TCS has appointed Ernst & Young LLP to oversee and carry out internal audit of  its activities.
The audit is based on an internal audit plan, which is reviewed  each year in consultation with the statutory auditors (Deloitte Haskins & Sells  LLP) and the audit committee.
In line with international practice, the conduct  of internal audit is oriented toward the review of internal controls and risks in  its operations such as software delivery, accounting and finance,  procurement, employee engagement, travel, insurance, IT processes,  including most of the subsidiaries and foreign branches.
TCS also undergoes periodic audit by specialized third-party consultants and  professionals for business specific compliances such as qualit y  management, service management, information security, and so on.
The  audit committee reviews the reports submitted by the management and  audit reports submitted by internal auditors and statutory auditors.
Suggestions for improvement are considered and the audit committee  follows up on corrective action.
The audit committee also meets TCS’  statutory auditors to ascertain, inter alia, their views on the adequacy of  internal control systems and keeps the board of directors informed of its  major observations periodically.
Based on its evaluation (as defined in section 177 of the Companies Act 2013  and Clause 18 of SEBI Regulations 2015), our audit committee has concluded  that, as of March 31, 2017, our internal financial controls were adequate and  operating effectively.
86 Management Discussion and Analysis Annual Report 2016-17 Note: ŸPercentages reported are calculated from the underlying whole rupee numbers.
Ÿ Within the tables, certain rows and columns may not add due to the use of rounded numbers.
Ÿ Figures have been rounded off to  ` crore Corporate Governance  Report TCS Gitanjali Park, Kolkata Corporate Governance Report for the year 2016-17 I.
Company's Philosophy on Corporate Governance Effective corporate governance practices constitute the strong foundation on which successful commercial enterprises are built to last.
The Company's  philosophy on corporate governance oversees business strategies and ensures fiscal accountability, ethical corporate behaviour and fairness to all  stakeholders comprising regulators, employees, customers, vendors, investors and the society at large.
Strong leadership and effective corporate governance practices have been the Company's hallmark inherited from the Tata culture and ethos.
The Company has a strong legacy of fair, transparent and ethical governance practices.
The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for its employees  including the Managing Director and the Executive Directors.
In addition, the Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for its non-executive directors  which includes Code of Conduct for Independent Directors which suitably incorporates the duties of independent directors as laid down in the Companies  Act, 2013 (“the Act”).
These codes are available on the Company's website.
The Company's corporate governance philosophy has been further  strengthened through the Tata Business Excellence Model, the TCS Cod e of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading and the Code of Corp orate  Disclosure Practices (“Insider Trading Code”).
The Company has in place an Information Security Policy that ensures proper utilisation of IT resources.
The Company is in compliance with the requirements stipulated under  Regulation 17 to 27 read with Schedule V and clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation  (2) of Regulation 46 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Oblig ations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing  Regulations”), as applicable, with regard to corporate governance.
II.
Board of Directors i.
As on March 31, 2017, the Company has eleven Directors.
Of the eleven Directors, eigh t (i.e.
72.73%) are Non-Executive Directors out of which  six (i.e.
54.55%) are Independent Directors.
The profiles of Directors can be found on (https://www.tcs.com/ir-corporate-governance).
The  composition of the Board is in conformity with Regulation 17 of the SEBI Listing Regulations read with Section 149 of the Act.
ii.
None of the Directors on the Board hold directorships in more than ten  public companies.
Further none of them is a member of more than ten  committees or chairman of more than five committees across all the public companies in which he is a Director.
Necessary disclosures regarding  Committee positions in other public companies as on March 31, 2017 have been made by the Directors.
None of the Directors are related to each  other except Mr. N. Ganapathy Subramaniam and  Mr. N. Chandrasekaran.
iii.
Independent Directors are non-executive directors as defined under Regula tion 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations read with Section 149(6)  of the Act.
The maximum tenure of independent directors is in compliance with the Act.
All the Independent Directors have confirmed that they  meet the criteria of independence as mentioned under Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations read with Section 149(6) of the Act.
iv.
Nine Board Meetings were held during the year and the gap betwe en two meetings did not exceed one hundred and twenty days.
The dates on  which the said meetings were held:   April 18, 2016; June 16 & 17, 2016; July 14, 2016; October 13, 2016; November 17, 2016; January 12, 2017; January 12, 2017;  February 20, 2017 and March 9 & 10, 2017.
The necessary quorum was present for all the meetings.
v. The names and categories of the Directors on the Board, their attendance at Board Meetings held during the year and at the last Annual General  Meeting (AGM) and the number of Directorships and Committee Chairmanships / Memberships held by them in other public limited companies  as on March 31, 2017 are given herein below.
Other directorships do not include directorships of private limited companies, foreign companies  and companies under Section 8 of the Act.
For the purpose of determination of limit of the Board Committees, chairpersonship and membership  of the Audit Committee and Stakeholders' Relationship Committee has  been considered as per Regulation 26(1)(b) of SEBI Listing Regulations.
88 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2016-17 Name of the Director Category Number of board  meetings attended  during the year  2016-17 Whether  attended last  AGM held on  June 17,  2016 Number of  Directorships in  other Public  Companies Number of  Committee positions  held in other Public  Companies Chairman Member Chairman Member Mr. N. Chandrasekaran  (Chairman)* DIN 00121863 Non-Independent,  Non-Executive 9 Yes 5 - - - Mr. Cyrus Mistry ** DIN 00010178 Non-Independent,  Non-Executive 4 Yes N.A.
N.A.
N.A N.A.
Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan (Chief Executive Officer and  Managing Director) *** DIN 06365813 Non-Independent,  Executive 1 N.A.
- - - - Mr. Aman Mehta DIN 00009364 Independent,  Non-Executive 9 Yes - 5 1 4 Mr. V. Thyagarajan DIN 00017541 Independent,  Non-Executive 9 Yes - - - - Prof. Clayton M. Christensen DIN 00020111 Independent,  Non-Executive 5 No - - - - Dr. Ron Sommer DIN 00621387 Independent,  Non-Executive 9 Yes - - - - Dr. Vijay Kelkar DIN 00011991 Independent, Non-Executive 8 Yes - 5 2 3 Mr. Ishaat Hussain^ DIN 00027891 Non-Independent,  Non-Executive 9 Yes 4 5 2 4 Mr. O. P .
Bhatt DIN 00548091 Independent, Non-Executive 9 Yes - 2 2 1 Mr. Phiroz Vandrevala # DIN 01778976 Non-Independent,  Non-Executive 2 Yes N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Mr. N Ganapathy  Subramaniam (Chief Operating Officer and  Executive Director) ^^ DIN 07006215 Non-Independent,  Executive 1 N.A.
1 - - - Ms. Aarthi Subramanian (Executive Director) DIN 07121802 Non-Independent,  Executive 9 Yes - - - - *  Relinquished the office of Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director and  appoint ed as the  Chairman of the Company w.e.f.
February 21,  2017 **      Ceased to be Chairman of the Company w.e.f.
November 9, 2016 and Director of the Company w.e.f December 13, 2016 ***  Appointed as  Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of the Company w.e.f.
Febr uary 21, 2017 ^   Nominated  as the Chairman of the Company w.e.f.
November 9, 2016 upto February 21, 2017 #     Relinquished the office of Non-Executive Director w.e.f.
July 8, 2016 ^ ^  Appointed as  Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director w.e.f.
February 21, 2017  Video/tele-conferencing facilities are also used to facilitate Directors travelling/residing abroad or at other locations to participate in the meetings.
89Corporate Governance Report 90 Corporate Governance Report vi.
During the year 2016-17, information as mentioned in Part A of  Schedule II o f the SEBI Listing Regulations, has been placed before the Board for  its consideration.
vii.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Independent Directors are disclosed on the website of the Company  (https://www.tcs.com/investor-relations) viii.
During the year 2016-17, two meetings of the Independent Directors were held on October 13, 2016 and March 10, 2017.
The Independent  Directors, inter-alia, reviewed the performance of non-independent directors, and the Board as a whole.
ix.
The Board periodically reviews the compliance reports of all laws applicable to the  Company, prepared by the Company.
x.
The details of the familiarization programme of the Independ ent Directors are available on the website of the Company  (https://www.tcs.com/investor-relations).
xi Details of equity shares of the Company held by the Directors as on March 31, 2017 are given below:    The Company has not issued any convertible instruments.
Ill.
Committees of the Board   i.
There are ten Board Committees which comprise of five statutory committees and  five other committees that have been formed considering the  needs of the Company and best practices in Corporate Governance as on March 31, 2017, which are as follows:  Name Category Number of equity shares Mr. N. Chandrasekaran Non-Independent, Non-Executive 88,528 Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan Non-Independent, Executive 1,130 Mr. Ishaat Hussain Non-Independent, Non-Executive 1,740 Mr. N Ganapathy Subramaniam Non-Independent, Executive 98,880 Ms. Aarthi Subramanian Non-Independent, Executive 2,800 Name of the  Committee Extract of Terms of Reference Category and Composition Other details Statutory Committees Audit  Committee Committee is constituted in line with  the provisions of Regulation 18 of SEBI  Listing Regulations, read with Section  177 of the Act.
ŸOversight of financial reporting  process.
Ÿ Reviewing with the management,  the annual financial statements and  auditors' report thereon before  submission to the board for  approval.
Ÿ Evaluation of internal financial  controls and risk management  systems.
Ÿ Recommendation for appointment,  remuneration and terms of  appointment of auditors of the  Company.
Ÿ Approve policies in relation to the  implementation of the Insider  Trading Code and to supervise  implementation of the same.
Name Category Ÿ Six audit committee meetings were held during  the year and the gap between two meetings did  not exceed one hundred and twenty days.
Ÿ Committee invites such of the executives, as it  considers appropriate (particularly the head of  the finance function), representatives of the  statutory auditors and internal auditors to be  present at its meetings.
Ÿ The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to  the audit committee.
Ÿ Mr. Suprakash Mukhopadhyay, Global Treasury  Head and Company Secretary was appointed as  the Compliance Officer by the Board to ensure  compliance and effective implementation of the  Insider Trading Code.
Ÿ Quarterly Reports are sent to the members of  the Committee on matters relating to the Insider  Trading Code.
Ÿ The previous AGM of the Company was held on  June 17, 2016 and was attended by Mr. Aman  Mehta, Chairman of the audit committee.
Mr.  Aman Mehta  (Chairman) Independent,   Non-Executive Mr. V. Thyagarajan Independent, Non-Executive Dr. Ron Sommer Independent,   Non-Executive Dr. Vijay Kelkar Independent,   Non-Executive Mr. Ishaat Hussain Non - Independent,   Non-Executive Mr. O. P Bhatt Independent,   Non-Executive Annual Report 2016-17 91Corporate Governance Report Name of the  Committee Extract of Terms of Reference Category and Composition Other details Nomination  and  Remuneration  Committee Committee is constituted in  line with the provisions of  Regulation 19 of SEBI Listing  Regulations, read with Section 178  of the Act.
Ÿ Recommend to the Board the  setup and composition of the  Board and its committees.
Ÿ Recommend to the Board the   Appointment/Re-appointment  of Directors and Key Managerial  Personnel.
Ÿ Carry out evaluation of every  director's performance and  support the Board and  Independent Directors in  evaluation of the performance  of the Board, its committees  and individual directors.
Ÿ Recommend to the Board the  Remuneration Policy for  directors, executive team or  Key Managerial Personnel as  well as the rest of employees Ÿ Oversee the Human Resource  philosophy, Human Resource  and People strategy and Human  Resource practices including  those for leadership  development, rewards and  recognition, talent management  and succession planning.
Ÿ Oversee familiarisation  programmes for directors.
Ÿ Recommend to the Board on  voting pattern for appointment  and remuneration of directors  on the Boards of its material  subsidiary companies.
Name Category Ÿ Four nomination and remuneration committee  meetings were held during the year.
Ÿ The Company does not have any Employee  Stock Option Scheme.
Ÿ Details of Performance Evaluation Criteria  and Remuneration Policy are detailed below  this table.
Mr.  Aman Mehta  (Chairman) Independent,   Non-Executive Mr. N.  Chandrasekaran* Non-Independent,   Non-Executive Mr. V. Thyagarajan Independent,  Non-Executive Mr. Cyrus Mistry  ** Non-Independent,   Non-Executive Mr. Ishaat Hussain Non-Independent,   Non-Executive *    Appointed as member of the Committee  w.e.f.
February 20, 2017 ** Ceased to be Director of the Company  and consequently a member of this  Committee w.e.f.
December 13, 2016 Stakeholders'  Relationship  Committee Committee is constituted in line  with the provisions of Regulation  20 of SEBI Listing Regulations read  with section 178 of the Act.
Ÿ Consider and resolve the   grievances of  security holders Ÿ Consider and approve issue of  share certificates, transfer and  transmission of securities, etc.
Name Category Ÿ One meeting of the stakeholders' relationship  committee was held during the year.
Ÿ The Company has always valued its customer  relationships.
This philosophy has been extended  to investor relationship and an Investor Relations  Department (IRD) was set up in June 2004, prior  to the Company's Initial Public Offer of shares.
The IRD focuses on servicing the needs of  various stakeholders viz.
investors, analysts,  brokers and the general public.
Ÿ Details of Investor complaints and Compliance  Officer are given below this table.
Mr. V. Thyagarajan  (Chairman) Independent,   Non-Executive Mr. O. P Bhatt Independent,   Non-Executive Mr. N.  Chandrasekaran* Non-Independent,   Non-Executive Mr. Rajesh  Gopinathan** Non-Independent,   Executive Mr. N. Ganapathy  Subramaniam** Non-Independent,   Executive *    Ceased to be member of the Committee  w.e.f.
March 10, 2017.
**  Appointed as a member of the  Committee w.e.f.
March 10, 2017.
92 Corporate Governance Report Name of the  Committee Extract of Terms of Reference Category and Composition Other details Corporate  Social  Responsibility  Committee (“CSR”) Committee is constituted in  line with the provisions of  Section 135 of the Act.
Ÿ Formulate and recommend  to the board, a CSR Policy   indicating the activities to be  undertaken by the Company  as specified in Schedule VII  of the Act.
Ÿ Recommend the amount of  expenditure to be incurred on the activities mentioned in the CSR Policy.
Ÿ Monitor the CSR Policy.
Name Category Ÿ Two meetings of the CSR committee were held  during the year.Mr.
N.  Chandrasekaran  (Chairman) * Non-Independent,   Non-Executive Mr. Cyrus Mistry  ** Non-Independent,   Non-Executive Mr. O. P .
Bhatt Independent,  Non-Executive Mr. Rajesh  Gopinathan# Non-Independent,   Executive Ms. Aarthi  Subramanian # Non-Independent,   Executive *   Appointed as Chairman of the Committee  w.e.f.
March 10, 2017 ** Ceased to be Director of the Company  and consequently a member of this  Committee w.e.f.
December 13, 2016 #  Appointed as a member of the  Committee w.e.f.
March 10, 2017 Risk  Management  Committee Committee is constituted in line  with the provisions of Regulation  21 of SEBI Listing Regulations.
Ÿ Frame, implement and monitor  the risk management plan  for the Company.
Name Category Ÿ Four meetings of the risk management  committee were held during the year.
Mr. Ishaat Hussain Non-Independent,   Non-Executive Mr. N.  Chandrasekaran Non-Independent,   Non-Executive Mr. O. P .
Bhatt Independent,  Non-Executive Mr. Rajesh  Gopinathan* Non-Independent,   Executive Ms. Aarthi  Subramanian Non-Independent,   Executive *   Relinquished the office of Chief  Financial Officer and appointed as the   Chief Executive Officer and Managing  Director of the Company w.e.f.
February 21, 2017 Annual Report 2016-17 Name of the  Committee Extract of Terms of Reference Category and Composition Other details Other Committees Ethics and  Compliance  Committee Ÿ Consider matters relating  to  the Company's  Code of  Conduct (CoC).
Ÿ Monitoring of Anti Bribery and   Anti Corruption Policy and   Gifts Policy.
Name Category Ÿ One meeting of the ethics and compliance  committee was held during the year.
Ÿ Monthly reports are sent to the members of  the ethics and compliance committee on  matters relating to the CoC.
Mr. V. Thyagarajan,  (Chairman) Independent, Non-Executive Mr. N.  Chandrasekaran* Non-Independent,   Non-Executive Mr. O. P .
Bhatt Independent,   Non-Executive Mr. Rajesh  Gopinathan** Non-Independent,   Executive Ms. Aarthi  Subramanian** Non-Independent,   Executive *     Ceased to be member of the Committee  w.e.f.
March 10, 2017 **   Appointed as a member of the  Committee w.e.f.
March 10, 2017 Bank Account  Committee Ÿ Responsible for approval of  the opening and closing of  bank accounts of the Company.
Ÿ Authorise persons to operate  the bank accounts of the  Company.
Name Category Mr. Aman Mehta Independent, Non-Executive Mr. N.  Chandrasekaran* Non-Independent,   Non-Executive Mr. Rajesh  Gopinathan** Non-Independent,   Executive *    Ceased to be a member of the  Committee w.e.f.
March 10, 2017 **  Appointed as a member of the  Committee w.e.f.
March 10, 2017 Executive  Committee Detailed review of the following  matters before these are  presented to the Board: Ÿ Business and strategy review; Ÿ Long-term financial projections  and cash flows; Ÿ Capital and revenue budgets  and capital expenditure  programmes; Ÿ Acquisitions,  divestments and  business restructuring  proposals; Ÿ Senior management succession  planning; Ÿ Any other item as may be  decided by the board.
Name Category Mr. N.  Chandrasekaran (Chairman)* Non-Independent,   Non-Executive Mr. Cyrus Mistry  ** Non-Independent,   Non-Executive Mr. Rajesh  Gopinathan*** Non-Independent,   Executive Prof. Clayton M.  Christensen Independent, Non-Executive Dr. Ron Sommer Independent, Non- Executive *     Appointed as Chairman of the  Committee w.e.f.
March 10, 2017 **  Ceased to be Director of the Company  and consequently a member of this  Committee w.e.f.
December 13, 2016 *** Appointed as a member of the  Committee w.e.f.
March 10, 2017 93Corporate Governance Report 94 Corporate Governance Report Name of the  Committee Extract of Terms of Reference Category and Composition Other details Other Committees Software  Technology  Parks of India  (STPI) / Special  Economic Zone  (SEZ)  committee Ÿ Registration / renewal of  registration / de-registration  of various offices of the  Company under the STPI / SEZ  schemes and such other  schemes as may be deemed  fit and to also approve of other  STPI/ SEZ/ other scheme(s)  related matters.
Name Category Mr. V. Thyagarajan Independent,  Non- Executive Mr. N.  Chandrasekaran* Non Independent,   Non-Executive Mr. N. Ganapathy.
Subramaniam** Non-Independent,   Executive * Ceased to be a member of the Committee  w.e.f.
March 10, 2017 ** Appointed as a member of the  Committee w.e.f.
March 10, 2017 Health, Safety  and  Sustainability  Committee Ÿ Framing and implementation  of broad guidelines / policies  with regard to the health, safety and sustainability  activities Name Category Ÿ One meeting of the health, safety and  sustainability committee was held during the  year.Dr.
Vijay Kelkar (Chairman) Independent,  Non-Executive Dr. Ron Sommer Independent,  Non-Executive Mr. N.  Chandrasekaran * Non-Independent,   Non-Executive Mr. N. Ganapathy  Subramaniam** Non-Independent,  Executive *   Ceased to be member of the Committee  w.e.f.
March 10, 2017 ** Appointed as a member of the  Committee w.e.f.
March 10, 2017 The terms of reference of committee’s are available on the website (https://www.tcs.com/ir-corporate-governance) ii.
Stakeholders Relationship Committee Details   a.
Name, designation and address of Compliance Officer:    Mr. Suprakash Mukhopadhyay  Global Treasury Head and Company Secretary  Tata Consultancy Services Limited  11th Floor, Maker Towers “E” Block  Cuffe Parade, Colaba  Mumbai 400 005  Telephone: 91 22 6778 9191  Fax: 91 22 6778 9660   b.
Details of investor complaints received and redressed during the year 2016-17 are as follows:    *  SEBI had requested the complainant to upload the scanned copy of the Arbitration Tribunal Order in SCORES by April 20,   2017.
Opening Balance Received during the year Resolved during the year Closing Balance 1 95 95 1* Annual Report 2016-17 95Corporate Governance Report iii.
Nomination and Remuneration Committee Details  Performance Evaluation Criteria for Independent Directors: The performance evaluation criteria for independent directors is determined by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
An indicative list of factors  that were evaluated include participation and contribution by a directo r, commitment, effective deployment of knowledge and expertise, effective  management of relationship with stakeholders, integrity and maintenance of confidentiality and independence of behaviour and judgement.
Remuneration Policy: Remuneration policy in the Company is designed to create a high performance culture.
It enables the Company to attract, retain and motivate employees  to achieve results.
Our Business Model promotes customer centricity and requires employee mobility to address project needs.
The remuneration policy  supports such mobility through pay models that are compliant to local regula tions.
In each country where the Company operates, the remuneration  structure is tailored to the regulations, practices and benchmarks prevalent in the IT industry.
The Company pays remuneration by way of salary, benefits, perquisites and allowances (fixed component) and commission (variable component) to its  Managing Director and the Executive Directors.
Annual increments are decided by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee within the salary scale  approved by the members and are effective April 1, each year.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee decides on the commission payable to the  Managing Director and the Executive Directors out of the profits for the finan cial year and within the ceilings prescribed under the Act based on the  performance of the Company as well as that of the Managing Director and each Executive Director.
During the year 2016-17 the Company paid sitting fees of  ` 30,000 per meeting to its Non-Executive Directors for attending meetings of the Board and  meetings of committees of the Board.
The Members have at the AGM of the Company held on June 27, 2014 approved a payment of commission to the  Non-Executive Directors within the ceiling of 1% of the net profits of the Comp any as computed under the applicable provisions of the Act.
The said  commission is decided each year by the Board of Directors and distributed amongst  the Non-Executive Directors based on their attendance and  contribution at the Board and certain Committee meetings, as well as the time spent on operational matters other than at meetings.
The Company also  reimburses the out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Directors for attending the meetings.
iv.
Details of the Remuneration for the year ended March 31, 2017:    a.   Non-Executive Directors: Name Commission Sitting Fees Mr. N. Chandrasekaran, Chairman ( w.e.f.
February 21, 2017) - 0.90 Mr. Cyrus Mistry - 1.80 Mr. Aman Mehta 265.00 6.30 Mr. V. Thyagarajan 180.00 6.90 Prof. Clayton M. Christensen 135.00 1.80 Dr. Ron Sommer 190.00 5.40 Dr. Vijay Kelkar 170.00 4.80 Mr. Ishaat Hussain 210.00 6.90 Mr. O. P .
Bhatt 170.00 7.50 Mr. Phiroz Vandrevala 15.00 0.60 (` lakh) 96 Corporate Governance Report   b.
Managing Director and Executive Director      *  The remuneration includes compensation for the full year, i.e.
as Chief Financial Officer f rom April 1, 2016 to Februarry 21, 2017 and as Chief  Executive Officer and Managing Director from February 21, 2017 to March 31, 2017.
**  The remuneration includes compensation for the full year, i.e.
as President, Financial Ser vices for April 1, 2016 to February 21, 2017 and as Chief  Operating Officer and Executive Director from February 21, 2017 to March 31, 2017.
# Does not include performance bonus for FY 2016 paid in FY 2017.
The above figures do not include provisions for encashable leave, gratuity and premium paid for group health insurance, as separate  actuarial valuation / premium paid are not available.
Services of the Managing Director and Executive Director may be terminated by either party, giving the other party six months' notice or the  Company paying six months' salary in lieu thereof.
There is no separate provision for payment of severance fees.
Annual Report 2016-17 Name of Director Salary Benefits, Perquisites  and Allowances Commission ESPS Mr. N. Chandrasekaran  Chief Executive Officer  and Managing  Director  (upto February 21, 2017) 244.93 270.35 2500.00 nil Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan Chief Executive Officer  and Managing  Director (w.e.f.
February 21, 2017 for a   period of 5 years)* 66.68 155.95# 400.00 nil Mr. N Ganapathy Subramanian Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director (w.e.f.
February 21, 2017 for  a period of  5 years)** 76.06 189.30# 350.00 nil Ms. Aarthi Subramanian Executive Director 81.69 90.20 200.00 nil (` lakhs) Name of Committee Audit  Committee Nomination  and  Remuneration  Committee Stakeholders'  Relationship  Committee CSR  Committee Ethics and  Compliance  Committee Risk  Management  Committee Health  Safety and  Sustain  ability  Committee Date on which meetings  were held 6 meetings held  on April 18,  2016; July 14,  2016; October  13, 2016;  December 13,  2016;  January 12,  2017  and  February 20,  2017 4 meetings held  on April 18,  2016;  January 11,  2017;  February 20,  2017  and  March 10, 2017 1 meeting held  on March 10,  2017 2 meetings  held on  October 12,  2016  and  March 10,  2017 1 meeting  held on  March 10,  2017 4 meetings  held on April 4,  2016; July 11,  2016; October  12, 2016 and  March 10,  2017 1 meeting  held on  March 10,  2017 Attended Name of Director  Mr. N. Chandrasekaran * - 1  - 2 - 3 - Mr. Cyrus Mistry ** - 1 - 1 - - - Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan # - - 1 1 1 4 - Mr. Aman Mehta 6 4 - - - - - Mr. V. Thyagarajan 6 4 1 - 1 - - Prof. Clayton M. Christensen - - - - - - - Dr. Ron Sommer 6 - - - - - 1 Dr. Vijay Kelkar 5 - - - - - 1 Mr. Ishaat Hussain 6 4 - - - 4 - Mr. O. P .
Bhatt 6 - 1 2 1 4 - Mr. Phiroz Vandrevala @ - - - - - - Mr. N Ganapathy Subramaniam  ##- - 1 - - - 1 Ms. Aarthi Subramanian ### - - - 1 1 4 - Whether quorum was  present for all the meetingsThe necessary quorum was present for all the above committee meetings    v.   Number of Meetings Held and Attendance Records 97Corporate Governance Report *     Mr. N. Chandrasekaran was appointed as a Chairman of Corporate Social and Responsibility Committee  w.e.f.
March 10, 2017, as a member of Nomination and  Remuneration Committee  w.e.f February 20, 2017 and ceased to member of Stakeholders' Relationship Committee, Ethics and Compliance Committee and  Health  Safety and Sustainability Committee w.e.f.
March 10, 2017 **   Mr. Cyrus Mistry ceased to be a Director of the Company and consequently a  member of  Nomination and Remuneration Committee, and as a Chairman of   Corporate Social and Responsibility Committee and Executive Committee w.e.f.
December 13, 2016.
#   Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan was appointed as a member of Ethics and Compliance Committee, Stakeholders' Relationship Committee and Corporate Social and  Responsibility Committee w.e.f.
March 10, 2017  @  Mr. Phiroz Vandrevala relinquished the office of Non-Executive Director w.e.f.
July 8, 2016 ##  Mr. N Ganapathy Subramaniam was appointed as a member of Health Safety and Sustainability Committee and  Stakeholders' Relationship Committee, w.e.f.
March 10,  2017 ###  Ms. Aarthi Subramanian was appointed as a member of Ethics and Compliance Committee and Corporate Social and Responsibility Committee w.e.f.
March 10, 2017  IV.
General Body Meetings  i.
General Meeting a.
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”): b.
An extra ordinary general meeting of the Company was held on December 13, 2016 at 3:30 p.m. at Yashwantrao Chavan Pratishthan  Auditorium, Y .B.
Chavan Centre, General Jangannath Bhosle Marg, next to Sachivalaya Gymkhana, Mumbai – 400021 for obtaining  requisite  approval of the shareholders of the Company for removal of Mr. Cyrus Mistry as a Director under Section 169 and other applicable provisions of  the Companies Act, 2013 c.  Special Resolution (s)        No special resolution was passed by the Company in any of its pre vious three AGMs.
ii   Details of special resolution passed through postal ballot, the persons who conducted  the postal ballot exercise and details of the  voting pattern During the year, the Company sought the approval of the shareholders by way of a Special Resolution through notice of postal ballot dated  March 3,  2017 for Buyback of Equity Shares of the Company, the results of which were announced on April 17, 2017.
Mr. P .
N. Parikh (Membership No.
FCS  327) of M/s Parikh and Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries was appointed as the Scrutinizer to scrutinize the postal ballot and  remote e- voting process in a fair and transparent manner.
Details of Voting Pattern were as under:   * Two shareholders have partially voted for assent and partially for dissent.
Wh ile their votes are counted, as cast, for the sake of number of  shareholders they are counted only once in assent.
Procedure for postal ballot: The Company conducted the postal ballot in accordance with the provisions of Section 110 of the Act read with Rule 22 of the Companies  (Management & Administration) Rules, 2014 (“Rules”).
The Company had completed the dispatch of the Postal Ballot Notice dated March 3, 2017  along with the Explanatory Statement, postal ballot form and self-addressed business reply envelopes on March 16, 2017 to the shareholders who  had not registered their e-mail IDs with the Company/Depositories and also sent by e-mail the said documents to shareholders whose e-mail IDs  were registered with the Company/Depositories.
The Company also published a notice in the newspaper declaring the details of completion of  dispatch and other requirements as mandated under the provisions of the Act and Rules framed thereunder.
In compliance with the provisions of  Sections 108 and 110 of the Act and rule 20 and 22 of the Rules read with Regulation 44 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company had offered the  Financial Year Date Time Venue 2013-14 June 27, 2014 3.30 p.m. Birla Matushri Sabhagar 19, Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Marg, New Marine Lines, Mumbai – 400 020 2014-15 June 30 , 2015 2015-16 June 17, 2016 98 Corporate Governance Report Description  of the  Resolution Votes in favour of the resolution Votes against the resolution Invalid Votes Number of members  voted through  electronic voting   system and through  Physical ballot form  Number  of  valid Votes  cast (Shares)  % of  total  number  of valid  votes  cast Number of  members voted  through electronic  voting  system  and through  Physical ballot form  Number   of valid  Votes  cast  (Shares) % of  total  number  of valid  votes  cast Total  number of  members  whose votes  were declared  invalid  Total  number of  invalid  votes cast  (Shares) Approval for  Buyback of  Equity  Shares 7,341* 1,79,68,85,635 99.81 577 34,85,059 0.19 341 38,788 Annual Report 2016-17  V. Other Disclosure 99Corporate Governance Report Particulars Regulations Details Website link for details/policy Related party  transactions Regulation 23 of SEBI  Listing Regulations and as  defined under the Act All material transactions entered into with related parties  during the financial year were in the ordinary course of  business and approved by the Audit Committee.
The board  approved  policy for related party transactions is uploaded  on the  website of the Company.
https://www.tcs.com/content/da m/tcs/pdf/discover-tcs/investor- relations/faq/TCS_Related_Party_ Transactions_Policy.pdf Details of Non- compliance  by the  Company, penalty,  strictures imposed on  the Company by the  stock exchange, or  Securities and   Exchange Board of  India ('SEBI') or any  statutory authority on  any matter related to  capital markets Schedule V (c) 10(b) to the  SEBI Listing Regulations There were no cases of non-compliance during the last three  years 2014-15, 2015-16 and 2016-17 Whistle Blower Policy  and Vigil Mechanism Regulation 22 of SEBI  Listing Regulations The Company has adopted a Whistle Blower Policy and has  established the necessary vigil mechanism for directors and  employees to report concerns about unethical behavior.
No  person has been denied access to the Chairman of the Audit  Committee.
The said policy has been uploaded on the   website of the Company.
https://www.tcs.com/content/da m/tcs/pdf/discover-tcs/investor- relations/faq/TCS-Global-Policy- Whistle-Blower-Ver-5.pdf Policy on  Determination of  Materiality for  Disclosures Regulation 23 of SEBI  Listing Regulations The Company has adopted a Policy on Determination of  Materiality for Disclosures https://www.tcs.com/content/da m/tcs/pdf/discover-tcs/investor- relations/faq/TCS-Policy- Determination-of-Materiality-for- Disclosure.pdf Policy on Archival and  Preservation of  Documents Regulation 9  of SEBI  Listing Regulations The Company has adopted a Policy on Archival and  Preservation of Documents https://www.tcs.com/content/da m/tcs/pdf/discover-tcs/investor- relations/faq/TCS-Policy-Archival- of-Documents.pdf facility of e-voting to its members to enable them to cast their vote electronically.
The voting under the postal ballot was kept open from March  17, 2017 (9.00 a.m. IST) to April 15, 2017 (5.00 p.m. IST).
Upon completion of scrutiny of the postal ballot forms and votes cast through e- voting in  a fair and transparent manner, the scrutinizer i.e.
Mr. Parikh submitted his report to the Company and the results of the postal ballot  were announced by the Company on April 17, 2017.
The voting results were sent to the Stock Exchanges and also displayed on the Company's  website www.tcs.com and on the website of National Securities Depository Limited www.evoting.nsdl.com  iii.
Details of special resolution proposed to be conducted through postal ballot:       No special resolution is proposed to be conducted through postal ballot at the AGM to be held on June 16, 2017.
100 Corporate Governance Report Reconciliation of share  capital audit  A qualified practicing Company Secretary carried out a  share capital audit to reconcile the total admitted equity  share capital with the National Securities Depository  Limited (“NSDL”) and the Central Depository Services  (India) Limited (“CDSL”) and the total issued and listed  equity share capital.
The audit report confirms that the  total issued / paid-up capital is in agreement with the total  number of shares in physical form and the total number of  dematerialised shares held with NSDL and CDSL.
https://www.tcs.com/ir- corporate-governance Code of Conduct Regulation 17 of SEBI  Listing Regulations The members of the board and senior management  personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code of  Conduct applicable to them during the year ended March  31, 2017.
The annual report of the Company contains a  certificate by the Chief Executive Officer and Managing  Director, on the compliance declarations received from  Independent Directors, Non-executive Directors and  Senior Management.
https://www.tcs.com/tata-code- of-conduct Subsidiary Companies Regulation 24 of SEBI  Listing Regulations The audit committee reviews the consolidated financial  statements of the Company and the investments made  by its unlisted subsidiary companies.
The minutes of the  Board meetings along with a report on significant  developments of the unlisted subsidiary companies are  periodically placed before the Board of Directors of the  Company.
The Company does not have any material non-listed  Indian subsidiary company.
The Company has a policy for  determining 'material subsidiaries'  which is disclosed on its website at  the following link-  https://www.tcs.com/content/da m/tcs/pdf/discover-tcs/investor- relations/faq/TCS_Material_Subsi diary_Policy.pdf Discretionary  requirements Schedule II Part E of the  SEBI Listing Regulations Ÿ A message from the Chief Executive Officer and  Managing Director on the half-yearly financial  performance of the Company including a summary of  the significant events in the six month period ended  September 30, 2016 was sent to every member in  October 2016.
Ÿ The auditors' report on statutory financial statements  of the Company are unqualified.
Ÿ The Company has complied with the requirement of  having separate persons to the post of Chairman and  Managing Director / Chief Executive Officer.
Ÿ Ernst & Young LLP , the internal auditors of the  Company, make presentations to the audit committee  on their reports.
Particulars Regulations Details Website link for details/policy Annual Report 2016-17 101Corporate Governance Report VII.
General shareholder information   i.
Annual General Meeting for FY 2016-2017 Date   :  June 16 , 2017  Time   :  3.30 p.m. Venue   :  Birla Matushri Sabhagar      19, Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Marg      New Marine Lines, Mumbai 400 020 As required under Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, particulars of Directors seeking appointment/re-appointment   at the ensuing AGM are given herein and in the Annexure to the Notice of the AGM to be held on June 16, 2017. ii.
Financial Calendar:  Year ending : March 31  AGM in  : June   Dividend Payment : The final dividend, if declared, shall be paid/credited on June 23, 2017  iii.
Date of Book Closure / Record Date  : As mentioned in the Notice of the AGM to be held on June16, 2017  iv.
Listing on Stock Exchanges :  National Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”)      Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G      Bandra Kurla Complex      Bandra (East), Mumbai 400 051      BSE Limited (“BSE”)      25th floor, P .
J.
Towers, Dalal Street      Mumbai 400 001 Particulars Regulations Details Website link for details/policy Dividend Distribution  Policy Regulation 43A of the SEBI  Listing Regulations A regular annual dividend consists of three interim  dividends after each of the first three quarters of the fiscal  year, topped up with a final dividend after the fourth  quarter.
In addition, every second or third year, the  accumulated surplus cash has been returned to  shareholders through a special dividend.
In distributing the profits of the Company among  shareholders, Board of Directors will seek to balance  members’ need for a reasonable and predictable return on  their investment with the Company’s funding  requirements for longer-term sustainable growth.
After meeting internal cash requirements and maintaining  a reasonable cash balance towards any strategic  investments, the Company will endeavor to return the  rest of the free cash generated to shareholders through  regular dividends.
https://www.tcs.com/content/da m/tcs/pdf/discover-tcs/investor- relations/faq/TCS-Dividend- Distribution-Policy.pdf VI.
Means of communication The quarterly, half-yearly and annual results of the Company are published in leading newspapers in India which include The Indian Express, Financial  Express, LokSatta, Business Standard, The Hindu Business Line, Hindustan Times, and  Sandesh.
The results are also displayed on the Company's  website “www.tcs.com”.
Press Releases made by the Company from time to time are also displayed on the Company's website.
Presentations made to  the institutional investors and analysts after the declaration of the quarterly, half-yearly and annual results are also displayed on the Company's website.
A list of Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) giving details about the Company and its shares is uploaded on the Company's website under 'Investor FAQs'  section.
A Management Discussion and Analysis Report is a part of the Company's Annual Report.
102 Corporate Governance Report viii.
Performance of the share price of the Company in comparison to the BSE Sensex: TCS Share Price BSE SENSEX 70 80 90 100 110 120 Apr-16 May-16 May-16 Jun-16 Jul-16 Aug-16 Sep-16 Oct-16 Nov-16 Dec-16 Jan-17 Feb-17 Mar-17 Month NSE BSE High (`) Low ( `) Total number of  equity shares  traded High (`) Low ( `) Total number of  equity shares  traded Apr-2016 2,535.50 2,417.05        245,98,437         2,530.05          2,417.20           17,44,830  May-2016 2,636.40 2,467.70        168,29,863         2,635.35          2,467.50           12,63,930  Jun-2016 2,667.65 2,463.95        219,25,266         2,665.50          2,461.80           13,03,910  Jul-2016 2,619.30 2,426.60        261,26,814         2,618.55          2,425.50           13,82,846  Aug-2016 2,738.45 2,500.55        230,20,890         2,732.35          2,501.60           12,11,478  Sep-2016 2,514.80 2,322.10        259,21,371         2,513.50          2,321.15           39,97,517  Oct-2016 2,428.65 2,328.90        207,93,059         2,428.70          2,328.50           20,96,477  Nov-2016 2,350.00 2,101.15        272,09,010         2,347.70          2,105.05           32,58,480  Dec-2016 2,365.55 2,154.55        208,30,615         2,361.95          2,158.20           11,80,000  Jan-2017 2,379.50 2,229.80        298,50,037         2,378.55          2,229.90           22,00,387  Feb-2017 2,502.20 2,167.90        336,42,122         2,506.50          2,169.45           26,71,385  Mar-2017 2,567.50 2,412.05        236,94,270         2,562.35          2,412.10           19,99,462   v.   Stock Codes/Symbol:   NSE  :  TCS   BSE  :  532540   Listing Fees as applicable have been paid.
vi.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company: L22210MH1995PLC084781 vii.
Market Price Data:   High, Low (based on daily closing prices) and number of equity shares traded during each month in the year 2016-17  on NSE and BSE: Base 100 = April 1, 2016 Annual Report 2016-17 103Corporate Governance Report ix.
Registrars and Transfer Agents:  Name and Address : TSR DARASHAW Limited (“TSRDL”)   6-10, Haji Moosa Patrawala Industrial Estate   20, Dr. E. Moses Road, Mahalaxmi   Mumbai 400 011 Telephone : 91 22 6656 8484 Fax : 91 22 6656 8494 E-mail : csg-unit@tsrdarashaw.com Website : www.tsrdarashaw.com  x.
Places for acceptance of documents :  Documents will be accepted at    : TSR DARASHAW Limited   6-10, Haji Moosa Patrawala Industrial Estate   20, Dr. E. Moses Road, Mahalaxmi   Mumbai 400 011 Time  : 10.00 a.m. to 3.30 p.m.   (Monday to Friday except bank holidays)  For the convenience of the shareholders based in the following cities, transfer documents and le tters will also be accepted  at the following branches/agencies of TSRDL:  a.
Branches of TSRDL: Ÿ TSR DARASHAW Limited   •    TSR DARASHAW Limited 503, Barton Centre, 5th Floor    ‘E’ Road, Northern Town 84, Mahatma Gandhi Road    Bistupur Bangalore 560 001    Jamshedpur 831 001 Telephone: 91 80 2532 0321    Telephone: 91 657 2426616 Fax: 91 80 2558 0019    Fax: 91 657 2426937 E-mail: tsrdlbang@tsrdarashaw.com    E-mail: tsrdljsr@tsrdarashaw.com  • TSR DARASHAW Limited   • TSR DARASHAW Limited   Tata Centre, 1st Floor    2/42, Ansari Road, 1st Floor   43, J. L. Nehru Road    Daryaganj, Sant Vihar   Kolkata 700 071    New Delhi 110 002   Telephone: 91 33 2288 3087    Telephone: 91 11 2327 1805   Fax: 91 33 2288 3062    Fax: 91 11 2327 1802   E-mail: tsrdlcal@tsrdarashaw.com    E-mail: tsrdldel@tsrdarashaw.com  b.
Agent of TSRDL:  Shah Consultancy Services Limited 3, Sumatinath Complex, 2nd Dhal Pritam Nagar, Ellisbridge  Ahmedabad 380 006 Telefax: 91 79 2657 6038 E-mail: shahconsultancy8154@gmail.com  b.
Categories of equity shareholding as on March 31, 2017:  Category Number of equity shares held Percentage of holding (%) Promoters 1,44,34,51,698 73.26 Other Entities of the Promoters Group 10,63,454 0.05 Insurance Companies 8,63,30,709 4.38 Indian Public and others 7,47,54,449 3.79 Mutual Fund and UTI 1,85,24,541 0.94 Corporate Bodies 92,43,212 0.47 Banks, Financial Institutions, State Governments and Central Government 17,78,686 0.09 Foreign Institutional Investors3,56,48,888 1.81 Foreign Portfolio Investor – Corporate 29,72,84,243 15.09 NRI's / OCBs / Foreign Nationals 23,48,061 0.12 GRAND TOTAL 1,97,04,27,941 100.00 104 Corporate Governance Report xi.
Share Transfer System:  99.94% of the equity shares of the Company are in electronic form.
Transfer of these shares are done through the depositories with no involvement of  the Company.
As regards transfer of shares held in physical form,the transfer documents can be lodged with TSRDL at any of the above mentioned  addresses.
Transfer of shares in physical form is normally processed within ten to twelve working  days from the date of receipt, if the documents are complete in  all respects.
The Directors and certain Company officials (including Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary), under the authority of the board,  severally approve transfers, which are noted at subsequent board meetings.
xii.
Shareholding as on March 31, 2017:   a.
Distribution of equity shareholding as on March 31, 2017:  Number of shares Holding Percentage to capital (%) Number of accounts Percentage to  total accounts (%) 1 - 100 1,92,68,969 0.98 5,36,041 84.05 101 - 500 1,80,02,098 0.91 83,574 13.10 501 - 1000 71,40,310 0.36 10,061 1.58 1001 - 5000 1,21,92,212 0.62 6,136 0.96 5001 - 10000 41,19,726 0.21 590 0.09 10001 - 20000 50,01,393 0.25 353 0.06 20001 - 30000 34,26,504 0.18 142 0.02 30001 - 40000 36,01,452 0.18 103 0.02 40001- 50000 33,88,535 0.17 76 0.01 50001 -100000 1,54,46,657 0.79 216 0.03 100001 - above 1,87,88,40,085 95.35 511 0.08 GRAND TOTAL 197,04,27,941 100.00 6,37,803 100.00 Annual Report 2016-17 105Corporate Governance Report Particulars Number of shareholders Number of equity shares Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense account lying as  on April 1, 2016 200 7,746 Shareholders who approached the Company for transfer of shares from suspense account during the year 5 300 Shareholders  to  whom  shares  were  transferred  from  the suspense account during the year (5) (300) Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense account lying as on  March 31, 2017 195 7,446  c.  Top ten equity shareholders of the Company as on March 31, 2017: Sr.  No.
Name of the shareholder Number of equity  shares held Percentage of  holding 1 Tata Sons Limited 1,443,451,698 73.26 2 Life Insurance Corporation of India 71,841,104 3.65 3 First State Investments Icvc- Stewart Investors Asia Pacific Leaders Fund 16,035,510 0.81 4 Abu Dhabi Investment Authority 11,033,526 0.56 5 Lazard Emerging Markets Portfolio 10,532,329 0.53 6 Government of Singapore 9,857,425 0.50 7 Oppenheimer Developing Markets Fund 9,472,685 0.48 8 Vanguard Emerging Markets Stock Index Fund, (a series of Vanguard International  Equity Index Fund) 75,00,802 0.38 9 Europacific Growth Fund 6,854,315 0.35 10 Aberdeen Global Indian Equity Limited 6,272,473 0.32 xiii.
Dematerialisation of shares and liquidity: The Company's shares are compulsorily traded in dematerialised form on NSE and BSE.
Equity shares of the Company representing 99.94% of the  Company's equity share capital are dematerialised as on March 31, 2017.
Under the Depository System, the International Securities Identification Number (ISIN) allotted to the Company's shares  is INE467B01029.
xiv.
Outstanding GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any convertible instruments, conversion date and likely impact on equity: The Company has not issued any GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any convertible instruments in the past and hence as on March 31, 2017, the  Company does not have any outstanding GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any convertible instruments.
xv.
Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and hedging activities: Please refer to Management Discussion and Analysis Report for the same.
xvi.
Equity shares in the suspense account: In accordance with the requirement of Regulation 34(3) and Part F of Schedule V to the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company reports the  following details in respect of equity shares lying in the suspense account which were issued in dematerialised form pursuant to the public issue of  the Company: The voting rights on the shares outstanding in the suspense account as on March 31, 2017 shall remain frozen till the rightful owner of such shares  claims the shares.
b.
For shareholders of erstwhile CMC Limited which has merged with the Company:  The following table gives information relating to outstanding dividend acco unts and the dates by which they can be claimed by the shareholders: Financial Year Date of declaration Last date for claiming unpaid dividend 2009-10 June 29, 2010 June 28, 2017 2010-11 June 27, 2011 June 26, 2018 2011-12 June 27, 2012 June 26, 2019 2012-13 June 26, 2013 June 25, 2020 2013-14 June 23, 2014 June 22, 2021 2014-15 June 11, 2015 June 10, 2022 2015-16 July 16, 2015 July 15, 2022  c. For shareholders of Tata Consultancy Service Limited (TCS):  The following table gives information relating to outstanding dividend accounts and the  dates by which they can be claimed by  the shareholders in the financial year 2017-18: Financial Year Date of declaration Last date for claiming unpaid dividend 2009-10 July 2, 2010 July 1, 2017 2010-11 July 15, 2010 July 14, 2017 October 21, 2010 October 20, 2017 January 17, 2011 January 16, 2018 106 Corporate Governance Report xvii.
Transfer of unclaimed / unpaid amounts to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (“IEPF”):  Pursuant to Sections 205A and 205C, and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 1956, all unclaimed / unpaid dividend, application  money, debenture interest and interest on deposits as well as the principal amount of debentures and deposits, as applicable, remaining unclaimed /  unpaid for a period of seven years from the date they became due for payment, were required to be transferred to the IEPF .
Sections 124 and 125 of  the Act, read with the Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (‘IEPF Rules’), both of  which were applicable with effect from September 7, 2016, also contain similar provisions for transfer of such amounts to the IEPF .
Accordingly, all  unclaimed / unpaid dividend, application money, debenture interest and  interest on deposits as well as the principal amount of debentures and   deposits, as applicable, remaining unclaimed / unpaid for a period of seven years from the date they became due for payment, in relation to the  Company, erstwhile TCS e-Serve Limited and erstwhile CMC Limited, which have been amalgamated with the Company, have been transferred to  the IEPF established by the Central Government.
No claim shall be entertained against the Company for the amounts so transferred.
a.
For shareholders of erstwhile TCS e-Serve Limited which has merged with the Company:  The following table gives information relating to outstanding dividend acco unts and the dates by which they can be claimed by the shareholders: Financial Year Date of declaration Last date for claiming unpaid dividend 2009-10 August 24, 2010 August 23, 2017 2010-11 August 12, 2011 August 11, 2018 2011-12 July 10, 2012 July 9, 2019 2012-13 May 30, 2013 May 29, 2020 Annual Report 2016-17 DECLARATION REGARDING COMPLIANCE BY BOARD MEMBERS  AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL WITH THE COMPANY'S  CODE OF CONDUCT This is to confirm that the Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for its employees including the Managing Director and Executive Directors.
In addition, the  Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for its Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors.
These Codes are available on the Company's website.
I confirm that the Company has in respect of the year ended March 31, 2017, received from the Senior Management Team of the Company and the Members of  the Board a declaration of compliance with the Code of Conduct as applicable to them.
For the purpose of this declaration, Senior Management Team means the Chief Financial Officer, Global Head - HR, Global Business Unit Heads, Global Head -  Legal and the Company Secretary as on March 31, 2017.
Rajesh Gopinathan Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director Mumbai, April 18, 2017  Plant locations:  In view of the nature of the Company's business viz.
Information Technology (IT) Services and IT Enabled Services, the Company operates from various  offices in India and abroad.
The Company has a manufacturing facility at 17-B, Tivim Industrial Estate, Karaswada, Mapusa– Bardez, Goa.
xviii.
Address for correspondence:   Tata Consultancy Services Limited  9th Floor, Nirmal Building  Nariman Point  Mumbai 400 021  Telephone: 91 22 6778 9595  Fax: 91 22 6778 9660  Designated e-mail address for Investor Services: investor.relations@tcs.com  Website: www.tcs.com 107 Corporate Governance Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  TO THE MEMBERS OF  TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES LIMITED 1.
We, Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP , Chartered Accountants, the Statuto ry Auditors of TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES LIMITED (“the Company”), have  examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by the Company, for the year ended on March 31, 2017, as stipulated in regulations 17 to 27  and clauses (b) to (i) of regulation 46(2) and para C and D of Schedule V of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015  (”SEBI Listing Regulations”).
Managements' Responsibility 2.
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the Management.
This responsibility includes the design, implementation  and maintenance of internal control and procedures to ensure the comp liance with the conditions of the Corporate Governance stipulated in th e SEBI  Listing Regulations.
Auditors' Responsibility 3.
Our responsibility is limited to examining the procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the conditions  of the Corporate Governance.
It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
4.
We have examined the books of account and other relevant records and documents maint ained by the Company for the purpose of providing reasonable  assurance on the compliance with Corporate Governance requirements by the Company.
5.
We have carried out an examination of the relevant records of the Company in accordance with the Guidance Note on Certification of Corporate Governance  issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India ( the ICAI), the Standards on Auditing specified under Section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013,  in so far as applicable for the purpose of this certificate and as per the Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes issued by the ICAI which  requires that we comply with the ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI.
6.
We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Stan dard on Quality Control (SQC) 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and  Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements.
Opinion 7.
Based on our examination of the relevant records and according to the information and explanations provided to us and the representations provided by the  Management, we certify that the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to  (i) of regulation 46(2) and para C and D of Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations during the year ended March 31, 2017.
8.
We state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the futu re viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the  Management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For  DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP  Chartered Accountants (Firm's Registration No.
117366W / W-100018) P .
R. RAMESH Partner (Membership No.70928) MUMBAI, April 18, 2017 108 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2016-17 Corporate Sustainability  Report TCS Noida, Delhi Corporate Sustainability Report Being part of the Tata group, TCS has a unique relationship with so ciety at large.
The Tata ethos of caring for the community governs all our a ctions.
At the  structural level, nearly half the dividend we pay out annually eventually reaches the various philanthropic trusts that own Tata Sons Ltd, going towards funding  community programs in the areas of education, healthcare, and livelihoods.
It is a source of tremendous pride and motivation to employees that their efforts and  contribution to the company’s business success result in tangible benefits to society at large.
TCS also engages in a variety of sustainability initiatives, with the goal of empowering communities to make an impact in the three focus areas of Education and  Skills, Health and Wellbeing, and Environmental Stewardship.
Our sustainability initiatives take the form of volunteering effort by our employees, providing pro  bono IT services for worthy causes, and funding programs run by non-governmental organizations and other agencies.
In this section, we discuss our ongoing programs and new initiatives launched in  FY17 towards making the world a better place.
The statutory Business  Responsibility Report is provided at the back of the Annual Report, along with some disclosures.
TCS also publishes a more detailed Sustainability Report that is  aligned with international sustainability disclosure standards.
This is available on our website, www.tcs.com.
People When TCS Mumbai associate Akhilesh Beri set out to conduct a clean-up drive at a city beach, only a few of his colleagues were willing to pursue the  cause.
Nevertheless, the small group was determined.
They announced their intention on the TCS Purpose4Life portal, reaching out to like-minded  associates far beyond their known circles.
The result: nearly a 100 people turned up on the appointed day to spruce up Mumbai's Juhu beach.
“We were only a few people and the cause demanded greater numbers.
After we put up our plan on the portal, people responded in large numbers,  bringing their families along.
This initiative would have remained just a thought had it not been for Purpose4Life.”  The program is one of the many employee engagement initiatives launched by TCS, through which associates are encouraged to commit a  minimum of 10 hours of volunteer activity each year.
We aim to leverage our large employee base, vast global presence, and unmatched IT  expertise to bring about social change.
In FY17, TCS associates dedicated 694,487 hours for various activities such as cleaning up beaches and forts, teaching marginalized  communities conversational English, basic mathematics, and science, and augmenting their computer skills.
Education and Skill Development Demonstrating our faith in the ability of computer-based education to  empower those without access to resources and opportunities, we launched  our flagship program for social empowerment, BridgeIT, in collaboration with  the National Confederation of Dalit and Adivasi Organisations.
The program  aims to use Digital tools to mainstream marginalized communities, with focus  on education, employability, and entrepreneurship.
In FY17, under BridgeIT, we trained 126 Digital entrepreneurs to implement  our computer-aided learning module in 210 government schools, reaching  18,230 children and 808 adults across 143 villages.
In schools where the  program is active, overall attendance went up by nearly 52%.
TCS is also bringing the power of IT to support the Government of India’s  efforts toward making every adult functionally literate.
Our long-running CSR  initiative, the Adult Literacy Program (ALP) has the computer-based  functional literacy (CBFL) system at its core.
As part of the CBFL solution,  non-literate adults receive approximately 50 hours of training in their native  languages.
CBFL supports nine Indian and three foreign languages.
The BridgeIT program aims to mainstream marginalized communities using Digital tools 110 Corporate Sustainability Report Annual Report 2016-17 TCS has also designed a program to increase the employability of visually  impaired youth in India.
Our Advanced Computer Training Centre (ACTC)  offers them free, industry-specific training and skilling.
The courses are  tailored as per industry requirements to ensure a high placement rate.
Target  customers hail from industries such as legal and accountancy services,  banking, hospitality, retail, BPO, and IT.
In Bengaluru, India, we have partnered with local NGOs to organize lab-based  experiments to make science education more enjoyable for over 2,600  primary school students and 327 teachers across 19 government schools.
TCS has also made science learning more accessible to children in tribal  areas across Odisha by setting up mobile laboratories at 200 schools in the  state, with the help of NGO partners.
Children from marginalized communities need more than just classroom  sessions to get a well-rounded education.
So, TCS sponsors the education of  students living in hostels run by the Manuski Center in Pune.
We also fu nd  subject-wise tuition classes, water filters, computers, and Wi-Fi facilities at  the center.
A similar initiative in villages on the outskirts of Mumbai has given  nearly 1,300 tribal children access to volunteer-led English and computer  science lessons, subject-wise laboratories, computers, printers, and  scanners.
With knowledge of programming languages being an imperative to succeed  in a Digital economy, TCS has developed LaunchPad, an animated series that  uses gamification to teach programming logic in C++ and Python to school  students.
Since 2016, the program has reached over 5,700 students across  India, Muscat, and Singapore.
A similar program, InsighT, was launched in  Chennai in 2006 to help higher secondary school students understand  programming and application development.
Having supported over 12,700  students since inception, InsighT was taken on the cloud in 2016 due to the  growing demand for face-to-face sessions.
TCS’ Adult Literacy Program partners today range from  NGOs to corporates  The number of participants as well as the beneficiaries under ALP has gone  up.
We work with a range of partners, from jail authorities and local  governments to NGOs and corporates.
In FY17, this program reached over  1,26,000 persons.
TCS also runs separate BPS and IT Employability Programs for the  underprivileged.
Launched in 2010, the BPS Program imparts basic training in  English grammar and communication, mathematics, analytics, computers,  and the working of the BPS industry.
The IT Employability Program, on the  other hand, trains rural engineering and science graduates in business skills,  general aptitude, and technical skills.
In FY17, over 9,100 students benefited  from the former, while the latter helped 2,400 students.
To bring teachers up to speed with our fast-changing world, TCS initiated a  Teacher Empowerment Program in 2014.
This module provides them with soft  skills through intensive training in communication, presentation, empathy,  ethics, organizational behavior, time management, and stress management.
Nearly 850 teachers have benefited from the program till date.
But education alone cannot bridge the talent gap in India.
Mindful of this  reality, TCS launched its UDAAN program, which offers experiential, activity- based learning over 14 weeks to help youngsters get access to employment  opportunities.
Facilitated by the National Skill Development Corporation,  UDAAN is helping the youth in Jammu and Kashmir improve their  employability.
Of the 743 youngsters that have undergone training, 675 have  been offered job opportunities with TCS.
Another program, Empower, focuses on enhancing spoken skills and basic  computer-related knowledge.
It has benefited nearly 2,178 support staff who  have been employed and other organizations across 14 Indian cities.
TCS’ mobile laboratories at 200 schools across Odisha are making science  learning accessible to children in tribal areas 111Corporate Sustainability Report  To facilitate resource sharing and collaboration among young entrepreneurs,  we set up the Digital Impact Square (DISQ) — an open, social innovation  center for students, start-up owners, and budding entrepreneurs from across  the country.
A select group of innovators receive sponsorship to look for ways  to solve India’s pressing social problems through Digital technology.
In our continuing effort to align science and engineering education with the  needs of the industry, we have launched an MSc program in Big Data  Analytics in partnership with four leading institutes in India.
Eighty students  have enrolled in the first batch.
Another brick-and-mortar initiative was the Kohli Research Block at the Kohli  Center on Intelligent Systems (KCIS), IIIT Hyderabad.
Inaugurated on January  16, 2017, this 60,000-sq-ft center is dedicated to research activities in  robotics, natural language processing, and cognitive sciences.
Health and Sanitation Efforts After implementing a highly acclaimed system to cut wait times for OPD  patients at India’s premier medical institution, the All India Institute of  Medical Sciences (AIIMS).
In 2016, TCS has initiated a similar  transformation at the Tata Medical Center (TMC), Kolkata.
We have deployed our Hospital Management System (HMS) at TMC and the  Cancer Institute (CI), Chennai, to deliver integrated patient treatme nt.
In FY17, TCS upgraded CI’s Digital infrastructure to handle the increasing load  of users and transactions.
The benefits to patients were immediate: faster  access to consultations, tests, and reports.
The hospital can now focus on  patient care instead of documentation.
In 2017, TCS created a tablet-based tool called e-partogram.
Prescribed by  the World Health Organization, this tool is used by workers  associated with  the Indian Institute of Public Health in Odisha to reduce infant and maternal  mortality by identifying and prioritizing critical cases.
TCS sponsors the educational infrastructure for students living in hostels run by the Manuski Center in Pune After funding the construction of toilets in 1,472 schools across the country –  reaching over 80,757 girl students – under the Prime Minister’s Swachh  Bharat in FY16, TCS is currently supporting sanitation awareness programs  and the maintenance of the toilets.
Overseas Initiatives To encourage schoolchildren to pursue higher education in the science,  technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields, TCS has  implemented student engagement programs across several countries.
In North America, our flagship program goIT continues to scale well (page  12).
TCS is leading cross-sector efforts to expand diversity and ensure  access to computer science education, including its founding partnership of  STEM mentoring programs such as US 2020 and Million Women Mentors,  and our ongoing work with partners such as NPower, NCWIT, Boys Scouts of  America, and STEMconnector.
Over 3,000 TCS volunteers supported these  programs in FY17, reaching over 17,600 students.
Additionally, over 300,000  people benefited through TCS’ leadership in national initiatives, STEM  partnerships, and pro bono tech platforms.
On December 1, 2016, MWM  crossed the one million mentor pledges milestone, and has already engaged  over 650,000 mentor-mentee relationships.
Meanwhile, the goIT program has taken wing and expanded across the  Atlantic to Finland, Germany, and Sweden, and has so far reached more than  1,500 young people in direct partnerships with local schools.
In each  geography, the implementation of the program was tailored to fit local needs.
One goIT success story is currently unfolding in Germany.
At Frankfurt’s  Edith-Stein-Schule Antoniushaus Hochheim, a school catering to differently- abled students, identical twins, Dominik and Michael, started small at goIT,  tinkering with LEGO robots and the like.
But two sessions in, the wheelchair- bound brothers, who had never programmed before, were hooked.
Both the  brothers have received student internships with TCS.
In the UK, TCS has been running its STEM initiative, IT Futures, under which  we conduct workshops in schools and universities, develop online resources,  and offer employment and internships to participants.
The program has  112 Corporate Sustainability Report Annual Report 2016-17 Wheelchair-bound identical twins, Dominik, and Michael from Frankfurt received student internships with TCS after attending our goIT program reached over 170,000 young people since inception, with 84,000  beneficiaries in FY17.
“I always shrugged off the idea of choosing a career in  IT, because I felt it wasn’t for me.
But TCS’ workshops really showed me the  practical side of IT and technology,” says Miqdad, a sixth form grade from  London’s Stepney Green Maths, Computing and Science College.
To keep  young minds like Miqdad engaged, TCS also launched a series of events  called Spark Salon.
This program showcases thought-provoking  perspectives on the role of technology in sustainability.
In Latin America, TCS runs the ENABLE program, an employment-related  initiative that provides technical and soft skills training to underprivileged  youth.
In FY17, 24 ENABLE programs touched the lives of over 1,500 people  across eight countries.
The flagship goIT program has also been activated in  this geography.
In Asia-Pacific, TCS associates supported Operation Smile in China, helping  85 underprivileged children undergo cleft lip surgeries in FY17.
In Hong Kong,  TCS partnered with the Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA) to  improve the quality of life of 293 underprivileged women and children.
In the  Philippines, we ran programs to support local schools that lack government  funding, benefiting 3,500 students in FY17.
In Australia, goIT has changed the  lives of over 8,000 students and 531 teachers.
Several tree-planting drives  have also been held in schools and local communities across the Philippines,  Malaysia, Thailand, and China.
113 Corporate Sustainability Report In South Africa, TCS partnered with the Department of Public Enterprise t o  set up an IT learning center at Lisisiki in the Eastern Cape.
This IT center is  intended for use by multiple schools to provide children with basic IT skills,  and to train unemployed women and youngsters in the local community.
Every year, TCS associates contribute about 200 hours to train children in  basic IT concepts in and around Johannesburg.
With all these initiatives, Tata Consultancy Services continues to change the  lives of people across the globe – both within the company and outside.
Employee Engagement Employee engagement is a key part of TCS’ Environmental Sustainability  Roadmap.
To sensitize associates toward nature and the need to conserve  resources, we organize induction training and on-site activities, and regularly  send out awareness emails.
Over 12 lakh training hours were spent on  health, safety, and the environment in FY17.
TCS also observed ‘Tata Sustainability Month’ in June 2016, with over 1.6 lakh associates participating.
As part of this initiative, more than 26,000  LED bulbs were supplied to 7,221 employees with the help of Energy  Efficiency Services Ltd, and as part of the Ujala initiative of the Government of  India.
More than 20,000 people were also engaged beyond TCS boundaries  through exhibitions and sessions at school and colleges.
While plastic is not biodegradable, it can be recycled and reused.
As part of a pilot program, TCS set up a PET bottle-crushing biocrux machine  within its Pune campus in January 2017.
These machines help convert PET bottles into flakes, which are used to create recycled products, or are  absorbed for further industrial use.
Since its installation, the biocrux machine has compacted 24,337 bottles, weighing a total 402 kg.
The benefits  are manifold — this not just helps reduce emissions, and the Company’s carbon footprint as a result, but also ensures TCS sends ‘zero waste to  landfills.’ Both these are commitments to sustainability that we have made, and continue to abide by, among other components of our  1 environment management plan.
And both TCS and our supply chain partners are held to the same high standards through a series of programs.
(See Exhibit 1 and 2.)
Sustainability is a key criterion for selecting vendors and maintaining ongoing relationships with them.
Compliance to legal  requirements is set as the minimum requirement for business.
Exhibit 1: Environmental Management at TCS Green Procurement Climate Change MitigationBeyond Compliance Focus Employee Engagement Green IT Green Building Infrastructure Assess: Based on the vendor risk level and engagement requirement,  conduct assessment ranging from desktop to regular site audits.
Engage: Based on the risk level assigned in Step 3, draw the vendor  engagement plan at all stages from release of tender till on-boarding.
Assign overall risk  level and impact type: Prioritize based on the risk level assigned as an outcome of Step and ascertain whether impact on TCS is direct or indirect.
Conduct risk assessment: Check for environmental, social, and safety risks  for each vendor and product category.
Evaluate the vendor/product portfolio and prioritize.01 03 04 05 02 Exhibit 2: Steps for Supply Chain Sustainability Planet [1] Data for all geographies.
Energy Conservation As part of our energy conservation plans, we aim to halve the company’s  carbon footprint by 2020, with FY08 taken as the base year.
Energy  consumption is the key contributor to TCS’ carbon footprint, with purchased  electricity accounting for 90% of our total consumption.
To achieve this carbon target, TCS has formulated a detailed plan of action on  energy and carbon management, focusing on four key levers: green  buildings, efficient operations, green IT, and use of renewable energy.
The foundation to better energy use is set with green infrastructure,  designed as per green building standards for resource efficiency.
Currently,  over 50% of the total real estate portfolio of the Company is certified green  building space, and 80% of TCS-owned real estate certified by the Indian  Green Building Council (IGBC) or LEED.
As part of its remote energy monitoring and control initiative, TCS has  completely digitized the energy monitoring process for over 135 locations in  India and 23 key data centers.
A centralized Resource Operations Center at  Kochi helps monitor and streamline energy consumption with real-time  analysis of usage patterns.
Our efforts in energy conservation have won accolades.
Four TCS facilities —  Garima Park, Gandhinagar; Deccan Park, Hyderabad; New Campus, Kochi;  and Synergy Park, Hyderabad — won awards for energy management at the  17th National Award for Excellence in Energy Management 2016, organized  by the Confederation of Indian Industries.
Apart from conventional sources of electricity, we also source power from  rooftop solar panels and renewable energy purchased from third-party  providers.
We are targeting a 20% usage of renewable energy by 2020.
Towards this, we are exploring more procurement from third-party providers,  and also increasing in-house generation.
In FY17, we reached the 7.2% mark,  remaining on track to achieve the 2020 target.
Our concerted efforts resulted in the reduction of our overall energy  consumption by 8.3% over FY16, and 49.1% over baseline year FY08.
Our combined GHG emission (Scope 1 + Scope 2) was 1.62 tCO2e/FTE,  49.1% less than the baseline year 2008, and 9.72% less than the last  reporting year.
Water Conservation All our new facilities are built for water conservation to ensure 100%  treatment of sewage and rainwater harvesting.
In FY17, consistent water  management measures have helped reduce per capita fresh water  consumption by 14.6% over baseline year FY08, and flattish compared to  FY16.
TCS recycled 7.5 mn kL of water in FY17.
Implementation of rooftop  collection systems, storage tanks, and recharge trenches and pits has led to  a 25% increase in the rainwater harvesting potential at TCS sites in FY17 over  the previous year.
Waste Reduction and Reuse Being an IT services and consulting organization, TCS does not produce  industrial waste.
Instead, the emphasis is on reducing municipal solid waste,  as well as electronic and electrical waste.
There is also a relatively smaller  proportion of potentially hazardous wastes, such as lead-acid batteries and  waste lube oil.
TCS' waste management practices (Exhibit 3) seek to ensure  that less than 5% waste is sent to landfills by 2020 by ensuring segregation  114 Corporate Sustainability Report Annual Report 2016-17 Exhibit 3: Waste Management Practices Printer and toner  cartridges Paper and  mixed dry  waste Food and  garden  waste Hazardous  and  e-waste Disposed through  government authorized  recyclers in compliance  with local regulations Paper – sent for recycling Mixed dry waste – sent to  scrap dealers or municipal  disposal Sent back to the  manufacturer under  product take-back  arrangement On-site composting  and/or digestion sent  to piggeries as feed at source, reuse, and recycle wherever possible.
In FY17, 27.4% of the total wet waste generated was treated through onsite  composting or bio-digester treatment.
A total of 185.5 ton of compost was  generated from garden waste in FY16, helping TCS avoid the use of chemical  fertilizers, and the resultant soil and groundwater pollution.
As for e-waste, in  FY17, 25,623 items of redundant equipment were disposed of through  government-authorized handlers or recyclers, in accordance with the  2 regulations of each country.
For India operations, hazardous wastes (as  defined by regulations) are handled and disposed of as per the Hazardous  Waste (Management and Handling) Rules, 2008, only through government- authorized vendors.
As a result of TCS’ focus on waste reduction, per capita paper consumption  has reduced by 19.8% over the prior year, and 83.6% over the baseline.
The  success of this drive can be attributed to the awareness created among  associates, and the enforcement of printing discipline through automated  and manual means.
Paper waste is carefully segregated, shredded, and sent  for recycling.
In some cases, waste paper is sent to NGOs, which supply  stationery items such as notepads and files made from recycled paper back  2 to TCS.
In FY17, TCS continued to achieve 100% recycling of its paper waste.
[2] Data given is only for India, since most overseas locations are multi-occupancy facilities, where waste handling and disposal is handled by the building authority.
Business Responsibility  Report TCS Synergy Park, Hyderabad  Section A: General information about the company 1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company:  L22210MH1995PLC084781  2.
Name of the Company: Tata Consultancy Services Limited 3.
Registered address:  9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai  - 400 021, India 4.
Website: www.tcs.com 5.
E-mail id: corporate.sustainability@tcs.com 6.
Financial Year reported: April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017 7.
Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in (industrial activity code- wise):  8.
List three key products / services that the Company manufactures /  provides (as in balance sheet): Consulting and IT Services,  IT Infrastructure Services, and Business process services 9.
Total number of locations where business activity is undertaken by  the Company: 141 Solution Centers   (a)  Number of International Locations (Provide details of major 5):  Top 5 regions are:   (b)  Number of National Locations:  105 10.
Markets served by the Company – Local / State / National /  International: North America, Latin America, United Kingdom & Ireland,  Continental  Europe, Asia Pacific, Middle East & Africa, and India Section B: Financial details of the company 1.
Paid up Capital (INR): 197 Crore 2.
Total Turnover (INR): 1,17,966 Crore 3.
Total profit after taxes (INR): 26,289 Crore 4.
Total Spending on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as  percentage of profit after tax (%): 1.7% of average profit for previous  three years in respect of standalone TCS (India initiatives only) 5.
List of activities in which expenditure in 4 above has been incurred: Including overseas spend, the Company’s total spending on Corporate  Social Responsibility is ` 437 Crore  Section C: Other details 1.
Does the Company have any Subsidiary Company/ Companies?
Yes 2.
Do the Subsidiary Company/ Companies participate in the BR  Initiatives of the parent company?
If yes, then indicate the number of  such subsidiary company(s): Yes.
22 subsidiaries participated 3.
Do any other entity/entities (e.g.
suppliers, distributors, etc.)
that the  Company does business with participate in the BR initiatives of the  Company?
If yes, then indicate the percentage of such  entity/entities?
[Less than 30%, 30-60%, More than 60%]  No Section D: BR information 1.
Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR  (a)  Details of the Director/Director responsible for implementation  of the BR policy/policies    The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee of the Board  of Directors is responsible for implementation of BR policies.
The  members of the CSR Committee are as follows:  (b)  Details of the BR head Name: Mr. Ajoyendra Mukherjee Designation: Executive Vice President & Global Head HR Telephone number: 022  67789999 E-mail id: corporate.sustainability@tcs.com 116 Business Responsibility Report Business Responsibility Report 2016-17 This section is as per Regulation 34 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
A more detailed Sustainability Report for the year FY17 will be published shortly on our website: www.tcs.com.
DIN Number Name Designation 00121863 Mr N.  Chandrasekaran Chairman 00548091 Mr O.P .
Bhatt Independent Director 06365813 Mr Rajesh  Gopinathan Chief Executive Officer and  Managing Director 07121802 Ms Aarthi  Subramaniam Executive Director Category (CSR in India only) ` Crore Education & Skill Building 90.6 Health & Wellness 88.3 Restoration of Heritage Site 0.2 Environmental Sustainability 0.6 Contribution to TCS Foundation 200.0 Total 379.7 ITC Code Product Description 85249009 Computer Software North America 7 Continental Europe 3 UK & Ireland 7 APAC 9 LATAM 8 Annual Report 2016-17 3.
Governance related to BR (a) Indicate the frequency with which the Board of Directors,  Committee of the Board or CEO meet to assess the BR  performance of the Company.
Within 3 months, 3-6 months,  Annually, More than 1 year: Within 3 months.
The Board meets 7- 8 times a year (b)  Does the Company publish a BR or Sustainability Report?
What  is the hyperlink for viewing this report?
How frequently it is  published?
Yes, the Company publishes its Sustainability Report  annually.
The hyperlink is: http://sites.tcs.com/corporate- sustainability/archive-of-annual-sustainability-reports Section E: Principle-wise performance Principle 1 1.
Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery, and corruption cover only  the company?
No   Does it extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/  NGOs/Others?
Yes 2.
How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past  financial year and what percentage was satisfactorily resolved by  the management?
If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or  so: 129 ethics concerns from various stakeholders were received in the  year FY17.
123 (95%) of these were satisfactorily resolved.
The  remaining concerns are under review.
117 Business Responsibility Report *  Tata Code of Conduct (https://www.tcs.com/tata-code-of-conduct);  **  CSR Policy (http://sites.tcs.com/corporate-sustainability/corporate-social-responsibility-policy);  ***  Environment Policy (http://sites.tcs.com/corporate-sustainability/environmental-policy) S.N.
Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 1 Do you have a policy / policies for.... Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 2 Has the policy been formulated in consultation with the relevant stakeholders?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 3 Does the policy conform to any national/international standards?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 4 Has the policy been approved by the Board?
If yes, has it been signed by  MD/owner/CEO/appropriate Board Director?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 5 Does the company have a specified committee of the Board/Director/Official to  oversee the implementation of the policy?
Indicate the link for the policy to be  viewed online.
Y* Y* Y* Y** Y* Y*** Y* Y* Y* 6 Has the policy been formally communicated to all relevant internal and external  stakeholders?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 7 Does the company have in-house structure to implement the policy/policies?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 8 Does the Company have a grievance redressal mechanism related to the  policy/policies to address stakeholders' grievances related to the policy/policies?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 9 Has the company carried out independent audit/evaluation of the working of this  policy by an internal or external agency?
Y N Y N N Y N N Y P1 Business should conduct and govern themselves with ethics, Transparency and Accountability P2 Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle P3 Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees P4 Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable  and marginalised P5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights P6 Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment P7 Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner P8 Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development P9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner 2.
Principle wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/policies  The National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business (NVGs) released by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs  has adopted nine areas of Business Responsibility.
These briefly are as follows: Principle 2 1.
List up to 3 of your products or services whose design has  incorporated social or environmental concerns, risks and/or  opportunities: Three examples of work done by TCS that results in social  and environmental good are: (a) Reduction of emissions from thermal  plants (See Page 19), (b) Reduction in electricity consumption at TCS  centers (See Page 14) and (c) mKrishi system that empowers farmers  with data to improve farming productivity (More details online -  https://goo.gl/w8Ysws).
2.
(a) Reduction during sourcing/production/ distribution achieved    since the previous year throughout the value chain?
Not  applicable  (b)  Reduction during usage by consumers (energy, water) has been  achieved since the previous year?
: See Page 14 (Reimagining  Energy Management) 3.
Does the company have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing  (including transportation)?
Yes  (a)  If yes, what percentage of your inputs was sourced  sustainably?
Also, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or  so.100% of our suppliers sign the Supplier Code of Conduct and the  Tata Code of Conduct.
Our policy on supply chain sustainability can  be found here: http://sites.tcs.com/corporate-sustainability/  sustainable-supply-chain-policy.
More details of our framework are  provided in our Corporate Sustainability Report, which forms part of  this Annual Report.
4.
Has the company taken any steps to procure goods and services  from local and small producers, including communities surrounding  their place of work?
Yes (a)  If yes, what steps have been taken to improve the capacity and  capability of local and small vendors?
Two vendors from the  marginalised community commissioned and empanelled with TCS  under the CSR supplier diversity and affirmative action initiatives  continue to work with TCS.
Under the BridgeIT program, TCS has  trained digital entrepreneurs who have established themselves as  key resources in the villages within which they operate.
The  Company has worked to open up new avenues and provide  opportunities to the entrepreneurs to utilize their skills in an  effective manner, including providing them the opportunity to be  part of Jagriti Yatra, the government initiative of ‘building India  through enterprise’.
To enhance livelihood options in Panvel, India,  TCS associates have trained 45 women in making eco-friendly  jute bags through the ‘Women Empowerment Programme’.
We procure those bags for distribution at various marketing events  organized by TCS.
5.
Does the company have a mechanism to recycle products and  waste?
If yes, what is the percentage of recycling of products and  waste (separately as 10%).
Also, provide details thereof, in about 50  words or so: Yes.
For more details please refer Corporate Sustainability  Report, which forms part of this Annual Report.
Principle 3 1.
Please indicate the Total number of employees: 3,87,223 as on March  31, 2017  2.
Please indicate the Total number of employees hired on temporary/  contractual/casual basis: 14,525 as on March 31, 2017 3.
Please indicate the Number of permanent women employees:   1,34,542 as on March 31, 2017  4.
Please indicate the Number of permanent employees with  disabilities: 525  5.
Do you have an employee association that is recognized by the  management?
Yes  6.
What percentage of your permanent employees are members of this  recognized employee association?
0.02% 7.
Please indicate the Number of complaints relating to child labour,  forced labour, involuntary labour, sexual harassment in the last  financial year and pending, as on the end of the financial year: 65  complaints of sexual harassment, of which four are pending.
No  complaints received in other areas.
8.
What percentage of your under mentioned employees were given  safety & skill upgradation training in the last year?
(a) Permanent Employees - 98%; (b) Permanent Women Employees -  98%; (c) Casual/Temporary/Contractual Employees - 87%; (d)  Employees with Disabilities – 87.8% Principle 4 1.
Has the company mapped its internal and external stakeholders?
Yes 2.
Out of the above, has the company identified the disadvantaged,   vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders: Yes 3.
Are there any special initiatives taken by the company to engage  with the disadvantaged, vulnerable, and marginalized stakeholders?
If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so: Yes.
TCS has  several programs designed to benefit marginalized stakeholders.
Please  refer Corporate Sustainability Report, which forms part of this Annual  Report, for details of BridgeIT, Advanced computer training for the  visually impaired, Adult Literacy Program, UDAAN and BPS/IT  Employability Programs.
118 Business Responsibility Report Annual Report 2016-17 Principle 5 1.
Does the policy of the company on human rights cover only the  company or extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/  Contractors/NGOs/Others?
The policy is applicable to TCS, its  subsidiaries and vendors.
2.
How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past  financial year and what percent was satisfactorily resolved by the  management?
None was received Principle 6 1)  Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover only the company or  extends to the Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/  others.
The policy is applicable to TCS, its subsidiaries and vendors 2)  Does the company have strategies/initiatives to address global  environmental issues such as climate change, global warming, etc?
Y/N.
If yes, please give hyperlink for webpage etc:  Yes.
For more  details please refer Corporate Sustainability Report, which forms part of  this Annual Report.
3)  Does the company identify and assess potential environmental  risks?
Yes 4)  Does the company have any project related to Clean Development  Mechanism?
If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.
Also, if Yes, whether any environmental compliance report is filed?
Not applicable 5)  Has the company undertaken any other initiatives on – clean  technology, energy efficiency, renewable energy, etc.
Y/N.
If yes,  please give hyperlink for web page etc: Yes.
For more details  please refer Corporate Sustainability Report, which forms part of this  Annual Report.
6)  Are the Emissions/Waste generated by the company within the  permissible limits given by CPCB/SPCB for the financial year being  reported?
Yes 7)  Number of show cause/legal notices received from CPCB/SPCB  which are pending (i.e.
not resolved to satisfaction) as on end of  Financial Year.
None Principle 7 1.
Is your company a member of any trade and chamber or association?
If Yes, Name only those major ones that your business deals with:  Yes.
Some organizations are - National Association of Software and  Services Companies (NASSCOM), Confederation of Indian Industries  (CII), All India Management Association (AIMA), Federation of India  Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), US India Business Council  (USIBC), and US Chamber of Commerce 2.
Have you advocated/lobbied through above associations for the  advancement or improvement of public good?
Yes/ No; if yes, specify  the broad areas (drop box: Governance and Administration,  Economic Reforms, Inclusive Development Policies, Energy security,  Water, Food Security, Sustainable Business Principles, Others): Yes.
TCS participated in consultations on Governance and Administration,  Sustainable Business Principles, Inclusive Development Policies (with a  focus on skill building and literacy), Economic Reforms and Tax, and other  legislations.
TCS uses the Tata Code of Conduct as a guide for its actions  in influencing public and regulatory policy.
Principle 8 1.
Does the company have specified programmes/initiatives/ projects  in pursuit of the policy related to Principle 8?
If yes, details thereof?
Yes.
For more details please refer Corporate Sustainability Report, which  forms part of this Annual Report.
2.
Are the programmes/projects undertaken through in-house  team/own foundation/external NGO/government structures/any  other organization?
TCS uses all of these modes 3.
Have you done any impact assessment of your initiative?
Yes 4.
What is your company’s direct contribution to community  development projects - Amount in INR and the details of the projects  undertaken?
Rs 437 crore.
For more details please refer Corporate  Sustainability Report, which forms part of this Annual Report.
5.
Have you taken steps to ensure that this community development  initiative is successfully adopted by the community?
Please explain  in 50 words or so.
Yes.
Initiatives conducted under CSR are tracked to  determine the outcomes achieved and the benefits to the community.
Internal tracking mechanisms, monthly reports, and follow-up field  visits, and telephonic and email communications are regularly carried  out.
The Company has engaged highly trained employees to drive and  monitor the CSR activities.
Principle 9 1.
What percentage of customer complaints/consumer cases are  pending as on the end of financial year?
10.8% of complaints are  pending resolution.
2.
Does the company display product information on the product label,  over and above what is mandated as per local laws?
Yes/No/N.A./Remarks (additional information): Not applicable 3.
Is there any case filed by any stakeholder against the company  regarding unfair trade practices, irresponsible advertising and/or  anticompetitive behaviour during the last five years and pending as  on end of financial year?
If so, provide details thereof, in about 50  words or so: No 4.
Did your company carry out any consumer survey/ consumer  satisfaction trends?
Yes 119 Business Responsibility Report Business n Ranked as one of the Top 3 Global Brands in  IT Services by Brand Finance n Ranked among Top 100 US Brands  in the  annual ‘Top 500 US Brands’ survey by Brand  Finance® for second consecutive year n Awarded the Business Superbrands status  in the UK for the third year in a row n Won Three Silver Stevies® at 2016 American  Business Awards, for Brand Experience of  the Year  (Business-to-Business), Mobile  Marketing Campaign of the Year  and  Corporate Social Responsibility Program of  the Year.
n Ranked Number One on the 2016 IDC  Financial Insights FinTech Rankings Top 100 n TCS Remote Energy Management Solution  won the 2016 IoT Award in the Connected  Building category from IoT Evolution magazine n Awarded a Gold Stevie for the Interview Ready  Mobile Learning App at International Business  Awards 2016 n Named Technology Company of the Year at  the 2016 Asia CEO Awards n Ignio™ recognized as the ‘Best Enterprise  Application for AI’  by The AIconics, the  independently judged awards celebrating  innovation  n Won the Asian Banker Technology  Innovation Award under the Data & Analytics  Project category  n Won the National Intellectual Property  Award and WIPO Award 2016 for Innovative  Enterprise Employer n Certified as a ‘Top Employer in North  America 2017’ by the Top Employers  Institute, third time in a row; Top UK  Employer fifth time in a row; rated Top  Employer in 24 countries , one of only 8  companies worldwide to be ranked as Global  Top Employer n Won 15 Brandon Hall Group HCM Excellence  Awards across five human resources  categories  n Named as one of the Best and Brightest  Companies To Work For ® in the US in  recognition of our commitment to excellence  in operations, employee enrichment  and  worksite health.
n Received Gold Optimas award for Managing  Change  and Silver Optimas award for  Corporate Citizenship  from Workforce  Magazine n Awarded Silver Stevie for Employee   Engagement at the first ever Stevie Awards  for Great Employers (SAGE) n Won an Excellence award  in the Exelon  Diversity & Inclusion Partnership assessment  n Achievers Award  for '50 Most Engaged  Workplaces in North America' for the fourth  consecutive year n Named as one of The Times Top 50  Employers for Women in the UK Sustainability n mKRISHI® won the National Contest for  Social Innovation 2016 hosted by Ministry of  External Affairs along with NITI Aayog  n Named the Most Socially Responsible  Company of the Year and the Industry  Champion of the Year at 2016 Asia Corporate  Excellence and Sustainability (ACES) Awards n Awarded the Gold rating certificate  by  EcoVadis for the third time in a row n Included in the Global Dow Jones   Sustainability Index 2016  for the fourth  consecutive year n Won four awards at the CII’s 17th National  Awards for Excellence in Energy   Management 2016  n Won the Top Employee Engagement  and  Social Responsibility Awards  at the North  American Employee Engagement Awards Partner n Honored with Best Supplier Award  by  Infineon n Conferred with the Oracle Cloud Elite   designation within the OPN Cloud Program;  awarded the Oracle Excellence Award  for  the third consecutive year, named this time as  the OPN Cloud Program Solution: PaaS  Partner of the Year n Awarded '2016 Digital Innovator of the Year'  by GE Digital n Recognized by Pega Japan with the Best  Partner Award 2016 n Won 'Best Supplier' award from NXP n Awarded the ‘Run SAP® Partner of the Year’  Pinnacle Award for the fourth consecutive  year Leadership n Awarded the Platinum award in the Large  Enterprise (Services category) in the Financial  Express CFO of the Year awards 2017 n Then CEO N. Chandrasekaran awarded the  'Business Leader of the Year award' at the ET  Corporate Excellence Awards 2016  n Polled top honors in the Institutional Investor’s  2016 All Asia Executive Team rankings in all  five categories: Best CEO, Best CFO, Best IR  Professional, Best Investor Relations  and  Best IR Website n Then CFO, Rajesh Gopinathan, awarded the  Overall Champion CFO at the Yes Bank-BW  Best CFO Awards 2016 120 Awards and Recognition  Annual Report 2016-17 Awards and Recognition Consolidated Financial  Statements TCS Sahyadri Park, Pune                                                                                            Consolidated Financial Statements  I 123 Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of the report of the other auditors on separate financial statements and the other financial information of the subsidiary companies, referred in the ‘Other Matter’ paragraph above, we report, to the extent applicable, that: (a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated Ind AS financial statements.
(b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated Ind AS financial statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports of the other auditors.
(c) The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (including other comprehensive income), the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the relevant books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated Ind AS financial statements.
(d) In our opinion, the consolidated Ind AS financial statements comply with the Indian Accounting Standards prescribed under Section 133 of the Act, as applicable.
(e) On the basis of the written representations received from the Directors of the Company as on March 31, 2017 taken on record by the Board of Directors of the Company and the reports of the statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies incorporated in India, none of the directors of the Group companies, incorporated in India is disqualified as on March 31, 2017 from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act.
(f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls over financial reporting and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in ‘Annexure A’, which is based on the auditors’ reports of the Company and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India.
Our report expresses an unmodified opinion on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls over financial reporting of Company and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India.
(g) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us: i) The consolidated Ind AS financial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations on the consolidated financial position of the Group.
ii) Provision has been made in the consolidated Ind AS financial statements, as required under the applicable law or accounting standards, for material foreseeable losses on long term contracts including derivative contracts.
iii) There has been no delay in transferring amounts required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by the Company and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India.
iv) The Company has provided requisite disclosures in the consolidated Ind AS financial statements as regards the holding and dealings in Specified Bank Notes as defined in the Notification S.O.
3407(E) dated November 8, 2016 of the Ministry of Finance, during the period from November 8, 2016 to December 30, 2016 of the Group entities as applicable.
Based on audit procedures performed and the representations provided to us by the management we report that the disclosures are in accordance with the relevant books of account maintained by those entities for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated Ind AS financial statements and as produced to us by the management of the respective Group entities.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm’s Registration No.
117366W / W - 100018) P .
R. RAMESH Partner Mumbai, April 18, 2017 (Membership No.
70928)                                                                                                               Consolidated Financial Statements  I 125 Other Matters Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls over financial reporting insofar as it relates to 6 subsidiary companies, which are incorporated in India, is based solely on the corresponding reports of the auditors of such companies incorporated in India.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of the above matters.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm’s Registration No.
117366W / W - 100018) P .
R. RAMESH Partner Mumbai, April 18, 2017 (Membership No.
70928)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2016-17 128 I  Consolidated Financial Statements A.
EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL (` crores)                     Balance as at April 1, 2015                                              Changes in equity share capital                                           Balance as at March 31, 2016                                           during the year                                                          197                                             -           197 (` crores)                                          Balance as at April 1, 2016                                         Changes in equity s hare capital                                       Balance as at March 31, 2017                                               during the year                                                         197                                          -                                          197 B.
OTHER EQUITY (` crores) R eserves and surplus Items of other comprehensive income Equity Non- Total Capital Securi- Capital General Special Retained Statutory Invest- Cash flow Foreign attribut- controlling Equity reserve ties redemp- reserve Economic earnings reserve ment Hedging reserve currency able to interersts premium tion Zone revaluation Intrinsic Time transla- share- reserve re-invest- reserve value value tion holders ment reserve of the reserve Company Balance as at April 1, 2015 75 1,919 413 8,245 - 43,904 120 3 131 (1) 1,047 55,856 223 56,079 P rofit for the year - - - - - 24,270 - - - - - 24,270 68 24,338 Other comprehensive income - - - - - (108) - 56 (63) (18) 361 228 41 269 Total comprehensive income - - - - - 24,162 - 56 (63) (18) 361 24,498 109 24,607 Dividend (including tax on dividend) - - - - - (9,479) - - - - - (9,479) (36) (9,515) Transfer to reserves (Refer note 17) - - 110 2,304 - (2,479) 65 - - - - - - - Realised gain on equity shares carried - - - - - 5 - (5) - - - - - - at fair value through OCI Remeasurement of obligation to - - - - - - - - - - - - 59 59 acquire non-controlling interests Balance as at March 31, 2016 75 1,919 523 10,549 - 56,113 185 5 4 68 (19) 1,408 70,875 355 71,230 Balance as at April 1, 2016 75 1,919 523 10,549 - 56,113 185 54 68 (19) 1,408 70,875 355 71,230 P rofit for the year - - - - - 26,289 - - - - - 26,289 68 26,357 Other comprehensive income - - - - - (206) - 464 37 2 (469) (172) (5) (177) Total comprehensive income - - - - - 26,083 - 464 37 2 (469) 26,117 63 26,180 Dividend (including tax on dividend) - - - - - (10,947) - - - - - (10,947) (26) (10,973) Transfer to reserves (Refer note 17) - - - - - (33) 33 - - - - - - - Realised loss on equity shares carried - - - - - (20) - 20 - - - - - - at fair value through OCITransfer to Special Economic Zone-- -- 376 (376) ------- - re-investment reserveTransfer from Special Economic Zone- - - - (279) 279 - - - - - - - - re-investment reserve on utilisationPurchase of non-controlling interests- - - - - (28) - - - - - (28) (26) (54) Balance as at March 31, 2017 75 1,919 523 10,549 97 71,071 218 538 105 (17) 939 86,017 366 86,383 C. NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1–33 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 For and on behalf of the Board N. Chandrasekaran V. Ramakrishnan Dr. Ron Sommer Suprakash Mukhopadhyay Dr. Vijay Kelkar Ishaat Hussain V. ThyagarajanChairman CFO Director Company Secretary Director Director Director Rajesh Gopinathan N. Ganpathy Subramanian O.P Bhatt Prof. Clayton M. Christensen Aman Mehta Aarthi SubramanianCEO and Managing Director COO and Executive Director Director Director Director Executive Director As per our report attached For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Chartered Accountants P .
R. RameshPartnerMumbai, April 18, 2017                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Unconsolidated Financial  Statements TCS Peepul Park, Trivandrum                                                                         Unconsolidated Financial Statements  I 185 f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls over financial reporting of the Company and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in ‘Annexure A’.
Our report expresses an unmodified opinion on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the Company’s internal financial controls over financial reporting.
g) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us: i.
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its standalone Ind AS financial statements.
ii.
The Company has made provision, as required under the applicable law or accounting standards, for material foreseeable losses on long-term contracts including derivative contracts.
iii.
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by the Company.
iv.
The Company has provided requisite disclosures in the standalone Ind AS financial statements as regards its holding and dealings in Specified Bank Notes as defined in the Notification S.O.
3407(E) dated November 8, 2016 of the Ministry of Finance, during the period from November 8, 2016 to December 30, 2016.
Based on audit procedures performed and the representations provided to us by the management we report that the disclosures are in accordance with the books of account maintained by the Company and as produced to us by the Management.
2.
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2016 (‘the Order’) issued by the Central Government in terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, we give in ‘Annexure B’ a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm’s Registration No.
117366W / W - 100018) P .
R. RAMESH Mumbai, April 18, 2017 Partner (Membership No.
70928)                                                                                Unconsolidated Financial Statements  I 187 Opinion In our opinion, to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the Company has, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls system over financial reporting and such internal financial controls over financial reporting were operating effectively as at March 31, 2017, based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm’s Registration No.
117366W / W - 100018) P .
R. RAMESH Mumbai, April 18, 2017 Partner (Membership No.
70928)                                                                                           Unconsolidated Financial Statements  I 189 2005-2006, 2006-2007, 2008-2009 High Court 1994-1995, 2001-2002, 2002-2003, 2003-2004, 142 2004-2005, 2005-2006, 2007-2008, 2008-2009, 2009-2010, 2010-2011, 2011-2012, 2012-2013 Service Tax Commissioner of Service tax (Appeals) 2002-2003, 2003-2004, 2004-2005, 2005-2006, 4 2006-2007, 2007-2008, 2008-2009, 2009-2010, 2010-2011, 2011-2012, 2012-2013, 2013-2014, 2014-2015 Tribunal 2003-2004, 2004-2005, 2005-2006, 2006-2007, 85 2007-2008, 2008-2009, 2009-2010, 2010-2011, 2011-2012, 2012-2013 * Indicates amount less than `0.50 crore.
There were no dues of duty of Customs, duty of Excise and Cess which have not been deposited as at March 31, 2017 on account of dispute.
viii.
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not defaulted in the repayment of loans or borrowings to banks.
The Company does not have any loans or borrowings from financial institutions or government and has not issued any debentures.
ix.
The Company has not raised moneys by way of initial public offer or further public offer (including debt instruments) or ter m loans and hence reporting under clause 3 (ix) of the Order is not applicable.
x.
To the best of our knowledge and according to the information and explanations given to us, no fraud by the Company and no material fraud on the Company by its officers or employees has been noticed or reported during the year.
xi.
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has paid/provided managerial remun eration in accordance with the requisite approvals mandated by the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act.
xii.
The Company is not a Nidhi Company and hence reporting under clause 3(xii) of the Order is not applicable.
xiii.
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us the Company is in compliance with Section 177 and 188 of the Act, where applicable, for all transactions with the related parties and the details of related party transactions have been disclosed in the standalone Ind AS financial statements as required by the applicable accounting standards.
xiv.
During the year, the Company has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or fully or partly conv ertible debentures and hence reporting under clause 3(xiv) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
xv.
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, during the year the Company has not entered in to any non-cash transactions with its Directors or persons connected to its Directors and hence provisions of section 192 of the Act are not applicable.
xvi.
The Company is not required to be registered under section 45-I of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm’s Registration No.
117366W / W - 100018) P .
R. RAMESH Mumbai, April 18, 2017 Partner (Membership No.
70928) Particular Forum where the dispute is pending Financial Year to which the amount Total relates (` Crores)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Annual Report 2016-17 236 I   (` crores) Sr.  No.
Name of the Subsidiary Company Date of acquiring  subsidiary  Start date of  accounting  period of  subsidiary   End date of  accounting period  of subsidiary  Reporting  Currency  Exchange  Rate   Share  Capital   Reserves  & Surplus  Total Assets  Total  Liabilities  Investments  Turnover   Profit  before  Taxation   Provision  for  Taxation   Profit after  Taxation   Proposed  Dividend  % of  Shareholding  Country  1 APTOnline Limited August 9, 2004 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 INR  1.000000  2  64  191  125  45  146  32  11  21  10 89% India 2 MP Online Limited September 8, 2006 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 INR  1.000000  1  73  125  51  39  86  31  11  20  8 89% India 3 C-Edge Technologies Limited January 19, 2006 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 INR  1.000000  10  121  209  78  -    254  54  20  34  17 51% India 4 MahaOnline Limited September 23, 2010 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 INR  1.000000  3  43  135  89  45  69  7  2  5  2 74% India 5 CMC Americas Inc August 9, 2004 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 USD 64.845000  10  154  244  80  -    327  56  22  34  -   100% U.S.A. 6 CMC eBiz Inc. January 27, 2011 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 USD 64.845000  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% U.S.A. 7 TCS e-Serve International Limited December 31, 2008 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 INR  1.000000  10  212  273  51  118  142  58  17  41  -   100% India 8 TCS e-Serve America, Inc. February 10, 2009 January 1,2016 December 31,2016 USD 64.845000  2  6  34  26  -    88  (8)  -    (8)  -   100% U.S.A. 9 Diligenta Limited August 23, 2005 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 GBP 80.803336  8  583  847  256  162  1,485  7  (1)  8  -   100% U.K. 10 Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc. October 1, 2009 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 CAD 48.576672  34  474  1,036  528  -    3,656  415  111  304  170 100% Canada 11 Tata America International Corporation August 9, 2004 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 USD 64.845000  1  3,323  12,375  9,051  113  53,685  1,846  756  1,090  -   100% U.S.A. 12 Tata Consultancy Services Asia Pacific Pte Ltd. August 9, 2004 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 USD 64.845000  29  470  807  308  495  1,662  138  22  116  110 100% Singapore 13 Tata Consultancy Services ( China) Co.,Ltd November 16, 2006 January 1,2016 December 31,2016 CNY  9.409554  190  (13)  269  92  -    498  59  24  35  -   93.2% China 14 Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd. July 1, 2014 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 JPY  0.579361  251  604  1,625  770  -    3,451  143  45  98  21 51% Japan 15 Tata Consultancy Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd August 9, 2004 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 MYR 14.659869  3  90  172  79  -    353  15  -    15  -   100% Malaysia 16 PT Tata Consultancy Services Indonesia October 5, 2006 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 IDR  0.004866  -    27  44  17  -    66  21  4  17  17 100% Indonesia 17 Tata Consultancy Services (Philippines) Inc. September 19, 2008 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 PHP  1.289960  36  176  306  94  -    537  72  1  71  -   100% Philippines 18 Tata Consultancy Services (Thailand) Limited May 12, 2008 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 THB  1.886071  2  12  19  5  -    28  3  -    3  -   100% Thailand 19 Tata Consultancy Services Belgium S.A. August 9, 2004 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 EUR 69.293356  1  256  404  147  -    1,015  144  48  96  -   100% Belgium 20 Tata Consultancy Services Deutschland GmbH August 9, 2004 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 EUR 69.293356  1  126  771  644  -    2,316  139  45  94  69 100% Germany 21 Tata Consultancy Services Sverige AB August 9, 2004 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 SEK  7.261072  -    309  772  463  -    1,880  158  36  122  -   100% Sweden 22 Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV August 9, 2004 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 EUR 69.293356  457  1,409  2,252  386  1,329  2,405  421  106  315  -   100% Netherlands 23 TCS Italia SRL August 9, 2004 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 EUR 69.293356  15  (13)  111  109  -    296  10  8  2  -   100% Italy 24 Tata Consultancy Services Luxembourg S.A. October 28, 2005 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 EUR 69.293356  39  13  75  23  -    155  33  8  25  -   100% Capellen  (G.D. de  Luxembourg) Statement pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013, read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies   I 237 (` crores) Sr.  No.
Name of the Subsidiary Company Date of acquiring  subsidiary  Start date of  accounting  period of  subsidiary   End date of  accounting period  of subsidiary  Reporting  Currency  Exchange  Rate   Share  Capital   Reserves  & Surplus   Total  Assets   Total  Liabilities  Investments  Turnover   Profit  before  Taxation   Provision  for  Taxation   Profit after  Taxation   Proposed  Dividend  % of  Shareholding  Country  25 Tata Consultancy Services Switzerland Ltd. October 31, 2006 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 CHF  64.819072  10  272  651  369  98  1,643  137  25  112  -   100% Switzerland 26 Tata Consultancy Services France S.A.S August 9, 2004 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 EUR  69.293356  2  (1)  394  393  -    651  6  3  3  -   100% France 27 Tata Consultancy Services Osterreich GmbH March 9, 2012 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 EUR  69.293356  -    4  25  21  -    23  2  1  1  -   100% Austria 28 Tata Consultancy Services Danmark ApS March 16, 2012 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 DKK  9.317078  1  2  6  3  -    11  -    -    -    -   100% Denmark 29 Tata Consultancy Services De Espana S.A. August 9, 2004 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 EUR  69.293356  -    15  131  116  -    216  14  -    14  -   100% Spain 30 Tata Consultancy Services Portugal Unipessoal Limitada July 4, 2005 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 EUR  6 9.293356  -    (13)  17  30  -    19  (1)  -    (1)  -   100% Portugal 31 Alti S.A. June 28, 2013 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 EUR  69.293356  3  (15)  452  464  75  701  (115)  11  (126)  -   100% France 32 Alti HR S.A.S.
June 28, 2013 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 EUR  69.293356  -    10  12  2  -    3  (1)  -    (1)  -   100% France 33 Tescom (France) Software Systems Testing S.A.R.L.
June 28, 2013 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 EUR  69.293356  1  (10)  2  11  -    7  (3)  -    (3)  -   100% France 34 Alti Switzerland S.A. June 28, 2013 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 CHF  64.819072  1  11  16  4  -    43  1  -    1  -   100% Switzerland 35 Alti Infrastructures Systemes & Reseaux S.A.S.
June 28, 2013 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 EUR  69.293356  -    (2)  -    2  -    3  (1)  -    (1)  -   100% France 36 Alti NV June 28, 2013 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 EUR  69.293356  6  (2)  19  15  -    52  (8)  -    (8)  -   100% Belgium 37 Teamlink June 28, 2013 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 EUR  69.293356  -    (1)  3  4  -    -    -    -    -    -   100% Belgium 38 Planaxis Technologies Inc. June 28, 2013 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 EUR  69.293356  -    40  58  18  -    46  3  -    3  -   100% Canada 39 Tata Consultancy Services Saudi Arabia July 2, 2015 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 SAR  17.291078  6  35  165  124  -    323  47  12  35  -   76% Saudi Arabia 40 Tata Consultancy Services (Africa) (PTY) Ltd. October 23, 2007 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 ZAR  4.847318  7  45  52  -    52  -    45  -    45  -   100% South Africa 41 Tata Consultancy Services (South Africa) (PTY) Ltd. October 31, 2007 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 ZAR  4.847318  9  50  264  205  -    662  39  11  28  45 100% South Africa 42 TCS FNS Pty Limited October 17, 2005 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 AUD  49.599941  5  (4)  17 16  -    -    -    -    -    -   100% Australia 43 TCS Financial Solutions Beijing Co., Ltd. December 29, 2006 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 CNY  9.409554  34  (5)  97  68  -    80  2  1  1  -   100% China 44 TCS Financial Solutions Australia Holdings Pty Limited October 19, 2005 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 AUD  49.599941  69  (20)  49  -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% Australia 45 TCS Financial Solutions Australia Pty Limited October 19, 2005 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 AUD  49.599941  -    125  149  24  36  59  47  17  30  -   100% Australia 46 TCS Iberoamerica SA August 9, 2004 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 UYU  2.269688  638  585  1,344  121  1,344  -    119  5  114  -   100% Uruguay 47 TCS Solution Center S.A. August 9, 2004 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 UYU  2.269688  82  27  324  215  -    554  35  7  28  -   100% Uruguay 48 Tata Consultancy Services Argentina S.A. August 9, 2004 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 ARS  4.205253  18  (54)  28  64  -    65  (14)  -    (14)  -   99.99% Argentina Statement pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013, read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies Annual Report 2016-17 238 I   (` crores) Sr.  No.
Name of the Subsidiary Company Date of acquiring  subsidiary  Start date of  accounting  period of  subsidiary   End date of  accounting period of  subsidiary  Reporting  Currency  Exchange  Rate   Share  Capital   Reserves  & Surplus   Total  Assets   Total  Liabilities  Investments  Turnover   Profit  before  Taxation   Provision  for  Taxation   Profit after  Taxation   Proposed  Dividend  % of  Shareholding  Country  49 Tata Consultancy Services Do Brasil Ltda August 9, 2004 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 BRL  20.579834  362  (289)  254  181  -    484  16  7  9  -   100% Brazil 50 Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A., De C.V. August 9, 2004 January 1,2016 December 31,2016 MXN  3.472085  1  508   700  191  -    1,705  391  120  271  102 100% Mexico 51 Tata Consultancy Services Chile S.A. August 9,2004 January 1,2016 December 31,2016 CLP  0.097785  166   500  757  91  65  433  62  (2)  64  -   100% Chile 52 TCS Inversiones Chile Limitada August 9,2004 January 1,2016 December 31,2016 CLP  0.097785  150  161  315  4  314  -    (1)  -    (1)  -   99.99% Chile 53 TATASOLUTION CENTER S.A. December 28, 2006 January 1,2016 December 31,2016 USD  64.845000  19  46  240  175  -    659  (24)  11  (35)  65 100% Ecuador 54 TCS Uruguay S.A. January 1, 2010 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 UYU  2.269688  -    53  84  31  -    185  8  2  6  33 100% Uruguay 55 MGDC S.C. January 1, 2010 January 1,2016 December 31,2016 MXN  3.472085  -    122  216  94  -    860  57  18  39  -   100% Mexico 56 TECHNOLOGY OUTSOURCING S.A.C October 30,2015 January 1,2016 December 31,2016 PEN  19.966438  11  (3)  31  23  -     100  (4)  (2)  (2)  -   100% Peru 57 Tata Consultancy Services Qatar S.S.C.
December 20, 2011 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 QAR  17.809179  4  62  83  17  -    123  9  1  8  -   100% Qatar 58 TCS Foundation March 25, 2015 April 1,2016 March 31,2017 INR  1.000000  1  499  504  4  473  -    222  -    222  -   100% India Notes:         1.
Indian rupee equivalents of the figures given in foreign currencies in the accounts of the subsidiary companies, are based on the exchange rates as on March 31, 2017.
2.
Diligenta2 Ltd. was liquidated on March 14, 2017.
3.
PT Financial Network Services was liquidated on March 16, 2017.
4.
MSCJV was liquidated on January 24, 2017.
For and on behalf of the Board N. Chandrasekaran V. Ramakrishnan   Dr. Ron Sommer Aarthi Subramanian   O. P .
Bhatt  Chairman  CFO    Director    Executive Director    Director Rajesh Gopinathan  Ishaat Hussain  V. Thyagarajan Prof. Clayton M Christensen CEO and Managing Director    Director  Director    Director N. Ganpathy Subramaniam  Dr. Vijay Kelkar  Aman Mehta                   Suprakash Mukhopadhyay  COO and Executive Director    Director  Director                           Company Secretary  Statement pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013, read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies Glossary Analytics In the enterprise context, this is the discovery, interpretation, and communication of meaningful patterns in business data to predict and improve business performance Application Programming  Interface (API) APIs are a set of easily accessible protocols for communication between various software components APIfication The process of exposing a discrete business function or data within an enterprise's systems through APIs Application Development  and Maintenance Design, development, and deployment of custom software; ongoing support, upkeep, and enhancement of such software on behalf of the client Artificial Intelligence (AI) AI is technology that appears to emulate human performance typically by learning, arriving at its own conclusions, appearing to understand complex content,  engaging in natural dialogs with people, enhancing human cognitive performance (cognitive computing) or replacing people on execution of non-routine tasks Asset Leveraged Solutions Software solutions delivered by leveraging TCS' IP / frameworks or software products Assurance Services Quality Assurance and Engineering Services encompassing business requirements validation, static and functional testing, non-functional testing including  performance engineering, user experience, security and test automation Attrition This measures what portion of the workforce left the organization (voluntarily or involuntarily) in a certain period.
Attrition looks at employee departures over the  last 12 months (LTM).
The formula is: Total number of departures in the LTM / closing headcount Augmented Reality (AR) Augmented Reality is a technology that superimposes a computer-generated image on a user's view of the real world to enrich the interaction Automation Automation is the execution of work by machines in accordance with rules that have either been explicitly coded by a human or ‘learned’ by the machine through  pattern recognition of data Basis Point A basis point is one hundredth of a percentage point, that is, 0.01% Big Data Big Data is high volume, high velocity, and/or high variety information assets that require new forms of processing to enable enhanced decision making, insight  discovery, and process optimization Book Value The value at which an asset or a liability is carried on a balance sheet or the value of intial outlay for an investment.
Blockchain Blockchain is a distributed database that maintains a continuously growing list of records, called blocks, secured from tampering and revision Business Process  Services (BPS) Designing, enabling, and executing business operations including data management, analytics, interactions and experience management Chatbots Chatbots are computer programs designed to simulate conversation with human users, especially over the internet.
They are typically used in dialog systems for  various practical purposes like customer service or information acquisition Cognitive Computing Cognitive computing is the simulation of human thought processes in a computerized model.
It involves self-learning systems that use data mining, pattern  recognition, and natural language processing to mimic the way the human brain works Constant Currency Restating the current period's revenue or profit after eliminating the impact of currency movement in the intervening period gives the constant currency revenue or profit At TCS, this is done by recalculating the current period's revenue using the average currency conversion rates from the prior period Cross-currency impact When a company derives revenues in multiple currencies, the change in conversion rates of those currencies to the reporting currency (for example, INR) in the  current period, vis-à-vis the conversion rates of the prior period affects the reported revenue.
This revenue impact due to shifts in the value of currencies relative to  the reporting currency is called cross-currency impact For example, if 50% of the revenue is denominated in USD, and the USD has depreciated against the INR by 5% in a period, even if the company earns the same  amount of dollars as in the prior period, it still translates into fewer rupees this period.
The cross-currency impact on revenue will be 50% x 5% = 2.5% Cyber Security Cyber Security is the body of technologies, processes, and practices designed to protect networks, computers, programs, and data from attack, damage, or  unauthorized access.
In a computing context, security includes both cyber security and physical security Days' Sales Outstanding  (DSO) Days' Sales Outstanding is a popular way of depicting the Accounts Receivable  relative to the company's revenue over the last twelve months (DSO = Accounts  Receivable * 365 / Revenue) Digital Technologies Digital technologies represent the nexus of new age services such as Social Media, Mobility, Analytics, Big Data, Cloud, Artificial Intelligence and Internet of Things Discretionary Spend Discretionary spend, also known as Change the Business (CTB) spend, is that portion of the IT budget that's outside of the basic minimum IT activities required to keep the  business running.
Projects that transform the manner in which business operates are considered discretionary In uncertain economic times, it may be necessary for businesses to cut spend in response to decline in income and discretionary spend is often the first one to be scrutinized Discretionary spend is subjective, and may differ considerably among business Dividend Payout Ratio Dividend Payout Ratio is the ratio of the annual dividend paid (including dividend distribution tax) to the Net Income, usually expressed as a percentage Earnings per Share (EPS) EPS for any period is the amount of that period's Net Income attributable to a single share after deducting any preference dividend and related taxes EPS = [Net profit – Preference dividend if any] / Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period Effective Tax Rate (ETR) ETR is the proportion of the Profit Before Taxes that is provided for payment of income taxes ETR = Provision for Taxes / Profit Before Taxes Engineering and  Industrial Services Next Generation Product Engineering, Manufacturing Operations Transformation, Services Transformation, Embedded software and Internet of Things Enterprise Solutions and  Consulting Business and technology consulting, design, architecture, implementation, and support services on Enterprise Application platforms covering the front, middle,  and back-office applications such as ERP , CRM, Supply Chain, Content Management etc., on-premise, cloud and other digital platforms Fair Value The fair value of a financial asset or liability is the price that would be received on selling an asset or paid on transferring a liability in an orderly transaction between  market participants at the measurement date 239Glossary Glossary Gamification Gamification is the process of adding games or game-like elements to any activity in order to enrich experiences and encourage user participation IT Infrastructure Services  (IT IS) Technical consulting, remote infrastructure management, hosting, process and tools optimization, and technical transformation of the enterprise IT infrastructure  to a future proof hybrid cloud model Internet of Things (IoT) IoT is a network of interconnected machines or devices which are embedded with sensors, software, network connectivity, and necessary electronics to generate  and share run-time data that can be studied and used to monitor or control remotely, predict failure, and optimize the design of those machines / devices Invested Funds Invested funds are funds that are highly liquid in nature, and can be readily converted into cash Invested Funds = Cash and Bank Balances + Investments + Deposits with Banks + Inter corporate Deposits Key Managerial  Personnel (KMP) KMP in relation to our Company means the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director, Chief Financial Officer, all Executive Directors, Global Head for Human  Resource and the Company Secretary.
Please refer to the Company's policy on KMP: http://www.tcs.com/ir-corporate-governance Machine Learning Machine learning is a type of artificial intelligence (AI) that provides computers with the ability to learn without being explicitly programmed Market Capitalization Total market value of all of a company's outstanding equity shares Market Cap = Last Trading Price * Total number of outstanding shares Non controlling Interest Minority Interest is the share of the consolidated profits attributable to interests of the non-controlling ownership in the subsidiaries.
Non-discretionary Spend Non-Discretionary spend, also known as Run the Business (RTB) spend, is that portion of the IT budget that covers the basic  IT activities required to keep a  business running Even in tough economic times, non-discretionary spend remains relatively unaffected Offshore leverage This is the proportion of our international revenues derived from services that are delivered out of centers in India.
A service delivered out of an offshore delivery  center is billed at a lower rate compared to what would be applicable if delivered out of the customer’s location.
So higher offshore leverage depresses the revenue  growth relative to the volume growth but expands the gross margin Pricing This is the price charged to the customer per unit of effort.
In  contracts, pricing is the billing rate for a unit of effort (usually measured in person-hours).
In Fixed Price  contracts, pricing is the total sum the customer is expected to pay for the turnkey solution delivered.
Some use this term interchangeably (and somewhat  inaccurately) with the average revenue realized by the company per unit of effort.
See Realization Realization This is the revenue received by the company per unit of effort expended.
TCS reports the quarter on quarter change in realization (in percentage terms) after  removing any impact of changes in currency exchange rates and also any impact of change in offshore leverage between the two periods Billing rates vary depending on what service is offered, and in which part of the world, so it is important to note that increases or decreases in realization could be  because of changes in the underlying business or geographic mix and not necessarily because of a change in the pricing of a service.
Also, realization doesn't take  into account the costs and therefore higher realization is not necessarily more profitable Related Party  Transactions Any transaction between a company and its related party involving transfer of services, resources or any obligation, regardless of whether a price is charged.
Please refer the Company's policy on Related Party Transactions : http://www.tcs.com/ir-corporate-governance Simplification Simplification is the term used to describe the rationalization of IT architectures through consolidation of systems and elimination of redundant systems and layers.
The primary purpose is to shrink the IT footprint and make operations leaner and more efficient Unbilled Revenue (UBR) UBR is revenue that is yet to be invoiced for services already delivered.
The budgeted effort has been expended (and therefore the revenue has been recognized)  and yet, no invoice has been raised.
While this could happen due to several reasons, the most common one is the customer delay in acceptance of a project  deliverable.
This is the opposite of Unearned Revenue Unearned Revenue (UER) UER is money received in advance for services yet to be delivered.
In other words, it is revenue that has been invoiced and collected from the client although the  underlying effort is yet to be expended.
Unearned revenue is the opposite of Unbilled Revenue Virtual Reality (VR) VR is an artificial, computer-generated simulation or recreation of a real life environment or situation.
It engages users by offering simulated reality experiences  firsthand, primarily by stimulating their vision and hearing Volume Volume in any period is the Billed Effort and the quantum of hardware equipment and software licenses sold in that period Disclaimer: This glossary is intended to help understand commonly used terms and phrases in TCS' Annual Report.
The explanations are not intended to be technical definitions.
If explanations  provided here are found to be different from what is described in the Company's periodic financial statements (not limited to Notes to Accounts), then the definition provided in the  certified financial statements will prevail.
Forward Contract A Forward Contract is a hedging instrument wherein two parties agree to buy or sell a particular currency at a pre-determined rate (OR Forward Currency rate ) on a  specific future date.
For e.g.
TCS enters into a forward contract to sell USD 1mn after 3 months @ `  68.
Irrespective of the prevailing USD spot rate, TCS will be obliged to sell USD 1mn  @ ` 68 at the end of 3 months.
240 Glossary Annual Report 2016-17 Title Sponsors Certain statements in this release concerning our future prospects are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements by their nature involve a number of risks and  uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from market expectations.
These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to our ability to manage  growth, intense competition among Indian and overseas IT services companies, various factors which may affect our cost advantage, such as wage increases or an appreciating  Rupee, our ability to attract and retain highly skilled professionals, time and cost overruns on fixed-price, fixed-time frame contracts, client concentration, restrictions on cross- border movement of skilled personnel, our ability to manage our international operations, reduced demand for technology in our key focus areas, disruptions in telecommunication  networks, our ability to successfully complete and integrate potential acquisitions, liability for damages on our service contracts, the success of the companies in which TCS has  made strategic investments, withdrawal of governmental fiscal incentives, political instability, legal restrictions on raising capital or acquiring companies outside India,  unauthorized use of our intellectual property and general economic conditions affecting our industry.
TCS may, from time to time, make additional written and oral forward-looking  statements, including our reports to shareholders.
These forward-looking statements represent only the Company’s current intentions, beliefs or expectations, and any forward- looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it was made.
The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements.
Promoting fitness  in the Community TCS is the title sponsor of premier marathons across the globe, including the TCS World 10K  Bengaluru, the TCS New York City Marathon, the TCS Amsterdam Marathon, and the  TCS Lidingloppet (the world's largest cross country run), and the technology partner to the  Marathons held in Mumbai, London, Singapore, Chicago, and Boston -- all part of our effort to  promote health and fitness in the communities we work with the world over.
Produced and Designed by: Global Investor Relations and Corporate Marketing, Tata Consultancy Services Tata Consultancy Services Limited 9th Floor  Nirmal Building  Nariman Point  Mumbai 400 021 www.tcs.com IT Services Business Solutions Consulting Notice Notice is hereby given that the twenty-second Annual General Meeting of Tata Consultancy Services Limited will be held on Friday,  June 16, 2017 at 3.30 p.m. at Birla Matushri Sabhagar, 19, Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Marg, New Marine Lines, Mumbai 400 020, to  transact the following business: 1.
To receive, consider and adopt: a. the Audited Financial Statements of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2017, together with the Reports  of the Board of Directors and the Auditors thereon; and b. the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2017, together with  the Report of the Auditors thereon.
2.
To confirm the payment of Interim Dividends on Equity Shares and to declare a Final Dividend on Equity Shares for the financial  year 2016 -17.
3.
To appoint a Director in place of Ms. Aarthi Subramanian (DIN 07121802) who retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers  herself for re-appointment.
4.
Appointment of Statutory Auditors of the Company To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Section 139 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013  (“Act”) and the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, B S R & Co. LLP , Chartered  Accountants (Firm Registration No.
101248W/W - 100022), be and is hereby appointed as Auditors of the Company in place of  the retiring auditors Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP , Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No.
117366W/W-100018), to hold  office from the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) till the conclusion of the twenty-seventh AGM to be held in  the year 2022 (subject to ratification of their appointment at every AGM if so required under the Act), at such remuneration, as  may be mutually agreed between the Board of Directors of the Company and the Auditors.” 5.
Appointment of Mr. N. Chandrasekaran as a Director of the Company To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:  "RESOLVED that Mr. N. Chandrasekaran (DIN 00121863) who was appointed by the Board of Directors as an Additional Director  of the Company with effect from February 21, 2017 and who holds office up to the date of this Annual General Meeting of the  Company in terms of Section 161(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), but who is eligible for appointment and in respect of  whom the Company has received a notice in writing from a Member under Section 160(1) of the Act proposing his candidature  for the office of Director of the Company, be and is hereby appointed a Director of the Company, liable to retire by rotation.” 6.
Appointment of Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan as a Director of the Company   To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:  "RESOLVED that Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan (DIN 06365813 ) who was appointed by the Board of Directors as an Additional Director  of the Company with effect from February 21, 2017 and who holds office up to the date of this Annual General Meeting of the  01 Notice Annual Report 2016-17 Company in terms of Section 161(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), but who is eligible for appointment and in respect of  whom the Company has received a notice in writing from a Member under Section 160(1) of the Act proposing his candidature  for the office of Director of the Company, be and is hereby appointed a Director of the Company, not liable to retire by rotation.”   7.
Appointment of Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan as Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of the Company   To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Sections 196, 197 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act,  2013, (“Act”), read with Schedule V to the Act and the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel)  Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, the Company hereby approves the appointment and terms of remuneration of Mr.  Rajesh Gopinathan (DIN 06365813), as the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of the Company for a period of five  years with effect from February 21, 2017 upon the terms and conditions set out in the Explanatory Statement annexed to the  Notice convening this Annual General Meeting, (including the remuneration to be paid in the event of loss or inadequacy of  profits in any financial year during the tenure of his appointment) with authority to the Board of Directors to alter and vary the  terms and conditions of the said appointment in such manner as may be agreed to between the Board of Directors and Mr.  Rajesh Gopinathan.” “RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Directors of the Company (which term shall be deemed to include any Committee of the  Board constituted to exercise its powers, including the powers conferred by this Resolution) be and is hereby authorised to take  all such steps as may be necessary, proper and expedient to give effect to this Resolution.” 8.
Appointment of Mr. N. Ganapathy Subramaniam as a Director of the Company  To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:  "RESOLVED that Mr. N. Ganapathy Subramaniam (DIN 07006215), who was appointed by the Board of Directors as an  Additional Director of the Company with effect from February 21, 2017 and who holds office up to the date of this Annual  General Meeting of the Company in terms of Section 161(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), but who is eligible for  appointment and in respect of whom the Company has received a notice in writing from a Member under Section 160(1) of the  Act proposing his candidature for the office of Director of the Company, be and is hereby appointed a Director of the Company,  liable to retire by rotation."
9.
Appointment of Mr. N. Ganapathy Subramaniam as Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director of the Company To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Sections 196, 197 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act,  2013 (“Act”), read with Schedule V to the Act, and the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel)  Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, the Company hereby approves the appointment and terms of remuneration of Mr.  N. Ganapathy Subramaniam (DIN 07006215) as Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director of the Company for a period of  five years with effect from February 21, 2017 upon the terms and conditions set out in the Explanatory Statement annexed to  the Notice convening this Annual General Meeting, (including the remuneration to be paid in the event of loss or inadequacy of  profits in any financial year during the tenure of his appointment) with authority to the Board of Directors to alter and vary the  terms and conditions of the said appointment in such manner as may be agreed to between the Board of Directors and Mr. N.  Ganapathy Subramaniam.” 02Notice “RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Directors of the Company (which term shall be deemed to include any Committee of the  Board constituted to exercise its powers, including the powers conferred by this Resolution) be and is hereby authorised to take  all such steps as may be necessary, proper and expedient to give effect to this Resolution.” 10.
Appointment of Branch Auditors To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Section 143(8) and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013  and the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, the Board be and is hereby authorized to  appoint Branch Auditors of any branch office of the Company, whether existing or which may be opened / acquired hereafter,  outside India, in consultation with the Company's Auditors, any person(s) qualified to act as Branch Auditors and to fix their  remuneration.” Notes: 1.
The relative Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) setting out material facts  concerning the business under Item Nos.
4 to 10 of the Notice, is annexed hereto.
The relevant details as required under  Regulation 36(3) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) and  Secretarial Standard on General Meetings issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, of the person seeking  appointment/ re-appointment as Director under Item Nos.
3, 5, 6, and 8 of the Notice, are also annexed.
2.
A Member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and  vote instead of himself and the proxy need not be a Member of the Company.
The instrument appointing the proxy, in order  to be effective, must be deposited at the Company's Registered Office, duly completed and signed, not less than FORTY-EIGHT  hours before the commencement of the AGM.
Proxies submitted on behalf of limited companies, societies etc., must be  supported by appropriate resolutions / authority, as applicable.
A person can act as proxy on behalf of Members not exceeding  fifty (50) and holding in the aggregate not more than 10% of the total share capital of the Company carrying voting rights.
In case  a proxy is proposed to be appointed by a Member holding more than 10% of the total share capital of the Company carrying  voting rights, then such proxy shall not act as a proxy for any other person or shareholder.
3.
The Register of Members and Share Transfer Books of the Company will be closed on Thursday, June 15, 2017 and Friday, June  16, 2017.
4.
Members, Proxies and Authorised Representatives are requested to bring to the meeting, the Attendance Slip enclosed  herewith, duly completed and signed, mentioning therein details of their DP ID and Client ID / Folio No.
5.
If the Final Dividend, as recommended by the Board of Directors, is approved at the AGM, payment of such dividend will be  made on Friday, June 23, 2017 as under: i.
To all Beneficial Owners in respect of shares held in dematerialized form as per the data as may be made available by the  National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and the Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL) as of the close of  business hours on Wednesday, June 14, 2017; ii.
To all Members in respect of shares held in physical form after giving effect to valid transfers in respect of transfer requests  lodged with the Company as of the close of business hours on Wednesday, June 14, 2017.
03 Notice Annual Report 2016-17 6.
Members holding shares in dematerialized form are requested to intimate all changes pertaining to their bank details such as  bank account number, name of the bank and branch details, MICR code and IFSC code, mandates, nominations, power of  attorney, change of address, change of name, e-mail address, contact numbers, etc., to their depository participant (DP).
Changes intimated to the DP will then be automatically reflected in the Company's records which will help the Company and the  Company's Registrars and Transfer Agents, TSR DARASHAW Limited (TSRDL) to provide efficient and better services.
Members holding shares in physical form are requested to intimate such changes to TSRDL.
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) has mandated the submission of Permanent Account Number (PAN) by  every participant in securities market.
Members holding shares in electronic form are, therefore, requested to submit the PAN  to their depository participants with whom they are maintaining their demat accounts.
Members holding shares in physical  form can submit their PAN details to TSRDL.
7.
Members holding shares in physical form are requested to consider converting their holdings to dematerialized form to  eliminate all risks associated with physical shares and for ease of portfolio management.
Members can contact the Company or  TSRDL for assistance in this regard.
8.
Members holding shares in physical form, in identical order of names, in more than one folio are requested to send to the  Company or TSRDL, the details of such folios together with the share certificates for consolidating their holdings in one folio.
A  consolidated share certificate will be issued to such Members after making requisite changes.
9.
In case of joint holders attending the AGM, the Member whose name appears as the first holder in the order of names as per the  Register of Members of the Company will be entitled to vote.
10.
Members seeking any information with regard to the accounts, are requested to write to the Company at an early date, so as to  enable the Management to keep the information ready at the AGM.
11.
As per the provisions of Section 72 of the Act, the facility for making nomination is available for the Members in respect of the  shares held by them.
Members who have not yet registered their nomination are requested to register the same by submitting  Form No.
SH-13.
The said form can be downloaded from the Company's website www.tcs.com (under 'Investors' section).
Members holding shares in physical form may submit the same to TSRDL.
Members holding shares in electronic form may  submit the same to their respective depository participant.
12.
Transfer of Unclaimed / Unpaid amounts to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF):  Pursuant to Sections 205A and 205C, and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 1956, all unclaimed / unpaid  dividend, application money, debenture interest and interest on deposits as well as the principal amount of debentures and  deposits, as applicable, remaining unclaimed / unpaid for a period of seven years from the date they became due for payment,  were required to be transferred to the IEPF .
Sections 124 and 125 of the Act, read with the Investor Education and Protection  Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (‘IEPF Rules’), both of which were applicable with effect  from September 7, 2016, also contain similar provisions for transfer of such amounts to the IEPF .
Accordingly, all unclaimed /  unpaid dividend, application money, debenture interest and interest on deposits as well as the principal amount of debentures  and deposits, as applicable, remaining unclaimed / unpaid for a period of seven years from the date they became due for  payment, in relation to the Company, erstwhile TCS e-Serve Limited and erstwhile CMC Limited, which have been  amalgamated with the Company, have been transferred to the IEPF established by the Central Government.
No claim shall be  entertained against the Company for the amounts so transferred.
04Notice As per Section 124(6) of the Act read with the IEPF Rules as amended, all the shares in respect of which dividend has remained  unpaid/unclaimed for seven consecutive years or more are required to be transferred to an IEPF Demat Account.
The Company has sent notice to all the members whose Dividends are lying unpaid / unclaimed against their name for seven  consecutive years or more.
Members are requested to claim the same on or before May 31, 2017.
In case the dividends are not  claimed by the said date, necessary steps will be initiated by the Company to transfer shares held by the members to IEPF  without further notice.
Please note that no claim shall lie against the Company in respect of the shares so transferred to IEPF .
In the event of transfer of shares and the unclaimed dividends to IEPF , members are entitled to claim the same from IEPF by  submitting an online application in the prescribed Form IEPF-5 available on the website www.iepf.gov.in and sending a physical  copy of the same duly signed to the Company along with the requisite documents enumerated in the Form IEPF- 5.
Members  can file only one consolidated claim in a financial year as per the IEPF Rules.
Members who have not yet encashed their dividend warrant(s) pertaining to the final dividend for the financial year 2009-10  onwards for the Company, erstwhile TCS e-Serve Limited and erstwhile CMC Limited, are requested to lodge their claims with  TSRDL.
It may be noted that the unclaimed Final Dividend for the financial year 2009-10 declared by the Company on July 2,  2010 can be claimed by the Members by July 1, 2017.
The unclaimed Final Dividend for the financial year 2009-10 declared by  erstwhile CMC Limited on June 29, 2010 can be claimed by the Members by June 28, 2017 and the unclaimed Final Dividend for  the financial year 2009-10 declared by erstwhile e-Serve Limited on August 24, 2010 can be claimed by the Members by  August 23, 2017.
Members attention is particularly drawn to the “Corporate Governance” section of the Annual Report in  respect of unclaimed dividend.
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’) on May 10, 2012 notified the Investor Education and Protection Fund (Uploading of  information regarding Unpaid and Unclaimed amount lying with Companies) Rules 2012.
In terms of the above Rules, the  Company has uploaded the information in respect of the Unclaimed Dividends, as on the date of last AGM i.e.
June 17, 2016, on  the website of the IEPF viz.
www.iepf.gov.in and under ‘Investors’ section on the website of the Company viz.
www.tcs.com.
13.
The Notice of the AGM along with the Annual Report 2016-17 is being sent by electronic mode to those Members whose e-mail  addresses are registered with the Company / Depositories, unless any Member has requested for a physical copy of the same.
For Members who have not registered their e-mail addresses, physical copies are being sent by the permitted mode.
Members  may note that this Notice and the Annual Report 2016-17 will also be available on the Company's website viz.
www.tcs.com.
14.
To support the 'Green Initiative', Members who have not registered their e-mail addresses are requested to register the same  with DPs / TSRDL.
15.
The route map showing directions to reach the venue of the twenty-second AGM is annexed.
16.
In compliance with the provisions of Section 108 of the Act read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management and  Administration) Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, and Regulation 44 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Members  are provided with the facility to cast their vote electronically, through the e-voting services provided by NSDL, on all the  resolutions set forth in this Notice.
The instructions for e-voting are given herein below.
Resolution(s) passed by Members  through e-voting is/are deemed to have been passed as if they have been passed at the AGM.
17.
The Board of Directors has appointed Mr. P .
N. Parikh of M/s.
Parikh & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries (Membership  No.
FCS 327) and failing him Mr. Mitesh Dhabliwala, Practicing Company Secretary (Membership No.
FCS 8331) as the  Scrutinizer to scrutinize the voting at the meeting and remote e-voting process in a fair and transparent manner.
05 Notice Annual Report 2016-17 18 The facility for voting, either through electronic voting system or polling paper shall also be made available at the AGM and the  Members attending the meeting who have not already cast their vote by remote e-voting shall be able to exercise their right to  vote at the AGM.
19.
The Members who have cast their vote by remote e-voting prior to the AGM may also attend the AGM but shall not be entitled  to cast their vote again.
20.
The instructions for e-voting are as under: A.
In case a Member receives an e-mail from NSDL (for Members whose e-mail addresses are registered with the Company /  Depositories): I.
Open the email and also open the PDF file, namely, “TCS e-voting.pdf”, with your Client ID or Folio No.
as password.
The said PDF file contains your User ID and password for e-voting.
Please note that the password is an initial password.
NOTE: Shareholders already registered with NSDL for e-voting will not receive the PDF file “TCS e-voting.pdf”.
ii.
Open the internet browser and type the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com.
iii.
Click on Shareholder – Login.
iv.
If you are already registered with NSDL for e-voting, then you can use your existing user ID and password for casting  your vote.
NOTE: Shareholders who forgot the User Details/ Password can use “Forgot User Details/Password?” or “Physical  User Reset Password?” option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
In case Shareholders are holding shares in demat mode, User ID is the combination of (DPID + Client ID).
In case Shareholders are holding shares in physical mode, User ID is the combination of (Even No + Folio No.).
v. If you are logging in for the first time, please enter the User ID and password provided in the PDF file attached with the  e-mail as initial password.
The Password Change Menu will appear on your screen.
Change to a new password of your  choice, making sure that it contains a minimum of 8 digits or characters or a combination of both.
Please take utmost  care to keep your password confidential.
If you forget your password, you can reset it using “Forgot User Details/  Password?” or “Physical User Reset Password?” option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
vi.
Once the e-voting home page opens, click on e-Voting > Active Voting Cycles.
vii.
Select “EVEN” (E-voting Event Number) of Tata Consultancy Services Limited which is 106156.
Now you are ready for  e-voting as 'Cast Vote' page opens.
viii.
Cast your vote by selecting the appropriate option and click on “Submit” and also “Confirm” when prompted.
ix.
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast successfully” will be displayed.
x.
Once the vote on a resolution is cast, the Member shall not be allowed to change it subsequently.
xi.
Institutional shareholders (i.e.
other than individuals, HUF , NRI, etc.)
are required to send scanned copy (PDF/JPG  format) of the relevant Board Resolution and / or Authority letter, etc., together with attested specimen signature of  the duly authorized signatory(ies) who are authorized to vote, to the Scrutinizer through e-mail to  tcs.scrutinizer@gmail.com, with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.co.in.
06Notice xii.
In case of any queries, members may refer the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) and e-voting user manual for  shareholders available at the Downloads section of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on toll free no: 1800-222-990.
B.
In case a Member receives a physical copy of the Notice of the AGM (for Members whose e-mail addresses are not  registered with the Company / Depositories): i.
Initial password is provided in the enclosed attendance slip: EVEN (E-voting Event Number) + User ID and Password.
ii.
Please follow all steps from Sl.
No.
20.
A (ii) to (xii) above, to cast vote.
C. Other Instructions i.
The e-voting period commences on Tuesday, June 13, 2017 (9.00 a.m. IST) and ends on Thursday, June 15, 2017  (5.00 p.m. IST).
During this period, Members holding shares either in physical form or in dematerialized form, as on  Friday, June 9, 2017 i.e.
cut-off date, may cast their vote electronically.
The e-voting module shall be disabled by NSDL  for voting thereafter.
Once the vote on a resolution is cast by the Member, he / she shall not be allowed to change it  subsequently or cast vote again.
ii.
The voting rights of Members shall be in proportion to their shares in the paid up equity share capital of the Company as  on the cut-off date.
A person, whose name is recorded in the register of members or in the register of beneficial  owners maintained by the depositories as on the cut-off date only shall be entitled to avail the facility of voting, either  through remote e-voting or voting at the Meeting through electronic voting system or poll paper.
iii.
Any person, who acquires shares of the Company and becomes a Member of the Company after dispatch of the  Notice and holding shares as of the cut-off date, may obtain the login ID and password by sending a request at  evoting@nsdl.co.in.
However, if he/she is already registered with NSDL for remote e-voting then he/she can use  his/her existing User ID and password for casting vote.
If you forget your password, you can reset your password by  using “Forgot User Details / Password” option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
iv.
The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion of voting at the AGM, first count the votes cast at the Meeting,  thereafter unblock the votes cast through remote e-voting in the presence of at least two witnesses not in the  employment of the Company and make, not later than 48 hours of conclusion of the Meeting, a consolidated  Scrutinizer's Report of the total votes cast in favour or against, if any, to the Chairman or a person authorised by him in  writing who shall countersign the same.
v. The result declared along with the Scrutinizer's Report shall be placed on the Company's website www.tcs.com and  on the website of NSDL www.evoting.nsdl.com immediately.
The Company shall simultaneously forward the results  to the National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited, where the shares of the Company are listed.
The  results shall also be displayed on the notice board at the Registered Office of the Company.
By Order of the Board of Directors SUPRAKASH MUKHOPADHYAY Global Treasury Head and Company Secretary  Mumbai, April 18, 2017 Registered Office: 9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 CIN : L22210MH1995PLC084781 Tel: 91 22 6778 9595 Fax: 91 22 6778 9660  E-mail:   Website: www.tcs.cominvestor.relations@tcs.com 07 Notice Annual Report 2016-17 Explanatory Statement As required by Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), the following explanatory statement sets out all material facts  relating to the business mentioned under Item Nos.
4 to 10 of the accompanying Notice: Item No.
4 This explanatory statement is provided though strictly not required as per Section 102 of the Act.
Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP (DHS), Chartered Accountants, Mumbai, (ICAI Firm Registration No.
117366W/W-100018) were  appointed as the Auditors of the Company at the nineteenth Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Company held on June 27, 2014  for a term of three years to hold office till the conclusion of this AGM.
DHS have been the Auditors of the Company since financial year  2008-09.
Prior to this, S. B. Billimoria & Co. (SBB), Chartered Accountants, were the Auditors of the Company from the financial year  2004-05 till financial year 2007-08.
SBB was an associate of DHS.
As per the provisions of Section 139 of the Act, no listed Company can appoint or re-appoint an audit firm as auditor for more than  two terms of five consecutive years.
In view of the above, DHS can continue as the Auditors of the Company only up to the  conclusion of this Annual General Meeting ('AGM'), having completed their term as per the provisions of Section 139 of the Act.
The Board of Directors has, based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, at its meeting held on January 12, 2017,  proposed the appointment of M/s B S R & Co. LLP (Firm Registration No.
101248W/W - 100022) as the Statutory Auditors of the  Company for a period of 5 years, to hold office from the conclusion of this AGM till the conclusion of the twenty-seventh AGM to be  held in the year 2022 (subject to ratification of their appointment at every AGM, if so required under the Act).
B S R & Co. LLP have consented to their appointment as Statutory Auditors and have confirmed that if appointed, their appointment  will be in accordance with Section 139 read with Section 141 of the Act.
The Board commends the Ordinary Resolution set out at Item No.
4 of the Notice for approval by the Members.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company or their relatives is, in any way, concerned or interested in the  Resolution set out at Item No.
4 of the Notice.
Item No.
5 The Board of Directors has appointed Mr. N. Chandrasekaran, as an Additional Director of the Company with effect from February 21,  2017, on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
As per the provisions of Section 161(1) of the Act,  he holds office of Additional Director only up to the date of this Annual General Meeting of the Company, and is eligible for  appointment as Director.
The Company has received a notice under Section 160(1) of the Act proposing his candidature for the office  of Director of the Company, along with the requisite deposit.
Mr. N. Chandrasekaran relinquished his position as the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of the Company with effect  from February 21, 2017 on his appointment as Executive Chairman of Tata Sons Limited.
He was nominated as the Chairman of the  Board of Directors of the Company by Tata Sons Limited from the same date.
Mr. Chandrasekaran demonstrated exemplary  leadership as the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of the Company.
Prior to his elevation to the position of Chief  Executive Officer and Managing Director of the Company on October 6, 2009, he held the office of the Chief Operating Officer and  Executive Director of the Company from September 6, 2008.
He joined the Company in 1987 and has held several key positions  within the Company.
He chairs the Board of several Tata companies and is also a Director of the Reserve Bank of India.
Mr.  Chandrasekaran is recipient of several awards and recognition in business and academic communities.
08Notice Further details of Mr. N. Chandrasekaran have been given in the Annexure to this Notice.
The Board commends the Resolution at Item No.5 of the accompanying Notice for the approval by the Members of the Company.
Except Mr. N. Chandrasekaran, Mr. N. Ganapathy Subramaniam, and their relatives, none of the Directors and Key Managerial  Personnel of the Company and their respective relatives is concerned or interested, in the Resolution set out at Item No.
5 of the  Notice.
Item Nos.
6 and 7  The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on January 12, 2017 appointed Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan, as an Additional Director of the  Company with effect from February 21, 2017.
The Board, at the same meeting, has elevated him from the position of the Chief  Financial Officer to the position of the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director (“CEO & MD”) of the Company effective the  same date, for a period of five years, subject to the approval of the Members.
His appointment has been recommended by the  Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
The Audit Committee has approved the terms and conditions of his appointment, as he,  being a key managerial personnel, is a related party as per Section 2(76) of the Act.
As per the provisions of Section 161(1) of the Act, he holds office of Additional Director only up to the date of this Annual General  Meeting of the Company, and is eligible for appointment as Director.
The Company has received a notice under Section 160(1) of the  Act proposing his candidature for the office of Director of the Company, along with the requisite deposit.
Prior to his elevation to the position as the CEO & MD, he held the office of the Chief Financial Officer of the Company from February  10, 2013.
He has held several key positions within the Company and has played a key role in helping the Company become a  US$ 17.6 billion global company.
Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan joined Tata Consultancy Services in 2001 from Tata Industries, and worked to drive TCS' newly established  e-business unit in the United States.
He was also involved in the design, structure and implementation of the new organizational  structure and operating model of the Company.
He has worked on multiple assignments with Tata companies as part of the Tata  Strategic Management Group since 1996.
In 2014 he was awarded the “Young Alumni Achiever's Award” under “Corporate Leader” category by IIM, Ahmedabad.
Further details of Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan have been given in the Annexure to this Notice.
The main terms and conditions of appointment of Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan (hereinafter referred to as “CEO & MD”) are given below: A.
Tenure of Appointment: The appointment as CEO & MD is for a period of five years with effect from February 21, 2017.
B.
Nature of Duties: The CEO & MD shall devote his whole time and attention to the business of the Company and shall perform such duties as may be  entrusted to him by the Board from time to time and separately communicated to him and exercise such powers as may be assigned  to him, subject to the superintendence, control and direction of the Board in connection with and in the best interests of the business  of the Company and the business of one or more of its associated companies and/ or subsidiaries, including performing duties as  assigned to the CEO & MD from time to time by serving on the Boards of such associated companies and / or subsidiaries or any other  executive body or any committee of such a company.
09 Notice Annual Report 2016-17 C. Remuneration: a.
Basic Salary: Current Basic Salary of `7,50,000 per month; up to a maximum of 15,00,000 per month.
The annual increments which will be effective 1st April each year, will be decided by the Board based on the recommendations of the  Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) and the Audit Committee and will be performance-based and take into account  the Company's performance as well, within the said maximum amount.
b.
Benefits, Perquisites, and Allowances: Details of Benefits, Perquisites and Allowances are as follows: I. Rent-free residential accommodation (partly furnished or otherwise) with the Company bearing the cost of repairs,  maintenance, society charges and utilities (e.g., gas, electricity, and water charges) for the said accommodation or house rent,  house maintenance and utility allowances aggregating 85% of the Basic Salary (in case residential accommodation is not  provided by the Company).
ii.
Hospitalisation and major medical expenses, Car facility, Telecommunication facility and Housing loan facility as per Rules of the  Company.
iii.
Other perquisites and allowances given below subject to a maximum of 55% of the Basic Salary; this shall include medical  allowance, leave travel concession / allowance and other allowances / personal accident insurance / club membership fees.
iv.
Contribution to Provident Fund, Superannuation Fund or Annuity Fund and Gratuity Fund as per the Rules of the Company.
v. Leave and encashment of unavailed leave as per the Rules of the Company.
c. Commission: In addition to Salary, Benefits, Perquisites and Allowances, the CEO & MD would be paid such remuneration by way of Commission,  calculated with reference to the net profits of the Company in a particular financial year, as may be determined by the Board of the  Company subject to the overall ceilings stipulated in Section 197 of the Act.
The specific amount payable to the CEO & MD will be   based on his performance as evaluated by the Board or the NRC and approved by the Board and will be payable annually after the  annual accounts have been approved by the Board.
D. Minimum Remuneration: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein contained, where in any financial year during the tenure of the CEO & MD, the  Company has no profits or its profits are inadequate, the Company will pay remuneration by way of Salary, Benefits, Perquisites,  Allowances and Commission subject to further approvals as required under Schedule V of the Act, or any modification(s) thereto.
E. Other terms of Appointment: The CEO & MD shall enter into an agreement, containing, inter alia, the following terms: i.
The CEO & MD shall not become interested or otherwise concerned, directly or through his spouse and / or children, in any  selling agency of the Company.
ii.
The terms and conditions of the appointment of the CEO & MD may be altered and varied from time to time by the Board as it  may, in its discretion deem fit, irrespective of the limits stipulated under Schedule V to the Act or any amendments made  hereafter in this regard in such manner as may be agreed to between the Board and the CEO & MD, subject to such approvals as  may be required.
iii.
The Agreement may be terminated by either party by giving to the other party six months' notice of such termination or the  Company paying six months' remuneration in lieu thereof.
iv.
The employment of the CEO & MD may be terminated by the Company without notice or payment in lieu of notice: a. if the CEO & MD is found guilty of any gross negligence, default or misconduct in connection with or affecting the business  of the Company or any subsidiary or associated company to which he is required to render services; or   ` 10Notice b. in the event of any serious repeated or continuing breach (after prior warning) or non-observance by the CEO & MD of any of  the stipulations contained in the Agreement.
v. Upon the termination by whatever means of the CEO & MD's employment: a. the CEO & MD shall immediately cease to hold offices held by him in any holding company, subsidiaries or associated  companies without claim for compensation for loss of office by virtue of Section 167(1)(h) of the Act and unless the Board  of Directors of the Company decide otherwise, shall resign as trustee of any trusts connected with the Company; b. the CEO & MD shall not without the consent of the Company, at any time thereafter represent himself as connected with  the Company or any of the subsidiaries or associated companies.
vi.
All Personnel Policies of the Company and the related Rules which are applicable to other employees of the Company shall also  be applicable to the CEO & MD, unless specifically provided otherwise.
vii.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the CEO & MD also include clauses pertaining to adherence with the Tata Code of  Conduct and maintenance of confidentiality.
viii.
If and when the Agreement expires or is terminated for any reason whatsoever, the CEO & MD will cease to be the CEO & MD,  and also cease to be a Director.
If at any time, the CEO & MD ceases to be a Director of the Company for any reason whatsoever,  he shall cease to be the CEO & MD, and the Agreement shall forthwith terminate.
However, the Board may at its discretion  decide that CEO & MD shall continue as Director of the Company.
In compliance with the provisions of Sections 196, 197 and other applicable provisions of the Act, read with Schedule V to the Act,  the terms of appointment and remuneration of the CEO & MD as specified above are now being placed before the Members for their  approval.
The Board commends the Resolutions at Item Nos.
6 and 7 for approval by the Members.
Except Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan and his relatives, none of the other Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company and their  respective relatives is concerned or interested, in the Resolutions set out at Item Nos.
6 and 7 of the Notice.
Item Nos.
8 and 9: The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on January 12, 2017 appointed Mr. N. Ganapathy Subramaniam, as an Additional Director  of the Company with effect from February 21, 2017.
The Board, at the same meeting, has also appointed him as the Chief Operating  Officer and Executive Director (“COO & ED”) of the Company effective the same date, for a period of five years, subject to the  approval of the Members.
His appointment has been recommended by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
The Audit  Committee has also approved the terms and conditions of his appointment, as he, being the brother of Mr. N. Chandrasekaran, is a  related party as per Section 2(76) of the Act.
As per the provisions of Section 161(1) of the Act, he holds office of Additional Director only up to the date of the forthcoming Annual  General Meeting of the Company, and is eligible for appointment as Director.
The Company has received a notice under Section  160(1) of the Act proposing his candidature for the office of Director of the Company, along with the requisite deposit.
Mr. N. Ganapathy Subramaniam was elevated to the role of COO & ED on February 21, 2017.
Prior to taking over the COO's role, he  served as the President, Financial Services, a strategic business unit of the Company.
In that role, he was responsible for steering the  non-linear growth strategies, Products and Platform business of the Company for over five years.
In steering TCS Financial Solutions,  he led the Company's efforts in launching a suite of products for Banking, Capital Markets and Insurance domains - TCS BaNCS, many  of which have become world class solutions used by major financial institutions globally.
He has held many key leadership positions  in the Company across Client Delivery, Business Development, integration of businesses and Product Development.
He has been a  part of the Company and the Indian IT Industry for the past 35 years and has in-depth knowledge on technology trends and systems  policies of leading corporations.
Mr. N. Ganapathy Subramaniam holds Master's in Mathematics from University of Madras and has  attended various programs including the Executive program for Growing Companies at Stanford University.
11 Notice Annual Report 2016-17 Further details of Mr. N. Ganapathy Subramaniam have been given in the Annexure to this Notice.
The main terms and conditions of appointment of Mr. N. Ganapathy Subramaniam (hereinafter referred to as “COO and ED”) are  given below: A.
Tenure  of Appointment: The appointment as COO & ED is for a period of five years with effect from February 21, 2017.
B.
Nature of Duties: The COO & ED shall devote his whole time and attention to the business of the Company and shall perform such duties as may be  entrusted to him by the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of the Company and/or the Board from time to time and  separately communicated to him and exercise such powers as may be assigned to him, subject to the superintendence, control and  direction of the Board in connection with and in the best interests of the business of the Company and the business of one or more of  its associated companies and/ or subsidiaries, including performing duties as assigned to the COO & ED from time to time by serving  on the Boards of such associated companies and / or subsidiaries or any other executive body or any committee of such a company.
C. Remuneration: a.
Basic Salary: Current Basic Salary of `7,00,000 per month; up to a maximum of `12,00,000 per month.
The annual increments which will be effective 1st April each year, will be decided by the Board based on the recommendations of the  Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) and will be performance-based and take into account the Company's  performance as well, within the said maximum amount.
b.
Benefits, Perquisites, and Allowances: Details of Benefits, Perquisites, and Allowances are as follows: i. Rent-free residential accommodation (partly furnished or otherwise) with the Company bearing the cost of repairs,  maintenance, society charges and utilities (e.g., gas, electricity, and water charges) for the said accommodation or house rent,  house maintenance and utility allowances aggregating 85% of the Basic Salary (in case residential accommodation is not  provided by the Company).
ii.
Hospitalisation and major medical expenses, Car facility, Telecommunication facility and Housing loan facility as per Rules of the  Company.
iii.
Other perquisites and allowances given below subject to a maximum of 55% of the Basic Salary; this shall include medical  allowance, leave travel concession / allowance and other allowances / personal accident insurance / club membership fees.
iv.
Contribution to Provident Fund, Superannuation Fund or Annuity Fund and Gratuity Fund as per the Rules of the Company.
v. Leave and encashment of unavailed leave as per the Rules of the Company.
c. Commission: In addition to Salary, Benefits, Perquisites and Allowances, the COO & ED would be paid such remuneration by way of Commission,  calculated with reference to the net profits of the Company in a particular financial year, as may be determined by the Board of the  Company subject to the overall ceilings stipulated in Section 197 of the Act.
The specific amount payable to the COO & ED will be  based on his performance as evaluated by the Board or the NRC and approved by the Board and will be payable annually after the  annual accounts have been approved by the Board.
12Notice D. Minimum Remuneration: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein contained, where in any financial year during the tenure of the COO & ED, the  Company has no profits or its profits are inadequate, the Company will pay remuneration by way of Salary, Benefits, Perquisites,  Allowances and Commission subject to further approvals as required under Schedule V of the Act, or any modification(s) thereto.
E. Other terms of Appointment: The COO & ED shall enter into an agreement, containing, inter alia, the following terms: i.
The COO & ED shall not become interested or otherwise concerned, directly or through his spouse and / or children, in any selling  agency of the Company.
ii.
The terms and conditions of the appointment of the COO & ED may be altered and varied from time to time by the Board as it  may, in its discretion deem fit, irrespective of the limits stipulated under Schedule V to the Act or any amendments made  hereafter in this regard in such manner as may be agreed to between the Board and the COO & ED, subject to such approvals as  may be required.
iii.
The Agreement may be terminated by either party by giving to the other party six months' notice of such termination or the  Company paying six months' remuneration in lieu thereof.
iv.
The employment of the COO & ED may be terminated by the Company without notice or payment in lieu of notice: a. if the COO & ED is found guilty of any gross negligence, default or misconduct in connection with or affecting the business of  the Company or any subsidiary or associated company to which he is required to render services; or b. in the event of any serious repeated or continuing breach (after prior warning) or non-observance by the COO & ED of any of  the stipulations contained in the Agreement.
v. Upon the termination by whatever means of the COO & ED's employment: a. the COO & ED shall immediately cease to hold offices held by him in any holding company, subsidiaries or associated  companies without claim for compensation for loss of office by virtue of Section 167(1)(h) of the Act and unless the Board  of Directors of the Company decide otherwise, shall resign as trustee of any trusts connected with the Company; b. the COO & ED shall not without the consent of the Company, at any time thereafter represent himself as connected with the  Company or any of the subsidiaries or associated companies.
vi.
All Personnel Policies of the Company and the related Rules which are applicable to other employees of the Company shall also  be applicable to the COO & ED, unless specifically provided otherwise.
vii.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the COO & ED also include clauses pertaining to adherence with the Tata Code of  Conduct, and maintenance of confidentiality.
viii.
If and when the Agreement expires or is terminated for any reason whatsoever, the COO & ED will cease to be the COO & ED, and  also cease to be a Director.
If at any time, the COO & ED ceases to be a Director of the Company for any reason whatsoever, he  shall cease to be the COO & ED, and the Agreement shall forthwith terminate.
However, the Board may at its discretion decide  that COO & ED shall continue as Director of the Company.
In compliance with the provisions of Sections 196, 197 and other applicable provisions of the Act, read with Schedule V to the Act,  the terms of appointment and remuneration of the COO & ED as specified above are now being placed before the Members for their  approval.
The Board commends the Resolutions at Item Nos.
8 and 9 for approval by the Members.
Except Mr. N. Ganapathy Subramaniam, Mr. N. Chandrasekaran and their relatives, none of the Directors and Key Managerial  Personnel of the Company and their respective relatives is concerned or interested, in the Resolutions set out at Item Nos.
8 and 9 of  the Notice.
13 Notice Annual Report 2016-17 Item No.10 The Company has branches outside India and may also open / acquire new branches outside India in future.
It may be necessary to  appoint branch auditors for carrying out the audit of the accounts of such branches.
The Members are requested to authorize the  Board of Directors of the Company to appoint branch auditors in consultation with the Company's Auditors and fix their  remuneration.
The Board commends the Resolution at Item No.
10 for approval by the Members.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) or relatives of Directors and KMPs is concerned or interested in the  Resolution set out at Item No.
10 of the Notice.
By Order of the Board of Directors SUPRAKASH MUKHOPADHYAY Global Treasury Head and Company Secretary  Mumbai, April 18, 2017 Registered Office: 9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 CIN : L22210MH1995PLC084781 Tel: 91 22 6778 9595 Fax: 91 22 6778 9660  E-mail:   Website: www.tcs.cominvestor.relations@tcs.com 14Notice Details of Directors seeking Appointment/ Re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting Particulars Ms. Aarthi Subramaniam Mr. N. Chandrasekaran Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan Mr. N. Ganapathy  Subramaniam Date of Birth (Age) June 26, 1967  (49 years) June 2, 1963  (53 years) August 13, 1971 (45 years) May 20, 1959 (57 years) Date of Appointment March 12, 2015 February 21, 2017 February 21, 2017 February 21, 2017 Qualifications nB.
Tech in Computer  Science  nMaster's Degree in  Engineering  Management  nBachelor's Degree -  Applied Science   nMaster's Degree-  Computers  Application nMBA - IIM, Ahmedabad nEngineer, Regional  Engg.
College, Trichy nMaster's Degree in  Mathematics  Expertise in specific  functional areas Wide experience in  Information Technology Wide experience in  Information Technology Wide experience in  Information Technology Wide experience in  Information Technology Directorships held in  other public companies  (excluding foreign  companies and Section 8  companies) Nil nTata Sons Limited nTata Steel Limited nTata Motors Limited nThe Indian Hotels  Company Limited nThe Tata Power  Company Limited Nil nTata Elxsi Limited Memberships /  Chairmanships of  committees of other  public companies  (includes only Audit  Committee and  Stakeholders'  Relationship Committee.)
Nil Nil Nil Nil Number of shares held in  the Company 2,800 88,528 1,130 98,880 Note: For other details such as number of meetings of the Board attended during the year, remuneration drawn and relationship with other directors and key managerial personnel in respect of the above directors please refer to the Board's Report and the Corporate  Governance Report.
15 Notice Annual Report 2016-17 Distance from Churchgate Station: 1 km   Distance from Marine Lines Station: 0.8 km Distance from Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus: 2 km  Route Map to the  AGM Venue Venue      : Birla Matushri Sabhagar,          19,        Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Marg,           Mumbai 400020 Landmark     :  Next to Bombay Hospital Date & Time :  Friday June 16, 2017 at 3.30 p.m.  CIN: L22210MH1995PLC084781th Registered Office: 9  Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 Tel: 91 22 6778 9595 Fax: 91 22 6778 9660  E-mail: investor.relations@tcs.com Website: www.tcs.com ATTENDANCE SLIP (To be presented at the entrance) nd I/ We hereby record my/our presence at the 22  Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Company on Friday, June 16, 2017 at 3:30 p.m. at Birla Matushri Sabhagar, 19, Sir  Vithaldas Thackersey Marg, New Marine Lines, Mumbai 400 020.
Folio No.
DP ID No.
Client ID No.
Name of the Member                    Signature Name of the Proxyholder Signature  1.
Only Member / Proxyholder can attend the Meeting.
2.
Member / Proxyholder should bring his/her copy of the Annual Report for reference at the Meeting.
CIN: L22210MH1995PLC084781th Registered Office: 9  Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 Tel: 91 22 6778 9595 Fax: 91 22 6778 9660  E-mail: investor.relations@tcs.com Website: www.tcs.com PROXY FORM [Pursuant to Section 105(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 19(3) of the  Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014] Name of the Member(s)  :_________________________________________________________________________________________________ Registered address : ______________________________________________________________________________________________________ E-mail Id :________________________ Folio No.
/ Client ID No.
: ___________________________ DP ID No.
:___________________________ I / We, being the member(s) of ____________________ Shares of Tata Consultancy Services Limited, hereby appoint 1.
Name : ___________________________________________________________________  E-mail Id: ____________________________________  Address : _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Signature : ________________________________________________  or failing him/her 2.
Name : ___________________________________________________________________  E-mail Id: ____________________________________  Address : _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Signature : ________________________________________________  or failing him/her 3.
Name : ___________________________________________________________________  E-mail Id: ____________________________________  Address : _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Signature : ________________________________________________  NOTES: 1.
This Form in order to be effective should be duly completed and deposited at the Registered Office of the Company at 9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021,  not less than 48 hours before the commencement of the Meeting 2.
Those Members who have multiple  folios with different jointholders may use copies of this Attendance slip/ Proxy.
Signed this ................day of ......................... 2017  Signature of Shareholder ................................................................................................................Signature of Proxyholder(s)................................................................................................ Affix Revenue Stamp as my/our proxy to attend and vote (on a poll) for me/us and on my/our behalf at the AGM of the Company to be held on Friday, June16, 2017 at 3:30 p.m. at Birla  Matushri Sabhagar, 19, Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Marg, New Marine Lines, Mumbai 400 020 and at any adjournment thereof in respect of such resolutions as are indicated below.
twenty-second  Resolution  1.
To receive, consider and adopt: a. the Audited Financial Statements of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2017, together with the Reports of the Board of Directors and the Auditors  thereon; and b. the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2017, together with the Report of the Auditors thereon.
2.
To confirm the payment of Interim Dividends on Equity Shares and to declare a Final Dividend on Equity Shares for the financial year 2016 -17.
3.
To appoint a Director in place of Ms. Aarthi Subramanian who retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers herself for re-appointment.
4.
Appointment of Statutory Auditors of the Company.
5.
Appointment of Mr. N Chandrasekaran as a Director of the Company.
6.
Appointment of Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan as a Director of the Company.
7.
Appointment of Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan as Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of the Company.
8.
Appointment of Mr. N. Ganapathy Subramaniam as a Director of the Company.
9.
Appointment of Mr. N. Ganapathy Subramaniam as Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director of the Company.
10.
Appointment of Branch Auditors.