Corporate  Overview We Care For an inclusive ecosystem For digital transformation For sustainable value creation For an empowered workforce For a greener planet For societal well-being Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 I would like the story of  Reliance to be told in that book  which has no final chapter  and one which is continually  updated with records of  bolder initiatives and more  glittering successes, and where  successive generations create  even greater societal value and  contribute to India's growth.
Shri Mukesh D. Ambani  Chairman & Managing Director Big achievements follow if you  dream big.
Reliance is a proof of  the power of dreams.
Shri Dhirubhai H. Ambani  Founder Chairman Reliance Industries Limited (RIL)   is a Fortune 500 company  and the largest private sector  corporation in India.
With a strongly integrated energy business and  the most expansive digital and retail footprint in  the country, RIL is India’s largest corporate value  creator and the highest valued company.
RIL has always strived to positively touch lives  and empower society.
Inspired by its ethos  of We Care, RIL has been driving inclusion,  democratising connectivity and caring for the  community and environment.
India’s largest company BY MARKET  CAPIT ALISATION `17,81,841 crore BY REVENUE `7,92,756 crore BY NET PROFIT `67,845 crore One of the highest contributors   to India's economic growth EXPORTS `2,54,970 crore COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT `1,186 crore CSR contribution EMPLOYMENT CREATION 2,32,822 New jobs created 2 Reliance at a Glance 4 Stakeholder Value-creation 6 Key Performance Indicators 8  Chairman and Managing   Director's Statement 14  We Care for an Inclusive  Ecosystem 16  We Care for Digital  Transformation 18  We Care for Sustainable   Value Creation 20  We Care for a Greener Planet 24 COVID-19 Response 26 Board of Directors 28 Value-creation Model 30 Strategy 32 ESG 34 Reliance Foundation 36 We Nurture Startup Ecosystem 40 10-year Financial Highlights 132 Risk and Governance 144 Awards and Recognition Management Review 42 Management Discussion    and Analysis  44  Financial Performance   and Review 54 Business Overview Corporate Overview IL TO CHEMICALS PG 98 OIL AND G S E&P PG 122 150 Integrated Approach to    Sustainable Growth 152 Extending 'Care' during COVID-19 155  Reliance's Integrated Approach  to ESG Governance 162  Responding to the   Material Issues 166 Driving ESG Growth in Reliance Governance 218 Report on Corporate Governance 266 Board’s Report Financial Statements 297 Standalone 380 Consolidated The icons presented above have been used  throughout the report for cross-referencing  the relevant capitals.
216  Independent Assurance on  Sustainability Disclosures 168 Natural Capital 176 Human Capital 188 Manufactured Capital 194 Intellectual Capital About this Report The Reliance Integrated Annual Report has been prepared in  alignment with the Integrated Reporting <IR> Framework laid  down by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC),  now the Value Reporting Foundation (VRF).
In preparing the  Report, GRI Standards, National Voluntary Guidelines (NVGs),  United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) and  13 other frameworks were referenced.
The Report outlines RIL’s  commitment to stakeholder value creation, and defines the  actions taken and outcomes achieved for its stakeholders.
Attending the 45th AGM Online RIL invites the participation of all shareholders to its 45th Annual  General Meeting (AGM), to be held on 29th August, 2022.
Link for the AGM https://jiomeet.jio.com/rilagm Table of Contents 202 Social and Relationship Capital RETAI L PG 54 MEDI  AND ENTERTAINMENT PG 86 DIGITAL  SERVICES PG 72 ‘We Care’ and will continue to  protect all our stakeholders as the  fight against COVID-19 is hopefully  nearing its end.
Shri Mukesh D. Ambani  Chairman & Managing Director Online Integrated Annual Report    https://www.ril.com/ar2021-22/index.html Reporting Suite Business Responsibility Report    https://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/BRR202122.pdf CSR Report    https://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/CSR202122.pdf Financial Capital Read Financial Performance   and Review for more details PG 44 Note: All figures are as on/for the year ended March 31, 2022 JioGenNext Startup accelerator backed by RIL, to encourage,  support and enable ventures that solve new  age challenges.
2 3 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview REVENUE  56.5% `5,00,900 crore (US$ 66.1 billion) EBITDA  38.1% `52,722 crore (US$  7.0 billion) Oil to Chemicals One of the world’s most deeply  integrated Oil to Chemicals operations.
Powers India’s energy security and  contributes to circular economy.
FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 71.0 63.6 68.2 PRODUCTION   MEANT FOR SALE (MMT) Reliance at a Glance Retail India's largest retailer by revenue, scale  and profitability, operating through an  integrated network of stores, digital  platforms and merchant partners.
Digital Services  India's largest all IP telecom network,  with cloud-native and 5G-ready  capabilities.
Connecting well over 99%  of India's population.
FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 28.7 33.8 41.6 REVENUE   26.7% `1,99,749 crore (US$ 26.4 billion) EBITDA  26.2% `12,423 crore (US$ 1.6 billion) REVENUE  10.9% `1,00,161 crore (US$ 13.2 billion) EBITDA  18.3% `40,268 crore (US$ 5.3 billion) RETAIL AREA (MILLION SQ.
FT.) FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 48.4 62.5 91.4 DATA TRAFFIC (IN Bn GBs) New Energy Building technologies, scaling capacities and  creating a new energy ecosystem for India and  RIL to achieve the ambition of Net Carbon Zero.
REVENUE  250.1% `7,492 crore (US$ 1.0 billion) EBITDA  2015.1% `5,457 crore (US$ 0.7 billion) Oil and Gas E&P Upstream portfolio comprising deep  and ultra-deep water oil & gas fields  and coal bed methane blocks in India.
FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 119.2 126.6 188.1 PRODUCTION (RIL’S SHARE) (BCFe) Innovating for India at Scale REVENUE  25.1% `6,831 crore (US$ 0.9 billion) EBITDA  35.7% `1,080 crore (US$ 0.1 billion) Media and Entertainment One of India’s largest media houses  with omni-channel presence.
Brings  authentic news and wholesome  entertainment to Indian audiences.
FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 11.9 12.6 12.8 TV VIEWERSHIP SHARE (%) Note: All Revenue & EBITDA figures are for the year ended March 31, 2022 Value added is defined as the value created by the activities of a business and its employees.
4 5 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Reinvested in the Group to   maintain and develop operations `1,06,481 crore `75,907 crore Providers of Debt `19,457 crore `25,777 crore Employee benefits `18,775 crore `14,817 crore Providers of Equity Capital `4,297 crore `3,921 crore Contribution to Society `1,186 crore `1,140 crore Contribution to National Exchequer `1,88,012 crore `1,35,468 crore ~45% Consolidated operating  profit from consumer  businesses 13,000+ MSME vendors Positively touched the lives  of an additional 125 lakh  beneficiaries (Cumulative:  5.75+ crore) in FY 2021-22 Vaccination drive across  16 states Suppliers and  partners Creating an inclusive  ecosystem for partners Communities Empowered  beneficiaries through  Reliance Foundation Government and  regulators Supporting national goals Employees Protecting  and nurturing our  Reliance is one of the  largest tax payers (direct  and indirect) in India.
We have a strong track  record of mandatory and  voluntary compliance,  and we endorse national  schemes set for India’s  growth.
~24 lakh members of the extended  Reliance Family vaccinated  free of cost Stakeholder Value-creation Ushering in Shared Prosperity Investors Superior stakeholder  returns through optimal  utilisation of resources Consumers Affordable access  to best-in-class  products and services Jio celebrates five years of  democratising connectivity  in India, reaching  410.2 million users Reliance retail crosses 15,000  store milestone Competitive access  to capital Strong project management  capability Diversification, integration   and cost leadership Technology and   consumer-centric platforms VALUE ADDED STATEMENT  (Consolidated) FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21 TOTAL VALUE ADDED IN FY 2020-21 `2,57,030 crore TOTAL VALUE ADDED IN FY 2021-22 `3,38,208 crore SUSTAINABLE GROWTH ENABLERS Creating lasting stakeholder value 6 7 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview FY 2019-20  FY 2019-20  FY 2020-21 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 FY 2021-22 3,71,569 5,48,156 6,45,127 NET WORTH   17.7% `6,45,127 crore REVENUE  47.0% `7,92,756 crore Financial FY 2019-20  FY 2019-20  FY 2020-21 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 FY 2021-22 708.5 1,086.4 1,152.1 BOOK VALUE PER SHARE  6.1% `1,152.1 PROFIT AFTER TAX  26.2% `67,845 crore FY 2019-20  FY 2019-20  FY 2020-21 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 FY 2021-22 0.36 0.75 0.34 DEBT EQUITY RATIO  0.34 EARNINGS PER SHARE  20.5% `92.0 FY 2019-20  FY 2019-20  FY 2020-21 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 FY 2021-22 1,15,461 1,35,468 1,88,012 CONTRIBUTION TO NATIONAL EXCHEQUER   `1,88,012 crore DIVIDEND PER SHARE `8 Key Performance Indicators 6,59,997 5,39,238 7,92,756 63.1 76.4 92.0 39,880 53,739 67,845 6.5 7 8 HSE EXPENDITURE  `798 crore ESG CUMULATIVE REACH 5.75+ crore (Beneficiaries   through CSR Initiatives) PERSON-HOURS OF  TRAINING IMPARTED 2.2+ crore 2.11 million GJ Energy saved 50,600+ Villages benefitted 3.4+ lakh Total number of Employees 3.6 4.5 5.75 FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 33,043 43,877 52,691 FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 EBITDA OF   CONSUMER BUSINESS  `52,691 crore FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 35.9 49.5 44.4 SHARE OF CONSUMER   BUSINESS IN SEGMENT  EBITDA 44.4 % Consumer Business Metrics (Includes Retail and Digital Services business) FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 125 156 193 REGISTERED   CUSTOMER BASE   - RELIANCE RETAIL  24% 193 million FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 48.4 62.5 91.4 DATA TRAFFIC 91.4 billion GBs  Y-o-Y change 1.1+ 1.8+ 2.2+ FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 668 592 798 FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 Delivering on all Fronts 2016-17 2017-18 2019-202018-19 2020-21 2021-22 MARKET CAPITALISATION* `17,81,841 crore *as on March 31, 2022  13,15,998  17,81,841  8,63,996   5,59,223 4,28,909  7,05,212  (` in crore) 8 9 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Management   Review Corporate  OverviewChairman and Managing Director’s statement Shri Mukesh D. Ambani  Chairman and Managing Director, Reliance Industries From the very inception, we at  Reliance have believed that a  corporate is much more than an  economic unit generating wealth.
It is  an integral part of the social system  catering to human and societal  needs and aspirations.
The painful  period of the COVID-19 pandemic  brought out Reliance’s spirit of  societal service like never before.
The  way the whole Reliance Family worked  with a sense of national duty in this  period was most satisfying to me, and  I am sure, to all of you as well.
We were able to quickly change  and repurpose our processes, our  policies, our roles and responsibilities,  our plants, our systems with a single  motive – to support others.
If the  production teams worked over  producing PPE kits or medical-grade  oxygen, the Jio and Retail teams  took care that no customer was left  without daily essentials or internet  services.
The IT teams ensured  employees could work remotely, and  the HR teams ensured the employees  received the best possible social  security.
Our Foundation hospitals  and internal medical teams ensured  all employees and their families  received timely medical help  regardless of location, while creating  the largest COVID infrastructure pan- India in the shortest possible time.
The Foundation teams took up the  mammoth responsibility of reaching  out to the most disadvantaged,  marginalised communities to ensure  nobody went hungry.
Each and every Reliance Family  member directly or indirectly  participated in the fight against  COVID.
Each and every Reliance  Family member went beyond their  call of duty.
Each and every Reliance  Family member became the Brand  Ambassador of Reliance’s spirit of  Care and Empathy.
It is heartening to  see that together we have overcome  the worst.
It is with great hope that I  look forward to the future of Reliance,  of India, as well as the entire world.
Taking volatility in stride Just when we were about to heave  a sigh of relief, the rise in geopolitical  tensions have exposed the fault lines  in the global economy.
Geopolitical  conflict has caused significant  dislocation in energy markets and  disrupted traditional trade flows.
The process of globalisation, which  drove the global economic growth  over the last four decades, appears  to have hit a wall.
The cause of  economic inter-dependence that  globalisation promoted to help  align every country’s interests and,  thereby, help reduce conflicts, has  taken a back seat.
Dear and Esteemed Fellow Shareholders, Reliance played a leading  role in caring for India and  Indians in the last couple  of years of the pandemic.
We now aim to care for  the Planet as we embark  on our most exciting  transformation – the Green  Transformation.
Growing Stronger to Care Better Fortunately, Reliance is better  equipped to face these uncertainties  today than ever before.
Reliance  has built three extremely agile and  highly potent growth engines – Digital  Services, Retail and O2C – which  were all tested, and came out with  flying colours, during the COVID-led  extreme volatility.
It is just last year  that Reliance deleveraged its balance  sheet to a net debt zero status.
Besides, India’s own strong growth  prospects over the next couple of  decades bodes well for Reliance.
Reliance has maintained its  leadership position among Indian  corporates for nearly three decades  now.
It is Reliance’s ability to innovate,  to build in unparalleled flexibility, to  transform itself from time to time  and the great conviction in India’s  capability to compete globally  at world-scale, which has helped  the Company stay at the top and  continue making newer records.
Green transformation   begins Getting bigger and stronger only  means Reliance is ready to take  up even greater responsibilities  to serve not just the surrounding  communities or India, but also the  whole planet.
Reliance has made a  firm commitment to become one of  the world’s leaders in the fight against  the crisis of climate change.
FY 2021-22 marked the beginning of  Reliance’s Green Transformation, at a  scale which will make India the world’s  leading green energy producer.
We  know that affordability is the most  critical factor in the adoption of any  new technology and the scale of  societal benefit it can create.
Reliance  has embarked on this journey with a  vision to repeat the feat it achieved  in wireless broadband.
In the field of  Green Energy – Reliance will develop  end-to-end Green Energy solutions,  which will make clean and abundant  energy available to everyone at the  most affordable price.
Just as India  has the world’s most affordable  wireless broadband today, we will  have the world’s most affordable  Green Energy within this decade.
And  these solutions will then be exported  to other countries, helping them  contain carbon emissions.
Leveraging its world-class execution  capability and the strong debt- free balance sheet, Reliance  has committed to improving the  economics of this Green ecosystem  to directly compete with the fossil  fuels.
However, one cannot operate  in just one segment of the Green  Energy value chain and hope the  cost-efficient ecosystem will come up  on its own.
Reliance has undertaken  to enable the entire Green Energy  ecosystem throughout India starting  with solar power generation, to  production of green hydrogen to its  distribution and consumption.
Green Energy is a rapidly evolving  vast global industry with a lot of  technological innovation under  way.
To guide on this path, we  established the Reliance New Energy  Council with some of the globally  renowned thought leaders in the  field.
To kickstart the initiative, last  year Reliance announced a $10 billion  capex commitment over three years.
We entered into a series of  partnerships, including equity  investments, with local and  international corporates with  unique technological and execution  capabilities, with a strong track record  of innovation and a growing number  of patents and IPRs across the Green  Energy value chain.
Reliance’s partnerships include  companies like Ambri in the  US, Faradion in the UK and The  Netherlands-based Lithium Werks in  the energy storage space.
Similarly, Reliance invested in  Germany’s NexWafe, which is a  pioneer in next-gen technology to  produce monocrystalline silicon  wafers needed in making solar  panels.
We also acquired promoters’  stake in REC Solar – a global  technology leader in solar panel  manufacturing.
Reliance picked  up a 40% stake in Sterling & Wilson  Renewable Energy – one of the world’s  leading EPC turnkey contractors in  large scale solar projects.
In the Hydrogen ecosystem, Reliance  joined hands with the US-based Chart  Industries to set up India H2 Alliance  to commercialise hydrogen  technology and develop a supply  chain in collaboration with other  Indian stakeholders.
We also entered  into an agreement with Denmark’s  Stiesdal A/S for its innovative next-gen  electrolyser technology, which has  the potential to reduce dramatically  the cost of producing hydrogen  from pure water.
Simultaneously, we began work on  the four Giga-factories at Dhirubhai  Ambani Green Energy Giga Complex  to set up world-scale production  capacity for solar panels, energy  storage systems, electrolysers and  fuel cells spread over 5,000 acres in  Jamnagar.
Reliance will also invest in  creating an ecosystem of thousands  of small and medium scale  project consultants and installers  pan-India to set up Green Energy  generation projects in every nook  and corner of the country.
Similarly,  Reliance will undertake large Giga  Watt scale turnkey Green Energy  projects for Power GenCos or large  investors on its own.
With these collaborations and  the Giga-factories, Reliance is set  to achieve a uniquely integrated  position in the Green Energy value  chain globally.
This deep integration,  apart from the new-age technologies  and world-class execution  capabilities, will ensure Reliance’s  renewable energy systems stay at  the cutting edge of cost efficiency   10 11 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Digital Services PG 72 Jio maintained its market leadership  for a third year in a row through  FY 2021-22.
Jio’s consumer offering,  including service quality and value,  continued to remain best-in-class,  which helped addition of over 130  million new customers during the  year.
Subscriber churn at the lower- end has resulted in Jio improving its  user engagement matrix, like data  and voice consumption per user, to a  record high level.
Jio has the largest  single-country subscriber base and  carries the highest volume of data  traffic globally, excluding China.
In line with the industry, Jio raised  tariffs by ~20% across all prepaid  plans effective December 2021, while  ensuring that Jio continues to provide  the best value for money to all  consumers across every price point.
The year also saw Jio emerge as  the leader in fiber based wireline  broadband connectivity with over 5  million connected homes.
The devices  powering Jio Fiber in Indian homes,  are working on the Jio operating  system – Jio OS – which has a rich  set of capabilities and customisation  options.
The Jio Set Top Box has by  far the most compelling set of apps  – both from Jio and leading third  party apps – for streaming content  like movies, music, live news to video  calling.
Jio’s pan-India optic fiber  cable network has already reached  the doorstep of almost 20 million  households, which underlines its rapid  growth potential.
Chairman and Managing Director’s Statement too delivered robust earnings with  strong fuel margins.
Reliance posted a record high EBITDA  of `1,25,687 crore on a consolidated  basis for FY 2021-22, which was  28.8% up from the previous year.
The consolidated net profit for  the year stood at `67,845 crore –  again a new record.
The Company had achieved a net  debt-free status last year, thanks to  the largest ever capital raise we had  carried out in India Inc.'s history in  the previous year.
During FY 2021-22,  the Company’s capex increased in  all businesses, due to which the year  closed with marginal net debt.
The Company continues to manage  its treasury operations actively  and efficiently to reduce interest  burden and lengthen maturities.
At the very beginning of FY 2021-22,  Reliance Industries made history  by raising a jumbo loan of $4 billion  on better terms than any corporate  in the Asian region with similar  credit profile.
It was the largest-ever  foreign currency bond issuance from  India, with the lowest coupon rate  achieved for benchmark 30-year  and 40-year issuances by a private  sector BBB corporate from Asia ex- Japan.
Similarly, the Company paid  `30,791 crore to the Government of  India towards its 15 years of future  spectrum dues to save on annual  interest cost burden.
Executing our growth plans Reliance’s diversified portfolio of  business verticals represent our  growth engines, where we have been  adding capabilities consistently.
During FY 2021-22, each one of these  growth engines moved into top gear,  cementing Reliance’s position further  as India’s largest company by sales,  profits as well as market value.
globally.
Greater affordability and  competitive cost structures will ensure  massive adoption of Green Energy  solutions, providing a booster to  India’s Green Energy transition, as well  as helping our country to become  ‘Atma Nirbhar’ in our energy needs.
A step towards   Net Carbon Zero Reliance also took an important  step towards our goal to achieve net  carbon zero status by year 2035.
We  initiated the process to separate the  petcoke gasification complex into a  Wholly-Owned Subsidiary, with an  aim to repurpose the unit and unlock  value through future collaborations.
Presently, the syngas produced at  the complex is used as fuel at the  Jamnagar complex and is a major  source of carbon emission.
With  Reliance switching to green and  renewable energy for its energy  needs, syngas will become available  for upgradation to high value  petrochemicals and hydrogen fuel.
The highly concentrated stream of  CO2 in syngas can be easily captured  and sequestered.
All these steps will  greatly reduce the carbon footprint of  the Jamnagar complex.
Financial and operational  performance FY 2021-22 Let me now elaborate on Reliance’s  operating and financial performance  during FY 2021-22.
During the year, Reliance was able  to overcome all the pandemic-led  difficulties to post another record  performance operationally as well as  financially with strong contribution  from all our businesses.
Both the  consumer businesses, Retail and  Digital Services, recorded highest  ever revenues and EBITDA.
The E&P  business also posted significantly  improved numbers with strong  volume growth and improved  realisations.
The largest contributor  to our earnings – the O2C business  Retail PG 54 Braving the intermittent COVID  restrictions, the Retail business  continued to expand offline, as well  as online.
It added nearly 8 million  sq ft of retail space taking its total  retail space to over 41.6 million sq  ft.
Besides, the business added 11.1  million sq ft of warehousing space  during the year.
Importantly, the  business created over 1,50,000 jobs  through the year.
The business posted all time high  revenues and EBITDA with steady  improvement in profit margins.
Growth was seen across all  product categories from Consumer  Electronics to Grocery to Apparel &  Footwear.
Even the relatively smaller  segments of jewellery, pharma  and furniture & home décor, and  new businesses like Freshpik and  Milkbasket, witnessed rapid growth.
In our New Commerce initiative, the  focus remained on on-boarding  merchants during the year.
FY 2021-22  witnessed over 3-fold jump in the  number of merchants onboarded as  compared to the previous year.
The Retail business continued to forge  partnerships across the value chain  to enhance customer experience and  product offerings.
Throughout the  year, the Retail business invested over  `9,700 crore in these partnerships.
Jio is working relentlessly to make  India 2G-mukt, so that even the  poorest of the poor can enjoy the  benefits of digital connectivity.
The  progress of telecom technology  is making inefficient 2G obsolete.
The Jio revolution since 2016 has  already lowered the 4G tariffs below  the 2G tariffs in India.
However,  handset affordability has proven  a major hurdle for over 250 million  Indians, preventing a transition to  digital networks.
To overcome this hurdle, Jio  launched JioPhone Next – world’s  most affordable full-touchscreen  4G phone – in collaboration with  Google.
The phone runs on Pragati  OS – a specially optimised version of  Google’s Android OS.
The technology in the Internet,  Communication and Telecom (ICT)  industry continues to make rapid  strides globally and India is getting  ready to join the 5G bandwagon.
Jio also took major steps in getting  ready for 5G, with its 100% indigenous  technology.
Jio successfully carried  out 5G testing across sites and has  completed 5G coverage planning  across 1,000 Indian cities.
Jio has  also developed several use cases for  5G in industries like healthcare and  industrial automation.
Jio entered into a strategic  partnership with Google for its Cloud  Solutions to power the 5G experience  of Indian enterprises as well as  consumers.
Jio also joined hands  with University of Oulu in Finland – the  leader of the world’s first major 6G  research programme – to accelerate  research and standardisation in  6G – the futuristic next generation of  telecom technology after 5G.
Oil to Chemicals PG 98 The rapid growth in vaccinations and  reopening of economies helped a  strong economic recovery globally  in FY 2021-22.
As a result, the global  demand for oil and transport fuels  grew rapidly and recovered by 6.8  mb/d to 98.5 mb/d in FY 2021-22, up  7.4% Y-o-Y.
The rapid growth in fuel  demand supported the refining  margins.
Reliance maintained high  level of capacity utilisation across  sites throughout the year.
The demand growth in downstream  chemicals, polymers and polyesters  was comparatively subdued, due  to the volatility in feedstock prices.
There was also a constraint on  global logistics and higher ocean  freights that weighed on the  business environment.
The availability of domestic gas as  well as internal fuels meant that we  could eliminate our dependence  on high-cost LNG.
All the while, we continued to  innovate and improve operationally.
We commissioned and stabilised  the Petroleum Naphtha quality  upgrade, capturing higher  premium.
Likewise, Reliance won  the ‘Innovator of the Year’ award for  our proprietary catalyst RELCAT A for  manufacturing LLDPE.
12 13 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Management   Review Corporate  OverviewChairman and Managing Director’s Statement During the year, Reliance and bp’s fuel  and mobility joint venture, Reliance BP  Mobility Limited (RBML), launched its  first Jio-bp branded Mobility Station  at Navi Mumbai, Maharashtra.
This  kicked off the rebranding process for  all 1,460 fuel outlets the JV operates  in India with a view to provide an  unmatched and distinctive customer  experience.
These Mobility Stations  bring together a range of services for  consumers on the move – including  additivised fuels, EV charging,  refreshments & food, and plan to offer  more low carbon solutions over time.
With a vision of being the leading  EV charging infrastructure player  in India, Jio-bp constructed and  launched couple of country's largest  EV charging hubs in Delhi NCR with  BluSmart as its primary customer.
Reliance’s world-class O2C assets  and very high level of backward  integration will continue to maximise  output and returns, and continue  to transition towards a sustainable,  carbon-neutral, circular economy  business in the coming years.
Oil and Gas E&P PG 122 FY 2021-22 was a milestone year  for our Oil & Gas business, with  two of the three phases of KG-D6  development project commissioning.
Notwithstanding the difficulties  caused by the COVID pandemic,  Reliance and bp were able to  complete the work on Satellite  Cluster and R-Cluster fields to  start production and scale up  during the year.
With both these fields commissioning,  KG-D6 is now producing 18 MMSCMD  of natural gas, accounting for ~20% of  India's gas production.
The business posted significantly  improved financial performance,  thanks to a recovery in domestic  pricing of natural gas.
The third phase of KG-D6 project  is progressing as per plan.
The  development of MJ field is nearing  completion of drilling activity, as  well as the offshore installations.
The  project is expected to commission  by end 2022 and take our total  production to 30 MMSCMD.
In line with our strategic intentions,  Reliance exited all its remaining  investments in US shale gas this year.
Corporate Social  Responsibility and  Sustainability Reliance has always believed in  doing well by doing good.
It is our firm  belief that the long-term success of a  corporate depends on giving back to  the society it operates in and ensuring  its operations are sustainable.
During FY 2021-22, Reliance Industries  continued to remain India Inc.'s  largest spender on Corporate Social  Responsibility.
The breadth and depth of work  Reliance Foundation carried out in  India’s fight against COVID was simply  astonishing.
It set a new benchmark in  what a corporate foundation can do  and achieve, if it is determined and  focused.
Reliance Foundation created  massive COVID-care infrastructure  pan-India, treating lakhs of patients.
It  supplied free-of-cost medical oxygen  to over 1 lakh critical patients a day,  provided lakhs of PPE kits free-of- cost to frontline workers, distributed  8.5+ crore free meals through  'Anna Seva' to the needy, 40+ lakh  vaccinations provided free of cost by  Reliance to support the nation in its  vaccination mission.
All the while, Reliance Foundation’s  work in the fields of Rural  Empowerment, Sports for Youth,  Education, Disaster Management  among others continued  to progress well.
Conclusion The COVID-19 pandemic struck at a  time when the world was entering  a great phase of transformation.
Now that the pandemic is nearly  over, geopolitical tensions in several  parts of the world have come to a  boil.
All this has resulted in significant  volatility, high inflationary pressure  and uncertainty in the energy  and commodity markets.
Crude  oil prices, which had dipped into  negative territory at the start of 2020,  jumped to a 14-year peak of $130 at  the start of 2022.
Reliance is built to weather such  storms.
Firstly, it is well diversified  across Digital Services, Retail  and Energy & Materials business.
Secondly, over the years it has  built in unparalleled level of agility  in each of its business verticals.
Thirdly, its global scale of operations  help in overcoming many hurdles.
And lastly, the Company’s balance  sheet has expanded, but is  extremely light on debt.
In its true ethos of Care and Empathy,  Reliance has charted its next journey  of transformation to help the world  cope with the climate change  crisis.
Over the next 12 months our  investments across the Green Energy  value chain will gradually start going  live, scaling up over the next couple  of years.
This new growth engine  holds great promise to outshine  all our existing growth engines in  just 5-7 years.
At the same time, Reliance continues  to expand its existing businesses  to newer frontiers of technology,  innovation, scale and execution.
Jio has already created the most  reliable connectivity infrastructure  throughout India, and is ready with an  array of value-added digital services  and products.
Today Reliance Retail  has the deepest grassroots level  pan-India supply chain capability,  the broadest supplier base, and a  network of kirana partners to provide  excellent service to end consumers.
Reliance’s O2C business is a global  leader in terms of level of integration  – a business model innovation that is  being emulated globally.
All of Reliance’s capabilities are  created to serve India, to enable  Indians.
I am sure India will emerge  stronger out of the current volatility,  just the way it did through the  last couple of years.
India is set  to become one of the world’s top  three economies in the next couple  of decades, and all of Reliance’s  business verticals will play a  leading role in achieving that.
India  and Reliance will aim to play a  leading role in the world’s transition  to Clean Energy.
The last two years were the most  difficult for everyone in living  memory.
I have great admiration  and appreciation for the scientists,  doctors, nurses, and all frontline  workers who risked their lives,  our teams at O2C, Jio, Retail and  Foundation, who helped not just the  Company, but also the society whom  we serve, navigate the difficult times.
I would also like to place on record my  sincere appreciation to the Board of  Directors for their guidance.
I would  like to express my gratitude to all  our stakeholders for their continuing  faith in Reliance.
With best wishes, Sincerely Mukesh D. Ambani  Chairman and Managing Director August 5, 2022  PG 150 14 15 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Redefining landscape India’s retail Partnership with Meta  to enable JioMart  transactions over WhatsApp We Care for an inclusive  ecosystem Reliance Retail is committed to modernising  and expanding the Indian retail sector.
It has taken a three-pronged strategy that  we believe will generate enormous value for  all players in retail.
Making modern retail  accessible to every Indian  Reliance Retail has brought the  benefits of modern retail to households  across a large number of Tier 2 and  3 cities, bringing value and choice  to millions of discerning consumers  across small towns.
Exceeding customers'  expectations –  Serving them what they want  as they want To keep up with changing consumer shopping  behaviours and needs, Reliance Retail has  significantly expanded its Digital Commerce  platform capabilities over the years by  adding new product categories, entering  new segments, building new features and  platforms that serve a diverse consumer  base with pan-India coverage.
Its efforts on  the Digital Commerce platform have been  warmly accepted by consumers, resulting in a  significant increase in key metrics such as users,  orders, and repeat transactions.
Helping merchants earn more customers  and profits Reliance Retail’s growth over the years has triggered a large  socio-economic transformation on an extraordinary scale in  India.
Yet again, through the New Commerce initiative it aims  to revitalise the spirit of entrepreneurship in India.
The initiative  endeavours to transform and grow the merchant ecosystem  by modernising and equipping them with wider assortment  of products, cutting-edge tools and a reliable supply chain  infrastructure, thereby bringing them in line with the evolving  market and customer expectations.
75% new stores in Tier 2 and  below cities 2.5x  growth in daily  orders Y-o-Y 98% of India's   pincodes served Benefits to the kirana • Increased product offerings • Anytime ordering capability  • Digital payments and  working capital solutions • Improved earnings and  margins Benefits to the customer  • Enhanced customer  experience • Access to a wide product  assortment • Value and promotions  similar to modern  trade/e-commerce • Better customer retention  through rewards and loyalty  programs  16 Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview We Care for digital transformation In the past five years, Jio has laid the foundation  for building the world’s premier digital society in  India.
It has bridged the country’s digital divide,  democratised digital access and become the  communication lifeline for all Indian citizens.
digital transformation Accelerating India's FY 2017-18  Jio partnered with Reliance Retail  to launch JioPhone which has helped  transition > 100 million 2G users  to 4G FY 2018-19  Crossed the 300 million subscriber  mark and became the #1 mobile  operator in terms of  Adjusted Gross Revenue Future ready network to  lead India’s march towards  5G and fixed mobile  convergence Seeded and propagated  the digital ecosystem  with next generation  technology platforms Jio Milestones Total ecosystem solutions to serve consumers, merchants, SMBs and enterprises Pan-India network Providing 4G LTE services to almost  100% of India’s population, reaching  the remotest corners of the country Compute Cloud, Edge  Super compute Tech platforms IoT, Blockchain, Big data,  AI/ML/AR/VR, Robotics  Drones Connected devices Hardware  Operating system  Developer ecosystem Apps and content Mobile apps, PC/STB/VR  Curated content  User generated content Deep geo presence Jio centres, Jio points,  Field Service Agents  Own stores, Channel partners Entertainment Payments &  Finance Commerce Education Smart cities FY 2019-20  Consolidated its tech  capabilities, investments and  connectivity business into a  single-holding company  called Jio Platforms Limited FY 2020-21  Strategic partnerships with Facebook  (now Meta) and Google; completed  fund raising of K1,52,056 crore  across 13 investors Designed and developed a  completely indigenous end- to-end 5G solution FY 2021-22 JioPhone Next launched  with Pragati OS JioFiber became the #1 FTTH  provider in India with over   5 million connected homes Physical- Digital Distribution  Platform  Industrial IoT Gaming  18 19 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Reimagining for India modern mobility We Care for sustainable   value creation  Our joint venture Reliance BP Mobility Limited  (Operating under the brand Jio-bp) is designed  to be a partnership that combines international  expertise and local strengths to fulfil India’s fast- growing demands for energy and mobility.
Together,  we aspire to build on our existing fuel offerings while  introducing advanced mobility solutions and a  range of convenience services for Indian consumers.
Jio-bp aims to expand  from its current fuel  retailing network of over  1,460 retail sites to up to  5,500.
Operating strategy  Mobility stations for   world-class experience Operating under the brand Jio-bp, RBML  launched its first Jio-bp branded Mobility  Station at Navde, Navi Mumbai, Maharashtra.
Jio-bp Mobility Stations bring together a range  of services, including: • Multiple fuelling choices while providing a  world-class retailing experience • Additivised fuel across the network at no  extra cost, a first in India • EV charging infrastructure across India • An international on-the-move brand,   Wild Bean Café • Free, quick and reliable oil change service for  2-wheelers at Castrol Express Oil Change • Both the new outlets and the existing network  of over 1,460 fuel pumps will be rebranded as  Jio-bp over the next few years  Ubiquitous EV infrastructure   to power Net Carbon Zero Towards realising a more environment-friendly  portfolio, Jio-bp is working on the twin targets of  becoming a leading EV charging infrastructure  provider and building a CNG network in the  country.
Having built the first on-the-go charging  station, first cluster charging station, first fleet  charging hub, first charging app, Jio-bp now has  over 300 charging points across the country.
We have also announced partnerships with  some of the key players such as OEMs and last  mile delivery players to collaborate on increasing  EV penetration and make EV charging and  swapping convenient for customers.
We’ve partnered with several CGD companies  during the year for establishing CNG facilities for  our customers at Jio-bp Mobility stations.
Take on a leadership  role in EV infrastructure by proactively offering  new technologies and  operating models Deploy next-generation  technologies for automation-led  operational and process  efficiency Bring best-in-class  global fueling experience  for Indian consumers through technology- enabled unique Customer  Value Propositions  20 21 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview We Care for a greener planet We have committed to a Net Carbon Zero  emission goal by 2035 and our   New Energy proposition is key to achieving  this.
We are actively investing and  partnering to take this forward, and building  a scalable and enabling energy ecosystem.
Shaping our shared future Building a model that rides the  upward curve in the demand for  green, clean and renewable energy  in India and globally; benefits from  technology superiority and downward  curve in the cost of production.
Improving the efficiency,  performance and life-cycle of our  assets and operations to optimise  total system and economics.
Operating framework Integrating scientific knowledge   with continuous technological  innovation to build and operate  truly integrated systems that deliver  hyper-performance.
VISION & MISSION To build one of the world's  leading New Energy   and New Materials business  with the aim of bridging  the green energy divide in  India and globally Electrolyzer and Fuel Cell   Manufacturing Power electronics systems required  to support renewable energy such as  inverters, chargers, DC-DC converters Full integration across the   New Energy value-chain (Photon → Electrons → Molecules) Battery chemicals and components,   cells and pack manufacturing and Energy  Storage system Conversion of hydrogen   to chemicals Integrated PV manufacturing from sand  to PV modules including ecosystem of  ancillary units Power generation for production   of green hydrogen Power generation   for round-the-clock power Renewable energy   for mobility Building core competencies and  sustainable advantage  Full integration across the  New Energy value chain Optimum large-scale facilities that maximise  benefits supported by Artificial Intelligence /  Machine Learning and Robotics  Collective knowledge gained from various  strategic partnerships across different verticals  will help deliver the best product to the customer  Leveraging internal project execution skills and  strategic partnerships to set up New Energy  projects at record pace Modular approach to dovetail and integrate new  technologies Significant captive demand for Green Energy  internally within the Reliance Group Highlights FY 2021-22 • MoU signed with the Government  of Gujarat for a total investment  of `5.95 lakh crore as part of  Investment Promotion Activity  for Vibrant Gujarat Summit 2022.
These projects have potential  to create 10 lakh direct / indirect  employment opportunities in the  state • Completed acquisitions and  investments of over `5,500 crore to  build capabilities in New Energy • One of the companies shortlisted  under GOI's PLI schemes for  integrated PV module and ACC  Battery manufacturing  • Developing an ecosystem for  assisting Small and Medium  Enterprises (SMEs) and  entrepreneurs to embrace new  technologies and innovations  leading to captive use of  Renewable Energy and Green  Hydrogen • Established the Reliance New  Energy Council ('NEC') with some of  the finest minds globally helping  us validate our strategies and  embrace disruptive pathways to  achieve our goals  • Commenced development of the  Dhirubhai Ambani Green Energy  Giga Complex ('DAGEGC') on 5,000  acres in Jamnagar which will be  among the largest integrated  renewable energy manufacturing  facilities in the world 5,000 acres DAGEGC development commenced `5.95 lakh crore investment committed in Gujarat Hyper- Integration Robust  business  model Scale 22 23 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Key acquisitions and investments* Acquired REC Solar Holdings  AS (REC Group) for an  Enterprise Value of US$ 771  million REC Group is one of the  world’s leading solar cells and  solar panels and polysilicon  manufacturing companies.
The acquisition will help Reliance  in its vision to become a  global scale PV manufacturing  player with industry-leading  heterojunction (HJT) cell  technology.
Acquired a 40% stake in  Sterling & Wilson Renewable  Energy Sterling & Wilson Renewable  Energy is one of the largest EPC  and O&M providers globally,  providing turnkey solutions in the  New Energy value chain.
This move will provide further  thrust to achieving Reliance’s  commitment to enable up to  100 GWp of solar energy in India  by 2030 and becoming a global  player in the renewable industry.
Acquired Faradion Limited  for an Enterprise Value of  US$ 100 million Faradion is one of the  leading global battery  technology companies and  has competitively superior,  strategic, far-reaching and  extensive IP portfolios covering  several aspects of sodium-ion  technology.
Reliance will use Faradion’s  state-of-the-art technology  at its proposed fully integrated  energy storage giga-factory as  part of the DAGEGC project at  Jamnagar, India.
Invested US$ 50 million Ambri Inc is developing long  storage battery based upon  antimony calcium technology.
The investment will help Reliance  commercialise and grow its  long-duration energy storage  systems business globally.
Along with strategic investors  Paulson & Co. Inc. and Bill Gates  and a few other investors,   RNEL is investing a total of   US$ 144 million.
Industry Overview Indian renewable energy sector is the fourth most attractive renewable energy market in the world.
India was ranked fourth in wind power, fifth in solar power and fourth in renewable power installed  capacity, as of 2020.
(According to Renewable Energy Country Attractiveness index by EY.)
Demand Projection - Global Demand Projection - India Global energy demand is likely  to increase from ~1,71,000 TWh to  ~1,74,000 TWh in 2040.
• Renewables are likely to replace  coal (electricity) and crude oil  (transportation fuels)   for de-carbonisation India’s per capita energy demand  is about one-third that of the global  average Crude oil demand likely to decrease  by 37% from 95 mmbpd (~56,700  TWh) to 60 mmbpd (~36,000 TWh).
• As part of this, transportation  fuels demand will be met by BEVs  (electricity from renewables)  and part by FCEVs (Hydrogen  generated from renewables),  impacting demand for crude oil As quality of life improves, India’s  energy demand is likely to increase  from ~12,400 TWh to ~18,000 TWh by  2040 • Coal demand is likely to decrease  significantly by 54% from ~7,000  TWh to ~3,200 TWh.
• Crude oil demand is likely to  decrease by 11% from 6.2 mmbpd  (~3,650 TWh) to 5.5 mmbpd   (~3,250 TWh) This is likely to result in increase in  the total electricity from renewable  sources.
• Renewables are likely to replace  ~33,000 TWh of coal and ~20,700  TWh of crude oil demand and also  fulfil incremental energy demand • Share of renewables in energy  basket is likely to increase 3.7x  from ~19,200 TWh (~11%) to ~71,200  TWh (~41%) Renewables and natural gas are  likely to replace coal and crude oil  and supply incremental energy  demand • Share of natural gas, in energy  basket, is likely to increase from  ~750 TWh (~6%) to ~3,000 TWh (~16%) • While share of renewables, is likely  to increase nearly 9x from ~900  TWh (~7%) to ~7,900 TWh (~44%) This transition will require multi-fold increase in  installed capacity of renewable energy from the current 2,800 GW Shaping our shared future Source: IBEF.org, bp Energy Outlook 2020 Invested US$ 29 million in  Germany’s NexWafe Partnered with NexWafe for joint  technology development and  commercialisation of high- efficiency monocrystalline “green  solar wafers”.
Reliance now has access to  NexWafe’s proprietary technology,  which is expected to drastically  lower costs and make solar  photovoltaics the lowest-cost form  of renewable energy available.
This  will help Reliance build large-scale  wafer manufacturing facilities in  India.
Collaboration with  Denmark’s Stiesdal A/S on  technology development  and manufacturing of  Hydrogen Electrolyzers in  India This technology can produce  hydrogen at a significantly lower  cost compared to current levels.
This will pave the way for  rapid decarbonisation and  commercialisation of affordable  Green Hydrogen – a key enabler  in achieving India’s green energy  transition.
RNEL and Stiesdal will  also collaborate to develop and  implement other path-breaking  climate change technologies.
New Energy Council The Reliance New Energy Council will  help us validate our strategies and  embrace disruptive pathways to  achieve our goals.
NEC members are  experts at the top of their fields who  will guide on technical strategy, help  identify opportunities, and advice on  partnerships worldwide.
They are global advocates and  thought leaders of the New  Energy business.
NEC Charter • Accelerate the market-led transition of  Reliance to clean energy, with the aim  of becoming Net Carbon Zero by 2035 • Reinvent Reliance to become a  New Energy major with a focused  technology roadmap of 5 to 15 years  – including an optimal mix of clean,  affordable energy • Formulate strategies for business  configuration, operations, models,  manufacturing, project development  within an ever-evolving Indian and  global policy landscape With such luminaries, Reliance hopes  to transform the world and make it an  even better place.
Profiles of council members   Dr. Raghunath Mashelkar  (Chairman, NEC):  A pioneer of the ‘Inclusive  Innovation’ movement,  he is an eminent  scientist, National  Research Professor, and  Independent Director at RIL   Dr. Alan Finkel: The former  Chief Scientist of Australia,  he led the development  of Australia’s National  Hydrogen Strategy and  now serves as Special  Adviser to the Australian  Government on Low  Emission Technologies.
Dr. David Milstein:   A winner of Israel’s highest  honour, the Israel Prize,  he has done breakthrough  research in water splitting  for hydrogen, innovative  energy storage systems  and carbon dioxide  capture and utilisation.
Dr. Geoffrey Maitland:   A Professor of Energy  Engineering at Imperial  College, London, he is a  global authority on carbon  capture and storage  technologies.
Mr. Henrik Stiesdal:   A pioneer of the modern  wind industry, he has  made more than 175  inventions and received  more than 650 patents  related to wind power  technology.
Dr. Martin Green:   Referred to as the  ‘father of photovoltaics’,  he revolutionised the  efficiency and costs of  solar photovoltaics and  invented PERC solar cells.
Dr. Rachid Yazami:  A winner of the Draper  Prize, the equivalent of a  Nobel Prize for engineers,  he invented the lithium  graphite anode used  in commercial Li-ion  batteries.
Dr. Robert Armstrong:   The Director of MIT’s  prestigious Energy  Initiative, his research links  science, innovation, and  policy to create pathways  to a low carbon energy  future.
Invested US$ 61 million to  acquire assets of Lithium  Werks  An integrated portfolio of high- performance LFP solutions with  a unique history of 30+ years  of battery experience and  innovation.
This will further strengthen  Reliance’s cell chemistry  technology leadership and  accelerate setting up of multi  gigawatt hour scale battery  manufacturing in India.
* Reliance has also made other minor strategic investments in New Energy 24 25 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview COVID-19 response Our ’We Care’ philosophy was best  manifested in the way we stood by the  nation during the testing times of the  COVID-19 pandemic.
Across India, our  multi-pronged initiatives for communities,  patients and employees reflected the way  Reliance cares for people and communities.
at the core Keeping care 60% extended eligible  Reliance Family members  vaccinated ZERO Impact on jobs, salaries  and bonuses due to  COVID-19 100% medical expenses paid Salary for the next 5 years to  the families of any deceased  full time employee + education  expense of children + medical  coverage for life `10 lakh  provided to the families  of deceased off-roll  employees ~100% eligible employees  vaccinated with  first dose and 96% with  second dose For employees For communities Free-of-cost vaccinations, food missions, medical care and support Mission Oxygen Fuel for emergency  vehicles Mission Anna Seva 8.5+ crore free meals provided  to marginalised communities,  daily-wage earners, and  frontline workers.
Mission Vaccine  Suraksha 40+ lakh free COVID-19  vaccinations provided to  employees, extended families  and general communities 44 lakh individuals supported  with COVID-19 advisories,  and queries on government  schemes and social benefits 1.4+ crore masks distributed  among the community 9,50,000+ sanitisers, 2,00,000+  gloves and 5,00,000+ ORS  packets distributed All figures are since COVID-19 Mission COVID infra 1,000+ MT  of high-purity medical grade liquid  oxygen produced per day at the  Jamnagar Refinery,   meeting requirements of  1,00,000 patients per day 2,000+  beds for COVID-19 care  created by Reliance Foundation 2,700+ kL   fuel supplied free of cost to COVID-19  emergency service vehicles by Jio-bp All the COVID-19 patients in NSCI and Seven  Hills Hospital are treated absolutely free.
26 27 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview MC Board of Directors Shri Mukesh D. Ambani Chairman and Managing Director The face of emerging India’s enterprising  spirit; led the creation of the world’s  largest petroleum refinery, one of the  most expansive 4G networks and India’s  largest retail footprint C Smt.
Nita M. Ambani Non-Executive Director A businesswoman, educationist and  philanthropist; Founder and Chairperson  of Reliance Foundation which through  focused interventions has impacted the  lives of over 5.75 crore people across  India His Excellency Yasir Othman  H. Al Rumayyan Independent Director Prof. Dipak C. Jain Independent Director (ceased to be a Director of the  Company upon completion of his term  on July 20, 2022) Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar Independent Director (ceased to be a Director of the  Company upon completion of his term on  July 20, 2022) Shri Adil Zainulbhai Independent Director  Shri Raminder Singh Gujral Independent Director Dr. Shumeet Banerji Independent Director Chairman of Saudi Aramco.
A Harvard  Business School alumnus, with an  experience encompassing over 25  years working in some of Saudi Arabia’s  prominent financial institutions.
He is also on the Board of leading   global corporations A distinguished teacher and scholar;  served as Dean of some of the world’s  leading management schools; currently  president of China Europe International  Business School An eminent Indian scientist and National  Research Professor; awarded Padmashri,  Padmabhushan & Padmavibhushan for  his pioneering contribution to science &  technology Former Chairman of McKinsey &  Company, India; Chairman of the  Capability Building Commission of India  and Chairman of Quality  Council of  India; serves on the Boards of various  Reliance companies, Larsen & Toubro  and Cipla Former Finance Secretary, Government  of India and former Chairman of National  Highways Authority of India (NHAI); also  serves on the Boards of various Reliance  and Adani Group of Companies Former CEO of Booz & Company;  currently leads an advisory and  investment firm specialising in  developing early stage companies C M M MC C A brief resume of the Directors, nature of their expertise in speciﬁc functional areas etc.
are available at  https://www.ril.com/ourcompany/leadership/boardofdirectors.aspx Smt.
Arundhati Bhattacharya  Independent Director Shri K. V. Chowdary Independent Director Shri Nikhil R. Meswani Executive Director Shri Hital R. Meswani Executive Director Shri P. M. S. Prasad  Executive Director Shri Pawan Kumar Kapil Executive Director A banker and former Chairperson  of India’s largest bank, SBI; currently  leads Indian operations of Salesforce, a  global leader in customer relationship  management software Former Central Vigilance Commissioner,  Former Chairman CBDT and Former  Advisor to the Department of Revenue One of the Founder Directors;  instrumental in making Reliance a global  petrochemicals leader; serves on Board of  Trade, Ministry of Commerce, and National  Council of CII Leads several functions from refining to  human resources; involved in all mega  initiatives of Reliance including the Hazira  petrochemicals complex and Jamnagar  refinery complex A career spanning almost four  decades with Reliance across fibres,  petrochemicals, refining, marketing and  exploration & production businesses Led the commissioning and start-up of  the Jamnagar complex; spearheaded  various large scale projects in a career  spanning over five decades in petroleum  refining Board Snapshot Board Governance Structure 5 Executive Directors  7 Non-Executive Directors   C  Chairman      M  Member Committees    Audit Committee 	Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee   Corporate Social Responsibility and    Governance Committee   Human Resources, Nomination and    Remuneration Committee   Finance Committee 	Health, Safety and Environment Committee   Risk Management Committee Tenure  Years 0-5 3 Directors 5-10 4 Directors 10+ 5 Directors MM M M M MCM M M M M M M M MC Our Leadership 28 29 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Management   Review Corporate  OverviewValue-creation Model Inputs Value-creation approach Our motto Growth is Life Mission Be the most admired, innovative and value generating  organisation for all our stakeholders External environment Digital  technology platforms Unmatched connectivity  platforms to create  disruptive solutions - a  game changer for India  during the pandemic New Commerce Connecting producers,  kiranas and consumers to  transform retail landscape  in India through a  win-win partnership  model benefiting all the  stakeholders in the value  chain Decarbonisation 3 pillars of Net Carbon  Zero Strategy: • Making CO2 a recyclable  resource • Replace transportation  fuel • Lead the clean energy  transition New Energy business   Pivoting to low carbon  growth with the  3S Strategy • Scale • Speed • Sustainability Driving Superior Outcomes Financial Capital • Invested `45,880 crore to acquire additional  spectrum and expand network infrastructure • Jumbo Bond issuance (January 2022) of  US$ 4 billion to refinance existing borrowings,  extend debt maturity profile Human Capital • 2,32,822 new recruits onboarded • 18.4% women employees • 2.2+ crore training hours completed • Increased HSE expenditure to   `798 crore Intellectual Capital • Invested `2,608 crore on R&D expenditure • 1,000+ team of Researchers & Scientists • 2,775 new ideas submitted under Mission  Kurukshetra • 152 Patent applications filed Natural Capital • Establish and enable 100 GW solar energy  by 2030 • `75,000 crore Investments in New Energy over  3 years • Investments on carbon capture technologies  to use CO2 as a resource Embedding  Good Governance Governance approach  promotes strategic decision  making that combines  short-term and long-term  outcomes to reconcile the  interests of the Group and  society in pursuit  of sustainable value    PG 155 Measuring  Our Performance The progress in executing the  strategic pillars is tracked  according to the outcomes  and metrics associated with  value drivers    PG 168-215 Managing Risk  & Opportunities Risk appetite is aligned  to change the operating  environment integrating  a risk aware culture that  proactively enhances the risk  management capabilities         PG 132 Inventing  Future Outlook A strive for wide spectrum is  missioned  to win customers  for life by offering an  exceptional experience       PG 14-23 Manufactured Capital • 1,732 MHz - Jio’s spectrum footprint  • Satellite Cluster field commissioned in   April 2021 • 1.4 MMBPD Crude Refining Capacity • Investment in 4 Giga Factories to offer  integrated, end-to-end RE ecosystem Social and Relationship Capital • Launched 5 pronged approach to tackle  COVID-19 • 40+ lakh free COVID-19 vaccinations provided  to employees, extended families and general  communities • With 410.2 million subscribers, Jio’s services  span geographies, economic and  social classes PG 20 PG 30 PG 54 PG 72 Outputs • Net profit (incl.
exceptional income)   at `67,845 crore, up 26.2% Y-o-Y • ARPU at `167.6 • EBITDA of `1,25,687 crore, up 28.8% Y-o-Y • One of the largest employers, with  employee strength of 3,42,982 • 55.2% workforce under 30 • Featured in LinkedIn’s Top 25  workplaces in India • 123 Patents granted • Set-up largest production facilities in  India to produce and deliver medical  oxygen from a single location in  record time • Oncourse to transforming our business  to Net Carbon Zero operations  • ‘A-’ CDP Rating for RJIL • 2.11 million GJ energy savings due to  energy conservation initiatives • Partnered with 1,460 Jio-bp fuel  pumps to boost low carbon growth • Jio’s digital ecosystem driving ~8.0  Exabytes of monthly data traffic • Reliance Foundation has touched lives of  over 5.75 crore people in 50,600+ villages  and urban locations across India • JioGenNext has supported 170 startups  collectively raising over `2,600 crore in  early-stage venture capital since 2014 • ‘HerCircle’ has become India’s fastest  growing digital platform for women with  an overall reach of 50 million Outcome & SDG  Alignment Business Divisions Our values • Robust and resilient financial  performance despite  unprecedented operational  environment • Leveraging hyper-integration, robust  business model and scale to make  New Energy a truly global business • Transform to sustainable, circular  and Net Carbon Zero material  business • Inspired by ‘We Care’ philosophy,  continued to Improve employee  well-being and ensure access to  healthcare for all • State-of-the-art supply chain  network for Reliance Retail • Leading India’s digital  transformation through 100%  homegrown cloud native solution • Strategic collaborations across  the globe • Mobilised communities to  strengthen India’s fight against  COVID-19 Retail Digital Services Oil to Chemicals Oil and Gas E&P Media  and Entertainment  30 31 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Management   Review Corporate  OverviewStrategy Energising the Way India Connects,  Consumes and Grows Strategic focus area At Reliance, our growth roadmap is built around our three hyper-growth  engines.
These characterise our long-term strategy and fuel our next  wave of exponential growth.
Decarbonisation, transition from B2B to B2B2C  and fuel to chemicals integration through  Reliance O2C, New Energy and New Materials Strategic objective Build Reliance as one of the world’s leading  O2C, New Energy and New Materials Company  with a sustainable and circular business model  Enablers and way forward Net Carbon Zero   RIL targets to become a Net Carbon Zero company by  2035.
We are embracing new technologies in the O2C  business to minimise CO2 emissions and are planning  to develop next generation carbon capture utilisation  and storage technologies to convert CO2 into useful  products and chemicals.
Maximising O2C conversion  O2C business will leverage technology and its existing  assets and streams to maximise conversion of crude  to chemicals and materials, with an aim to create a  sustainable, holistic, circular materials business.
New Energy and New Materials Business  Complementing traditional fuels with clean  electricity and hydrogen, and build an optimal  mix of reliable, clean and affordable energy  and storage using solar, wind and batteries.
The business will be based on the principle of  Carbon Recycle and Circular Economy with a  portfolio of advanced and speciality materials.
Strategic focus area Strategic focus area Digital technologies and platforms  through Jio Platforms Strategic objective Leverage technology to create market leading  disruptive solutions that manifest as products  to add value to our customers, across and  beyond India.
Enablers and way forward Connectivity Largest all-IP mobility network to ensure connectivity  across the country and enabling a digital revolution.
Technology platforms & ecosystem solutions Continuous platform building based on cutting-edge,  disruptive technologies such as AI, blockchain, cloud  computing and IoT.
Also, developing expertise in big  data analytics, learning algorithms, AR/VR, AI-based  education solutions, chatbots, speech and language  processing, among others.
Ultra-broadband With fiber rollout to millions of homes and enterprises, Jio  has opened the door for the next generation of ultra- broadband solutions to be brought straight into Indian  living rooms and small businesses.
5G readiness 5G-ready network and extensive fiber assets, enabling  services across connectivity layers, enhancing  consumer experience.
New Commerce connecting  producers, kiranas   and consumers through  Reliance Retail Enablers and way forward Sourcing Ecosystem  Sourcing ecosystem works with small producers and  manufacturers (SMBs), regional, national and international  brands.
In particular, it supports small producers to  modernise their operations, minimise inefficiencies and  reduce leakages.
Expanding selling ecosystem Selling ecosystem comprises of a vast network of  merchants to serve customers across the length and  breadth of the country.
Connected supply chain Actively investing in building a state-of-the-art  supply chain infrastructure to link all major sourcing  locations through an automated, reliable and scalable  warehousing, logistics and last-mile fulfilment ecosystem.
Strategic objective Transform retail landscape in India through  a win-win partnership model with producers,  brand companies and merchant partners.
32 33 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Management   Review Corporate  OverviewESG Reliance's three-pronged approach Making CO2   a recyclable   resource Replacing  transportation fuel  with electricity  and hydrogen  Transitioning   to clean energy   usage Environment Acknowledging the real threat of climate change,   Reliance has set itself the ambitious goal of achieving  Net Carbon Zero status by 2035, and embarked on a 15- year plan to build itself up as one of the world's leading  new energy and new materials companies.
Reliance has  committed to invest `75,000 crore towards building New  energy capabilities over 3 years.
Reliance has ingrained the principles of Environmental,   Social and Governance into its way of doing of business,   to create consistent and long-term value for its stakeholders.
Revolutionising with responsibility Read in detail RIL’s strategy for decarbonisation  and mainstreaming clean energy PG 30 Technology deployment  for a greener tomorrow • Next-gen technology for  Carbon Capture Utilisation  and Sequestration • Evaluating novel catalytic  and electrochemical  transformations to use CO2 as  a valuable feedstock • Algae to Oil, is a technology  that utilises sunlight, waste  CO2 and sea water, to  produce valuable products • Acquisitions and  collaborations across the  world for green  hydrogen, solar cell  manufacturing, technology  access and new mobility Read how Reliance's  New Commerce  is mainstreaming  inclusive retail  PG 68 A diverse and  illustrious Board with  significant expertise  and experience PG 26 Robust Code of  Conduct PG 221 Continued focus  on stakeholder  value-creation  PG 4 Read how Reliance  Foundation is  touching millions of  lives  PG 34   See how RIL stood  with the nation and  all its stakeholders  during the COVID-19  pandemic PG 152 See how Jio has revolutionised  connectivity in India   https://www.youtube.com/   watch?v=ESwI5SUi73I Best-in-class disclosure  practices such as GRI, TCFD and  <IR>, and alignment to UN SDGs  and national priorities Social Very rarely in history has an organisation  transformed the way a society operates or  connects.
By connecting millions of Indians  through affordable digital services, RIL has  brought about a revolution like no other.
Similarly, by innovating the New Commerce  channel, which helps onboard lakhs of small  mom and pop stores to a platform and  connect with a huge consumer base, RIL has  triggered unprecedented changes on the  ground.
Social impact is thus ingrained in  RIL’s very ethos.
Combined with the efforts of  Reliance Foundation, India’s largest corporate  philanthropy, RIL is today operating an inclusion- focused, India-centric enterprise.
Governance Robust corporate governance policies,  informed risk management and a keen eye  on emerging opportunities underline our  Governance approach.
ESG integrated into  Board responsibility PG 155 34 35 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Management   Review Corporate  OverviewReliance FoundationReliance Foundation Education We aim to provide opportunities  for the young to develop  themselves into future citizens who  contribute to society.
3.9+ lakh children and teachers impacted  through various education initiatives With a comprehensive development  approach, Reliance Foundation, the CSR  arm of Reliance Industries, positively  touches the lives of millions every year,  making it one of the largest corporate  philanthropies in India and the world.
Rural Transformation A long-term programme that  addresses all the critical development  indicators like rural livelihoods,  water, food and nutrition, women’s  empowerment and access to  knowledge resources.
50,600+ villages empowered Empowering India, 5.75+ crore lives touched since inception enriching lives Health Reliance has responded in a  multi-pronged way, leveraging  infrastructure and resources to meet  the challenges posed by the COVID-19  pandemic in addition to regular  health initiatives.
73.6 lakh health consultations provided Sports for  Development Our initiatives in sports offer a  platform for budding athletes across  India to develop their talent and  prowess in various sporting segments.
2.15 crore youth and children reached Disaster Response We provide quick response to mitigate  the effect of natural disasters.
This  includes early warnings, mobilisation  and distribution of relief materials,  supporting local government to help  communities affected by disasters,  including post-disaster relief.
11.4+ lakh people benefited Arts, Culture and Heritage We support and promote India's  art, culture and heritage.
We  also help in the revival and  upkeep of public spaces.
Read more about the initiatives  of Reliance Foundation in our  CSR report All figures since inception  36 37 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Management   Review Corporate  OverviewWe Nurture Startup Ecosystem Illustrious mentorship To guide and support the startups  in various facets, JioGenNext has  built a rich mentor pool.
It includes  RIL leaders such as Shri.
B. Srinivasan  (President & Chief of Staff, RIL),  Shri.
Rohit Bansal (Group Head of  Communications, RIL) and Dr. Shailesh  Kumar (Chief Data Scientist, Jio).
Other  mentors include startup founders  of RIL investee companies such as  Shri.
Aakrit Vaish (Haptik), Shri.
Arvind  Pani (Reverie), Shri.
Harsh Shah (Fynd)  and Shri.
Jasminder Singh Gulati  (NowFloats), and other established  entrepreneurs and subject  matter experts.
Market Access Program  launched to help  early-stage startups  achieve scale In FY 2021-22, JioGenNext launched its  Market Access Program (MAP ‘21) with  11 high potential startups.
Key highlights Conducted 16 cohorts  across 7 years 12,153+ applications  received from startups and  aspiring entrepreneurs Startup alumni raised over  K2,600 crore in early-stage  venture capital 170 startups mentored 79 startups raise funds 21 startups have been  acquired by the industry 90+ mentors 30+ corporate partners JioGenNext was founded on our Chairman  Shri Mukesh D. Ambani's vision of nurturing startups as  he recognised early on that startups are a powerhouse  of talent, technology and innovative solutions that  are needed to resolve some of the country's most  longstanding problems.
Since its inception in 2014, JioGenNext has been  instrumental in catalysing the Indian entrepreneurial  ecosystem and has assisted numerous startups to  achieve scale by launching them in the Reliance  ecosystem.
Promoting Young India's  Entrepreneurial Zeal MAP focuses on providing  advice and opportunities to  startups on two tracks: RIL / Jio access  To build bridges for founders in the  RIL / Jio ecosystem; establish and  accelerate interactions for startups  with internal stakeholders to explore  partnerships and opportunities  that can help them scale fast.
It is a unique 'customers-as- mentors' approach.
Business mentorship  To advise startups on product  innovation, go-to-market strategy,  hiring, marketing, fundraising  and product-market fit, which  decides a startup’s overall progress  as a business.
The program is  customised and outcome oriented  for each startup.
MAP now works on an annual cohort,  where the program brings in startups  on a rolling basis throughout the year.
With MAP, JioGenNext aims to further  strengthen its value-add to startups  and build win-win partnerships in the  startup ecosystem.
JioGenNext MAP ’21 cohort JioGenNext recognised  by Startup Reseau at the  NEXTT Summit 2021 as one  of the top five innovation  and corporate venture  capital programs in India.
A healthtech startup that is enabling  a prediagnostic, non-invasive method  for early detection of Type 2 diabetes,  hypertension and dyslipidemia.
https://www.aarcaresearch.com/ A digital platform for easy access to  financial services for farmers and  agribusinesses.
https://www.farminfinity.com/ A startup that is developing  healthcare technology to improve  maternal and child healthcare.
https://janitri.in/ A startup that has developed  patented, easy-to-use diagnostic test  kits for home users and point of care,  with its initial offerings being a TSH  measurement test and saliva-based  COVID-19 screening test.
https://www.vidcare.in/ An AI-based mouth cancer detection  smartphone app.
https://www.atom360.io/ An agritech startup that is using  geospatial technology to help  farmers cut down on investment  in farm inputs, and enable them to  increase the yield.
https://farmonaut.com/ A voice SDK/API for user  interface navigation and  completing transactions.
https://www.navana.ai/ A startup that enables D2C  brand experiences through  live social commerce and  enterprise metaverses.
http://www.wakaw.live/ A healthcare SaaS that offers easy- to-understand medical reports with  simple explanations, graphs and tips  to pathology labs (B2B) across the  world to build data-centric, patient- friendly organisations.
https://www.niroggyan.com/ A healthtech startup that aims to  democratise augmented reality  with a proprietary AR engine and  no-code platforms.
It specialises in  providing 3D visualisation of medical  file formats such as DICOM, NIFTI, etc.
for doctors to refer for surgeries and  patients to maintain health records.
https://www.iboson.io/ JioGenNext Awards on PG 149 An AI fashion-tech company  specialising in mobile body scanning,  digital avatars, virtual apparel  try-ons and digital showrooms to  help fashion retail organisations  reduce returns, increase sales and  improve profitability.
https://www.bigthinx.com/  38 39 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview AI | Software | Drones Computer vision based system  provides cattle ranchers a drone  based solution capable of monitoring  their infrastructure, locating their  herd, and autonomous herding of  the cattle.
This will help farmers cut  their high operational costs and  enable them to adopt new methods  like rotational grazing that increase  their yield per acre, enable carbon  positive farming, and ethical rearing  through free grazing.
Software | Cybersecurity |  Automotive  A trusted end-to-end automotive  cybersecurity solutions provider.
Its embedded cybersecurity  solutions and lifecycle management  platform, AutoSec , empower the  automotive industry with visibility and  control over the bespoke solutions  needed to protect tomorrow’s  connected vehicles.
AI | Software | RetailTech AI search engine (SaaS platform)  that understands natural language,  retrieves answers and creates  AI-powered product assistants.
Helps  explain consumer products better  with a smart video that can speak  with customers and reduce product  returns through better guidance.
Delivers better user experience with  deeper customer connect.
CorrActions Neuroscience | Software |  Automotive A patented non-invasive, software,  Brain Computer Interface (BCI)  platform based on unique  neuroscience algorithms that detect  and decode human brain signals  in real-time, using sensors already  embedded in digital devices through  motion monitoring.
Helps address  human performance challenges in  mega markets utilising its Cognitive  Operational State Monitoring  Solution, human errors alert and  prevention capabilities.
AgTech | IoT Develops a near real-time nitrate  soil data system with a revolutionary  electro optical sensor and algorithm  technology .
DOTS solution will  optimise fertilisation (and irrigation)  and reduce environmental pollution.
AI | Software | Healthcare Helps radiology providers drive  revenue and streamline operations  through smarter imaging services.
By focusing on the digital footprint,  it delivers a point of care solution  that combines knowhow and AI to  deliver visibility, revenue consolidation  and better decision making.
Thus,  empowering users to take better  charge of integrated diagnostics,  generate more revenue and faster care  at lower costs.
Starting with CTs, it will  extend the technology to cover other  radiologic modalities like MRI, X ray  and ultrasound.
IoT | Virtual Reality Developing ground breaking core  technologies for extended reality (XR)  headsets.
Next generation virtual reality  (VR) headsets with its technology will  be both immersive and ergonomic.
Patent pending optics enables best-in- class 270º Field of View in a compact  headset without compromising image  fidelity and user’s convenience.
Its  lenses can be easily integrated into  next generation VR / XR headsets.
AI | Software | Mobility Provides airlines, airports and  ground handling teams full visibility  into aircraft’s turnaround services  at airport’s gates.
It utilises a  deep-learning video classification  algorithm that identifies, in real- time, the start and completion of  each turnaround service using  existing infrastructure.
Real-time  alerts coupled with comprehensive  reporting allows for the identification  of performance bottlenecks to yield  significant operational improvements.
AI | IoT | Software | Cybersecurity An AI/ML based cyber security  platform that takes digital  transformation to the next level, by  monitoring the sensor integrity and  providing sensor threat detection  At-The-Source.
Protects IoT devices  against cyberattack, tampering, and  data manipulation, and utilises its  patented technology for behavioral  biometrics identity.
Enterprise Software |   IT Automation Democratises automation through  a low-code platform, allowing any  engineer, even without automation  experience, to build, execute and  monitor any automation workflow.
Onboarding takes 1-2 days and  workflows are built in minutes or  hours instead of days or weeks  with traditional script-based tools.
Customers use it to dramatically  shorten release intervals and build CI/ CD pipelines and control.
AI | Software | Communications Provides AI-driven proactive,  automated network management  and configuration (next-gen AI Ops  for networks) for the emerging cloud- managed architecture of critical  enterprise networks.
Businesses  today rely on networks, but they are  difficult to set up and even more  complicated to operate.
'Nuerobrave' Neuroscience | Software |  Wearables Uses SaaS cloud-based infrastructure,  advanced signal processing and  proprietary deep learning algorithms  to create a standardised software  solution (NeuroSpeed OS ™) for  analyzing neuro-biomakers/insights  using any available hardware and  wearable devices.
AI | Software | EdTech Its mission is to bridge worldwide  language gaps by providing a  new and efficient way of teaching  English as a foreign language.
A fully  automated cloud based software  that uses novel Artificial Intelligence,  Natural Language Processing, and  cognitive principles in order to provide  100% personalised lessons based on  the students’ English proficiency and  according to their school syllabus.
Quantum Cryptography | Software |  Communications Applying Quantum Cryptography to  protect the world’s data, it provides  a low-cost versatile quantum  cryptographic solutions.
Quantum Key  Distribution (QKD) applies principles  of quantum physics to Securely  Exchange Keys in a manner proven to  be secure forever.
With top experts in  the quantum technology, it presents  a major breakthrough to enable a  worldwide mass deployment of QKD.
AI | Insurtech | Smart Cities A data platform that makes heretofore  inaccessible urban data easily usable  by the different industries needing it:  insurance carriers, delivery services,  real estate companies or public safety  solutions.
Uses cutting edge NLP and  AI algorithms to automatically curate,  organise, and standardise this data  so its customers can buy ready to use  data sets they can utilise.
Accessing Global Innovation RIL is the 1st Indian company to be a partner in an Israel Innovation Authority  (IIA) sponsored incubator jointly with OurCrowd, Yissum (Hebrew University)  and Ben-Gurion University.
Since 2017, Labs/02 is highly successful in investing  in promising Israeli deep-tech startups bringing disruptive innovation to  solve societal problems.
This enables deeper exposure and faster access to  global innovation while supporting strong founders turn early stage ideas  into market leaders 1,500+ Startups Vetted $12+ million IIA Grants Approved 15 Portfolio Startups Rigorous screening and  engagement process  driving success Deal flow  via multiple sources Market  Intelligence Introduction  to Partners Investment  Committee Meeting Due Diligence  IIA submission IIA   Approval Funding & Portfolio  management Engagement with   RIL O2C / Jio / Retail We Nurture Startup Ecosystem (` in crore, unless otherwise stated) US$  million FY 2021-22 FY  2020-21 FY  2019-20 FY  2018-19 FY  2017-18 FY  2016-17 FY  2015-16 FY  2014-15 FY  2013-14 FY  2012-13 Value of Sales and  Services (Revenue) 61,540 4,66,425  2,78,940  3,66,177 4,01,583 3,15,357 2,65,041 2,51,241 3,40,814 4,01,302 3,71,119 Total Income  60,593 4,59,247  2,79,887  3,65,421 3,94,323 3,13,555 2,73,750 2,59,062 3,49,535 4,10,238 3,79,117 Earnings Before  Depreciation,  Finance Cost and Tax  Expenses (EBDIT)# 8,732 66,185  48,318  66,394 67,676 59,961 51,965 47,168 40,323 39,813 38,785 Depreciation  and Amortisation 1,356 10,276  9,199  9,728 10,558 9,580 8,465 8,590 8,488 8,789 9,465 Exceptional  Items gain/(loss)  -  -  (4,304)  4,245  - - - - - - - Profit for the Year 5,157 39,084  31,944  30,903 35,163 33,612 31,425 27,384 22,719 21,984 21,003 Equity Share   Capital 893 6,765  6,445  6,339 6,339 6,335 3,251 3,240 3,236 3,232 3,229 Reserves   and Surplus 61,320 4,64,762 4,68,038  3,84,876 3,98,983 3,08,312 2,85,062 2,50,758 2,12,923 1,93,842 1,76,766 Net Worth 54,995 4,16,818 3,77,952  3,37,097 3,44,128 3,13,114 2,83,288 2,53,998 2,16,159 1,97,074 1,79,995 Gross Fixed Assets 59,161 4,48,395  5,07,549 4,96,688 4,76,591 4,52,492 4,30,093 3,93,117 3,11,815 2,64,281 2,32,270 Net Fixed Assets 36,189 2,74,288  3,39,668  3,34,443 3,14,745 3,00,447 2,87,319 2,58,448 1,90,316 1,51,122 1,28,864 Total Assets 1,15,932 8,78,674  8,73,673  9,71,699 7,75,745 6,17,525 5,46,746 4,81,674 3,97,785 3,67,583 3,18,511 Contribution to  National Exchequer 8,811 66,779 53,630  54,842 67,589 56,997 51,399 43,117 33,322 31,374 28,950 US$ FY  2021-22 FY  2020-21 FY  2019-20 FY  2018-19 FY  2017-18 FY  2016-17 FY  2015-16 FY  2014-15 FY  2013-14 FY  2012-13 Earnings Per Share* (`) 0.8 59.2 49.7 48.4 55.5 53.1 96.9 84.6 70.2 68.0 64.8 Turnover Per Share* (`) 9.1 689.4  432.8  577.6 633.5 497.8 817.2 775.3 1,053.3 1,241.7 1,149.5 Book Value   Per Share* (`) 8.1 616.1  648.2  531.8 542.9 496.7 889.0 784.4 668.0 609.8 557.5 Debt : Equity Ratio - 0.41:1 0.47:1 0.76:1 0.40:1 0.37:1 0.37:1 0.42:1 0.45:1 0.45:1 0.40:1 EBDIT/Gross Turnover (%) - 14.2  17.3  18.1 16.9 19.0 19.6 18.8 11.8 9.9 10.5 Net Profit Margin (%) - 8.4 11.5 8.4 8.8 10.7 11.9 10.9 6.7 5.5 5.7 RONW (%) ** - 10.4 9.3 10.4 13.7 15.5 17.1 15.1 13.4 12.9 12.8 ROCE (%) ** - 14.9 10.1 16.2 24.9 28.7 25.4 17.2 12.7 11.5 11.2 US$ 1 = `75.7925 (Exchange Rate as on 31.03.2022)  * Adjusted for issue of Bonus Shares in 2017-18 in the ratio of 1:1 ** Adjusted for CWIP and revaluation Note: Above highlights are part of Management Discussion and Analysis Section Standalone Key Indicators (` in crore, unless otherwise stated) US$  million FY   2021-22 FY   2020-21 FY  2019-20 FY  2018-19 FY  2017-18 FY  2016-17 FY  2015-16 FY  2014-15 FY  2013-14 FY  2012-13 Value of Sales and  Services (Revenue) 1,04,596 7,92,756 5,39,238 6,59,997 6,25,212 4,30,731 3,30,180 2,93,298 3,88,494 4,46,339 4,08,392 Total Income 97,184 7,36,581 5,02,653 6,25,601 5,91,480 4,18,214 3,39,623 3,05,351 3,84,048 4,43,461 4,04,929 Earnings Before  Depreciation,  Finance Cost and Tax  Expenses (EBDIT)# 16,583 1,25,687 97,580 1,02,280 92,656 74,184 55,529 53,993 45,977 43,800 40,912 Depreciation  and Amortisation  3,931 29,797 26,572 22,203 20,934 16,706 11,646 11,565 11,547 11,201 11,232 Exceptional  Items gain/(loss) 374 2,836 5,642 (4,444) - 1,087 - 4,574 - - - Profit for the Year 8,951 67,845 53,739 39,880 39,837 36,080 29,833 29,861 23,640 22,548 20,886 Equity Dividend (%)## - 70 65 65 60 110 - 105 100 95 90 Dividend Payout ## 567 4,297 3,921 3,852 3,554 3,255 - 3,095 2,944 2,793 2,643 Equity Share Capital  893 6,765 6,445 6,339 5,926 5,922 2,959 2,948 2,943 2,940 2,936 Reserves and Surplus  1,01,952 7,72,720 6,93,727 4,42,827 3,81,186 2,87,584 2,60,750 2,28,608 2,05,777 1,95,730 1,79,094 Net Worth 85,118 6,45,127 5,48,156 3,71,569 3,24,644 2,89,798 2,58,511 2,31,556 2,18,482 1,98,670 1,82,030 Gross Fixed Assets 1,37,632 10,43,148 8,91,553 8,42,635 7,63,988 7,62,493 6,81,238 5,59,942 4,50,931 3,52,513 2,90,923 Net Fixed Assets 1,03,875 7,87,295 6,56,999 6,31,505 5,65,840 5,85,094 5,18,471 4,09,353 3,18,523 2,32,911 1,83,439 Total Assets 1,97,865 14,99,665 13,21,212 11,65,915 10,02,406 8,16,348 7,06,802 5,98,997 5,04,486 4,28,843 3,62,357 Market  Capitalisation^ 2,35,095 17,81,841 13,15,998 7,05,212 8,63,996 5,59,223 4,28,909 3,38,703 2,66,847 3,00,405 2,49,802 US$ FY  2021-22 FY  2020-21 FY  2019-20 FY  2018-19 FY  2017-18 FY  2016-17 FY  2015-16 FY  2014-15 FY  2013-14 FY  2012-13 Earnings Per Share* (`) 1.2 92.0 76.4 63.1 66.8 61.0 101.3 101.0 80.1 76.5 70.6 Turnover Per Share* (`) 16 1,171.8 836.7 1,041.1 1,055.1 727.4 1,115.9 994.9 1,319.9 1,518.4 1,390.8 Book  Value Per Share* (`) 15 1,152.1 1,086.4 708.5 653.3 495.6 891.2 785.5 709.1 675.9 619.9 Debt : Equity Ratio - 0.34:1 0.36:1 0.75:1 0.74:1 0.75:1 0.75:1 0.78:1 0.74:1 0.70:1 0.59:1 EBDIT/ Gross Turnover (%) - 15.9 18.1 15.5 14.8 17.2 16.8 18.4 11.8 9.8 10.0 Net Profit Margin (%) - 8.6 10.0 6.0 6.4 8.4 9.0 10.2 6.1 5.0 5.1 RONW (%)** - 13.5 13.1 12.7 15.1 16.9 16.4 16.5 13.5 13.4 13.0 ROCE (%)** - 12.8 10.6 12.0 13.5 13.6 13.5 13.0 12.8 11.0 10.1 In this Integrated Annual Report, $ denotes US$, unless otherwise stated  US$ 1 = `75.7925 (Exchange Rate as on 31.03.2022) * Adjusted for issue of Bonus Shares in FY 2017-18 in the ratio of 1:1 ** Adjusted for CWIP and revaluation ^ For Reliance Industries Limited # Before exceptional items ##The disclosure of dividend payout is on actual payment basis post Ind AS implementation w.e.f.
FY 2016-17 Note: Above highlights are part of Management Discussion and Analysis Section Consolidated Key Indicators 40 41 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview10-Year Financial Highlights Management  Discussion  and Analysis 44  Financial Performance and Review 54  Business Overview 132 Risk and Governance  144 Awards and Recognition Forward-looking Statement The report contains forward-looking statements, identified by words like ‘plans’, ‘expects’, ‘will’, ‘anticipates’,  ‘believes’, ‘intends’, ‘projects’, ‘estimates’ and so on.
All statements that address expectations or projections  about the future, but not limited to the Company’s strategy for growth, product development, market  position, expenditures, and financial results, are forward-looking statements.
Since these are based on  certain assumptions and expectations of future events, the Company cannot guarantee that these are  accurate or will be realised.
The Company’s actual results, performance or achievements could thus  differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
The Company assumes no responsibility  to publicly amend, modify or revise any such statements on the basis of subsequent developments,  information or events.
The Company disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements, except as may be  required by law.
Business Overview Analysis and description of all major business segments of Reliance covering brands,  strategic advantages and competitive strengths.
The discussion structure covers the  market environment the business operates in and how Reliance’s business model and  operational excellence helped achieve a strong performance.
56  Strategic Advantages and  Competitive Strengths,  Performance Summary  57  Operating Model 60  Highlights FY 2021-22 62  Industry Overview  63 Business Performance 68  Strategic Priorities and  Way Forward  71  Outlook  74  Strategic Advantages and   Competitive Strengths,  Performance Summary 75  Operating Framework 76  Highlights FY 2021-22 78  Industry Overview 80  Business Performance 83  Strategic  Priorities and Progress 85  Outlook 88  Strategic Advantages and   Competitive Strengths,  Performance Summary 89  Operating Framework 90  Highlights FY 2021-22 92  Industry Overview 94  Strategic Priorities and  Progress 95  Business Performance 97  Outlook 100  Strategic Advantages and   Competitive Strengths,  Performance Summary 101  Operating Strategy 102  Highlights FY 2021-22 104  Industry Overview 111  Strategic Priorities and  Way Forward 114  Leadership in Adopting  Circular Economy in India 116  Scaling up Digital Platform to  Enrich Customer Experience 119  Outlook 120  Product Flow Chart 124  Strategic Advantages and   Competitive Strengths,  Performance Summary 125  E&P Assets Life  Cycle and Portfolio 126  Industry Overview 127  Business Performance 131  Outlook RETAI L PG.
54 IL TO CHEMICALS PG.
98 DIGITAL  SERVICES PG.
72 OIL AND G S E&P PG.
122 MEDI  AND ENTERTAINMENT PG.
86 42 43 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review We adhered to a disciplined  capital framework to  support exponential growth  across our businesses.
Through proactive liability  management we continued to  optimise finance costs.
Executing India’s  largest-ever   foreign currency  fundraise RIL issued a US$-denominated  4 billion bond in January 2022,  the proceeds from which will be  primarily used for refinancing of  existing borrowings.
The issue was  oversubscribed by nearly 3x with  a peak order book aggregating  to US$ 11.5 billion.
The bonds were  priced through RIL’s secondary  curve.
US$ 1.5 billion was raised  at a coupon rate of 2.875%; US$  1.75 billion was raised at 3.625%  and US$ 0.75 billion at 3.75%.
The  notes are due for repayment  between 2032 and 2062.
This  transaction is significant on various  counts.
It is the: • Largest-ever foreign currency  bond issuance from India • Tightest ever implied credit  spread over the respective US  Treasury across each of the 3  tranches by an Indian Corporate • Lowest coupon achieved for  benchmark 30-year and 40-  year issuances by a private  sector BBB corporate from Asia  ex-Japan • First-ever 40-year tranche by  a BBB private sector corporate  from Asia ex-Japan Global Economy  Global economy grew by 6.1% in   CY 2021, after declining 3.1% in   CY 2020.
Global economy is  expected to grow at 3.2% in CY2022,  below the long term trend of  ~3.5%,  primarily due to coordinated global  monetary policy tightening along  with the geopolitical tensions.
Advanced economies’ (AEs) universe  grew at a robust pace of 5.2% in CY  2021, and is expected to moderate  in CY  2022 at 2.5%, with US and  Euro Area growth expected at 2.3%  and 2.6% respectively, supported  by inventory restocking, universal  immunisation, and strong pent-up  demand from consumption and  businesses.
China grew by 8.1% in  CY 2021, but is expected to slow to  3.3% in CY 2022 due to zero-tolerance  COVID-19 policy, stringent restrictions  on polluting industries and financial  stress among major property  developers.
Global trade volume  growth was robust in CY 2021 at 10.1%,  and is expected to grow at a strong  pace of 4.1% in CY 2022.
Strong demand along with persistent  supply-chain issues and high energy  prices, have resulted in firming up of  global inflationary pressures.
Recent  geopolitical tensions have further  exacerbated the global inflation  scenario.
US inflation has continued  to inch up and recorded June 2022  CPI inflation at 9.1%, highest since  CY 1981, with broad-based rise in  price pressures, while Euro-Area  inflation climbed to a record 8.6%  in June, primarily led by energy  components.
Crude oil averaged  at $ 75/bbl in Apr’21 – Jan’22 period  and above $100/bbl during Feb’22  – June'22 with outbreak of conflict  in Europe.
Disruption in trade flows,  high energy prices and tightening of  crude and refining demand-supply,  along with strengthening of refining  margins to historical highs could  impact near-term demand growth.
Rise in inflationary pressures has  led global central banks to begin  reversal of their accommodative  monetary stance, with the US  Federal Reserve beginning the  taper of asset purchase program in  November 2021 and subsequently  raising interest rates by 225 bps  cumulatively since March.
Even though post-pandemic  reopening of the global economy is  expected to provide further impetus  to the demand, global monetary  policy tightening in the face of rising  inflationary pressures and geo- political uncertainties could impact  the near-term demand outlook.. IMF  expects inflation to remain elevated  in the near-term averaging 6.6% in  AEs and 9.5% in emerging market and  developing economies (EMDEs) in  CY 2022, before subsiding in CY 2023  as supply chain disruptions ease and  demand rebalances take place.
Indian Economy After witnessing a sharp decline  of 6.6% in FY 2020-21, the Indian  economy recorded a growth of 8.7%  in FY2021-22 as per the provisional  estimates by National Statistical  Office.
This is the strongest pace  among major economies.
The  economic expansion has been  supported by a strong national  vaccination drive that enabled  easing of COVID-19 related  restrictions.
India administered more  than 177 crore doses of vaccine  during the financial year, thereby  fully vaccinating more than 60% of  its population.
The economic impact of the Omicron  COVID-19 variant was relatively mild  with most high-frequency indicators  above pre-pandemic level.
Urban  demand remains strong with  improved mobility and debit and  credit card spending.
Overall fuel  consumption grew by 4% in   FY 2021-22.
Debit and credit card  spending increased by 26% Y-o-Y in  March 2022.
However, overall auto  sales have been weak on the back  of persistent supply chain shortages  around the world.
Industrial indicators continued to  remain robust, with manufacturing  and services PMI in expansion  zone for most of the year.
Electricity  demand for FY 2021-22 grew by  8% Y-o-Y, even after the economy  witnessed coal shortages in early  part of October 2021.
Government  revenue generation remained robust  with GST collections averaging  more than `1.2 lakh crore per month,  increasing 31% Y-o-Y.
Digital adoption  gathered further pace with growth in  UPI payments during FY 2021-22 rising  more than 100% Y-o-Y.
RBI maintained its accommodative  monetary stance, keeping reference  rates unchanged during FY 2021-22.
Subsequently, with rising inflationary  pressure, RBI raised repo rate by 90  bps, withdrawing its accommodative  stance.
India’s merchandise exports  crossed US$400 billion during the  year, growing at more than 40% Y-o-Y  led by engineering goods, petroleum  products and gems & jewelry.
India's foreign exchange reserves  remained above $600 billion by the  end of FY 2021-22, providing a cushion  against external shocks.
Indian  government's financial policy is  centered around growth and gradual  fiscal consolidation.
With a budgeted  fiscal deficit of 6.4% for  FY  2022-23,  focus remains on capital expenditure.
Major policy initiatives during the  year included continuation of COVID- 19-related relief measures and a  focus on Production linked incentive  (PLI) schemes in various key sectors  to provide impetus to investment,  growth and employment.
As per  IMF India is expected to remain the  fastest growing economy in FY 2022- 23, growing at 7.4% led by expected  improvement in credit growth,  investment and consumption growth.
Performance Overview  Reliance benefitted from strong  recovery in economy with easing  of restrictions, improved business  environment and an unprecedented  national vaccination drive.
Reliance’s  businesses cater to key industrial  and consumption growth areas  including energy and chemicals,  digital services and retail.
Reliance’s  Ashwin  Khasgiwala Saurabh  Sancheti C. S. Borar Raj   Mullick Alok   Agarwal Srikanth  Venkatachari Soumyo   Dutta Financial   Performance   and Review Anshuman  Thakur 44 45 Reliance Industries Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   ReviewManagement Discussion and Analysis  exceptional performance was  underpinned by agile operations  that rapidly adapted to changes  in market conditions, while  maintaining high utilisation levels  across businesses.
O2C business generated strong  earnings through its high utilisation,  integrated portfolio and superior  product placement capabilities.
During the year, production from  R-cluster and satellite cluster in KG  D6 was ramped up and stabilised at  18 MMSCMD, contributing to 20% of  gas production in India.
Reliance Retail continued to deliver  growth on the back of rapid store  expansion and digital offerings  resulting in higher revenues and  margin expansion.
Digital services  business continues to transform the  broadband market in India and set  new benchmarks for the industry.
Revenue Reliance achieved consolidated  revenue of `7,92,756 crore   (US$ 104.6 billion), an increase of  47.0%, as compared to `5,39,238  crore in the previous year.
All  operating segments contributed to  the increase in gross revenue with  reopening of economies and revival  in demand.
O2C revenue growth was  primarily on account of increase  in crude oil prices and higher price  realisation of downstream products  along with higher volumes.
Revenue  of Oil & Gas segment increased  with higher production from KG D6  coupled with improved gas price  realisation.
Retail Segment revenue  was driven by broad-based growth  across all consumption baskets  and ramp-up in digital and new  commerce.
Digital Services revenue  was primarily driven by higher ARPU  and ramp up of wireline services.
Profit Consolidated EBITDA for the year  increased by 28.8% to `1,25,687 crore  as compared to `97,580 crore in the  previous year.
The EBITDA growth  was led by 38.1% increase in O2C  Financial Performance Summary   (Consolidated and Standalone) Particulars Consolidated Standalone FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 FY  2020-21 ` in crore US$ in  billion ` in crore ` in crore US$ in  billion ` in crore Value of Sales and Services (Revenue) 7,92,756 104.6 5,39,238 4,66,425 61.5 2,78,940 EBITDA 1,25,687 16.6 97,580 66,185 8.7 48,318 Cash Profit 1,10,778 14.6 79,828 56,275 7.4 36,411 Segment EBIT 89,325 11.8 62,397 48,487 6.4 30,048 Net Profit 67,845 9.0 53,739 39,084 5.2 31,944 Cash and Marketable Securities 2,31,490 30.5 2,54,019 1,82,235 24.0 1,82,225 Tangible and Intangible Assets (Excluding Goodwill) 7,87,295 103.9 6,56,999 2,74,288 36.2 3,39,668 Gross Debt 2,66,305 35.1 2,51,811 1,94,563 25.7 2,21,698 US$ 1 = `75.7925 (Exchange rate as on 31.03.22) Standalone RIL’s standalone revenue for FY  2021-22 was `4,66,425 crore (US$  61.5 billion), an increase of 67.2% as  compared to ` 2,78,940 crore in the  previous year.
Profit After Tax was  at `39,084 crore (US$ 5.2 billion) an  increase of 22.4% against `31,944  crore in the previous year.
Basic  EPS on standalone basis for the  year was `59.2 as against `49.7 in  the previous year.
Movement in Key Financial  Ratios • The debt service coverage ratio  improved to 1.2 in FY 2021-22 as  against 0.4 in the previous year  primarily due to lower finance cost  and principal repayments of loans  during the year.
• The inventory turnover ratio  improved to 16.7 in FY 2021-22 as  against 10.8 in the previous year  primarily due to higher feedstock  price.
• Net Profit Margin (after exceptional  item) declined to 8.4% in FY 2021-22  as against 11.5% in the previous  year primarily due to higher tax  expenses and base effect.
• The interest coverage ratio  improved to 6.1 in FY 2021-22 as  against 2.4 in the previous year  with higher EBIT and lower finance  cost due to prepayment of major  long term debt in FY 2020-21.
• The return on net worth improved  to 10.4% in FY 2021-22 as against  9.3% in the previous year primarily  on account of increase in net profit  during the year.
segment with recovery in demand  and fuel margins.
Digital Services  segment EBITDA also grew by 18.3%  reflecting benefit of higher customer  engagement and tariff revision.
Retail segment EBITDA increased  by 26.2% with improvement in store  operations, higher footfalls, store  expansion and traction in omni- channel offerings.
Oil & Gas segment  EBITDA jumped 21x with successful  commissioning and ramp-up of  production from new fields.
Cash Profit increased by 38.8%  to `1,10,778 crore as compared to  `79,828 crore in the previous year.
Profit After Tax (after exceptional  items) was higher by 26.2%  at `67,845 crore.
Gross Debt Reliance’s Gross Debt was at  `2,66,305 crore (US$ 35.1 billion).
This  includes standalone gross debt of  `1,94,563 crore and balance in key  subsidiaries, including Reliance  Jio (`42,486 crore), Reliance  Retail (`19,915 crore), Reliance  Sibur Elastomers ( `2,363 crore)  and Independent Media Trust  Group (`2,160 crore) Reliance remains committed to  achieving Net Carbon Zero by 2035.
During the year, Reliance progressed  on its plans in New Energy and  New Materials business, adopting  a partnership approach.
Recent  investments and partnerships with  technology leaders in the renewable  energy space lays the foundation for  a rapid scale-up of the business in  the coming years.
46 47 Reliance Industries Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Management Discussion and Analysis —  Financial Performance and Review Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Segment Review 56.8 11.4 0.8 8.3 22.7   O2C    Retail   Digital services   Oil and gas   Others REVENUE CONTRIBUTION (%) growth momentum in consumer  electronics.
Overall a well rounded  growth driven by highest ever  store sales and sustained growth  momentum in digital and new  commerce channels.
Reliance Retail continued to invest in  network and infrastructure expansion  as well as strengthening its Digital  and New Commerce capabilities.
• The total store count stood at 15,196  covering 41.6 million sq.ft.
at the  end of the year • Merchant partners grew 3x Y-o-Y  while digital commerce orders  grew 2.5x Y-o-Y.
The registered  customer base now stands at 193  million, a growth of 24% Y-o-Y • While the pandemic has disrupted  livelihoods, Reliance Retail added  over 1,50,000 jobs to the economy,  while ensuring health and safety  of all its employees and their  families.
This included vaccination  for all eligible employees and their  families Strategic Update Reliance Retail has built capabilities  through organic growth, acquisitions  and strategic partnerships with  investments near `30,000 crore in   FY 2021-22.
Reliance Retail added  over 2,500 new stores and 11.1 million  sq.
ft. of warehousing space during  the year.
It acquired Just Dial (B2B  marketplace) which underlines  commitment to New Commerce  initiative by further boosting the  digital ecosystem for millions of  partner merchants and MSMEs.
During the year Reliance Retail  further strengthened its sourcing  ecosystem, working closely with  producers, MSMEs, service providers,  local and international brand  companies.
Reliance also built  on its portfolio of brands, offering  a superior value proposition and  differentiated products to customers.
Merchant partnerships and digital  commerce now contribute nearly 17%  of revenues compared to 10% in the  preceding year.
Digital Services (` in crore) FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21 FY 2019-20 Value of Services 1,00,161 90,287 69,605 Revenue from operations 85,117 76,642 59,407 EBITDA 40,268 34,035 23,348 EBITDA Margin (%)* 47.3 44.4 39.3 *EBITDA Margin is calculated on revenue from operations Performance Update Reliance Retail continues to rapidly  grow in scale on the back of new store  expansion and favourable product  mix resulting in high operating  leverage.
The business continues to  provide unmatched value proposition  and improve customer experience  across all store formats.
Retail revenues grew by 26.7% Y-o-Y  to `1,99,749 crore, segment EBITDA  grew by 26.2% to `12,423 crore.
Despite  challenges posed by the pandemic,  Reliance Retail further consolidated its  leadership position and continued to  be India’s largest, most profitable and  fastest growing retailer.
All time high revenues were recorded  in fashion & lifestyle and grocery  consumption baskets with strong  Retail (` in crore) FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21 FY 2019-20 Value of Sales and Services 1,99,749 1,57,702 1,63,029 Revenue from operations 1,75,015 1,39,136 1,46,365 EBITDA 12,423 9,842 9,695 EBITDA Margin (%)* 7.1 7.1 6.6 *EBITDA Margin is calculated on revenue from operations  Performance Update Digital Services reported strong  underlying revenue and EBITDA  growth in FY 2021-22 on the back of  continued traction in connectivity  platform and tariff hikes in mobility  services.
Gross revenue of ` 1,00,161  crore on a year-end subscriber  base of 410.2 million and an EBITDA  margin of 47.3% attest to Jio’s  superior network operations and cost  position.
Annual operating revenue  for Jio Platforms crossed US$ 10  billion in FY 2021-22.
Jio’s network carried almost 10%   of global mobile data traffic in   CY 2021 underlining the ‘Jio Effect’ on  the digital ecosystem in India.
Jio  remains the broadband network of  choice with over 50% share of data  traffic in India.
Jio was the digital  lifeline during COVID-19 with over 130  million new users joining the network  and data traffic growing at ~46%  Y-o-Y to 91 Exabytes during FY 2021-22.
• JioFiber with 5 million+  connected homes has become  the largest fixed broadband  provider in India within two  years of launch • In order to enhance spectrum  footprint, Jio acquired right  to use spectrum in 800 MHz  band in Andhra Pradesh, Delhi  and Mumbai circles through  spectrum trading from Bharti  Airtel • At OpenSignal Awards, Jio  won the award for best video  experience, and continued  to hold top positions in 4G  coverage and availability Strategic Update Jio and Google Cloud have embarked  on a comprehensive, long-term  strategic relationship with a goal  of powering 5G in enterprise and  consumer segments.
5G coverage  planning has been completed for  1,000 top cities across the country.
Trials on advanced use cases across  Healthcare and Industrial Automation  are underway.
Further, Jio and Google  launched JioPhone Next – the most  affordable smartphone anywhere  in the world with a unique financing  option and unprecedented features  like an all new Pragati OS.
Jio’s in- house R&D team with technical  and research professionals have  indigenously developed a stack of  applications leveraging its technology  investments and customer  engagement.
These applications are  now being scaled up to enhance user  experience and bring unprecedented  convenience to users.
48 49 Reliance Industries Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Management Discussion and Analysis —  Financial Performance and Review Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Media and Entertainment (` in crore) FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21 FY 2019-20 Value of Services 6,831 5,459  6,186 Revenue from operations 5,880 4,705 5,357 EBITDA 1,080 796 617 EBITDA Margin (%)* 18.4 16.9 11.5 *EBITDA Margin is calculated on revenue from operations  year due to the second wave  of the COVID-19 pandemic and  global macro events, respectively.
Digital News advertising continued  to accelerate, driven by growing  reach of the network and increasing  adoption of digital.
Digital subscription platforms, Voot  Select and MoneyControl Pro, saw a  sharp jump in paid subscriber base  during the year.
The status quo on  channel pricing imposed by the  courts continued, limiting domestic  subscription growth opportunities.
The sharp improvement in profitability  over the last 2 years is a result of  strong operating performance driving  revenue growth, continued cost  controls, and reduced losses in some  of the businesses in investment phase • TV News operating margin  expanded to 20.7%, marking 5  years of continued improvement  • Digital News profitability improved  sharply – from break-even last  Oil to Chemicals (O2C) (` in crore) FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21 FY 2019-20 Revenue 5,00,900 3,20,008 4,51,355 EBITDA 52,722 38,170 53,803 EBITDA Margin (%) 10.5 11.9 11.9 Performance Update Media and entertainment segment  delivered a strong growth in  profitability on the back of  robust operational performance.
Consolidated EBITDA of the business  rose by 35.7% Y-o-Y to ` 1,080 crore  with EBITDA margin at record levels  of 18.4% compared to 16.9% in the  previous year.
TV News operating  margin expanded to ~21%, marking  5 years of continued improvement.
The Group leveraged its position  across verticals to drive revenue  growth which was accompanied by  continued cost controls that helped  realise operating leverage, resulting in  improved profitability.
FY 2021-22 saw strong growth  in advertising revenues of all 3  verticals of the business – TV News,  Entertainment and Digital News.
News (TV and Digital) continued  to grow throughout the year, while  Entertainment advertisement  revenues were impacted slightly  at the beginning and end of the  year to 13.1% margins, in line with  consolidated group margins • Entertainment operating profit  was highest ever at `777 crore and  operating margins were 18.2% despite  the significant increase in costs.
Strategic Update Viacom18, Group’s entertainment  subsidiary, announced a partnership  with Bodhi Tree Systems (BTS) and  Reliance Group on 27th April 2022,  to accelerate its growth journey of  becoming one of India’s largest TV  and digital streaming companies.
As  part of the partnership, JioCinema  will be transferred to Viacom18 along  with a cash infusion of `13,500 crore  by BTS and ` 1,645 crore by Reliance  Group.
Viacom18 also forayed into  sports genre with acquisition of media  rights of marquee sports properties  and launch of 3 sports channels.
The  Group continued to strengthen its  digital platforms (Voot, MoneyControl,  News18.com) and saw an improvement  in digital reach, engagement  and monetisation.
Revenue for the O2C business  increased by 56.5% to ` 5,00,900 crore  on account of higher volumes and  price realisation across transportation  fuels and key downstream chemical  products.
O2C segment EBITDA  increased sharply by 38.1% to `52,722  crore.
Demand recovery for gasoline  and gasoil to near pre-pandemic  level in global markets along with  strong margins resulted in higher  profitability.
Brent crude price for  the year averaged at US$ 80.8/bbl  versus US$ 44.3/bbl in the previous  year, an increase of 82.3%.
Total  throughput during the year was 76.7  MMT an increase of 6.6% Y-o-Y.
Fuel  mix optimisation ensured minimal  sourcing of LNG during the year  leading to significant cost savings.
Strategic Update Reliance entered into a strategic  partnership with ADNOC for  establishing a world-class chemical  project at TA’ZIZ in Ruwais.
This joint  venture will construct an integrated  plant with capacity to produce 940 KT  of chlor-alkali, 1.1 MMT of ethylene  Oil and Gas E&P (` in crore) FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21 FY 2019-20 Revenue 7,492 2,140 3,211 EBITDA 5,457 258 353 EBITDA Margin (%) 72.8 12.1 11.0 Performance Update Steady recovery in global oil and  energy markets supported robust fuel  margins and helped O2C business  deliver strong earnings.
Despite the  challenges posed by subsequent  waves of the pandemic, the business  delivered resilient performance by  leveraging the strong international  and domestic supply chain,  multimodal logistics, deep integration  and feedstock flexibility.
Liquidity and Capital  Resources During FY 2021-22, financial markets  globally witnessed low interest rate  environment and abundant liquidity.
Reliance successfully refinanced its  liabilities taking the benefit of low  interest rates prior to the turn in the  interest rate cycle.
The Company raised $9 billion from  global and local investors in the  second half of the financial year to  primarily refinance high-cost debt,  resulting in substantial savings  in interest cost.
The Company issued US$ 4 billion  foreign currency bonds across 10- year, 30-year and 40-year tranches  primarily for refinancing of existing  borrowings.
This was the largest ever  foreign currency bond issuance out  of India.
The Company’s subsidiary,  Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited  prepaid deferred liabilities pertaining  to spectrum aggregating to `30,791  crore and financed it through INR  Loans and INR Debenture.
Reliance also made its green  financing debut with the acquisition  financing of REC Solar Holdings.
External Environment The year gone by was a story of two  halves.
The intermittent disruption in  economic activities during the first  half amid resurgence of new COVID-19  variant ensured the accommodative  financial conditions by systemic central  banks in a bid to support growth.
However, the persistent and renewed  intensification of inflationary pressure  due to continued disruption in global  supply chain, tighter labour market  and geo-political issues have swiftly  changed the landscape of global  monetary policy as we exited the  dichloride and 360 KT of PVC annually.
Jio-bp launched India's largest EV  charging hub in Delhi NCR Region  alongside building on their swapping  station network.
Further, Reliance  announced restructuring and  repurposing of Gasification Assets.
The segregation of gasification assets  is the first step towards repurposing  of the assets and providing flexibility  to upgrade streams within RIL using a  Balance-Sheet light approach.
Performance Update Revenue for the Oil and Gas segment  increased by 3.5x Y-o-Y to `7,492  crore, on the back of ramp-up of gas  production from KG D6 and improved  price realisation.
EBITDA for the year  increased to ` 5,457 crore, with EBITDA  margin of 72.8%  • For the year, production (RIL share)  was at 188.1 BCFe, up 48.6% Y-o-Y  due to ramp-up in production from  R Cluster and Satellite Cluster.
• Price realisation for KG D6  improved 24.2% Y-o-Y to US$  4.92/mmbtu in FY 2021-22 vs. US$  3.96/mmbtu in FY 2020-21.
Price  realisation for Coal Bed Methane  (CBM) gas for the year was higher  by 64.7% at US$ 6.82/ mmbtu (GCV).
Strategic Update MJ development project is on  track with production expected to  start from 3Q FY 2022-23.
Reliance  completed the sale of its interest  in Eagle ford Shale assets to Ensign  Operating for a consideration higher  than the carrying value of assets.
With  this transaction, Reliance has divested  all its shale gas assets and has  exited from the shale gas business  in North America.
50 51 Reliance Industries Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Management Discussion and Analysis — Financial Performance and Review Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review up in interest rates, exacerbated by  geopolitical conflicts.
The Company was successfully able to  navigate all such abrupt adjustments  in the market, maintain adequate  liquidity on its balance sheet, manage  its financial market risks and deliver  a consistent return on its investment  portfolio by staying invested in low  risk, liquid instruments.
Reliance  Treasury continued to stay focused on  providing liquidity to the businesses  at the optimal risk adjusted cost by  accessing financing from different  markets and using appropriate  instruments and currencies.
Treasury Management and  Financial Strategy Reliance Treasury’s impeccable timing  on executing landmark transactions  not just from India but also from Asia  can be attributed to its ability and  foresight to see emerging trends in  financial markets.
Reliance Treasury continuously  monitors the financial markets to  assess financing and investment  opportunities to raise financing at  optimised cost and deliver superior  returns respectively.
It identifies  opportunities to reduce interest  costs and extend maturity profile  of its existing debt portfolio.
It also  maintains a prudent mix of funding  sources across instrument classes,  financing products, geographies and  investor classes.
Fund Raising Reliance continues to be a  sophisticated and innovative issuer  of securities across the capital  structure.
During the year, Reliance  issued US$ 4 billion senior unsecured  notes across 10-years, 30-years and  40-years tranches comprising (i) US$  1,500,000,000 2.875% Senior Unsecured  Notes due 2032, (ii) US$ 1,750,000,000  3.625% Senior Unsecured Notes due  2052 and (iii) US$ 750,000,000 3.750%  Senior Unsecured Notes due 2062.
The  Notes were nearly 3x oversubscribed  with a peak order book aggregating  ~US$ 11.5 billion and were priced  financial year.
The monetary policy  priority among advanced economies  is now decisively centered around  preserving consumer purchasing  power and to anchor inflationary  expectations amidst multi-decade  high inflation.
The withdrawal of ultra- accommodation both on the interest  rates and liquidity front is primarily  led by US Fed and has gained traction  in other developed economies  including Emerging Markets.
The  outlook of sharp upward adjustment  in global interest rates and calibrated  withdrawal of liquidity is leading to  tighter financial conditions.
On the domestic front, the  reverberation of change in global  monetary landscape and rising  inflationary pressure has tilted  the balance in favour of gradual  withdrawal of policy accommodation.
The RBI has signalled this shift  in policy priority by pushing the  cost of domestic liquidity through  narrowing of LAF corridor, unlimited  sterilisation through new instrument  of Standing Deposit Facility (SDF)  and change in monetary policy  stance (MPC) to focus on withdrawal  of accommodation.
The average  inflation trajectory during FY 2022-23   is likely to stay closer to the higher  end of RBI-MPC target of 6% whereas  the growth impulses may moderate  further.
On the external front, the  deterioration in current account  deficit (CAD) to 2.5% of GDP and  uncertainty on capital inflows amidst  tightening global financial conditions  is likely to exert depreciation pressure  on the rupee in the near term.
Overall,  the macroeconomic outlook of  challenging growth inflation trade- off, faster policy normalisation  in developed economies and  geopolitical issues may keep the  volatility high in the domestic  financial markets.
Financial markets were extremely  choppy and volatile during the year.
The first half of the year saw stable  exchange rate and interest rates  in the market.
However the second  half of the year witnessed rupee  depreciation and a gradual move  through the Company’s secondary  curve.
Reliance has now joined a select  group of issuers from Asia to have  made jumbo foreign currency bond  issuances.
The proceeds from the notes  were primarily used for refinancing  existing borrowings.
This transaction was significant on  various counts: • It was the largest ever foreign  currency bond issuance from India  • It had the tightest ever implied  credit spread over the respective  US Treasury across each of the 3  tranches by an Indian Corporate • It carried the lowest coupon  achieved for benchmark 30-year  and 40-year issuances by a private  sector BBB corporate from Asia ex- Japan  • It had a first ever 40-year tranche  offering by a BBB private sector  corporate from Asia ex Japan  The Company’s subsidiary, Reliance  Jio Infocomm Limited prepaid entire  deferred liabilities pertaining to  spectrum acquired in auctions of  year 2014, 2015, 2016 and the spectrum  acquired in FY 2021-22 through trading  of right to use with Bharti Airtel Limited  aggregating to `30,791 crore (including  accrued interest).
This was refinanced  through a mix of INR Loans and  Debentures.
The Company expects that  this prepayment will result in interest  savings of about `1,200 crore annually.
The Company’s subsidiary REC   Solar Pte Ltd. tied up Reliance   Group’s first green financing  aggregating US$ 586 million including  a US$ 250 million green term loan and  ~US$ 336 million five-year green bank  guarantee facility.
Credit Rating Reliance’s strong focus on financial  capital coupled with financial discipline  and prudence are reflected in the  strong credit ratings ascribed by rating  agencies.
Reliance continues to enjoy  a strong credit rating and continues to  be rated two notches above sovereign  by S&P and is one notch above  sovereign by Moody’s.
The table below depicts the credit rating profile: Instrument Rating Agency Rating Remarks International Debt S&P BBB+ Two notches above India’s sovereign rating International Debt Moody’s Baa2 One notch above India’s sovereign rating Long-Term Debt CRISIL AAA (stable) Highest rating by CRISIL Long-Term Debt CARE AAA (stable) Highest rating by CARE Long-Term Debt ICRA AAA (stable) Highest rating by ICRA Long-Term Debt India Ratings AAA (stable) Highest rating by India Ratings Liquidity Management Robust liquidity underpins Reliance’s  short-term financial planning  processes with an aim of ensuring  adequate protection against short  term adverse market events.
Reliance  deploys a judicious mix of tenors  and product types in its liquidity  management processes and  continues to explore path breaking  financing solutions in partnership  with its world-class banking partners.
Consistent strong cash generation  from operating activities provides  the foundation for liquidity.
This along  with undrawn borrowing facilities and  cash and cash equivalents provide  solid liquidity buffer.
Reliance’s liquidity management and  investment plans are created within  the context of its strategic and annual  financial planning processes.
The  plans are reviewed on an ongoing  basis to factor in evolving global and  domestic macro factors.
Reliance maintains sufficient  working capital resources for  running all its businesses smoothly.
The operating cycle is closely  monitored to optimise working  capital structure and ensure smooth  business financing.
Trade financing  solutions are proactively reviewed  and swiftly calibrated to deliver  robust working capital management.
RIL has opportunistically used short  term borrowings through Commercial  Paper to finance its working capital  requirements.
Given the low interest  rate environment this has benefited  the Company to maintain low cost  of liabilities.
RIL effectively manages its cash and  cash equivalents through a diversified  investment portfolio which has an  appropriate mix of steady accrual,  tax efficient and higher duration  assets with lower reinvestment risk.
The portfolio consists of wide-ranging  fixed income instruments invested in  top rated instruments like sovereign  bonds, AAA papers and bank’s fixed  deposits.
The diversification across  instruments and counterparties  ensures that there is minimal  concentration risk.
The investment portfolio is monitored  and operated under a robust risk  management framework with a very  nimble and dynamic adjustment to  portfolio mix as and when necessary  to ensure capital protection and  appropriate risk adjusted returns.
The investment portfolio balances  well between the dual objectives  of generating optimal returns  with appropriate risk/reward and  maintaining the assurance of liquidity  at short notice..
Awards and Accolades During FY 2021-22, RIL won the Best  Asia Pacific Corporate Bonds award  from ‘The Banker’ for the US$ 4 billion  multi-tranche Senior Unsecured Notes  issued in January 2022.
Way Forward on Financial  Capital Reliance remains committed to  sustainable value creation for  stakeholders through disciplined  capital framework and optimal  utilisation of its resources.
As it  enters the next stage of growth, the  Company through its robust cash flow  and balance sheet, will accelerate  the pace of growing capabilities for  Digital, New Commerce, New Energy, and  New Material businesses.
52 53 Reliance Industries Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Management Discussion and Analysis —  Financial Performance and Review Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review RETAIL Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview Reliance Retail is India's largest and most profitable retailer with a  diversified omni-channel presence via integrated store concepts,  digital and new commerce platforms.
It provides consumers with  an outstanding value proposition, superior quality products and an  unmatched shopping experience.
RETAI L Reliance Retail posted  industry leading performance  with record revenue and profit  in an operating environment  that was marked by sporadic  disruptions through the  year.
The performance  demonstrates robust business  model, superior understanding  of evolving consumer trends  and is led by highly trained  and capable staff who are  relentlessly focused on serving  our customers.
193 million Customer base Subramaniam V.  Isha  Ambani Akash  Ambani Anant  Ambani Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview Our  consumption  baskets Consumer  Electronics Fashion &   LifestyleConnectivity GroceryPharma 15,196 Retail stores 3,61,000+* Employees Gulur  Venkatesh V. B.  Pardiwalla  Jayant  Bhalerao Bijay   Sahoo Sunil  Nayak Ashwin  Khasgiwala Akhilesh  Prasad Darshan  Mehta Damodar Mall  Brian  Bade Kaushal  Nevrekar *This includes on-roll, off-roll and third party personnels 55 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Financial   Statements Governance  Corporate   Overview Management   Review 54 Reliance Industries Limited RETAIL Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview Vision To be the most admired and  successful retail company in India  that enhances the quality of life of  every Indian.
Mission  • Provide millions of customers with  unlimited choice, outstanding value  proposition, superior quality and  unmatched experience across the full  spectrum of products and services • Serve the entire spectrum of Indian  society i.e.
from households, kiranas  and merchants, to small and medium  enterprises and institutions • Reach the length and breadth of the  country through our physical and  digital distribution platforms • Be the partner of choice and enable  win-win opportunities for producers,  small and medium enterprises, brand  companies and global suppliers • Generate direct and indirect  employment opportunities with  skill transformation and talent  development on an unprecedented  scale Strategic Advantages and   Competitive Strengths Performance Summary FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 1,63,029 1,57,702 1,99,749  Proven business model  with agile execution and  project management  skills  Omni-channel player  with the largest network  of stores, digital and  new commerce  platforms  Leadership across  focused consumption  baskets  Deep understanding of  consumer preferences  and shopping behaviour  Strong supplier  relationships providing  portfolio of the widest,  high-quality  merchandise 9,695 11,7849,842 12,711 12,423 15,196  Straddling the entire  value chain – from  product design and  development to serving  customers across  segments  Cutting-edge technology  to improve business  efficiency and consumer  experience  Extensive supply chain  network that covers the  length and breadth of  the country FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 REVENUE (` IN CRORE) `1,99,749 EBITDA (` IN CRORE) `12,423 RETAIL STORES (NOS.)
15,196 Operating Model Reliance Retail's operating model straddles across the retail value chain to unlock significant  value for all the stakeholders.
Deploying AI/ML  across business  processes  to provide a  seamless customer  experience, boost  productivity,  and improve  operational  efficiencies PAN India Retail network consisting of stores and  digital commerce platforms to provide seamless  omni-channel experience and helping millions of  merchants modernise, become more efficient and  generate higher income Product  Innovation Selling  Ecosystem Sourcing  Ecosystem AI driven  customer  experience Operating  Model Building a robust  sourcing ecosystem  that consists of local  producers, MSMEs,  regional, national  and international  brands Design & Development  Ecosystem Leverage Company’s deep  and rich understanding of  Indian consumers' shopping  habits for new product  development 56 57 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review RETAIL Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview Diversified Customer Touch Points Reliance Retail has one of the world's largest omni-enabled retail store networks and operates an extensive portfolio  of digital commerce platforms, bringing customers the widest range of products across its consumption baskets.
It is supported by a well-trained workforce, a strong infrastructure backbone comprising of supply chain and  technology capabilities.
Fashion &   LifestyleGrocery Pharma  RetailConsumer  Electronics Operating the largest store network in the country 15,196 stores with over 41.6 million square feet of retail space and presence across 7,000+ cities Market leading digital commerce platforms 2.5x growth in daily orders Y-o-Y 50+  partner brand stores Empowering merchant through new commerce platforms 3x growth in merchant sign-up Y-o-Y Acquisitions and Partnerships Reliance Retail announced a number of acquisitions and strategic alliances to strengthen its  competencies and bolster its product offerings.
Grocery store chain Acquired Jaisuryas, a leading  grocery chain to strengthen offering  in the Southern markets Convenience store Entered into a master franchise  agreement with 7-Eleven, Inc. for  the launch and rapid scale-up of  7-Eleven® convenience stores in India Fashion Brand Acquired stakes across prominent  Indian designer brands Fashion Brands Acquired Amante and Clovia,  leading intimate wear brands to  strengthen its product portfolio Digital commerce Invested US$ 200 million in Dunzo,  India’s leading quick commerce  and last-mile fulfilment player Merchant commerce Acquired majority stake in Just Dial,  India's leading local search engine  platform Daily subscription Acquired Milkbasket, leading  subscription based daily micro  delivery platform Lifestyle brand Bought Portico and Stellar Home  brands, offering bed and bath  solutions  Women’s wear speciality store Acquired Kalanikethan to  strengthen ethnic wear portfolio  Supply chain automation Bought majority stake in Addverb  Technologies that provides  warehouse automation solution  and robotic systems for automated  material handling KALANIKETHAN R KALANIKETHAN R 58 59 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review  RETAIL Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview Highlights FY 2021-22 Inclusivity All-time high revenue  and profit delivery amidst  a challenging operating  environment Registered customer   base up by ~24%   Y-o-Y to reach  193 million   Augmented digital  commerce offerings,  2.5x growth Y-o-Y in daily orders  Launched new store concepts  JioMart extends portfolio  to cover electronics and beauty;  launches subscription service Performance ~7 new stores added every day, crossed 15,000   store milestone Expansion (Sarees) (Gourmet) Secured employees  and their families –  ~100% of all eligible employees  and their families   double vaccinated Reliance Retail is investing  resources in building  Next-gen supply chain  capabilities – added  11.1 million sq ft   of warehousing space;  capacity nearly doubled to  22.7 million sq ft 1,50,000+  new jobs added,  taking the employee  base to 3,61,000 Reliance Retail is   rated amongst the fastest   growing retailers globally  New Commerce  Merchant partner   base up 3x Y-o-Y Bolstered retail capabilities  through acquisition,  partnerships and strategic  investments with investment of E9,700+ crore 60 61 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review  RETAIL Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview Industry Overview India has emerged as one of the most resilient global economies, having braved the macro-economic  headwinds caused by COVID-19.
The Indian economy is propelled by a solid domestic demand that accounts  for 56% of India's GDP, which provides a strong foundation for a sustained growth of the Indian retail market.
The learnings from the first wave of COVID-19, combined with a strong impetus on vaccination, helped reduce  the pandemic’s impact on the economy in 2021.
With a gradual fall in the number of cases and the easing of  restrictions, production across major sectors is going back to pre-COVID levels.
As the impact of the pandemic  subsides and consumer demand resumes, the retail sector is expected to rebound and record a compounded  growth rate of 11% to become a US$ 1.2 trillion market by 2025.
Emerging Trends and Business Response Omni-channel   takes centre stage Serving customers  through an omni-channel  approach is emerging as  a prerequisite to growth.
Growth in   smaller towns The broad-based  growth in the retail  sector is being led by  India’s small towns.
Quick commerce Emerging business  model to enhance  customer experience.
Increased spend on  hygiene, health, and  nutrition Focus on health,  hygiene and well-being  takes center stage.
Reliance Retail has  created the most  extensive retail  ecosystem in the  country, with its retail  outlets connected  with digital commerce  platforms to provide  a unified consumer  experience across  channels.
This integrated  approach has  significantly improved  customer experience.
Reliance Retail operates  over two-third of its  network of stores in Tier II  and below towns.
This  provides it a first mover  advantage across many  small towns, leading to  customer stickiness.
With the launch of  JioMart, Reliance Retail  has established itself  as the leading player  in hyperlocal delivery  and quick commerce.
Its product selection  continues to grow, with  electronics, fashion, and  now pharma available  on its platform.
Reliance  Retail’s investment in  Milkbasket and Dunzo  will further strengthen  its capabilities in  serving customers.
Reliance Retail has been  a pioneer in identifying  emerging consumer  trends and has created  an extensive range of  home and personal  care products under  its own brand portfolio.
During the year, it  introduced Puric, a  range of personal  hygiene and home  disinfectant products  with more than 20 SKUs,  which has received  positive response  from consumers.
2.5x Growth in digital  commerce sales   in FY 2021-22 75 % Of new stores launched  in FY 2021-22 were in  Tier II and below towns 15% Share of own brands in  hand wash & hygiene  category 48  million JioMart apps  downloaded   Our Response  Differentiated Store Concepts for  Consumer Electronics Largest big-box electronics  chain with 400+ national and  international brands Small-store concept offering mobility  and connectivity products across  7,000+ towns along with an extended  catalogue for assisted online selling India’s only ISO 9001 certified  electronics service brand offering  multi-brand, multi-product service  covering end-to-end product life cycle Reliancedigital.in Digital platform with   omni-channel capabilities for   seamless experience   across 2 ,000+ towns Business Performance Competitive Strengths • Technology purchase made  simple through buying guides,  tech experts and personalised  selling  • Order fulfilment within 24 hours  of purchase  • Ensure consumer comfort  through resQ solutions that  cover entire product life cycle  • Preferred partner for all leading  electronics brands - product  launches, exclusive promotions Key Developments Registered broad-based  growth across categories  particularly in laptops, mobiles  and home appliances Robust growth led by sharper  opening price points ranges,  successful festive and big day  campaigns and category  focused events  Launched Consumer  Electronics on JioMart  Launched JioMart Digital, the  New Consumer Electronics  merchant platform Strengthened own brand  proposition by launching  over 600 new SKUs; increased  merchant partner penetration Reliance Digital felicitated  across multiple industry  forums; notable amongst  them: • The Economic Times   Best Brands Award • MAPIC India Awards –   Most Admired Retail  Company of the Year 500+   Reliance Digital   stores as of March 2022 55 % Revenues from Tier II   and below cities • Exclusive product offering  through a portfolio of own and  licensed brands  Consumer Electronics Reliance Retail is the leader in consumer electronics retailing in  the country with 8,700+ Reliance Digital and MyJio Stores.
Consumer Electronics business model is centered around  solution selling approach that is designed to offer a  differentiated value proposition, strong in-store experience  and extensive yet relevant product assortment and is  complimented by an in-house after sales service through resQ.
62 63 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review RETAIL Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview Fashion & Lifestyle Reliance Retail is the largest fashion &  Lifestyle retailer in India and has adopted  a multi-format approach to service its  customers through various retail concepts  that cater to customer segments from value  to premium and luxury.
Diverse Store Concepts for Fashion & Lifestyle Business Performance KALANIKETHAN R India’s leading sarees and  ethnic wear retailer Partner to 50+ international  brands offering global shopping  experience in India Experiential toy store with presence  across 17 countries; the oldest toy  retailer globally Market leader in value fashion retail  with strong own brand portfolio and  category-focused format extensions  to tap niche demand  Multi-brand family footwear retail  chain with a wide assortment of  own and branded products Destination for fine jewellery  with 100% purity guarantee and  thematic collections  Experiential one-stop destination for  women’s ethnic wear Leading fashion & lifestyle digital  commerce platform with 800K+ styles  from India and around the world India's leading online luxury  destination for fashion &  lifestyle brands Omni-channel furniture and  decor retail chain Leading destination for women’s  intimate wear, with 100+ stores and  delivery across 2,000+ cities  Key DevelopmentsCompetitive Strengths • Largest store network of 3,900+  omni-enabled stores across  1,000+ cities • Largest portfolio of international  partner brands • Straddles the entire value chain  of fibre to wardrobe, allowing  it to deliver the most stylish  and trendiest fashion to Indian  customers • Strong own brand portfolio with  multiple brands with annual  turnover of US$ 100 million+ 2x  Y-o-Y increase in sales from  Tier II and below cities 1,000+  Fashion & Lifestyle stores  opened in FY 2021-22 Jewels Robust growth driven by   introduction of 17 national and  regional collections Partner Brands • Partnered with Valentino, La  Martina, Starter, Balenciaga,  and Adidas Young Athletes • Developed three new concepts:  TWC Pop Up, TWC Books & Coffee,  and Hamleys Play • Invested in Manish Malhotra, Ritu  Kumar, ak-ok, Abraham & Thakore,  Abujani Sandeep Khosla, and Rahul  Mishra Apparel and Footwear • Revenue more than doubles;  surpasses pre-COVID levels  on the back of increased  conversions and bill values • Registered 2x increase in  sales from Tier II and below  towns, contributing to 50%+  of total revenues • Continued growth momentum  for AJIO, with new highs set every  quarter and a significant increase  in customer KPIs and operating  parameters  • Entered saree category with the  introduction of Avantra by Trends,  and acquisition of Kalanikethan • Strengthened portfolio with the  acquisition of Amanté, Clovia   and Portico • Expanded own brands  portfolio with the introduction  of 3 mid-premium and  18 value brands Strengthens women's ethnic wear   and intimate wear category   through acquisitions Reliance Retail enters Indian ethnic wear category 64 65 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance  Corporate   Overview Management   Review RETAIL Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview Grocery Differentiated Store Concepts for Grocery Business Performance India’s leading subscription based  daily micro-delivery service Value destination with wide  assortment that meets customers’  monthly needs with an ‘Every Day  Low Pricing’ promise   Multi-purpose neighbourhood   stores with SMART’s price promise Freshpik, a gourmet shopping  destination offering delicacies from  India and the world  Neighbourhood store   offering premium  merchandise selection Reliance Retail is the country's  largest grocery retailer  operating diverse formats  to accommodate the varied  needs and buying occasions of  consumers.
Reliance Retail provides consumers  a wide assortment of fresh produce,  everyday products, and general  merchandise in a contemporary  shopping environment at an attractive  value proposition through engaging  store concepts and digital and New  Commerce platforms.
1,000+  Grocery stores opened   in FY 2021-22 India’s leading hyperlocal platform  with presence across 260+ cities  offering a wide assortment of  products across grocery, fashion,  electronics and pharma Grocery Pharmacy Reliance Retail operates  Netmeds, a chain of  pharmacies and digital  commerce platform, creating  a seamless online-offline  experience for customers  seeking prescription  medicines, beauty essentials,  OTC products, Ayush wellness,  health devices and more.
Connectivity Reliance Retail serves as the master distributor for Jio  connectivity services, which are sold through a network  of MyJio and Digital stores.
Additionally, it has partnered  with over a million retailers throughout the country to  provide Jio prepaid and post-paid plans via the sale of  SIM cards, top-ups, and mobile devices .
Competitive Strengths • India’s largest grocery store network  with varied store formats assisting  customers in their shopping mission  • Integrated value chain supported  by a robust network of collection  centres, processing centres and  distribution hubs  • India’s largest hyperlocal  grocery business with integrated  subscription model • Partner of choice for leading Indian  and international brands for new  product launches, exclusive ranges  and pack sizes  • Wide portfolio of own brands across  staples, home and personal care, and  general merchandise Key Developments Growth ahead of market  with record store and digital  commerce sales Integrated Milkbasket with  JioMart - 2x growth in daily  subscription orders since  acquisition Accelerated store expansion,  opening 1,000+ new stores,  bringing the overall store  count to 2,400+ with over half  in Tier II and below towns Smart crosses 400-stores  milestone Launched Freshpik, a  gourmet experience store, at  Jio World Drive in Mumbai Key Developments Strengthened hyperlocal  capabilities for faster deliveries Rapidly scaled up new  merchant partnerships across  1,900+ cities 3.7  million Orders placed in the first two  days of Tak Dhina Din sale 66 67 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review RETAIL Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview The Indian retail market is the  most fragmented in the world,  characterised by the presence  of millions of small kiranas.
Operating in the unorganised  space, the kiranas are constrained  by various challenges, including  the lack of: modern infrastructure,  technology savviness, efficient  sourcing capabilities and capital  needed to serve the ever-evolving  consumer needs.
Reliance Retail’s New Commerce  initiative is bringing out the  entrepreneurial spirit of the kiranas,  by physically and digitally enabling  them and bringing them at par with  organised players.
Reliance Retail aims to integrate  millions of small kiranas with  Accelerate new   store expansion  Continued emphasis on growing  the digital commerce business  across all consumption baskets  through improved offers and  service capabilities  Fast-track new merchant  onboarding and increase wallet  share across all consumption  baskets  Develop new brands, integrate  acquisitions, launch and scale up  new businesses  Strengthen supply chain  infrastructure, and product and  design ecosystems to support  rapid business growth  To help employees address stress during  the unusual circumstances created by the  pandemic, online yoga sessions were arranged  during the International Yoga Month.
For  women, for whom the challenges have been  multifold, Reliance’s focus has been to provide  support and work flexibility.
Many of them  have opted to work-from-home.
There have  also been panel discussions and focused  engagement with women employees every  month through the times of COVID-19 to help  them in better work-life integration.
All through the pandemic, efforts were directed  at educating employees on safety, building  resilience, and addressing health and nutrition  concerns.
Talks were also held on diverse  parenting needs and addressing specific  concerns during the pandemic.
Often specialised training becomes necessary  to ensure the safety of both staff and the  people they serve.
Take the training on ‘Disaster  Mitigation and Preparedness for Retail Outlets’,  which was undertaken with the help of the  National Institute of Disaster Management  (NIDM).
Specialised training also became  mandatory for staff and contractors with  the opening of the first Hamleys Play store  in Mumbai, as required by the Protection of  Children from Sexual Offense (POCSO) Act.
Reliance Retail strives to create an enabling workplace environment where  each employee is provided the opportunity to participate, contribute, and grow.
To ensure the safety, health and well-being of employees, various initiatives were  undertaken during the year.
The health and safety of employees is of  paramount importance at Reliance.
An  illustrative case is the ergonomic assessments  taken during the year for Retail staff, whose  work involves manual handling, or long hours  where they are either required to stand or  sit, all of which pose risks of musculoskeletal  disorder.
To address the concern, ergonomics  assessments were conducted across all  formats pan India for all job roles to identify  ergonomic hazards and immediate action was  taken to reduce the risk level.
Road safety is another area of concern.
To  address it, extensive trainings were arranged  during the year.
Frequent refresher trainings are  also conducted for our delivery associates as  well as for our delivery partners (GRAB riders)  on road safety to ensure they remain safe while  delivering essential items at the doorstep of  customers.
Both online and offline engagement  activities were held during the year to trigger  conversations on safety and enhance the  safety culture.
New Commerce: A win-win-win Operating Model for growth and shared prosperity producers, manufacturers and  brands across India.
Doing so would  help them modernise, become more  efficient and generate higher income.
Reliance Retail is thus creating a  win-win-win partnership with all  stakeholders of the retail value chain.
The ecosystem thus created would  lead to a wider selection of products,  superior quality, compelling value  proposition and a finer shopping  experience to millions of consumers  buying from the kiranas.
During the year, the company  launched New Commerce services  for consumer electronics and pharma  merchants.
It has significantly scaled  up its merchant partnerships across  Grocery and Fashion & Lifestyle  consumption baskets.
The platforms  have witnessed robust growth in  matrices such as order values and  frequency of orders, reflecting the  trust and growing bond with the  merchant partners.
Strategic Priorities and Way Forward 68 69 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance  Corporate   Overview Management   Review RETAIL Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview Today’s customers are hyper-aware of social, cultural  and environmental issues.
Responsibility towards  our planet is no longer optional.
Environmental  consciousness matter more than ever to consumers  and employees.
That is why being responsible to the  planet means being responsible to consumers &  employees.
At Sahakari Bhandar, we have taken many  recycling initiatives to reduce the waste to reach landfills.
One of them is, Go Green with Tetra Pak - Empty tetra pack cartons  are recycled in association with Tetra Pak India   and the NGO – RUR Currently 1 out of every 4 tetra pack cartons sold at  Sahakari Bhandar stores is bought back for recycling.
A Responsible Retailer – Sahakari Bhandar “When store becomes good member of the society,  commerce also flourishes”.
For the collection of these tetra packs, 244 hubs & spokes  are created which includes our grocery stores, housing  societies, corporates, educational institutes and churches.
The business has partnered with an NGO for transportation  of the collected tetra packs to a recycling company.
Since its inception (June 2010), Go Green with Tetra Pak  has saved more than 1,000 trees by recycling beverage  cartons into school desks and garden benches.
More than 9 million consumed cartons in Mumbai have  been recycled in safe and effective manner with a  technology that has zero discharge and zero water input.
The recycled cartons were converted into 350 school  desks, 250 garden benches and 500 bins which were  donated to the community.
Recycling challenge and Awareness campaign at School School desk made out of Recycled Tetra Pack  Garden benches made out of Recycled Tetra Pack  Outlook The Indian retail market has been one  of the most resilient in the world during  the pandemic period, making a strong  recovery when restrictions were lifted.
The sector's core growth fundamentals  continue to be strong.
Rapid digitalisation  and the introduction of breakthrough  technologies have opened up new  growth opportunities which would further  boost long-term market prospects.
Reliance Retail’s commitment in the  Indian retail sector is evident by the  significant investments it has made  in building and strengthening its  capabilities across the retail value chain,  which is having a transformational  impact on the Indian retail landscape.
Reliance Retail will continue with its  journey of bringing best-in-class  products and services to consumers  across the length and breadth of the  country by further expanding its presence  through physical stores and digital  commerce platforms offering best of  global and local brands and partnering  with small producers and merchants,  thereby creating a virtuous circle of  prosperity for millions of Indians.
70 71 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review RETAIL Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview Jio’s robust connectivity  platform has served as the  backbone for its offering of best- in-class digital experiences to  its consumers.
This capability  has been constantly enhanced  through partnerships and  investment in multiple emerging  technologies to serve consumers  in India and beyond.
Jio is India’s largest digital services  platform with a total subscriber  base of 410 million across mobility  and fixed broadband.
Harnessing  the world’s best technology  capabilities, it is determined to  provide world-class fixed-wireless  converged connectivity network,  complemented with disruptive  digital technology platforms  for entertainment, commerce,  communication, finance and  education.
The vast Indian market  and Reliance’s own ecosystem  have allowed deployment of these  technologies at scale, opening  them up for a massive growth  potential.
Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview >7.
5  billion GB Monthly Data Traffic in FY 2021-22 410  million Subscribers as of March 2022 5 million+  Homes connected   by JioFiber services till March 2022 Sanjay   Mashruwala Isha   Ambani Akash   Ambani Anant   Ambani Mathew  Oommen Pankaj   Pawar Kiran   Thomas Harish   Shah Jyotindra   Thacker Anish   Shah Anshuman   Thakur Rajneesh   Jain V. Sridhar Ashish   Lodha Shyam  Mardikar Dhruv Kumar   Tayal Anuj   Jain Prateek   Pashine Aayush   Bhatnagar Saurabh   Sancheti R. Srinivasan  Sanjay   Jog Rahul   Mukherjee DIGIT L  SERVICES ~20  GB Average per capita monthly   data usage in 4Q FY 2021-22 72 73 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance  Corporate   Overview Management   Review Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview DIGITAL SERVICES Strategic Advantages and  Competitive Strengths Vision Jio remains committed to connecting everyone  and everything, everywhere – always at the  highest quality and the most affordable price.
Jio also strives to build technology enabled  product platforms for a Digital Society –  leveraging Indian technical expertise to serve  global markets.
Mission  • Affordable data connectivity for every Indian  • Superior customer experience • Platform approach to all digital solutions • Invest in emerging technologies Jio’s extensive reach, simple pricing structure and  deep understanding of Indian consumers on the  back of its adoption of cutting-edge technologies  together ensure a continued ‘Jio effect’ on the  digital landscape in India.
Digital suite of  products Jio has also created a full  stack of digital products,  platforms and services  for multiple ecosystems  serving consumers and  businesses.
Partnerships Supported and partnered  with globally established,  new-age platforms  across the full suite of  digital and connectivity  services.
Performance Summary * Metrics FY   2019-20 FY   2020-21 FY   2021-22 Total  Customer base (million) 388.4 426.2 410.2 ARPU (`/month) 130.3 138.2 167.6 Total Data Consumption   (crore GB) 1,317 1,668 2,461 Per Capita  Data Consumption   (GB/month) 11.6 13.3 19.7 Voice on Network  (crore mins per day) 963 1,148 1,340 Per Capita  Voice Consumption   (mins/month) 770 823 968 * Exit quarter Connectivity platform Jio has built a network to  serve every citizen, home  and enterprise across  the country with over 99%  population coverage for  mobility network, and  almost 20 million homes  covered with fiber network,  which is ramping up rapidly.
Physical distribution Through a network of  Reliance Retail’s consumer  electronics, merchant  partners and Jio Associates,  Jio has the widest and  deepest market presence.
Technology Ahead-of-the-curve  investment in next  generation communication  and digital technologies,  which could be deployed at  scale.
Bringing many ecosystems together  With a cumulative investment of over US$ 60 billion, Jio is using the transformative power of data connectivity to enable  platforms across various ecosystems including Media & Entertainment, Commerce, Financial Services, Education,  Gaming and Agriculture.
Our digital society vision is built on the core thesis of the transformative power of data  combining connectivity as an enabler with digital platforms across industry verticals.
Operating Framework Ecosystem Platforms Technology Platforms Operating com panies ow ned by Reliance G roup External custom ers Jio Mobility   and 5G Blockchain IoT AR/VR Cloud and   Edge   Compute Customer   Owned Data Devices &   Operating   Systems Energy and Material  Process Manufacturing G2C / Smart   Cities Financial   Services Agriculture AI/ML Secure   Identity Speech/ NLP/   Smart Bots Computer   Vision Robotics Drones Quantum/   Genomics/   3D Printing PracticesPeople Talent • Structure • Comm unities • Perform ance & Growth • Leadership • Culture Product Management • Architecture • System  of W orks • Quality • Agile, CI / CD • Next-gen Operation Wireless   broadband Home   broadband Enterprise and  SMB broadband Digital Connectivity Connectivity   and Cloud Retail and New   Commerce Media/Gaming Education REVENUE AND EBITDA MARGIN 74 75 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review  Revenue ( ` crore)  EBITDA Margin (%) FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 39.3 44.4 47.3 90,287 1,00,161 69,605 Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview DIGITAL SERVICES Annual operating revenue for   Jio Platforms crossed for clearing all deferred spectrum  liabilities acquired in auctions prior  to March 2021 Prepaid `30,791 crore Jio won award from OpenSignal  for best video experience and  continued to hold top positions in  4G coverage and availability.
Jio  also maintained its leadership in  download speed for 60 months in  a row in TRAI’s MySpeed rankings Highlights FY 2021-22 Performance Jio Mobility Network continues   to lead in user engagement   with data traffic increasing    46% Y-o-Y to over   91 billion GBs in FY 2021-22 With 5 million+ connected homes ,  JioFiber has become the largest  fixed broadband provider in India  within two years of launch Leadership US$ 10 billion in FY 2021-22 Jio and Google Cloud   embarked on a comprehensive, long- term strategic relationship with the goal  of implementing 5G in enterprise and  consumer segments Jio and Google   announced the launch of JioPhone  Next  – the most affordable smartphone  anywhere in the world with a unique  financing option and unprecedented  features like an all new Pragati OS Partnered with WhatsApp   to provide simplified digital  recharge option for connectivity  and conversational commerce  platform on JioMart Partnerships 76 77 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance  Corporate   Overview Management   Review Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview DIGITAL SERVICES Industry Overview Transition towards  4G networks The launch of Jio started the 4G  transition in India.
The 4G subscriber  base across the industry is now over  730 million as of March 2022, thanks  to increasing broadband network  penetration across both urban and  rural India and the improving device  ecosystem.
More than 250 million 2G  feature phone users in the country  will also be transitioning to digital  networks over the next few years.
The pandemic’s impact on recharge  cycle and tariff hike have caused a  transient SIM consolidation, mainly  for low usage and inconsistent  subscriber base.
This has rationalised  the reported subscriber base and  should bring cost and network  efficiencies for the industry.
Increasing smartphones  and new use cases boost  data traffic Improving smartphone penetration  and increasing proliferation of digital  applications have resulted in a 38%  increase in data usage across the  country over CY 2021 (~137 Exabytes  of data usage in India during 2021).
According to the Ericsson Mobility  Report 2021, total mobile data traffic  in India is projected to increase  by more than 4x to reach 49.0  Exabytes per month by 2027.
This will  be driven by two factors – greater  smartphone penetration, including in  rural areas, and increase in average  data usage per smartphone.
Jio’s  device strategy and sustained  investments in digital will be key to this  enhanced data usage.
5G rollout  Earlier in the year, the Department of  Telecommunications (DoT) allotted  trial spectrum for 5G services to all  operators.
5G field trials are currently  underway, with all operators working  with their respective network vendors  to test the network and develop  relevant use cases.
DoT and Telecom  Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) are  working towards conducting auction  for 5G spectrum bands in 2022.
Increasing need for good  quality FTTX India’s leapfrog into mobility  broadband has resulted in the  fixed broadband sector being an  under-invested space for the past  two decades.
As a result, India has  amongst the lowest fixed broadband  penetration in the world at less than  10% households.
Fiber penetration is even lower, with  most fixed broadband running on  legacy copper-based infrastructure.
COVID-19 lockdowns and the  consequent need to work-from- home and learn-from-home, have  reinforced the need for high quality  fixed broadband.
Positive changes in the  Indian telecom landscape In September 2021, the Government of  India undertook decisive steps in the  form of reforms and a relief package  to strengthen the Indian telecom  sector.
Subsequently, all the operators  undertook a 20-25% hike across  prepaid plans that has boosted  revenue growth for the sector.
Emerging Trends and Business Response Transition towards  4G networks Transition of 250 million+ 2G feature  phone users to digital networks Jio’s comprehensive device  strategy encompassing  JioPhone Next, JioPhone and OEM  partnerships and investments into  the digital ecosystem would lead  this transition How Jio is responding?
Increasing FTTH penetration Rapidly increasing demand  for high-speed fiber backed  internet at homes Digitisation of MSMBs  in India Integrated fiber connectivity and  digital solutions for 50 million MSMBs Jio’s extensive intracity fiber network,  last mile execution, seamless  customer experience along with  attractive bundling of digital  solutions enabled it to emerge  the market leader within two  years of launch JioBusiness is now offering  enterprise grade connectivity and  vertical specific digital solutions in  collaboration with partners Growing ecosystem of B2C  applications Proliferation of broadband  connectivity drives adoption of  digital applications Jio has built a suite of  solutions and services across  entertainment, commerce,  communication, finance,  education and gaming with  leading engagement levels  in each category.
How Jio is responding?
5G rollout in India Trial spectrum has been allocated to  operators and spectrum auction is  expected in 2022 Jio has conducted field trials of  its homegrown 5G stack with  competitive position and capabilities  comparable to global Tier 1 vendors.
Coverage planning has been  completed for top 1,000 cities.
4G 5G 78 79 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview DIGITAL SERVICES Mobile Services Jio continues to drive India’s  digital transformation Jio’s network carried almost 10%   of the global mobile data traffic in   CY 2021, and Jio continues to remain  the broadband network of choice  with over 50% share of India’s data  traffic, thereby underlining the ‘Jio  effect’ on the digital ecosystem in  India.
Jio was the digital lifeline during  the continuing pandemic.
FY 2021-22  saw over 130 million new users join the  network on a gross basis and data  traffic grow at ~46% Y-o-Y to more  than 91 Exabytes.
Customer engagement on Jio  network increased further; per capita  data and voice consumption stood  at 19.7 GB and 968 minutes per month  respectively for the quarter ending  March 2022.
During the year, Jio  undertook a ~20% hike across   prepaid plans with effect from  December 1, 2021.
Its new plans  continue to provide best value for  consumers in the industry across  price points.
Financial relief for the  telecom sector and improving  revenue growth potential will  accelerate realisation of Prime  Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of  Digital India and enable India’s  transformation into the world’s  leading digital society.
Enhanced network capacity Post the 2021 spectrum auction and  trading agreement with Bharti Airtel,  Jio’s spectrum footprint has increased  56% to 1,732MHz (average life of  over 14.5 years).
This has boosted  its network capacity to serve the  rapidly growing demand for data  services.
Further, Jio has relentlessly  driven network improvement to  provide superior customer experience  through network automation, next- gen platform deployment, advanced  analytics and data sciences.
The  robustness of Jio’s network was  further underlined by the fact that it  worked with minimal disruption even  during three cyclones and seven  heavy rainfall/ flood situations across  the country during the year.
Expansion of 4G device  ecosystem Since inception, Jio has innovated  to catalyse and grow the affordable  digital device system in the  country.
JioPhone has successfully  transitioned over 100 million 2G users  in the country over the past four years.
Building on this success, Jio, in  partnership with Google, announced  the launch of JioPhone Next during  the year.
This is the most affordable  smartphone anywhere in the world,  with a unique financing option  making it accessible for a much wider  set of consumers.
JioPhone Next is packed with  unprecedented features like an all  new Pragati OS, Translate Now & Read  Aloud across 10 Indian languages and  a host of preloaded Jio and Google  apps.
Jio is also partnering with other  leading OEMs to provide multiple  device options to its subscribers and  accelerate the 2G to 4G transition  in the country.
Jio leads the March towards  5G-Yukt India Jio’s 5G stack is 100% homegrown  and a comprehensive 5G solution  that is fully cloud native, software  defined and digitally managed.
This  5G stack encompasses radio and  core network, software architecture  and hardware equipment, including  outdoor small cells and gNodeBs.
Jio’s network is built on a converged  and future proof architecture that  allows for seamless upgrade from  4G to 5G and beyond.
5G coverage  planning has been completed in  top 1,000 cities based on targeted  customer consumption and revenue  potential using heat maps, 3D maps  and ray tracing technology.
Apart from conducting field trials of  its 5G stack.
Jio has done active trials  of 5G use cases ranging from AR/ VR,  low-latency cloud gaming, network  slicing and multi-tenancy for video  delivery, TV streaming, connected  hospitals and industrial applications.
Fixed Broadband Services Jio continues to see fixed broadband  as a significant greenfield opportunity  and aspires to connect 50 million  homes and 50 million MSMBs in India.
Its expansive intracity fiber network,  execution abilities, superior customer  experience together with its diverse  suite and bundling of digital content,  tech-enabled tools and solutions will  be key differentiators.
Jio is now the largest fiber  broadband provider in India The need for high quality broadband  and Jio’s extensive infrastructure  and superior services have made  it the operator of choice for fixed  broadband in the country.
Within  a short span of two years since its  launch, Jio has become the largest  fiber broadband provider with over  5 million connected homes with an  average data usage of almost 300 GB  per home per month.
It has continued  to roll out last mile infrastructure at an  elevated pace and its network covers  almost 20 million homes.
#1 Jio’s market position in FTTH JioPhone Next, the  most affordable  smartphone  anywhere in the  world Business Performance Extended suite of digital  offerings for homes and  enterprises Jio has been consistently enriching its  digital portfolio to augment the fixed- line services to enable work-from- home, learn-from-home, health- from-home, and enterprise grade  digital solutions for small businesses.
• Homes – Enhanced STB with JioOS,  bouquet of new Jio and third-party  applications, Society Centrex, 4K  content on JioTV+, Home Secure,  Home Automation, LiveTV and  Gaming solutions • Enterprises – Integrated  connectivity, cloud, security, and  SaaS platform with vertical specific  solutions for enterprises Jio Apps Bouquet of Jio offering  assorted services Curated content for users  as per their preference Taking cloud gaming to  every home on their TV 3rd party Apps Bringing best of the world apps  to Jio users and continuously  growing App Bouquet  Content from different regions,  languages, genres can be  accessed even from legacy TV 3rd party Functional & Educational  Apps for all ages Photos JioStore JioPages JioSaavn Live TV JioGames JioJoin JioNews MyJio Music Jiotized Services Cloud Server in a Box Containers Dev Test in a Box Databases Back/DR in a Box Security VDI/Cloud PC in a Box  Cloud Connect Etc.
Managed   Services System  Integrators Aggregators GSI Advisories ISV Startups First Party Services Security and   Compliance Digital First,    Self Serve Industry Clouds Manufacturing Automotive Banking & Finance Retail Energy Healthcare Media and  Entertainment SaaS and ISV Solutions Vertical ISVs Education Government Healthcare Media and  Entertainment BFSI Manufacturing Etc.
Horizontal ISVs ERP CRM Accounting Payroll and HR Payment Backup and  Security Surveillance Public Cloud Private Cloud Hybrid Cloud Government Cloud Edge Cloud / 5G Tech & Platform JIO SET - TOP - BOX APP ECOSYSTEM JIOBUSINESS MARKETPLACE 80 81 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview DIGITAL SERVICES Jio Platforms A holistic approach to Jio’s  digital society vision Supported by its technology  backbone and customer insight,  Jio has indigenously developed  and launched numerous consumer  applications and use cases.
Jio’s  in-house R&D team, with over 9,000  technical and research professionals,  has innovated and developed  leading technology platforms  spanning 5G stack, Cloud and Edge  Compute, Devices & Operating  Systems, Blockchain, IoT, Mixed  Reality, AI/ML, Secure Identity and  Natural Language Processing, among  others.
Each of these platforms is  now being implemented and scaled  up to eventually serve a large and  diversified global customer base.
Till date, Jio has been granted 417  patents across multiple jurisdictions  for the pioneering initiatives it has  undertaken.
In FY 2021-22 alone,  the company filed for 110 patents  and was granted 46.
Among the  key technology areas covered by  these patents are vDLT (Virtual  Distributed Ledger Technology),  5G User Equipment, AI for health  and agriculture, IoT, Industrial  4.0 and AR/ VR.
Technology partnerships for  tailormade digital solutions Over the past few years, Jio  has forged long-term, strategic  relationships with leading global  technology companies to create  a proprietary Jio technology  ecosystem across multiple domains.
Key partnerships that materialised  during the year are: Pragati OS – Google and Jio worked  closely to create the Pragati OS, which  is an optimised version of Android  made specially for JioPhone Next.
Pragati OS will offer full functionality  of a smartphone with access to  Play Store and provide over-the-air  updates support for new features,  customisation and security updates  that will continue to enhance the  phone experience over time.
Commerce on WhatsApp – To drive  the adoption of JioMart, integration  with WhatsApp was rolled out to  allow customers to shop seamlessly  on the world’s first conversational  commerce platform.
Jio has  also partnered with WhatsApp  to simplify the prepaid recharge  experience for all its connectivity  services to bring unprecedented  convenience to consumers.
Jio AutoPay – Jio partnered with  the National Payments Corporation  of India (NPCI) to enable UPI auto- debit facility for its customers.
This  will enable Jio customers to set  standing instructions on the MyJio  app using UPI Autopay for their  preferred tariff plans and seamless  recharging experience.
Interakt – JPL-owned Haptik  launched its app ‘Interakt’ to  help MSMEs manage customer  interactions and sales on WhatsApp.
Interakt is the API solution provider  for WhatsApp Business, which acts  as an all-in-one CRM, campaign  management, marketing automation  tool, and a sales channel.
JioThings – Jio has entered into  multiple partnerships with leading  corporates and government  institutions to provide smart  connected vehicle, smart electricity  metering and smart utility solutions.
Investments to enhance Jio’s  technology ecosystem In addition to scaling up and building  organically, Jio has supported  and partnered with new-age  and established platforms and  their management teams across  digital services.
Some of these key  platforms include: JV for Satellite Communication –  JPL and SES, a leading global satellite- based content connectivity solutions  provider, entered into a 51:49 joint  venture for next-generation scalable  and affordable broadband services  in India by leveraging satellite  technology.
The JV will use multi-orbit  space networks capable of delivering  multi-gigabit links and capacity to  enterprises, mobile backhaul and  retail customers.
Business Performance Two Platforms – JPL invested   US$ 15 million for a 25% equity stake  in Two Platforms Inc., an Artificial  Reality company with focus on  building interactive and immersional  AI experiences.
Two’s Artificial  Reality platform enables real-time  AI voice and video calls, digital  humans, immersive spaces, and  lifelike gaming.
Glance – JPL invested US$ 200 million  for a ~17% equity stake in Glance,  a leading AI-driven lock-screen  platform.
Glance is aiming to create  the world’s largest live content and  commerce ecosystem on the lock  screen.
It has a business partnership  arrangement with Reliance Retail  Ventures Limited to integrate Glance’s  lock screen platform into JioPhone  Next smartphones.
Undersea cable – In conjunction  with global partners and world-class  submarine cable supplier SubCom,  Jio is deploying two next generation  cables centred on India.
The India- Asia-Xpress (IAX) system connects  India eastbound to Singapore and  beyond, while the India-Europe- Xpress (IEX) system connects India  westbound to the Middle East and  Europe.
These high capacity and  high-speed systems will provide more  than 200 Tbps of capacity spanning  over 16,000 kms.
Strategic Priorities and Progress Driving 4G transition in the country Progress in FY 2021-22 • Launch of JioPhone Next in  partnership with Google • Device partnership with  leading OEMs in the  country Medium-term priorities • Ramp up the overall device  strategy • Extend OEM partnerships for  other devices 5G 4G Continuous network improvement Progress in FY 2021-22 • Accelerated deployment  of recent spectrum  purchase • Improvement of customer  experience with analytical  tools and data sciences Medium-term priorities • Improve spectral efficiency  and network capacity  through offloading networks  (wi-fi access points, small  cells and more) • Further enhancement of  network automation through  a platform approach Increasing adoption of JioFiber services Progress in FY 2021-22 • Jio is now the market  leader for FTTH services  with 5 million+ connected  homes • Increased homes passed  to almost 20 million Medium-term priorities • Accelerate the pace of homes  connect and infrastructure  rollout as COVID-19 restrictions  ease out • Enhancement of digital  services bouquet Enhancement of digital ecosystem Progress in FY 2021-22 • Jio and Google launched  Pragati OS for JioPhone Next • Launch of JioAutoPay,  JioThings, Interakt and  JioMart-WhatsApp  integrated product Medium-term priorities • Continue to drive customer  traction through launch  of innovative and India- focused digital solutions  which could then be taken  globally 5G Network rollout Progress in FY 2021-22 • Conducted field trials  and completed network  planning in top 1,000 cities • Trial use cases in the areas  of industrial automation  and healthcare Medium-term priorities • Given its leadership in  development of indigenous  5G stack and future ready  network, Jio is poised to  lead the rollout of 5G in the  country 83 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review 82 Reliance Industries Limited Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview DIGITAL SERVICES Given the high speed and low latency of 5G networks, a  prime use case is in healthcare for various end uses for  patient care and hospital management.
• Hospital logistics – 5G robots controlled by a fleet  management system in the Cloud have been used to  deliver food trays and medicines to patients, and for  UV disinfection and sanitisation • Connected ambulance via 5G FWA  – This was done  to stream vital information to the control room in the  hospital even as the patient arrived there physically Jio has continued to innovate on both physical and  digital distribution channels to further enhance the best- in-class customer experience.
• Self KYC  – This enables remote SIM activation using  video call-based verification to ensure convenient,  error free and fast onboarding of premium customers • Hyperlocal customer retention and upsell  – 40,000+  freelancers fluent in local languages worked as Jio  Customer Associates to connect with over a million  customers daily • Warehouse supply chain  –  5G robots were used for bagging  line to warehouse storage location  logistics, a function that would  otherwise require human control • Connected drone  – A drone  connected through a 5G cloud  was used to inspect radio sites and  provide real-time surveillance Ensuring the nation’s digital lifeline   remains strong and sturdy • Jio has continued to be the digital  lifeline for all Indians, enabling  them to work and learn-from- home and get medical treatment  from the comforts of home • Jio has ensured zero impact on  network over the past two years  with industry leading uptime for  the connectivity network • Multiple initiatives (free voice calls,  Buy-One-Get-One recharges for  JioPhone users, Emergency Data  Loan) have been undertaken with  a customer focused approach  to ensure minimum disruption in  customer service and business • Digital initiatives like Jio Associate  Program, Self-KYC and relaunch  of eKYC undertaken to enhance  customer outreach and ensure  continuity of recharges/services Outlook Jio’s investments to build  a world-class digital  infrastructure will pave the  way towards a premier  digital society in India.
These solutions are now  being implemented at  scale to be later taken to  the global audience.
Newer  revenue streams across the  connectivity and technology  platforms will accelerate  the growth momentum and  drive operating leverage.
These endeavours would  not just create a significantly  positive socio-economic  impact but also generate  strong shareholder returns  over the next several  decades.
COVID-19 Response  Jio 5G in Healthcare  Automation   Testing real time robotic control for warehouse  automation and asset monitoring   Innovation in Customer  Experience Management 84 85 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review RETAIL Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview             The year gone by will stand out  for the coming of age of our new  initiatives as they turned around  on the profitability front driven by  their increasing consumer salience.
With content consumption taking  up an increasingly higher share of  consumer time, the group, given  its truly diversified presence across  media genres, languages and  platforms, is well-poised to leverage  these strong tailwinds.
Management Discussion and Analysis  Business Overview Rahul   Joshi Jyoti  Deshpande Ramesh  Damani News DigitalTV Entertainment Regional TV Network18 Media & Investments (Network18) is India’s only   Media & Entertainment conglomerate with presence  across the full spectrum of content genres – news, entertainment, sports,  movies and live entertainment.
With its young and diverse bouquet of properties, it has been delivering  authentic news and wholesome entertainment that resonate with audiences across  demographics and socio-economic segments, building a unique connect through  the use of native languages.
As a platform which is pipe  and screen-agnostic, Network18's endeavour is to continually expand its reach to  connect with consumers wherever they are present.
It continues to make investments  for creating quality content, enhancing reach of the network and striking partnerships  in the media eco-system to capture the growth opportunities presented by India’s  rapidly evolving media landscape, with a keen eye on improving profitability.
Portfolio at a glance MEDI  AND ENTERTAINMENT DIGITAL REACH 200 *  mn+ (for NW18 digital news portfolio) TV VIEWERSHIP SHARE 12.8 # % Digital *Source: comScore, March 2022 #Source: BARC, All India 2+, Wk10-13'22; includes associate ETV 87 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review 86 Reliance Industries Limited Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview MEDIA AND ENTERTAINMENT Digital - Own/3 rd  party Platform TV - Cable /  DTH / FTTx Cinema,   Live events Performance Summary Network18’s operating model places the audience at its centre and contextualises business models to genres.
In the process, it has established a strong connect with viewers through multiple mediums, diverse brands and  cutting-edge content.
Network18 has a track record of building successful strategic alliances with international media companies such as  Paramount Global in entertainment, WarnerMedia (CNN) in English general news, NBCU (CNBC) in business news, A+E  Networks in factual entertainment and Forbes in business magazines.
Value Chain Network18 is spread across content creation and distribution, thereby delivering the best of Indian and global content  and brands to discerning audiences across India’s vast demographic diversity.
Operating Framework Business M odel  Brand News & Entertainment Advertising B2C, B2B, B2B2C Subscription Content  syndication Theatrical Other income Audience C ontent Partner Content Syndication (Inbound and Outbound) Reach and engagement 1 in every 2 Indians watches  Network18 television channels that  reach >95% of TV homes in India  annually 1 in nearly every 2 internet users in  India accesses Network18 websites  or apps every month, making it the  #2 reach digital news/information  publisher in India, and amongst the  top 10 globally India’s largest TV News portfolio,  with an 8.8%* share of news  viewership; Entertainment channels  enjoy 11.1%# viewership share  MoneyControl is India’s leading  Finance app and Voot is the #2 OTT  broadcaster in terms of daily time  spent per user *Source: BARC | TG: 15+ | Market: All India |  Period: Wk10'22-13'22 #Source: BARC | Mkt: All India | TG: 2+ | Wk 14'21  to 13'22; share in non-news viewership Diverse network with genre  defining brands The only M&E company with  presence across all content genres  – news, entertainment, sports,  movies, live entertainment 20 domestic TV news channels  in 15 languages; digital news in 13  languages Full-portfolio entertainment offering  includes 10 regional language TV  channels, a film studio renowned  for standout cinema, and a leading  OTT platform Brands like CNBC TV18, News18,  Colors, MoneyControl, Nickelodeon  have high brand equity and are  synonymous with the genres they  operate in Strong partnerships across the board Partnerships with leading global and Indian players to strengthen  content creation and distribution capabilities Paramount Global, NBCU (CNBC), CNN, and A+E Networks, Forbes  are among Network18’s global partners Leading content distribution platforms like Jio, Den, Hathway are  part of the parent company, enabling Network18 to have extensive  reach Around 3,000 advertisers use TV and digital platforms of Network18  to reach their consumers across the country Vision and Mission Network18 aims to be a channel- agnostic provider of top-drawer  content across genres, regions and  languages.
We seek to be India’s top  media house with unparalleled reach,  and touch the lives of Indians across  geographies and demographics.
Strategic Advantages and Competitive  Strengths  Producer  Content Creation and  Curation (IP Ownership with  Broadcaster) TV VIEWERSHIP SHARE (%) 11.90 12.64 12.76* FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 *Wk10'22-13'22; includes associate ETV 1,080 FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 5,357 4,705 5,880 617 796  Revenue  EBITDA  OPERATING REVENUE & EBITDA (` IN CRORE) OPERATING MARGINS (%)  Network18 consolidated    News (TV, digital, misc)   Entertainment 11.5 18.4 FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 15.1 1.0 18.7 18.6 18.2 12.6 16.9 Medium 88 89 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview MEDIA AND ENTERTAINMENT Highlights FY 2021-22 Strong financial  performance TV Network grew  stronger TV News business continued  to improve profitability  and delivered highest ever  operating margins of ~21%   (~16% in FY 2020-21) Highest ever consolidated  operating margin of 18.4%,  ~150bps Y-o-Y improvement  Digital News saw an inflection  in profitability and delivered  operating margin of 13%   (0% in FY 2020-21), in line with  consolidated group margins Entertainment business  delivered highest ever  operating profit and strong  margins despite a significant  scale-up in investments  TV18 was the #2@ reach news  network in India and had the  widest language footprint TV18 Entertainment network was  #3 in India, with an all-India  entertainment viewership share  of 13.4%*; flagship GEC Colors was  #2 prime-time channel driven by  strong fiction and reality shows Digital platforms saw a  significant uptick Voot, MoneyControl, News18.com  continued to scale up reach and  engagement, and leveraged  digital advertising tailwinds to  deliver sharp revenue growth Digital subscription platforms  (Voot Select and MoneyControl  Pro) saw a sharp jump in paid  subscriber base  Bigg Boss: Over-the-Top, OTT exclusive  version of India’s most popular reality  show, drove eyeballs, engagement and  subscriptions on Voot The Big Picture, a new concept   quiz show, also had a real-time,   watch and play quiz game on Voot app to  increase engagement News business pivoted to a   digital-first approach based on the  solid foundation provided by broadcast  operations  Building on ‘Digital First, TV Always’  proposition @Source: BARC | TG: 15+ | Market: All India | Wk10'22-13'22 *Source: BARC | TG: 2+ | Market: All India Non-News |  Period: Wk14'21-Wk13'22; includes associate ETV Content – expansion   and innovation The group forayed into sports genre and  acquired rights of marquee properties like  FIFA World Cup, NBA, La Liga, Serie A, Ligue1,  World Boxing Championship, WTA and a  host of other properties; it also launched 3  dedicated sports channels in April 2022 90 91 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview MEDIA AND ENTERTAINMENT Industry Overview Having bounced back from the  shocks of the pandemic in the  second half of last fiscal, FY 2021-22  was a year of continued resilience  and implementing learnings from  the first wave of the pandemic.
The  beginning of the year saw a sharp  rise in COVID-19 cases, which would  have impacted content production  again but for the implementation  of contingency plans and new SOPs  that helped business continue in a  normal fashion.
Demand for content  continued to grow across platforms,  with both TV and Digital seeing  growth in viewership.
However, the  movie exhibition industry remained  affected as cinema halls were  either shut or opened with lower  capacity through the year, leading  to either a delayed release in halls  or OTT release.
TV viewership reverted to  pre-pandemic levels During the second wave of the   pandemic (April - June 2021), TV  viewership saw a much smaller spike  than last year as lockdowns were  localised and movement of people  was not as restricted.
TV viewership  normalised through the year and  returned to pre-COVID levels at the  beginning of CY 2022 and the genre  shares also reverted back.
Broadcast  networks rolled out their full content  catalogue and OTT platforms scaled  up release of original shows.
Regional  viewership continued to be strong  across languages, with most markets  seeing intense competition for share.
Movie channels continued to be  impacted during the year due to the  postponement of movie releases.
Sports viewership was boosted by  events like T20 World Cup, Tokyo  Olympics and IPL.
Strong growth in  advertising revenues Though FY 2021-22 started on a weak  footing, local and short duration  lockdowns, accompanied by a strong  consumer demand and advertiser  appetite, caused only a minor blip in  the strong growth momentum that  had begun to build up in the second  half of FY 2020-21.
Industry ad revenues  surpassed 2019 levels, with TV ad  volumes reaching a multi-year high  and digital continuing its strong growth  momentum.
However, high input  price inflation for the FMCG sector,  the biggest advertiser, tempered the  growth towards the end of the year.
While TV continues to be the primary  platform for brands looking to reach  audiences at scale and brand building  with high frequency advertising,  digital has an inherent advantage in  targeting, driving personalisation and  offering options for advertisers with  constrained budgets.
18.6 % Increase in ad spend   in 2021 INDIA AD INDUSTRY (` BILLION) Digital continued to see  strong traction OTT platforms offer an alternative to  TV with on-demand, differentiated  content and, more importantly, a  dedicated screen, unlike TV which is  shared by 4-5 household members.
Digital content consumption has  seen a sharp growth over the last  couple of years driven by increasing  broadband and smartphone  penetration and increasing volume  of exclusive content for digital.
With more than 30 OTT platforms,  Indian consumers have plenty of  options to choose from – regional to  global platforms, from production  houses’ apps to teleco-aggregation  platforms.
The propensity to pay for  digital subscriptions has grown as  consumers have begun to see value  in OTT content offering.
Given the competitive pay TV ARPUs,  OTTs are still experimenting with the  pricing for their subscription-based  video on demand (SVOD) platforms..
The year saw several major platforms  change their subscription plans.
Most Indian platforms continue to  operate a hybrid monetisation model,  TV subscription continued  to be resilient  India’s TV penetration of ~67% and  Average Revenue Per Unit (ARPU) of  ~US$ 3 remain well below that for  most developed as well as developing  economies, highlighting the headroom  for growth.
After the introduction of  the New Tariff Order (NTO) regulation  in FY 2019-20, the industry had seen a  jump in subscription revenue.
However,  the growth has plateaued since then  due to the continued legal battle over  the implementation of the amended  regulation, pending which a status  quo had been imposed by the courts  on channel pricing.
The revenue was  also marginally impacted by the  pandemic as some of the pay-TV  households migrated to the free DTH  platform, DD FreeDish.
TV subscriptions in India  million FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 Cable 73 67 DTH 56 55 HITS 2 3 Free TV 40 43 Total 171 168 Source: EY-FICCI M&E Report offering free content supported by  ads and premium content behind the  paywall.
As per the BCG CII Report,  the Indian OTT industry is expected to  grow at a 22-25% CAGR over the next  decade, driven by both subscription  and advertising.
Emerging Trends and Business Response Content consumption on digital  platforms is growing With over 300 million people watching content on digital  platforms, digital has now become a second screen, and  in some cases the first.
New content forms emerging From user generated short videos to metaverse,  content is seeing a wave of disruption As part of RIL group, which ushered in the broadband  revolution in the country, Network18 has been focused  on creating digital platforms which become the  gateway for content consumption.
With a ‘Digital First, TV  Always’ approach, the group is investing in technology  and content creation for platforms like News18.com,  Moneycontrol.com, Voot, to provide consumers a  seamless experience on the medium of their choice.
Network18 has been at the vanguard of content evolution  in the country, continuously experimenting and innovating  new concepts.
Its teams keep abreast of changing  consumer preferences and continuously adapt.
From  bringing Bigg Boss to OTT screens, to launching NFTs to  engage with loyal fans, to creating news campaigns  that drive change at the ground level, the group content  repertoire has been evolving, both in breadth and depth.
Our response  FY 2014-15 FY 2020-21 E FY 2029-30 P ~0.3 mn 1.8-2.2 bn 13-15 bn Source: BCG CII Report 2022  CAGR  46%  22-25% SIZE OF THE INDIAN OTT  INDUSTRY ($) TV VIEWERSHIP Source:  BARC Data WK 9 2020 AMAs (000’s)  Entertainment   News   Total TV with News WK 12 2020 WK 15 2020 WK 18 2020 WK 21 2020 WK 24 2020 WK 27 2020 WK 30 2020 WK 33 2020 WK 36 2020 WK 39 2020 WK 42 2020 WK 45 2020 WK 48 2020 WK 51 2020 WK 2 2021 WK 5 2021 WK 8 2021 WK 11 2021 WK 14 2021 WK 41 2021 WK 17 2021 WK 44 2021 WK 20 2021 WK 47 2021 WK 23 2021 WK 50 2021 WK 26 2021 WK 1 2022 WK 29 2021 WK 4 2022 WK 32 2021 WK 7 2022 WK 35 2021 WK 10 2022 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 ~45% jump at peak  due to lockdown Return to   pre-COVID levels Resumption of  original content Second wave sees  smaller spike WK 38 2021 WK 13 2022 92 93 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review  TV  Print  Digital  Radio/Cinema/ OOH       Source: Dentsu Digital report 2019 2020 2021E 2022P 2023P 267 199 82 137 155 36 35 41 214 275 170 324 354 177 47 354 155 250 293 166 685 596 707 810 931 Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview MEDIA AND ENTERTAINMENT Business Performance Television business News Business News   Business News channels, CNBC  TV18, CNBC Awaaz, and CNBC Bajar,  offered extensive coverage of the  important events in business and  financial markets, introduced new  content offerings, and rolled out  consumer-centric campaigns.
Music and Youth MTV Beats continued to be the #1  contemporary music channel in  India.
MTV, with popular shows IPs and  sports content ‘La Liga Santander 21- 22’ and ‘NBA 21-22’, continued to be a  strong brand in the Youth category.
English Entertainment  Viacom18 continued to be the  undisputed leader in the premium  English genre with a combined  viewership share of ~95%.
Kids Entertainment  Viacom18 Kids portfolio, with strong  brands like Nick, Sonic, has the  undisputed leadership in the genre  with 30%+ market share.
Regional Entertainment  The regional entertainment bouquet  comprises a mix of GEC and movie  channels in Kannada, Marathi,  Bengali, Gujarati, Tamil and Oriya  markets.
The network has been  scaling up its original programming  across markets and has strong  positions in Kannada, Marathi and  Gujarati markets.
Infotainment channel, History TV18,  ranks among the top 2 in the genre in  urban markets.
Entertainment Hindi General Entertainment  Colors was the #2 prime-time  channel in the genre driven by a  strong programming mix of fiction  shows like Udaariyan and Naagin and  popular reality shows like The Bigg  Boss and Khatron Ke Khiladi.
Colors  Rishtey, FTA channel, also improved  its share during the year.
Pay movie  channel, Colors Cineplex, maintained  its share during the year while Colors  Cineplex Bollywood, an FTA movie  channel launched at the beginning  of the fiscal, helped the network  improve its viewership share and  monetisation in the genre.
#1   Khatron Ke Khiladi, highest  rated Hindi reality show #1   portfolio in Kids category  since August 2014 General News   CNN-News18 and News18 India  ensured in-depth coverage of all  major news events - elections,  political news or global events.
The channels also undertook  Strategic Priorities and Progress Continue to strengthen ‘Digital First, TV Always’ proposition Strengthen position in regional markets Build sustainable and scalable business model for digital products Medium-term priorities • Become a true pan-India player with strong  positions in markets across the country • Establish strong vernacular presence on  digital platforms • Use learnings from one market to replicate  success in others Medium-term priorities • Leverage both AVOD and SVOD opportunities  to drive growth • Evaluate opportunities to create new  monetisation streams • Digital contribution to revenue to grow to 50% Progress in FY 2021-22 • Bengali and Tamil entertainment channels scaled  up original programming; Kannada and Marathi  channels strengthened viewership shares  • Regional news portfolio delivered first quarter of  break-even performance; significant headroom  for growth Progress in FY 2021-22 • Voot AVOD is already profitable and scaled new  heights; Voot paid subscriber base saw strong  growth • MC Pro became the leading subscription based  financial news platform in India Medium-term priorities • Provide a seamless experience to the user,  irrespective of the platform • Complement the ‘mass’ nature of  TV viewing with the ‘personalisation’  experience of digital Progress in FY 2021-22 • News pivoted to digital first approach, with  newsroom integration, revamped workflow,  organisational redesign and scaling up of tech  capabilities • Bigg Boss, one of the most popular reality shows  was made in a digital exclusive format Continue innovation and expansion into new content genres Medium-term priorities • Be the go-to destination for diverse  demographic and socio-economic audience  segments for content across genres Progress in FY 2021-22 • Forayed into the sports genre with acquisition of  marquee properties • Launched new concept shows like   The Big Picture, Bigg Boss OTT, Hunarbaaz extensive programming and multiple  Public Service Announcement  campaigns.
The regional news  channels reported exhaustively on  state/region specific events.
94 95 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview MEDIA AND ENTERTAINMENT Digital Business Digital content  Network18 has a strong suite of  digital platforms across categories -  MoneyControl (leader in the finance  category), VOOT (#2 broadcaster- OTT in terms of time spent per day),  and News18 portfolio #2 digital news/ information network).
Pay-product  Voot Select saw a strong growth in  its D2C subscriber base driven by its  premium content library of digital- only shows and shoulder content  around TV reality shows.
With cutting- edge tools, research and exclusive  content for investors, MoneyControl  Pro also saw a sharp growth in pay  subscriber base, strengthening its  credentials as leader in the segment.
E-Ticketing and Live business,  Bookmyshow, was impacted by  the delayed movie releases and  restriction on live events due  to the pandemic.
Film Business Film Business includes Viacom18  Studios and Jio Studios.
Viacom18 Studios As the COVID-19 pandemic continued  to affect the opening of cinema  halls, there were no major theatrical  releases during the year by Viacom18  Studios.
However, some of the movies  and web series were released on OTT  platforms during the year.
Jio Studios Jio Studios is a leading content  studio that produces movies and  web originals in multiple languages.
It monetises such content across  theatres, broadcast television and  digital OTT, while also powering the  video content in Jio’s mobility and  home triple play offering of voice,  video and data.
Outlook  The Indian M&E industry has a long  runway for growth, given the secular  trend of increasing demand for quality  content and higher time spent across  demographies on content consumption.
As per industry reports, India is expected  to be the fastest growing ad market  with digital leading the way.
The digital  subscription market has been seeing  $25 billion  Size of Indian Media &  Entertainment industry Print/Publication   Business Publication Business comprises  a portfolio of Forbes, Better  Photography and Overdrive, each  one of them a leader in their own  category, and continuously striving to  achieve new heights.
In a year disrupted by COVID-19, the  studio had three successful releases  – Mimi, a powerful entertainer on the  topic of surrogacy, Ranjish Hi Sahi,  an intriguing web original series,  and Hey Sinamika, a musical love  story in Tamil.
Jio Studios has an exciting line up  of Hindi movies with leading talent  such as Shah Rukh Khan, Raju Hirani,  Akshay Kumar, Varun Dhawan, Shahid  Kapoor, Ayushmann Khurrana and  others, as well as marquee projects  in other languages.
Straddling story  telling through traditional media  to Metaverse, Jio Studios aspires  to be at the forefront of the rapidly  expanding $25 billion Indian Media &  Entertainment industry.
rapid adoption as the ecosystem  matures and the end of pricing stalemate  for TV subcription would help drive  growth in broadcasting revenues.
We will  continue to make adequate investments  across our businesses which will help  us further strengthen our position and  simultaneously prepare us for leveraging  future growth opportunities.
for COVID-19 vaccinations and  mobilising efforts to ensure that  every Indian is vaccinated.
The  campaign collaborated with  NGOs, government agencies and  influencers to spread information  and bust myths surrounding the  vaccine, while enlisting donors to  gift vaccines to the most deprived  and worst affected Indians.
• Netra Suraksha -  India Against  Diabetes was launched in  November 2021 in association with  Novartis, to increase awareness  about eye disorders caused by  diabetes.
With an aim to build  effective and efficient partnerships,  the initiative organised round table  discussions involving medical  experts, think tanks and  policymakers.
CSR Initiatives  At Network18, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is embedded  in its long-term business strategy.
Network18’s community  initiatives help elevate the quality of life of millions, especially the  disadvantaged sections of society.
• Mission Paani,  an initiative in  partnership with Harpic, strives to  change attitude and behaviour  for saving water for future  generations, and endeavors to  reach over 20 million Indians  to drive this change.
The latest  season of the campaign was  endorsed by Vice President M  Venkaiah Naidu, Minister of Jal  Shakti, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat,  Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, and  Actor Akshay Kumar, the Campaign  Ambassador.
Mission Paani was  recognised as ‘The Best Media  Initiative’ at the 3rd National Water  Awards by the Honorable President   of India.
• Sanjeevani - A Shot of Life, a  CSR initiative in partnership  with Federal Bank, aimed  towards creating awareness  96 97 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Continued recovery  in global oil demand  supported product  margins.
High operating  rates, superior product  placement and feedstock  flexibility led to strong  operating performance for  the year.
1.4 MMBPD Crude refining capacity, the largest  single site refinery complex globally 12 Manufacturing facilities in India (9)   and Malaysia (3) 68.2 MMT Production meant for sale for   FY 2021-22  21.1 Complexity Index #1 Largest Petcoke  Gasifier globally 7th Largest producer of   PTA globally 3rd Largest producer   of PX globally The Oil to Chemicals (O2C) business  portfolio spans across transportation  fuels, polymers and elastomers,  intermediates and polyesters.
The O2C  business includes world-class assets  comprising refinery, crackers and  downstream assets that are deeply  and uniquely integrated, supported  by best-in-class logistics and supply  chain infrastructure.
The RIL O2C business includes plants and manufacturing  assets located in India at Jamnagar (Jamnagar DTA,  Jamnagar SEZ), Hazira, Dahej, Nagothane, Vadodara,  Patalganga, Silvassa, Barabanki and Hoshiarpur as  well as in Malaysia at Nilai, Melaca and Kuantan.
It also  includes a 51% equity interest in a fuel retailing JV with  bp-Reliance BP Mobility Limited (RBML, operating under  the brand Jio-bp), and a 74.9% equity interest in Reliance  Sibur Elastomers Private Limited (RSEPL).
The integrated O2C business structure enables an  integrated decision-making approach that helps to  maximise and optimise the entire value chain from crude  to refining to petrochemicals to the B2B/B2C model.
IL TO CHEMICALS Nikhil   R. Meswani Hital R.   Meswani Anant  Ambani C. S. Borar  Seema   Nair Ashwani   Prashara Piyush   Bhatt Srinivas   Tuttagunta J. Rajaraman  Vipul   Shah P. K. Kapil Sanjiv   Singh Harish   Mehta Management Discussion and Analysis  Business Overview 98 99 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview OIL TO CHEMICALS Operating Strategy The key priorities of the O2C business are as under: Scaling up trading and  distribution business  – customer access in  new value chains Creating industry- defining value  propositions for expedited  customer acquisition  Move from commodity  product supplier  to customer  ownership through  solutions and services Alliances and  partnerships for  downstream sustainable  product derivatives Advantaged crude and  feedstock sourcing Capture margins  across conversion  chains with deep  integration and reduce  exposure to individual  product cyclicality  Continuous O2C  level optimisation  for profitability and  lowering energy costs Conversion cost  improvements through  productivity and  minor capex projects  Usher global design  standards to increase  throughput and  future proof assets  Continuous  optimisation and  cost reductionCustomer  ownership and  downstream  integration  Transition from producing  transportation fuels  to chemical building  blocks integrated  with sustainable  downstream derivatives Transition from using fossil  fuels to renewables for  captive energy demand CO2 capture and  conversion to useful  chemicals and materials Scaling up  recycling in materials Riding transition from  traditional to advanced  mobility with EV solutions Accelerate gas economy  through expedited growth  of CNG network  Transforming  into a Net Carbon  Zero, circular  and sustainable  business FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 4,51,355 11.9 3,20,008 11.9 5,00,900 10.5 53,803 38,170 52,722  Revenue  EBITDA     EBITDA Margin (%) 100 101 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Performance  Summary Robust portfolio catering to  growing consumption markets One of the few companies  globally with integration from oil  to transportation fuels, polymers  and elastomers, intermediates, and  polyesters Unparalleled logistics and  supply chain network Unmatched distribution footprint in  India with multi-modal logistics 11,000+ customers for chemicals and  materials across India Retailing transportation fuels at 1,460+  outlets spread across India Global competitiveness and  leadership  World’s 3rd largest producer of  paraxylene and among the world’s top  ten producers of PP and PTA (Source:  IHS Markit) World’s largest integrated polyester  producer and among the top 10 global  producers of MEG (Source: PCI) Strong project management  capability Track record of delivering world-class,  large-scale projects Deep and unique  integration across sites Fully integrated O2C value  chain comprising the highly  integrated complex at Jamnagar,  which is integrated with other  manufacturing O2C assets Flexibility to process a variety  of feedstock including crude,  condensate, naphtha, refinery  off-gases, ethane/propane,  vacuum gas oil and straight run  fuel oil Highly optimised operations  across the entire value chain  from crude selection, product  yield management, logistics to  product placement, leading to  best-in-class profitability Ability to manage impact of  volatility in commodity prices   and cash flows World-class manufacturing  facilities Large global-scale  manufacturing sites based on  competitive technology and  flexible design Top quartile performance in  costs, safety and operational  excellence Vision and Mission Accelerate new energy and  materials businesses while ensuring  sustainability through circular  economy and target to become   a net carbon zero company by 2035.
Strategic Advantages and Competitive  Strengths 71.0 63.6 68.2 FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 TOTAL THROUGHPUT (MMT) 79.8 71.9 76.7 FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 PRODUCTION MEANT   FOR SALE (MMT) REVENUE & EBITDA (` IN CRORE) Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview OIL TO CHEMICALS Operational Performance Delivered strong  performance on the  back of recovery in global  demand Secondary unit  processing maximised  with improvement in  transportation fuel margins Implemented  Petrochemical Naphtha  (PCN)  quality upgrade to  capture premium pricing  Optimised production of  naphtha, gasoline and  xylenes to capture best  margins in changing  market  conditions Achieved near full  capacity utilisation,   despite COVID -19 related  operational challenges Processed 10   new crudes, widening  feedstock sources including  feedstock for Fluid Catalytic  Cracking (FCC) Fuel mix optimisation  ensured minimum impact  from higher LNG prices Optimised light-feed cracking    on favourable economics   vis-a-vis naphtha Highlights FY 2021-22 Transfer of gasification assets to Reliance Syngas to unlock value  In November 2021, the Board  approved the transfer of RIL’s  gasification assets to Reliance  Syngas Limited (RSL) as a going  concern on a slump sale basis  for a lump sum consideration  equal to the carrying value of  the gasification assets as on the  appointed date of the scheme of  arrangement.
The gasification project at  Jamnagar was set up with the  objective of producing syngas to  meet energy requirements and  reduce the volitality in energy  costs so as to enable cost-efficient  production of olefins.
Syngas is  also used to produce hydrogen  for consumption in the Jamnagar  refinery.
As the Company progressively  transitions to renewables as its  primary source of energy, more  syngas will become available  for upgrading to high value  chemicals, including C1 chemicals  and hydrogen, thus sharply  reducing the carbon footprint of  the Jamnagar complex.
Going forward, RIL expects  gasification assets such as syngas  to be increasingly used as a  platform for conversion to high  value chemicals as opposed to  a source of energy.
Therefore, the  nature of risk and returns for the  gasification streams are likely to  become distinct from those of the  other businesses of the Company.
In addition, the Company is  exploring various opportunities  to bring in strategic and other  investors in RSL.
LLDPE received ‘Innovator of  the Year’  award for RELCAT   from Federation of Indian  Petroleum Industries Continue to develop a  sustainable petrochemical  business model by participating  in India’s circular economy Promoting circular economy  & sustainability  across the  downstream through industry  wide initiatives and various   re-engineered materials Focus on innovation to cater to  customers’ requirements and   national goal Implementing digital  platforms  to enrich  customer business  experience Sustainability 102 103 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance  Corporate  Overview Management   Review Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview OIL TO CHEMICALS Industry Overview  FY 2021-22 was characterised by the  recovery in global demand as a result  of improved consumer sentiment,  vaccination drive and the reopening  of economies, leading to an increase  in crude and petrochemicals  prices.
Global refinery operating  rates also improved in line with  the rising demand.
Crude Oil Demand  and Supply Demand in CY 2021 recovered  sharply by 5.6 mb/d to  97.5 mb/d.
In  comparison, demand had fallen by 8.5  mb/d to 91.9 mb/d in CY 2020.
Robust global economic recovery,  rising vaccination rates, easing social  distancing measures and travel  restrictions supported steady demand  recovery in FY 2021-22.
The demand  recovery was further supported by  gas to oil switching in the power sector  following the energy crisis and high  natural gas prices beginning October  2021.
In the last week of February 2022,  Russian Ukraine conflict began which  led to high oil prices and volatility  due to uncertainties in global oil  supply.
Prices rose above $100/bbl  levels due to sanctions on Russia and  expected disruption to Russian oil &  product trade flows.
Global oil supply increased by 1.4 mb/d  to 95.5 mb/d in CY 2021.
Oil supply  growth was mainly controlled by  OPEC+ with a mandate to increase  400 kb/d of output each month  from August 2021 to March 2022 in  response to demand.
OPEC supply  was lower by 4.2 mb/d in CY 2020 but  increased by 0.7 mb/d in CY 2021.
Non- OPEC supply which fell by 2.6 mb/d  in CY 2020 increased by 0.7 mb/d in  CY 2021 mainly led by Russia.
However,  uncertainties to supply rose in March  2022 due to US, Canada sanctions  on Russian oil imports in response to  Russia-Ukraine conflict.
This, together  with self-imposed restrictions by  private companies started to impact  trade flows and regional supply.
In FY 2021-22, lower oil supply amid higher oil demand growth led to reduction in  global crude inventories and oil market tightness.
Global Refining Operations Global refinery crude throughput (mb/d) CY 2021 CY 2020 Change 2021  vs. 2020 OECD Americas 17.8 16.6 1.2 OECD Europe 11.0 10.7 0.3 China 14.2 13.8 0.4 Rest of the World 34.8 33.7 1.1 World Total 77.8 74.8 3.0 Source: IEA Global refinery throughputs increased steadily during FY 2021-22 on higher  utilisation and new capacity additions to meet rising transportation and  petrochemical demand.
In CY 2021, refinery throughputs recovered by 3 mb/d after  falling by 7.3 mb/d in CY 2020.
Permanent refinery closures amounted to 2.8 mb/d  till the end of 2021 mainly in the US, Europe and Asia.
Refining margins recovered strongly in FY 2021-22 as refinery throughputs lagged  fuel demand recovery.
Crude Oil, LNG and Ethane Prices CRUDE OIL PRICES   (US$/BBL) JAN-19 MAR-19 MAY-19 JUL-19 SEP-19 NOV-19 JAN-20 MAR-20 MAY-20 JUL-20 SEP-20 NOV-20 JAN-21 MAR-21 MAY-21 JUL-21 SEP-21 NOV-21 JAN-22 MAR-22  Dated Brent  WTI  Dubai Commercial oil  inventories ex.
China  fall below 2019 levels OPEC+ production cut begin OPEC+ under performance Russia -  Ukraine  conflict Delta Impact US supply outages on Hurricane Omicron Impact Oil Prices $/bbl 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Source: Platts Crude prices rose sharply in FY 2021-22 with Brent price reaching US$ 118.8/bbl in  March 22 from US$ 64.7/bbl in April 2021.
Oil prices rose in response to steady oil  demand growth, continued oil supply management by OPEC+, falling global oil  inventories and also geopolitical impacts such as Russia-Ukraine conflict.
In 2H 2021, US supply outages due to Hurricane Ida also supported oil prices  despite the demand being impacted by COVID-19 variants like Delta.
The energy crisis, high natural gas prices, the failure of OPEC+ to meet its output  targets and rising geopolitical tensions further propelled oil prices.
Geopolitical  risks with Russia-Ukraine conflict , the blockade in Libya and protests in  Kazakhstan also contributed to the rise in oil prices in 2H FY 2021-22 in spite  of the tapering of demand following the spread of the Omicron variant and  China’s zero tolerance COVID-19 policy.
LNG PRICES  (US$/MMBTU)   JKM FEB-19 MAR-19 APR-19 MAY-19 JUN-19 JUL-19 AUG-19 SEP-19 OCT-19 NOV-19 DEC-19 JAN-20 FEB-20 MAR-20 APR-20 MAY-20 JUN-20 JUL-20 AUG-20 SEP-20 OCT-20 NOV-20 DEC-20 JAN-21 FEB-21 MAR-21 APR-21 MAY-21 JUN-21 JUL-21 AUG-21 SEP-21 OCT-21 NOV-21 DEC-21 JAN-22 FEB-22 Drop in demand due to  COVID impact MAR-22 Lower Russian pipeline gas  supplies and lower European  storage levels, NS2 approval  pending Higher LNG supply from US and milder winter Russia-Ukraine conflict Lower LNG supply due to unplanned  outages, incremental demand, from  Turkey, Mexico and Brazil Higher demand from Japan/Korea  due to colder winter and low stocks Higher Chinese Imports  due to Blue Sky policy 0.0 10.0 20.0 30.0 40.0 50.0 60.0 During the year, LNG prices were highly volatile, with Asian prices seeing a low  of US$5.8/MMBtu in March 2021 and a high of US$51.7/MMBtu in March 2022,  averaging at US$23.37/MMBtu in FY 2021-22.
The uptick in price was due to  demand recovery post-COVID, coupled with unplanned LNG outages, lower  Russian pipeline gas flow into Europe and later invasion of Ukraine by Russia in  February.
The Company used various optimisation initiatives to minimise the  impact of high energy prices.
US ETHANE PRICES (US$/GAL) 0.00 $/gal 0.05 0.10 0.15 0.20 0.25 0.30 0.35 0.40 0.45 0.50 Producers in full ethane  recovery mode amid Negative/  Zero Waha gas price Demand destruction  amid rise in COVID  cases  and lockdowns Demand recovery post COVID-19  and ramp-up of new ethane  crackers Omicron Impact, Lower  gas prices due to milder  than normal start to  winter Ethane tracking higher  gas prices coupled with  increased demand from  exports to China MAR-19 MAY-19 JUL-19 SEP-19 NOV-19 JAN-20 MAR-20 MAY-20 JUL-20 SEP-20 NOV-20 JAN-21 MAR-21 MAY-21 JUL-21 SEP-21 NOV-21 JAN-22 MAR-22 Ethane prices stay strong  inline with strong gas prices During the year, ethane demand-supply growth was accelerated due to the  addition of export facilities, delivery of new Very Large Ethane Carrier Ships  (VLECS) and demand growth of the newly operational cracker in the US.
Ethane  prices in FY 2021-22 moved in tandem with that of natural gas for most of the  time, and hence traded at highest-ever prices in the last four years at 46.8 US  cents per gallon (cpg).
This was owing to the surge in natural gas prices as  a result of the supply scarcity and colder than expected winter.
The average  price of ethane for FY 2021-22 was 34.9 cpg.
Despite relatively higher prices,  ethane continued to be the preferred feedstock.
Tanker Freight The crude tanker market continued  weaker trend due to various factors,  ranging from COVID-19, reduction in  crude imports to China, OPEC cuts,  increasing bunker prices to limited  cargoes being quoted, weighed in on  market sentiment.
This also helped to  lower overall crude cost.
Clean Tanker freight rate for shipping  products remained at a 5-year low  in FY 2021-22 as lockdown restrictions  led to uncertainty and dampened  sentiments.
Ample new-built tanker  availability also helped long-haul  distillate market movements, keeping  a lid on freight prices Reliance has been proactively taking  appropriate actions by taking optimal  cover through time charters & COAs’  (Contract of Affreightment) to avoid  freight volatilities and incurring  additional cost to the refinery.
Transportation Fuels Global Market Environment Global gasoline demand recovered  steadily in FY 2021-22 as a result  of improving mobility and higher  preference for personal vehicles.
In  CY 2021, demand recovered to above  96% of pre-pandemic level (CY 2019  levels) as restrictions on mobility were  lifted gradually on rising vaccinations.
Diesel demand recovery also  continued in FY 2021-22 – on strong  economic growth and rising industrial  activity with demand reaching 98% of  pre-pandemic level in CY 2021.
Jet fuel was the only fuel to remain  significantly below pre-pandemic  level with demand recovering to  only 66% of CY 2019 levels in CY 2021  mainly due to sluggish recovery in  business and international travel.
However, demand was supported by  countries which were opening up and  easing international travel restrictions,  following rising vaccination  coverage and low impact from the  Omicron COVID wave.
104 105 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview OIL TO CHEMICALS Domestic Market Environment  After the lows of FY 2020-21, Indian fuel demand bounced back in FY 2021-22.
However, the growth was tempered by the second and third pandemic waves,  which led to partial or total lockdown in stretches across the country during 1Q  and 4Q respectively.
India Fuel Consumption Trend (exit quarter trend) Product (Mn MT) 4Q FY 2019-20 4Q FY 2020-21 4Q FY 2021-22 HSD (Gasoil) 19.7 20.6 20.6 MS (Gasoline) 7.1 7.8 7.9 ATF (Jet fuel) 1.9 1.4 1.4 On the back of sustained economic activities, and the absence of a blanket  nationwide lockdown, business growth was steady through the course of the  year.
India’s fuel demand grew by 7.8% and stood at 113 MMT.
LPG demand too  maintained an upward growth trajectory.
While inter-city highway traffic has maintained steady momentum, growth in  intra-city travel has surged, as reflected in the consistently growing Motor Spirit  (MS) sale.
Despite muted growth in 1Q FY 2021-22 and some set back in 4Q, both  gasoil and gasoline demand has grown steadily with the resurgence of road  traffic.
FY 2021-22, diesel demand increased by 5.5% and gasoline demand  increased by 10.4% Y-o-Y.
Exit industry volumes are already 4.2% higher than the  pre-COVID average in FY 2019-20.
The shift away from ride-sharing and limited  availability of public transport (driven by lower bus frequency and curtailed  rail movement) have increased preference for self-owned vehicles, which has  supported this growth.
Reaching the end of their ongoing investment cycle, both state-owned oil  marketing companies and private players have continued expanding their  network, and taking the total number of retail outlets in India to over 83,000.
FY 2021-22 also emerged as the defining year for Indian Electric Vehicle (EV)  industry.
On the back of sustained policy push at both the central and state  levels, increased options in the market and growing charging infrastructure,  EV sales recorded a 218% growth over that in FY 2020-21.
Even though the base  is low, the industry is looking at convergence of charging infrastructure and  retail outlets.
Rebounding from its worst ever year, India’s aviation industry, driven primarily  by the domestic sector, grew strongly in the 2H FY 2021-22.
Phased allowance  from 70-100% capacity utilisation enabled airlines to ramp up steadily.
ATF  demand in FY 2021-22 grew 35% Y-o-Y.
Margins Gasoline margins rose sharply to   US$ 11.4/bbl in FY 2021-22 from  US$ 3/ bbl in FY 2020-21, backed  by steady demand recovery and  improving mobility.
Also, limited  exports from China in 2H CY 2021  supported cracks.
Gasoil margins increased to   US$ 12.3/bbl in FY 2021-22 from   US$ 5.7/bbl in FY 2020-21, following  steady demand growth supported  by the strong economic recovery  and rising industrial activity.
However,  gasoil margin gains were limited due  to sluggish jet fuel demand recovery  and persistently higher stocks  during most of the year.
Cracks were  supported by lower gasoil exports  from China, due to various policy  changes like the imposition of higher  taxes on blended fuels such as light  cycle oil, tightening supervision on  independent refiners, lower crude  import and product export quotas in  2H CY 2021.
Gasoil cracks rose strongly  in March 2022 on disruptions to  Russian diesel supply to Europe amid  Russia-Ukraine conflict and trade  sanctions on Russia.
Jet fuel cracks rose to US$ 9.1/bbl in  FY 2021-22 from the unprecedented  low of US$ 1.2/bbl in FY 2020-21.
Jet fuel demand continued to  recover, albeit slowly led by North  America in FY 2021-22.
Asian Cracks for  Transportation Fuels $/bbl FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21 Gasoline 92R 11.4 3.0 Jet 9.1 1.2 Gasoil 10 ppm 12.3 5.7 Source: Platts Global Cracker Operations Global demand for ethylene grew 8%  Y-o-Y to 179 MMT in CY 2021 from 166  MMT in CY 2020, while operating rates  remained unchanged at 86%.
New  capacity addition for the year was 12  MMTA, in line with the demand growth.
Ethane and Naphtha  Prices Ethane average prices increased by  63% Y-o-Y to 34.9 cpg in FY 2021-22.
While naphtha average prices in Asia  were up by 82% Y-o-Y led by the rise  of crude price, LNG supply crunch and  related strength in energy prices.
Polymers and Elastomers Global Market Environment Global polymer demand – for  polyethylene (PE), polypropylene (PP),  polyvinyl chloride (PVC) – in CY 2021  was 253 MMT, registering an uptick of  4% on Y-o-Y basis.
Global PP, PE and  PVC demand grew by 5%, 4% and 4%  respectively in CY 2021, led by Asia,  especially China and India.
Growth in global demand for Styrene- Butadiene Rubber (E-SBR) was 4%  and Polybutadiene Rubber (PBR) 6%  in FY 2021-22 on the back of strong  automotive sector demand.
Global  vehicles production recovered by  3% in CY 2021, and global vehicle  sales recovery was 4%, despite  various setbacks like semiconductor  shortage, supply chain issues and  low inventories.
Domestic Market Environment PP domestic market demand grew by 16% on Y-o-Y basis on account of  healthy demand from the health & hygiene sector, raffia and Biaxially Oriented  Polypropylene (BOPP) packaging.
PE demand also registered a growth of 4% on  Y-o-Y basis, driven by e-commerce, FMCG and liquid packaging.
PVC demand  grew by 6% Y-o-Y, majorly driven by growth in construction activities and policy  boost for several water and sewage pipeline projects.
Indian E-SBR demand grew by 7% in FY 2021-22 while demand for PBR was up  by 5% for the year.
The demand growth was supported by revival in passenger  vehicle, commercial vehicle and replacement market.
Margin Polymer prices strengthened during FY 2021-22 amidst global demand  boost and regional supply shortages due to lower import availability amid  container shortage.
Global operating rate for PP and PE averaged 89% and 87%  respectively during 2021, at par with pre-pandemic levels.
Polymer margins  weakened during the year amidst higher feedstock cost.
Integrated   PP-Naphtha and HDPE-Naphtha margins contracted by 17% .
PVC margins  weakened by 3% during the year.
Southeast Asia Polymer Margins (US$/MT) FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21 % chg Y-o-Y HDPE-Naphtha 426  512 -17 PP -Naphtha 529  637 -17 PP-Propylene 235  193 22 PVC-EDC- Naphtha 569  584 -3 PBR-BD 1126  727 55 SBR-BD-Styrene 1063  718 48 Source: Platts and ICIS 106 107 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview OIL TO CHEMICALS Intermediates and  Polyesters Global Market Environment Global demand for Intermediates  (MEG/PX/PTA) increased by 5% to  157 MMT in CY 2021 from 149 MMT in  CY 2020.
PX markets improved in the  latter part of the year due to new  downstream PTA capacity additions.
PTA markets remained healthy and  witnessed 7% overall annual growth,  the demand went up despite rising  inventory in the first half of the year.
MEG demand was impacted due  to intermittent disruption led by  pandemic and energy crisis.
Supply  disruptions in the US led to tightening  of China port inventories.
Polyester overall global demand  improved by 7% at 85 MMT.
Increase  in vaccination rate and relatively  lower restrictions across the world  have helped improve the global  demand for textiles and apparels.
Global apparel market which shrunk  in CY 2020 by 22% to US $ 1.3 trillion,  has recovered by 16% in CY 2021 to US  $ 1.5 trillion.
Domestic Market  Environment Domestic Intermediates demand  improved by 32% on account of  recovery in textile and polyester  demand.
Removal of restrictions  and improvement in retail demand  led to the recovery of the polyester  downstream industry, which has  shown resilience against repeated  pandemic waves and volatility in raw  material prices.
Polyester downstream  operating rates varied from stable to  strong across the value chain barring  an exceptional dip in April-May '21.
Lower polyester imports on account  of high ocean freights supported  demand and margins.
Margins Global economic recovery resulted in  improved petrochemicals demand.
In FY 2021-22, PX prices surged 61%,  while PX-Naphtha margins firmed by 21% Y-o-Y, but it is well below 5-year  average levels.
In 3Q, the imposition of dual control policy in China, emergence  of Omicron coupled with the start-up of large PX capacities (2x2.5 MMTPA)  resulted in supply overhang and weak margins.
PTA markets in China remained oversupplied given the capacity addition of  8.6 MMTA, together with medium to high level market inventories.
Global PTA  operating rates remained around 79% in FY 2021-22.
PTA prices followed crude  oil price movements in FY 2021-22, with the margin on PX improving gradually  from H1 with the decrease in China inventory.
Overall, in FY 2021-22, PTA prices  surged 56% while PTA-PX margins firmed up by 43% Y-o-Y.
MEG margins were under pressure due to oversupply and lower operating  rates.
MEG prices surged 36% and MEG-Naphtha margins softened by 12% Y-o-Y  owing to high feedstock prices.
PET markets witnessed an unprecedented trend during the year.
Global PET  supplies tightened due to plant shutdown in the US and Europe during the  pandemic, leading to a surge in PET prices by 43%, however margins firmed up  by 11% Y-o-Y constrained by high feedstock prices.
Intermediates and Polyester Margin Trends  (US$/MT) FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21 % chg Y-o-Y PX- Naphtha 207 172 21 PTA-PX 224 157 43 MEG-Naphtha 203 232 -12 POY-PTA & MEG 195 203 -4 PSF-PTA & MEG 43 150 -7 1 PET- PTA & MEG 161 146 11 Source: Platts, ICIS, CCF Group Business Performance Production Meant for Sale (in MMT) Particulars Products FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21 Transportation   Fuels Gasoil 25.8 24.9 Gasoline / Alkylate 11.7 10.5 ATF 3.7 2.2 Polymers and   Elastomers PP 2.9 2.9 PE 2.2 2.3 PVC 0.7 0.7 Elastomers and Feedstock 0.4 0.3 Intermediates   and Polyesters PX and By-products 2.9 3.4 Benzene and Derivatives 0.5 0.5 PTA 2.2 2.0 MEG and By-products 1.2 1.3 Filament 1.2 1.0 Staple 0.8 0.7 PET 1.2 1.1 Others Fuels, Solids and Others 10.9 9.7 Total  68.2 63.6 Overall production meant for  sale increased from 63.6 MMT to  68.2 MMT.
Most of the increase came  from transportation fuels due to  increase in global demand.
RIL's agile  business operations with its ability to  optimise feedstock has helped to run  downstream plants at full throughput.
Transportation Fuels In FY 2021-22, RIL remained among the  largest producers of transportation  fuels, exporting 34.7 MMT of products  across the globe.
RIL can also produce a large variety  of grades to meet international  market requirements of European  countries, Africa, East Asia including  Australia and the US market which  has the most stringent specifications.
The Company is well recognised as  a trusted supplier of high-quality  transportation fuels with zero cases  of quality and quantity disputes.
RIL has a competitive advantage  as it operates through one of the  most modern and efficient ports –  Jamnagar.
The Company marketed  15 MMT of products in the domestic  market in FY 2021-22.
RIL continues to leverage its strong  highway presence and rapidly  growing intra-city footprint to move  towards its target of covering over  90% freight load on Indian roads  despite having a significantly  lower outlet count compared to its  competition.
It has worked towards  establishing gasoil customer  ownership by strengthening its  industry leading fleet program  (Transconnect) to target fleet  customers and continuing to  augment on-demand fuel delivery  to target non-transport/off-road  segment.
Network push, higher share  of fleet volumes, industry defining  technology and strong Q&Q (Quality  and Quantity) focus have contributed  to the significantly higher per outlet  throughput for RIL.
HSD B2B Business In FY 2021-22, bulk diesel industry  volumes grew by 10.2% on Y-o-Y  basis though it was 13.5% lower than  pre-pandemic level.
Cementing  its presence across geographies,  RIL continued to outperform the  industry, achieving a growth of 13.2%  on Y-o-Y basis and much lower  decline of 2.1% of pre-pandemic level  with market share of 9.4%.
Building  on its strong customer connect,  RIL’s O2C business has further  strengthened its relationship across  customer segments.
The Company  continues to pursue profitable  growth opportunities in infrastructure,  construction and the mining  segment, providing healthy returns.
Petroleum Retail Business Reliance BP Mobility Limited (RBML),  operating under brand Jio-bp, a  51:49 joint venture of RIL and bp, with  a network presence of 1,460 outlets  and customer trust in its proposition,  recovered 100% of its pre-pandemic  gasoline and gasoil volumes.
Working on its commitment towards  reducing industry pilferage and  encouraging safe practices, Jio- bp has further strengthened its  leadership position in on-demand  fuel delivery, operating under brand  Jio-bp fuel4u.
With ~1,200 sites,  Jio-bp commands leadership in  market share, successfully ushering  in channel innovation that has  redefined the range of a retail outlet.
With ~50 mobile dispensing units and  ~44,000 packed containers, Jio-bp  supported the functioning of mobile  towers, agriculture, hospitals and  other critical facilities during the peak  of the pandemic and floods.
Building on the first phase, Jio-bp  outlets and mobile dispensing units  delivered over 2.2 million litres of free  fuel for 56,500 notified emergency  response vehicles during the second  wave of the pandemic.
Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF)  Business With the domestic aviation industry  recovering steadily, Jio-bp (operating  under air-bpJio) has registered  an annualised volume growth of  19% over industry, staying ahead  of competition and reinforcing  customer trust.
Downstream Chemicals RIL maintained steady polymer  production with reliable operations  across sites.
It maintained operating  rates higher than its peers based on  the market scenario by leveraging  global supply chain.
This was  achieved by leveraging high level of  integration from feedstock to finished  goods, strong global business  networks, multi-modal logistics  capabilities and enhanced digital  capability with all stakeholders in the  value chain.
RIL maintained its market  share in both polymer and polyester  market.
As RIL continued to explore  new products and market segments,  the integrated O2C business model  helps optimise feedstock to run  downstream plants at full capacity.
108 109 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview OIL TO CHEMICALS Operating under the brand Jio- bp, RBML launched its first Jio-bp  branded Mobility Station at Navde,  Navi Mumbai, Maharashtra.
Jio-bp  Mobility Stations bring together  a range of services, including  additivated fuel, multiple fuelling  choices and convenience for  consumers on the move.
Operating Strategy  • Bring in best-in-class global  fueling experience to   Indian consumers through  technology-enabled unique  Customer Value Proposition (CVP) • Take on a leadership role in EV  infrastructure by proactively  offering upcoming technologies  and operating models • Deploy next-generation  technologies for automation- led operational and process  efficiency Towards realising the Net Carbon Zero  ambitions of RIL, Jio-bp is working  on the twin targets of becoming a  leading EV charging infrastructure  provider and building a CNG network  in the country.
Having built the first on-the-go  charging station, first cluster charging  station, first fleet charging hub, launch  of charging app and many other firsts  during the last financial year, Jio- bp now has over 300 charging and  swapping points across the country.
Jio-bp has also announced  partnerships with some of the key  players such as OEMs, last mile  delivery players etc.
to collaborate  on increasing EV penetration and  make EV charging and swapping  convenient for customers.
It has partnered with several CGD  companies during the year for  establishing CNG facilities for its  customers at RBML Mobility stations.
In spite of the pandemic-led  constraints, Jio-bp has gone full  throttle towards ramping up the  pipeline for future growth of under- construction outlets.
Both the new  outlets and the existing network  of over 1,460 fuel pumps will be  rebranded as Jio-bp over the  next few years.
Fuel, convenience  (with embedded wild bean cafe)  and express oil change offering  are gaining strong traction at the  fuel forecourt.
5,500 outlets Proposed network post expansion 1,460 outlets In the Jio-bp network   Moving towards being the ‘Preferred Provider’   for all mobility solutions in India Strategic Priorities and Way Forward  Diversified feedstock sourcing, minimising feedstock cost Improved product netbacks with wider market reach and quality upgrade Medium-term priorities • Production of niche fuel / petrochemical  grades for improved product netbacks • Invest in new materials while maximising  product netbacks • Strengthening further market share of PP  grades namely in ICP/RCP/Fibre-Filaments • Focus on increasing PP sales to further  promote value-added exports of Woven  Sacks & FIBCs by RIL downstream customers  • Complete import substitution of domestic  LDPE capacity  • Increase tie-up with global PVC suppliers to  further augment domestic sales  • Optimising product mix to maximise Ethylene  Oxide over Monoethylene Glycol • Improving product and end segment mix  by targeting the growth in differentiated  and specialty polyester products through  downstream value chain Progress in FY 2021-22 • Diversified product supply to South America  / West Africa on delivered basis improving  netbacks • Implementation of PCN quality upgrade for  improved product placement flexibility and  premiums • Oxyfree and Ethanol Blend Motor Spirit (EBMS)  gasoline production for domestic market  compliance • Focus on increasing LDPE domestic sales  • Successfully established grades in Caps and  Closure segment • Focus on optimising ethylene derivative value  between Ethylene Oxide and Monoethylene  Glycol.
Increased focus on specialty polyester  products Medium-term priorities • Explore strategic terming of advantage  feedstock  • Debottlenecking crude processing  constraints in CDU for improved sourcing • Debottlenecking FCC supplemental feed  processing constraints  • Increase production of EDC to reduce  import dependence.
Maximise Ethane  sourcing to optimise feedstock cost Progress in FY 2021-22 • Increased crude oil sourcing from the Americas  to capture arbitrage opportunity • 10 new crude/SRFO grades processed during the  year, widening crude sourcing • Widening of supplemental feedstock sourcing  options for FCC and Coker to minimise cost • Advantageous Ethane feedstock sourcing from  USA for optimised cracker operation 110 111 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview OIL TO CHEMICALS Strategic Priorities and Way Forward Strategic Priorities and Way Forward  Asset sweating and operating cost minimisation Continuous domestic transportation fuel sales volume push  Digital transformation Build and establish Jio-bp brand  Foray into advanced mobility (EV charging and CNG) Sustainability and transition to Net Carbon Zero Medium-term priorities • Process digital twins’ development for  critical process units for improved process  efficiency, safety and reliability • ML for predicting equipment failures /  catalyst performance minimising unplanned  downtime • Leveraging AI/ML for O2C business  profitability improvement • Prioritising the collaborative processes for  enhancing the customer experience through  further automation Medium-term priorities • Country-wide brand launch combined with  accelerated re-branding exercise • Expedited network footprint of all new  customer value propositions launched Medium-term priorities • Ramp-up country wide footprint of EV  charging network  • Evolve technologies and operating model to  stay abreast with the EV industry  • Build CNG network alongside evaluating co- location with existing RBML outlets Medium-term priorities • Transition to renewable power for O2C assets • Bio-mass gasification • CO2 capture for mineralisation or chemicals • Commissioning of new Toll manufacturing  plant at Andhra Pradesh to produce  Recycled Polyester Staple Fibre and ramping  up recycling capacity to 5 billion bottles per  year  • Develop green polyolefin product portfolio  and ramping up capacities to deliver  application specific green products • Scale up chemical recycling technology to  promote plastic circularity Progress in FY 2021-22 • Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) for Algae to oil  R&D initiatives • Machine Learning (ML) for improved gasifier  reliability and efficiency • Uber4Oil (on-demand doorstep delivery of  diesel through app) for fuel retail business in  Jio-bp • Video analytics for remote service standard  and safety management at Jio-bp • Aligning and digitising the business services  against three value streams namely Revenue  & Channel, Business Ownership and Product  Ownership  Progress in FY 2021-22 • Launched Mobility Station with array of new  customer value propositions  • Initiated network-wide rebranding exercise for  existing outlets, AFS & tank-trucks Progress in FY 2021-22 • Launch of multi-format EV charging and  battery swap units • Tie-up with leading gas distributors, demand  aggregators, technology providers and OEMs Progress in FY 2021-22 • Bio-mass utilisation in Circulating Fludized  Bed Combustion (CFBC) boilers at Hazira and  Dahej, minimising carbon footprint • Transition to low carbon intensity fuel to  minimise carbon footprint • New exclusive toll manufacturing business  model to promote entrepreneurship in  recycling • Green polyolefin products - EcoRepol™ (green  Polypropylene) and EcoRelene™ (green  Polyethylene) trials for various applications • Commercial Continuous Catalytic Pyrolysis  Oil technology trial plant set up.
Final product  to be taken to refinery/crackers for producing  circular polymers through mass balance  attribution approach Medium-term priorities • Low-cost debottlenecking of existing  assets for petrochemical capacity  enhancement • In-house technology development for O2C  transition sustaining market advantage • Ensure sustainability through circular  economy and transition to renewable  power and green hydrogen Medium-term priorities • Leverage network growth to garner larger  share of fleet customer volume • Leverage technology and expedite rollout  to sustain market leadership in mobile  fuelling • Work aggressively towards proposed  network growth to 5,500 outlets Progress in FY 2021-22 • Near 100% utilisation of O2C assets with improved  demand recovery • Eliminated high-cost spot LNG procurement  exploiting in-house fuel flexibility • In-house catalyst development for LLDPE to  minimise cost Progress in FY 2021-22 • Reinforced fleet management program to  consolidate position in highway segment  • Grew network of mobile dispensing units (MDU)  and packed fuel containers (PFC) • Ramped up prospect pipeline & OTP pace for  under-construction outlets 112 113 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview OIL TO CHEMICALS Circular polymers RIL is developing commercial scale continuous  catalytic pyrolysis technology.
The process  has been successfully demonstrated at pilot  scale.
This can convert unsegregated mixed  waste plastics into Pyrolysis Oil, which will  be processed at the refinery.
Credits can be  attributed to various petrochemicals as per  International Sustainability and Carbon Credit  (ISCC) plus mass balance certification to  create circular products.
These products are in  demand from multinationals to fulfil statutory  requirements and keep their commitment  to plastic circularity.
We plan to scale up this  production to promote plastic circularity.
R|Elan™ Fabric 2.0 Promoting circularity and  wellness sustainably Through the reporting year, R|Elan™  built upon its long-term sustainability  commitment and undertook  innovative, solution-oriented  initiatives.
These included Season 3  of its Circular Design Challenge, 3 rd  edition of #EarthTEE activation, launch  of new sustainable products and  digital campaigns in collaboration  with its downstream customers and  partners to promote sustainable,  circular fashion.
Leadership in Adopting Circular Economy in India Circular Design Challenge 3.0  – India’s largest sustainable  fashion award In FY 2021-22, for the third time in  a row, R|Elan™ Fashion for Earth  presented the Circular Design  Challenge in partnership with United  Nations Environment Programme at  the FDCI X Lakme Fashion Week.
This  edition brought greater recognition  of the R|Elan™ Award for excellence in  circularity to one of the finalists, Ashita  Singhal of Paiwand, for outstanding  innovation in circular fashion.
Showcasing sustainable  fabrics via Designer  Showcase at Lakme Fashion  Week To promote sustainable fashion  and to make circular fashion  aspirational, R|Elan™ collaborated  with several fashion designers  and influencers through the year,  including Payal Singhal and the  designer duo, Abraham & Thakore.
For the Winter Fashion event at Lakme  Fashion Week, R|Elan™ presented an  exclusive collection titled ‘Assemble,  Disassemble & Reassemble’ made  with R|Elan™ GreenGold -– a next-gen  eco-friendly fabric, made with 100%  recycled post-consumer PET bottles.
“I can’t tell you how difficult it is to  tear myself away from my infant son.
But it is work like this that pulls me.
I  also know it is work like this that will  keep my son’s future safe.” Dia Mirza,   UNEP Goodwill Ambassador Making sustainability cool  through EarthTEE 3 Launched on World Environment Day  2018, the #EarthTee, a t-shirt designed  in collaboration with Anita Dongre  from recycled PET bottles, strove to  make sustainability fashionable in  collaboration with fashion celebrities  and influencers.
New innovative fabric  launches R|Elan™ fabric 2.0 launched a range of  three fabric collections that combine  the goodness of R|Elan™ GreenGold  with three other technologies that is  ‘Good on you.
Good for your soul, and  Great for the planet’.
R|Elan™ EcoGold with Ciclo Within the Sustainability category of  R|Elan™, a new product introduced  this year was R|Elan™ Ecogold with  Ciclo.
One of the most environment- friendly fabrics, it enables sustainable  fashion across different applications.
This innovative fabric helps to reduce  the impact of unrecycled textiles on  the environment.
Impact  Driven by our B2B2C marketing concept, R|Elan™  GreenGold continuously engaged with end  consumers on social media through digital posts,  stories, videos and reels that promoted sustainability.
During the year, such communications reached  millions of users on Instagram and Facebook.
There  has been a major increase in engagement with the  content and our co-brand partners have reported  significant uptake in the demand for sustainable  products and fashion collections made from  Reliance’s Sustainable materials.
#RestoreWithRElan RIL highlighed the importance of  recycling and circularity through  ongoing campaigns on important  days like the World Environment Day,  Earth Day and others.
Beginning on  the World Environment Day, RIL ran  a number of interactive campaigns  to create awareness, stressing on  the fact that the fashion we choose,  and our ecosystems are inter- linked.
Inviting everyone to learn  how to #RestoreWithRElan on World  Environment Day, RIL urged the  audience to share images/videos  of their initiatives that can help  restore the ecosystem.
114 115 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance  Corporate  Overview Management   Review Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview OIL TO CHEMICALS Ensuring Information  Readiness for Resilient  Refinery Planning The digital initiatives across planning  and optimisation platform modules  allow management of supply and  demand volatility and the price risk.
The digitisation of all inputs required  for rolling plan has ensured faster  response for disruption management  and sensitivity analysis.
Platform has  improved risk assessment processes  and also enabled auto price  forecasting based on forward curve.
Domestic Vessels  Replenishment Planning and  Scheduling Coastal replenishment is one of the  key modes in Domestic Bulk S&D  business for PAN India distribution.
Products are needed to be placed  across all coastal terminals on the  East and West coasts to meet needs  of the Retail network, Direct and other  manufacturing companies / PSU.
An integrated optimisation module  has been implemented enabling the  following key benefits to business.
Scaling up Digital Platforms to Enrich Customer Experience • Product placement at all coastal  locations with optimal distribution  cost • Optimisation of operational  metrics like tankage hiring cost,  lead time, inventory levels and  vessel utilisation etc.
• Improved visibility and disruption  management by integrating data  pertaining to future demand,  inventory positions, and voyages Business Operations Center Business Operations Center has  been set up for close monitoring  and control of Trading and Mid  office business processes.
The  centre provides: • Near real time view of transaction  workflow and operating  parameters • Specific actions against role  holders on immediate and  upcoming schedule basis • Capability to track and monitor  contract specific events and  validate system details for contract  execution • Reinforced on-demand HSD  delivery offer to customer’s  doorstep by ensuring 100% visibility  from order to delivery for retail fuel  customers Analytics for Process  Optimisation • SCM Spend Analytics covering  warehousing, shipping, multimodal  and chartering • Business analytical and  visualisation platforms to enhance  the decision making process • Trade flow information platform to  increase business sustainability • Marine insurance management  platform to optimise export cargo  lifecycle management cost • Rolled out next-gen retina and  face scanning system for remote  monitoring of attendance,  mask compliance and body  temperature of outlet staff RIL implemented several new digital initiatives to ensure seamless execution of  business in the virtual working environment.
• Functionality to initiate actions,  generate system exceptions and  escalations, eliminating manual  effort and smooth operations  avoiding last minute issues/  decisions The historical process data will  also help in streamlining activities,  identifying bottlenecks and  performance of activity Service  Level Agreements (SLAs) on an  ongoing basis, thereby driving  process efficiencies.
Port Operations Platform Port operations platform has been  deployed on latest open source  based technology with enhanced  features.
It will facilitate: • Vessel nomination, acceptance,  invoicing of services, at Sikka and  GCPL port facilities • Visibility to the Operations and  Scheduling team for better control  of activities, minimising potential  demurrage • The historical data from the system  will also help in identifying process  and capacity bottlenecks for  optimisation Digital Experience for  Customers/Agents • Credit control management  platform to improve order  execution lead time and risk  management • R-collection platform integrated  with RIL systems for instant limit  enhancement and utilisation • Transporter nomination facility  for touchless and paperless order  execution • Export document tracking platform  for live visibility and timely cargo  clearance • Deploying drone technology and  smart CCTV analytics for progress  measurement / safety of retail  outlets under construction  Supply Chain Management:  Saving human lives and  delivering sustained value  for stakeholders The second wave of COVID-19 in 1Q  FY 2021-22 led to a national crisis  over medical oxygen and created  a challenging logistics landscape.
RIL responded to this national  emergency by building new facilities  in its plants for medical oxygen and  importing oxygen in ISO containers  from all over the world through  emergency airlift operations with  the help of the Indian Air Force.
Simultaneously, multimodal logistics  solutions were established to  deliver medical oxygen to various  hospitals across the country in the  shortest possible time, thereby  saving human lives.
Apart from the crisis in shipping  containers, port operations  were affected globally , and port  congestion hit an all-time high,  creating challenges in vessel  schedules reliability, labour  management and so on.
The  resulting demand-supply gap led to a  multi-fold increase in shipping freight  in H1 FY 2021-22.
To ensure optimum supply chain cost,  RIL swiftly implemented long-term  supply chain cost planning, flexible  multimodal transportation solutions  and digital monitoring of movement  across the entire supply chain.
Long- term contracts with shipping line  partners and organised extra-loader  ships to manage large volumes  in global exports.
This approach  has helped to retain market share  and business margins .
During this  time, the Company supported all  stakeholders in the SCM value chain  for vaccinations, treatments, and  timely financial support.
RIL has developed and scaled up to  pilot a novel process for PBAT.
Different  grades with varied melt viscosities  showed good performance in  terms of physical and mechanical  properties.
The developed grades  were also compounded with various  fillers for ease of downstream  processing and enhancing  product properties required for  applications in flexible as well as  rigid packaging, agriculture mulch  films, among others.
Novel bio-compostable net-bags  have been developed through a net- extrusion process using PBAT polymer  blends / composites.
The process  optimisation and development have    Bio-Degradable & Compostable Polybutylene Adipate  Terephthalate (PBAT) Process & Composites: Niche Applications  for Packaging & Agriculture Sectors been carried out on conventional  downstream machines with high  output and minimal loss of material  in processing.
It offered a cost  competitive product for a green  packaging solution for the fruit &  vegetable (F&V) sector.
The developed  net-bags are easy and convenient to  use and have good weight carrying  capacity.
These net-bags are ideal  for leafy vegetables, as they maintain  freshness for longer time.
This  development is important in view  of  replacement of single-use plastic  by sustainable materials.
Further,  the R&D team is working on different  variants of net-bags for different  weight carrying capacity to target  applications other than F&V.
116 117 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview OIL TO CHEMICALS Outlook Global downstream  demand is likely to  improve amidst easing  of COVID-19 restrictions,  improvement in mobility,  consumer sentiments and  large economic stimulus  programmes worldwide.
The momentum in  transportation fuel is also  likely to pick up pace as the  global economy returns to  pre-COVID level.
Polymer  demand is expected to be  strong, driven mainly by  the growth in healthcare,  e-commerce, packaging,  durables, auto and  infrastructure segments.
Growth in the downstream  polyester chain market  is also expected to  remain steady, making it  possible to achieve higher  operating rates.
Although  post-pandemic reopening  of global economy is  expected to provide further  demand growth, however  rising inflationary pressures  due to ongoing geopolitical  events and fears around  economic slowdown could  impact near-term demand  outlook.
Using over six unique operating  and infrastructure models across  its 40+ supply terminals, Jio-bp has  built world-class bespoke products  developed in globally acclaimed  laboratories, invested in state-of- the-art technology and built a  country-wide additive supply logistics  network from scratch.
By additivating every single drop of  fuel, Jio-bp is providing international  quality fuel to Indian customers at  no extra cost.
RIL has ensured peace of mind  for millions of India’s two-wheeler  users through its latest innovation in  partnership with leading lubricants  major- Castrol.
They can now have  free vehicle health check-up and  free oil-change service as well as  Jio-bp has developed its own Jio-bp  pulse charge app and set up couple  of India's largest charging hubs (85+  and 120+ charging points) in Delhi  NCR with Blusmart as our primary  customer.
The hub allows ease of  RIL has developed a new generation  of air impermeable functional  polymer.
By preventing tyre  punctures, it will ensure more safety  for vehicles on the move.
This  product will add value to next-gen  EV vehicles and contribute to net  carbon zero economy.
Ensuring 100% Fuel  Additivation: A New  Normal for Indian  Fuel Standards   ‘Shop’ with Embedded WBC Offering:  Redefining Fuel Forecourt Retailing   Express Oil Change: Redefining 2W Oil  Change Industry    Jio-bp Pulse Fleet Charging Hub: Leading  from the Front in EV Transition   Puncture-proof  Tire Inner Liner:  Sealant Elastomer  Development To ensure standard, consistent and  quality on-the-move food and  beverage experience, Jio-bp has  launched 'Shop' with embedded WBC  offering at its mobility stations.
This has brought international on-the- move brand Wild Bean café (WBC)  to India, built over the country-wide  supply chain of Reliance Retail for  compelling daily need offers and  created locally curated delicacies  through own chef.
self-charging for those taking to EVs.
A mix of slow and fast chargers cater  to the specific needs of vehicles.
The  steady state site is already registering  over 250 charging sessions per day.
the service of professionally trained  experts to assess their vehicles.
This  customer ease can be expected to  create a renewed push for lubricant  and gasoline sales.
118 119 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance  Corporate  Overview Management   Review A Diverse Set of Products and End Applications Xylenes Toluene Benzene Texturised /Twisted  Dyed Yarn    Purchased Raw Materials    Partly Purchased Raw Materials    Existing Products    New Products SulphurFuel Oil / CBFS Petcoke Hydrogen SNG SulphurSyngas Petcoke Gasification EthaneEthane/Propane C4's C6+ Butadiene MTBE Butene-1 Butene-1 OrthoxyleneVCM Salt Caustic LAB PVC DEG/TEG HTPB  SBR PSFFDY PFF POY PTY Filament Staple Fabrics Apparel Spun Yarn Non-woven  Applications Filler Products/ Non-wovens/ Technical   Textiles PET Bottles   (Recycled) PBR PTAPET HDPE/LLDPE LDPE EDC PP LPGOffgas Ethylene Propylene Paraxylene Refinery C4 Refinery C4 Light Ends / Feedstocks Propane Naphtha EO Butyl Rubber Halobutyl Rubber Butyl Rubber HPIB Halogen Normal  Paraffin Kerosene Acetic Acid Polyester Chips Chlorine MEG Wool Viscose  Silk Linen Glass Fibre Glass rowing  (procured) Abbreviations End Use Applications Resin (Polyester / Epoxy / Phenolic) Product Plants Multiple raw materials PTA, EO, Styrene, etc.
(captive / procured) Transportation Fuels Solids / Other Liquid fuels Crude  Oil CBFS Carbon Black feedstock DEG Di-Ethylene Glycol EDC Ethylene Di-Chloride EO Ethylene Oxide FDY Fully Drawn Yarn HDPE High Density Polyethylene HPIB High Purity Isobutylene HTPB Hydroxyl  Terminated Polybutadiene LAB Linear Alkyl Benzene LDPE Low Density Polyethylene LLDPE Linear Low-density Polyethylene LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas MEG Mono-Ethylene Glycol MTBE Methyl Tertiary Butyl Ether PBR Poly Butadiene Rubber PET Polyethylene Terephthalate PFF Polyester Filament Fibre POY Partially Oriented Yarn PP Polypropylene PSF Polyester Staple Fibre PTA Purified Terephthalic Acid PTY Polyester Textured Yarn PVC PolyVinyl Chloride SBR Styrene Butadiene Rubber SNG Synthetic Natural Gas TEG Tri-Ethylene Glycol VCM Vinyl Chloride monomer Diesel Reliance Composite Solutions Jet/Kero Gasoline / Alkylate  Cyclohexane Styrene Mass Transport  Unit Sheet MoldingFilament  Winding Wind Mill Unit General MoldingPultrusion Centrifugal  Casting Natural Gas Petcoke Coal 120 121 Reliance Industries Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   ReviewProduct Flow Chart RETAIL Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview Naresh   Narang Sanjay   B. Roy Ravikumar  Prekki Amit   Mehta R.  Ravichandran Gautam   Dhar 122 123 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance  Corporate   Overview Management   Review The focus of the E&P business has been on safeguarding  health and safety of the people and assets while  simultaneously augmenting gas production.
Despite continuing pandemic challenges, the Satellite  Cluster deepwater fields were successfully commissioned  in April 2021.
It is another significant milestone in India’s  energy landscape and showcases Reliance’s continued  commitment in the journey towards a greener gas-based  economy.
OIL AND G S E&P With the commissioning of R  Cluster and Satellite Cluster Fields  in December 2020 and April 2021  respectively, production has been  ramped up to 18 MMSCMD gas.
Following the expected  commissioning of MJ Field in  3Q FY 2023, the KG D6 block  will produce >1 BCFe/day by  FY 2023-24, thereby contributing  ~30% of India’s gas production  and helping meet ~20% of India’s  demand.
This will significantly  reduce the country’s dependence  on imported gas and meet  the growing clean energy  requirements of the nation.
The key focus of the E&P business has been the health and safety  of its people and assets during the pandemic while ensuring timely  project delivery, safe and reliable operations and ramping up the  new fields to peak production.
Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview Industry recognition   R Cluster field development  awarded ‘Best Managed Project  of the Year’  and 'Special award  for significant increase in gas  production'  by Federation of Indian  Petroleum Industry (FIPI) Production ramped up to  18 MMSCMD, contributing ~ 20%  of  India’s domestic gas production Satellite Cluster commissioned in  April 2021, two months ahead of  plan despite COVID-19 challenges Zero LTI   in offshore installation   campaign 122 Reliance Industries Limited Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview OIL AND GAS E&P Strategic Advantages and  Competitive Strengths Vision To be a major contributor to India’s  Gas based economy supplying ~30% of  India’s production.
Mission  Our mission is to maximise stakeholders’  value by finding, producing and  marketing hydrocarbons and to provide  sustainable growth while catering  to the needs of customers, partners,  employees and the local communities  in which we do business.
We will  conduct our business in a manner that  protects the environment as well as the  health and safety of our employees,  contractors and the local communities  in which we do business.
Performance Summary FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2021-22 119.2 126.6 188.15,4577,492 258353 2,140 3,211 REVENUE (` IN CRORE) `7,492 EBITDA (` IN CRORE) `5,457 PRODUCTION (RIL’S SHARE) (BCFe) 188.1 India’s leading deepwater E&P operator with  best-in-class safety and reliability track  record Partnership with bp synergising RIL’s project  execution and operations with bp’s global  E&P knowledge World-class deepwater hub infrastructure in  the East Coast ~3 TCFe resources in Block KG D6 Exploration underway in the proven  geological fairways of the contiguous Block  KG UDW1 Gas-based portfolio contributing to India’s  transition towards clean energy 124 125 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review E&P Portfolio Block Country Partner RIL Stake JV Acreage   (acres) Status Conventional KG-DWN-98/3 India bp–33.33% 66.67% 2,90,230 R Cluster Field: Producing  from December 2020 Satellite Cluster: Producing from   April 2021  MJ Field: Development  activities underway NEC-OSN-97/2 India bp–33.33% 66.67% 2,05,520 FDP submitted; under review with GoI KG-UDWHP-2018/1 India bp-40.00% 60.00% 3,74,093 Exploration activities ongoing Unconventional  SP(East)- CBM-2001/1 India - 100.00% 1,22,317 Development ongoing SP(West)-CBM-2001/1 India - 100.00% 1,23,552 Producing E&P Asset Life Cycle and Portfolio Exploration &  Appraisal Field  Management &  Operations Field  Abandonment KG D6 1.
R Cluster 2.
Sat Cluster KG D6   MJ KG UDW1 KG D6 1.
D1D3 2.
MA Tapti FieldsCBM FieldsCBM Fields Project Definition & Field  Development Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview OIL AND GAS E&P KG D6 With ramp up of gas production  from R Cluster and Satellite  Cluster Fields, E&P's operating  performance improved due to  incremental production and higher  gas price realisation across the  producing assets, leading to higher  Revenue and EBITDA.
The D1-D3 and MA fields in the KG D6  Block produced ~3 TCFe of gas, oil  and condensate, which have set  global benchmarks in operational  performance and excellence  during their operations over the  years.
These existing facilities have  been made future ready for the  next 20 years through necessary  upgradations made before  production start-up from R Cluster  and Satellite Cluster fields.
The three  integrated projects – R Cluster,  Satellite Cluster and MJ – are  leveraging the hub infrastructure in  place by utilising existing production  facilities and thus reducing  costs.
At the onshore terminal,  RIL is undertaking augmentation  of Monoethylene Glycol (MEG)  regeneration and reclamation, and  associated facilities.
KG D6 Deepwater  Production Update R Cluster Field was commissioned  successfully in December 2020  and achieved peak production of  12.9 MMSCMD with six wells.
Satellite  Cluster Field was commissioned  in April 2021, two months ahead of  schedule.
All five wells have been  opened, tested and ramped up,  achieving a peak production of  6.1 MMSCMD.
Together, the fields are  currently producing ~18 MMSCMD,  and contributing substantially to  domestic production.
KG D6 MJ Deepwater  Development Update Phase 1 drilling and installation of  Xmas Trees for all 8 wells have been  completed.
Phase-2 drilling and  completion activity has commenced  in July 2022.
The second and  final installation campaign has  commenced in December 2021.
All subsea structures (Manifolds),  24” rigid pipeline and Turret Mooring  System (TMS) buoy, along with  mooring lines, have been installed.
For the Floating Production Storage  & Offloading (FPSO) vessel , hull  construction has been completed.
All topside modules have been  fabricated and erected on the hull.
Geostationary and Swivel   modules have been installed.
Pre-commissioning and  commissioning activities have  commenced.
Reliance expects to  commission MJ Field in 3Q FY 2023.
Abandonment The D1D3 Field ceased production  in February 2020, following which  the Oil Industry Safety Directorate  (OISD) and Management Committee  (MC) have approved the permanent  Plug & Abandonment (P&A) of wells  and in-situ abandonment of the  associated equipment.
Following cessation of production  in MA Field, freeing flexible flowlines  of hydrocarbons and the flushing  of umbilicals were completed, and  the floating production storage  and offloading (FPSO) unit was  demobilised.
The flexible flowlines,  dynamic flexibles, dynamic  umbilicals, subsea structures,  mooring lines and the Submerged  Turret Production (STP) buoy were  decommissioned in accordance  with the Field Decommissioning Plan,  which was approved by the OISD and  the MC.
Well P&A has been completed  for all MA wells.
Exploration strategy RIL and its partner bp acquired Block  KGUDWHP-2018/ (KG-UDW1) under the  OALP II licensing round.
The Petroleum  Exploration License (PEL) was issued in  August 2019, with 341 days’ extension  of the Initial Exploration Phase granted  in 2021.
Despite the pandemic and  related challenges and constraints,  the 3D Seismic Acquisition campaign  was completed in the Block.
Currently,  Data Processing and Interpretation  work is ongoing for prospect  maturation, with a plan to drill the first  exploration well in 2023. Business Performance 126 127 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Industry Overview Emerging Trends and Business Response Clean energy Concerns over greenhouse  gas (GHG) emissions have  heightened global focus on green  energy to mitigate the industry’s  environmental impact Brownfield developments In these challenging times,  when prices for oil and gas are  volatile, companies are focusing  on brownfield developments to  improve commerciality Digital technologies Accelerated adoption of new  technologies as a result of the  COVID-19 pandemic, which has  reinforced the importance for  improved efficiencies At RIL, the focus is on building  a gas-based portfolio.
Being a  cleaner fuel, gas is seen as a  transition fuel to green energy The Company is leveraging its  existing infrastructure in the  KG Basin to develop three projects  in Block KG D6 and is undertaking  exploration in contiguous areas.
Two of the fields, R Cluster and  Satellite Cluster, have been  commissioned and production is  being ramped up Always at the forefront in the  adoption of the latest technologies,  RIL is further enhancing its  capabilities through Digital  Twin, Autonomous Fields, Virtual  Command Centres and other  cutting-edge technologies How RIL E&P is geared up?
JV production Unit of Measurement FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21  KG D6 Gas BCF 224.3 24.0 Oil MMBL 0.2 - CBM Gas BCF 10.2 11.8 ProductionGlobal oil demand rebounded in  CY 2021, as the global economy  began to recover from the impact  of the COVID-19 pandemic.
However,  global oil production increased  slower than demand, driving up  prices.
The production shortfall was  mainly due to OPEC+ production cuts  that started in late 2020.
During 4Q  CY 2021, global demand increased  sharply by 1.1 MMBD to 99 MMBD.
This  resulted in withdrawals from global  petroleum inventories that averaged  1.4 MMBD in 2021, leading to higher  crude oil prices.
Average annual price of Brent crude  oil climbed to US$ 70.7/bbl in 2021,  ~US$ 30 more than the CY 2020  annual average and highest in  the past three years.
West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) crude oil averaged  US$ 3/bbl below Brent in 2021.
With an  outbreak of conflict in Europe, Brent  prices rose sharply to above $110/ bbl levels, reaching as high as $130/ bbl in March'22.
Global gas consumption increased  by 4.6% in 2021 to ~3.8 TCM, more than  double the decline seen in 2020,  driven by the economic recovery  and successive extreme weather  events.
Insufficient supply coupled  with unexpected outages led to tight  markets and steep price increases.
The year closed with record high  spot prices in Europe and Asia, as  natural gas supply remained very  tight.
Henry Hub prices almost  doubled from their 2020 levels to  average US$ 3.9/MMBtu, the highest  since 2014.
Asian LNG spot prices rose  more than four-fold to US$ 18/MMBtu  with a 4Q average of over US$ 35/ MMBtu.
Record high prices led to  dampening of demand growth in the  second half of 2021.
Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview OIL AND GAS E&P Coal Bed Methane (CBM) RIL is currently producing Coal Bed  Methane (CBM) from Block SP (West)– CBM–2001/1.
More than 300 wells are  in production, with an average output  of 0.73 MMSCMD gas during the year.
To sustain plateau production, CBM  development is being undertaken in  Blocks SP (West)–CBM–2001/1 and SP  (East)–CBM–2001/1.
Reliance Gas Pipeline Limited, a  subsidiary of RIL, operates the  302 km Shahdol-Phulpur Pipeline  from Shahdol (MP) to Phulpur (UP),  connecting the CBM gas fields  with the Indian gas grid, thus  providing access to consumers  across the country.
US Shale During the year, Reliance Eagleford  Upstream Holding, LP (REUHLP) a  wholly owned step-down subsidiary  of RIL, signed an agreement with  Ensign Operating III, LLC to divest its  interest in certain upstream assets in  the Eagleford shale play of Texas, USA.
With this transaction, RIL has divested  all its shale gas assets and exited  from the shale gas business in the US.
Update on Arbitrations  And Other Legal Issues Due to the continuing COVID-19  related circumstances, there has  not been any material progress in  the following matters: KG D6 Cost  Recovery Arbitration, Public Interest  Litigations (PILs) relating to the KG  D6 Block pending before the Hon’ble  Supreme Court of India, suit filed  by NTPC Limited against RIL before  the Hon’ble Bombay High Court,  Government of India’s proceedings  seeking setting aside the arbitration  award relating to the alleged  migration of gas from KG D6 Block  before the Hon’ble Delhi High Court,  and the Writ Petition filed by RIL before  Hon’ble Delhi High Court relating  to the jurisdiction of the Delhi Anti- Corruption Bureau.
PMT Arbitration The Arbitration Tribunal unanimously  decided certain issues in favour  of BG Exploration and Production  India Limited and RIL (together the  ‘Claimants’) in its final partial award  dated January 29, 2021.
Government  of India filed a challenge and an  appeal before the English High  Court against the January 29, 2021  final partial award, which has been  decided in Claimants' favour on  9 June 2022 (subject to a limited  further right of appeal).
In addition,  the Tribunal commenced hearing the  Claimants’ application for increase in  PSC Cost Recovery Limits at the end  of 2021 and will continue hearing the  said application in various hearing  tranches in 2022 and 2023.
Further, arguments have been  ongoing in the execution petition filed  by the Government of India before  the Hon’ble Delhi High Court, seeking  enforcement and execution of the  Tribunal’s 2016 Final Partial Award.
For Workforce • Weekly RTPCR tests for employees • Tie-up with hospital for treatment  of COVID-19 positive cases among  employees and their dependents • Oxygen generation plant installed  and made operational at  OHC, onshore terminal; 12 beds  equipped with oxygen supply.
Also, 10 oxygen concentrators kept  ready to meet any emergency  requirement • Strict implementation of all  COVID-19 protocols and guidelines,  including social distancing,  masking and sanitisation (or SMS)  at both the workplace and in  vehicles • Creation of Bio Bubble for safety of  workforce • Bio Bubble created for  450 employees, with food, medical  and transportation facilities, for the  commissioning of new fields and  steady state operations • Quarantine facility created for  personnel going offshore • 4,680 vaccination doses  administered to employees and  family members and 1,190 doses  administered to the community For Community • Organised awareness camps on  COVID-19 in villages in the vicinity • Organised disinfection of all  surrounding villages continuously • Extended support to the district  administration during the  pandemic by providing cots to the  Government Hospital • Installed 10 KL oxygen plant at  the District Government Hospital,  Kakinada; plant can supply oxygen  to about 200 patients for 48 hours  continuously • Developed green belt at  Rajahmundry Airport • Provided 40 tricycles to differently  abled persons in Kakinada • Conducted free medical camps in  Gadimoga where 1,100+ patients  utilised the services • Reliance Foundation CBM CSR  team continued to complement  government efforts to mitigate  effects of the pandemic on  the community and other key  stakeholders.
As part of Mission  COVID-19 Suraksha, 50,000+  masks and 5,000 hand sanitisers  distributed to frontline workers,  community and police officials in  Shahdol and Kotma • During Madhya Pradesh Chief  Minister’s visit to Shahdol, 18 oxygen  concentrators handed over to  Shahdol district administration,  a gesture acknowledged and  appreciated by the CM • Financial support worth `51 lakh  provided to Shahdol district  administration towards the  purchase of an emergency  ambulance for the police and for  other COVID-19 related relief work  in the district • Support worth `3.60 lakh extended  by the Reliance Foundation CBM  CSR team to 15 children who  had lost one or both parents to  COVID-19 Business Performance COVID-19 Response New Technologies:  Bio-CBM RIL is engaged in R&D efforts to  increase recovery from CBM fields.
The current focus of this research  is Bio-CBM.
In CBM, methane gas  is produced that is adsorbed and  trapped naturally in coal seams.
The  Bio-CBM technology uses microbe  injection to produce in-situ methane  in places where either the coals are  devoid of methane or conventional  CBM extraction is uneconomical.
Lab tests have shown encouraging  results on the potential of methane  production.
Research is underway  to verify if this technology can be  scaled up to commercial level.
RIL is  leveraging its infrastructure (advance  laboratories), diverse inter-disciplinary  technical skills, CBM production  expertise, CBM fields and knowledge  of regulatory requirements to boost  the Bio-CBM research.
128 129 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Management Discussion and Analysis — Business Overview OIL AND GAS E&P Health • CBM CSR Shahdol continued to  provide MMU services to 150 project  villages in Shahdol, Kotma and  Shahdol-Phulpur Gas Pipeline  (SHPPL) locations under CBM  project; 1 lakh + consultations  provided • Undertaken ‘Adopt an Anganwadi’  initiative; Reliance Foundation  (RF) supported 53 Anganwadis  for beautification and renovation  till date; 6 anganwadis were  renovated in FY 2021-22.
Initiative  featured in State Government  website, leading to greater  program visibility Livelihood • Supported farming households  with various provisions, including  input support, improved farming  technology transfer and inter- cultural management practices  resulting in sustained income  enhancement of additional 6,000+  households • Enhancing income through  agroforestry and improving green  cover; 20,000+ saplings planted  on private and common lands, 109  orchards established in farms of  progressive farmers as models for  long-term income sustainability • Reliance Foundation (RF)  supported establishment of 5,100+  Rural Nutrition Gardens (RNGs)  towards improving the availability  of fresh vegetables for marginal  households • Promoted fishery for 670  households in 70 villages of  Shahdol and Kotma, providing  1,700+ kg fish fingerlings and feed  for fish in 264 ponds • Enhanced non-farm income of  1,300+ households in 50 villages of  Shahdol and Kotma, supporting  with 20,000+ poultry chicks as  part of a scheme run with the  Veterinary Department • RF efforts recognised with awards;  3 farmers from RF project villages  received awards under various  categories from the Shahdol  district administration; one  awarded `25,000 for best practices  in livestock management at the  district level and two farmers  awarded `10,000 each for  agriculture and horticulture at the  block level Water • To boost CBM produce water and  rainwater harvesting, 8 new farm  ponds were dug and old water  harvesting structures (WHS) were  renovated to create a capacity of  2.69 lakh cubic metres harvesting  capacity, benefiting over 651 acres  farm area of 328 households • To promote community ownership  of development, RF facilitated  81 low-cost community water  harvesting structures.
Bori  Education • Felicitated 111 meritorious students  from schools in project villages of  Shahdol to motivate and assist  them in education • Continued competitive coaching in  offline and online mode to prepare  youth for government employment  in the police or armed forces; 100+  students availed benefits of the  coaching.
Also organised physical  training jointly with RF for youth  aspiring for jobs in the police and  armed forces • Resumed bus service to facilitate  conveyance for girl students after  opening of educational institutions;  two buses operationalised for 370+  girl students from 21 villages of  Shahdol Outlook Gas is expected to play a key role  as a transition fuel and share of  gas in energy mix is expected  to increase from 6% to 15% by  CY 2030.
Globally, gas markets are  becoming tighter and gas prices  have seen spikes across Europe,  Asia and also India.
With the  resurgence in economic activities,  receding COVID-19 cases ,  ongoing geopolitical conflict in  Europe and gas supplies trailing  demand, gas prices are expected  to remain high in the medium  term.
With all three fields in production,  the KG D6 Block will produce   >1 BCFe/day by FY 2023-24, thereby  contributing ~30% to India’s gas  production and helping meet  ~20% of India’s demand.
This  will help reduce the country’s  import dependence and meet  the growing clean energy  requirements of the nation.
CSR Activities Bandhan created for communities  in Shahdol and Kotma; 6+ lakh CuM  water harvesting capacity created  to benefit 600+ households by  ensuring irrigation water for 500+  acres of farm area • Potable water ensured for 2,200  new households round the year  by installing or repairing 153 hand  pumps/submersible pumps in  project villages of Shahdol and  Kotma • RF supported efficient irrigation  and institutionalised water use  through farmer groups, setting  up 30 sprinkler sets for 30 farmer  groups comprising 136 farmers  from 17 villages of Shahdol that will  ensure irrigation for 287 acres of  farm area • Improved public amenities for  village residents, particularly  women, by constructing  27 bathrooms near hand pumps in  20 villages of Shahdol and Kotma 130 131 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Enterprise Risk  Management (ERM)   at Reliance The risk landscape in the current  business environment is changing  dynamically.
The Company’s Risk  Management Framework allows  the management to: • Identify specific risks and assess  the overall potential exposure • Decide how best to deal with those  risks to manage overall exposure • Allocate resources and actively  manage those risks • Obtain assurance over  effectiveness of the management  of risks and reporting Reliance Risk Management Framework  ensures safety, builds trust and enables  achievement of the Company’s strategic  objectives by managing risks.
We Care is the one common, unifying  thread that runs through everything  we do at Reliance.
At Reliance, we  are continuously working to deliver  a sustainable future along with our  stakeholders.
Reliance’s integrated  risk management aims at effective  management of risks and also to capture  opportunities.
Nikhil R.   Meswani Hital R.   Meswani Srikanth   Venkatachari Laxmidas V.   Merchant Harish Shah K. R. Raja Governance Framework  Reliance’s Risk Management Framework is designed to be a simple, consistent and clear framework for managing and  reporting risks from the Group’s operations to the Board.
The Board provides oversight through various Risk and Executive  Committees as below: Risks Management Executive Committees provide  oversight and governance through  Group Operational Risk Committee,  Group Financial Risk Committee,  Group Audit & Disclosure Committee,  Group Compliance Committee and  Group People Committee.
(For understanding the Company’s  corporate governance and  functioning of the Board and details  on Internal Controls, please refer to  the Board’s Report and Corporate  Governance Report.)
Business Risk and Assurance  Committees (BRACs) are headed  by Business, Function and Group  leadership which meets on a periodic  basis for management of Business  and Strategic Risk.
Business and Functional Leaders  ensure identification and mitigation  of existing and new risks and its  monitoring on a day-to-day basis  through weekly meetings consisting  of all three lines of defense (LOD).
Board, Board Committees and  Executive Committees Risk Management   (Functional Assurance,   Second line of defense) Business and Risk Assurance  Committee Business and Functional  Leaders Business/Process Managers   (Self-verification, first line of defense) Internal Audit   (Indepedent Assurance,   Third line of defense) Risk Management  Framework Governance, Risk, Compliance and Audit (GRCA 2.0) Platform Purple Segment Chief Executive, Executive Vice President Blue Segment Leader Turquoise Process Leader White Responsible Manager Further, the Company has effectively  advanced to ERM 2.0 wherein all  risk are plotted on a single 8 X  8 Risk Matrix categorised into 4  colours which provides a visual  representation of the assessment of  risk.
The colours on the risk heat map  determine the minimum levels of  oversight, review and escalation for  notification and endorsement.
Management Discussion and Analysis 132 133 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Risk and Governance Strategic and Commercial Risks Risks and Response Climate Change and the Energy Transition Risk Description Climate change is the biggest threat to humanity's collective and continued well-being.
Therefore, the transition  from old energy to new, green and clean energy is inevitable and will trigger major geopolitical shifts, economic  transformations and redefine financial models in the 21st century.
The accelerated pace of transition to a lower-carbon world will be accompanied by far-reaching changes in  regulations, governance norms, market conditions and technology.
Societal sentiments against harmful environmental  practices are growing.
Regulations mandating the minimum use of renewable energy for operations and incentivising  the use of alternate energy sources coupled with technological advances and changing customer preferences have  the potential to lower demand for fossil fuels and their price, increase RIL's operational costs and prevent access to  strategically important markets and new energy reserves.
Climate change related disruptions, including rising temperatures and sea levels, heat waves, erratic rainfall, floods and  droughts can adversely impact the smooth functioning of RIL's supply chain.
Financial institutions and investors are nudging the world's transition to a low-carbon economy and limiting their  exposure to particular industries or projects.
These developments could affect access to capital markets for Reliance  and its partners.
The rising sentiment against fossil fuels could impact shareholder opinions and cause fluctuations in  RIL's valuation.
RIL could be impacted by growing litigation and activism, necessitating increased environmental and  legal liability provisions.
Trade regimes and tariff caps could further impact the Company's financial flows.
Measures  to make organisations accountable for their GHG emissions may increase compliance costs arising from technology  investments needed for monitoring, mitigation and sequestering.
Risk Response Addressing climate change through  energy transition is a strategic focus  of RIL's business continuity plans.
We believe if Old Energy created  the problem of Climate Change,  New Energy is poised to provide a  reliable solution to Climate Mitigation.
Reliance has announced a Net  Carbon Zero target for 2035, going  beyond compliance requirements  and business imperatives.
We aim to  invest `75,000 crore by 2024 to:  • Enable at least 100 GW of solar  energy by 2030  • Build four Giga factories to build an  integrated, end-to-end renewable  energy ecosystem  • Invest in enhancing the value  chain, partnerships and future  technologies, including upstream  and downstream industries  • Transform RIL's business to Net  Carbon Zero operations  We have a 15-year vision to rebuild  Reliance as one of the world's leading  New Energy and New Materials  Company.
The roadmap includes  creating sustainable energy sources  and materials for India's future needs,  building world-scale assets that  produce clean fuels and materials  of the future and developing next- generation Carbon Capture and  Storage technologies to convert  carbon dioxide into useful products  and chemicals.
The Company is prone to the following categories of risk: Strategic and   Commercial Risks Safety and  Operational Risks Compliance and  Control Risks Financial  Risks PG 134 PG 139 PG 141 PG 142 We are developing the Dhirubhai  Ambani Green Energy Giga Complex  on 5,000 acres in Jamnagar,  comprising four Giga Factories.
These include an integrated solar  photovoltaic module factory, an  advanced energy storage battery  factory for intermittent energy, an  Electrolyser Factory for the production  of Green Hydrogen and a Fuel Cell  Factory for converting hydrogen into  motive and stationary power.
We  are also setting up infrastructure in  Jamnagar to manufacture ancillary  material and equipment needed  to support the Giga Factories and  enabling independent manufacturers  to join and grow as part of this  ecosystem.
Reliance R&D teams  are actively working to make CO2 a  recyclable resource and innovating  lower emission technologies.
As we transition into a New Energy  era, targets for periodic reductions  in emissions are being established,  which will be monitored regularly  through governance mechanisms  that oversee RIL's progress toward Net  Carbon Zero goals.
The transition to a world that is  powered by clean energy is a capital  intensive journey.
RIL's strong balance  sheet, operational efficiencies  and competitive edge will help us  to absorb the impact of energy  transition costs, carbon taxes or  lower margins.
RIL keeps its stakeholders abreast  of its climate change goals through  ongoing engagement.
We believe  that this alignment is critical if  we are to succeed in creating a  sustainable future for our Company  and our stakeholders and build the  Reliance of tomorrow.
Commodity Prices and Markets Risk Description Despite a sharp demand recovery from the lows seen during the pandemic in 2020-21, total oil demand is yet to reach  pre-pandemic levels either globally or in India.
This, coupled with commissioning of additional refining capacity  notwithstanding the refinery closures in the West due to poor economics and in China due to pollution, keeps refining  margins under pressure.
The crude oil market remains tight due to production from OPEC Plus countries falling short of their targets and  continued sanctions on Iran and Venezuela.
Crude oil stocks have fallen close to 5-year lows.
Besides, geopolitical  developments like Russia and US/EU standoff on Ukraine and Houthi drone attacks in the UAE have added to the  price volatility as well as causing a high-risk premium on crude oil.
Alongside the above, gas prices also rose sharply  increasing input costs.
Impact of unforeseen events like pandemic on product evacuation, challenges in logistics and thereby probable  risk of stock surplus, plant shutdowns and stringent recycling norms and government regulations can reduce  plastic consumption.
Reliance Retail operates in the consumer sector and a slowdown in macro-economic growth and weak consumer  sentiments/spending could have a bearing on its performance.
Government restrictions on account of the COVID-19  pandemic could affect smooth operation of business activities, store operation, and expansion.
Sporadic disruptions in  the operating environment and inability to build infrastructure at a pace and scale needed by the rapidly growing Retail  business could hinder operational efficiency and customer service.
Competitive pressure from the retail industry reflected in price wars between various retailers and resulted in traditional  retailers moving from the physical retail world into e-commerce platforms disrupting walk-ins.
Risk Response Proactive measures by Reliance  such as revised product placement  strategies, placement in deficit  market through exports to diverse  geographical locations mitigated  the risk of non-evacuation with  minimal adverse effect.
Robust  supply chain network and additional  temporary warehouses closer to  the customer locations to address  the demand variability issues in the  domestic market.
The Company  increased the usage of multimodal  logistics (including coastal) to  fulfil its contractual commitment  to customers.
Reliance has either  started to supply or increased  volumes to some countries in Africa  and Latin America.
Also, the Company  has been targeting more end users/ buyers for exports and offering  cargoes on delivered basis.
In respect of crude oil, the Company  has increased sourcing from North  America (Canada in particular) as  well as non-conventional feedstocks  Management Discussion and Analysis 134 135 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Oversight over Investee Companies/Alliances Risk Description Reliance has entered into strategic alliances and other business relationships with various entities to expand its  operations.
Lack of oversight over Investee companies or not being able to successfully integrate RIL's acquisitions  might adversely impact its business and competitive position or affect its financial performance or result in significant  costs to integrate.
Risk Response Reliance incorporates the process  of immediately aligning investment/  investee companies to the Group  and rolls-out the Group governance  framework and integrates the   newly acquired companies in a  structured manner.
Customer Experience and Retention Risk Description Digital Services being a customer oriented business, any sub-optimal customer experience may result in customer  dissatisfaction and increased chances of churn.
In a fast-changing external environment, with evolving customer preferences and shopping habits, inability of the retail  business to stay abreast of these trends and behaviours could weaken its compelling value proposition and offering for  customers.
If the products sold are not safe or otherwise fail to meet customers' expectations, Reliance Retail could lose  customers, incur liability for any injuries suffered by customers and have material impact over brand, reputation and  financial performance.
Risk Response In spite of the resurgence of the  pandemic, unpredictable and  challenging environment, Digital  Services has further consolidated its  position as one of the world’s largest  and fastest growing mobile and  wireline data network and has India’s  largest subscriber base.
Digital business has adopted multiple  measures for sustained customer  experience including superior usage  and billing experience across all  touchpoints, anytime, anywhere  mobile and wireline broadband  network access, best-in-class  customer service backed by AI  BoTs and app based QRC process,  competitive tariff pricing and  agile model while developing its  systems and platforms.
Customer engagement remains  robust with strong gross additions of  subscribers, significant increase in net  MNP subscribers and increase in per  capita data usage.
The Company has also invested in  newer technologies start-up’s such  as AI / ML, Blockchain, BoT, Speech /  NLP, Metaverse, Mobility & 5G network,  Robotics, Cloud & Edge computing  etc.
Use of these technologies will  further enhance customer experience  and value proposition.
Reliance Retail is a consumer centric  organisation and adapts to any  changes in customer preferences  and shopping habits through  market study to stay abreast of the  emerging trends.
Entry into new  categories, adapting merchandise to  suit changing consumer demands,  launching of new store formats  are some of the initiatives that are  undertaken from time to time.
All our  businesses have taken cognizance  of ‘CUSTOMER SAFETY’ as the top- most value and priority.
All our  products manufactured in-house,  across formats, follow stringent  safety norms and adhere to rigorous  quality checks.
Regular screening  and checks for these products are   also undertaken when supplied by  vendors/ third party vendors.
like Straight run Fuel Oil to overcome  the tightness prevailing in heavy  crude oil supplies.
Leveraging the  versatility of its assets, the Company  has added more than 10 new grades  of feedstock during the year.
To  mitigate the impact of high gas  prices, Reliance did not import LNG  during the year and managed with  domestic gas and liquid fuels.
With  the foregoing mitigating measures,  the Company ensured near 100%  capacity utilisation.
Information feedback mechanism  has been strengthened with the  appointing of representatives in  China and the Middle East.
Reliance is  focusing on plastic waste collection  and disposal, increasing recycling  footprint in the country.
Reliance Retail undertakes a detailed  analysis of the macro-economic  situation and emerging risks for each  consumption basket and undertakes  suitable mitigation strategies.
Reliance Retail has built a resilient  operating model and operates  an integrated channel strategy  encompassing physical stores, digital  commerce platforms and partner  merchant ecosystem that helps in  engaging with consumers at all times.
Reliance Retail has opened over 2,500  stores and expanded reach through  Digital and New commerce channels  with requisite investments in supply  chain infrastructure and technology.
During the year, business gained  operating efficiency and footfalls as  environment returned to normalcy.
Reliance Retail is ahead of all market  competitors, in terms of 'pricing'.
Till  date, it is known as one of the 'lowest  price' operator nationally.
Operating  with huge volumes gives it a strong  foundational support and acts as a  competitive advantage to its overall  pricing strategy.
Talent to Support Scaling Business Risk Response Reliance has built a robust in-house  Talent pool for all business-critical  roles and created a rigorous training  regime to have successors ready at  every front end.
Open culture and  work environment are fostered in  the organisation.
Its campus outreach and  engagement initiatives have helped  RIL to secure prime slots on the  campus for graduate engineers as  well as MBAs.
Concerted efforts on job  rotations and growth opportunities  have propelled the productivity and  longevity indicators.
RIL has established a ‘Forward  Looking’ culture by forecasting  emerging trends related to people  skills along with continuous training  sessions.
This has helped in putting  together a talent pool with large scale  skilling initiatives, digitisation and  succession planning for businesses.
Risk Description With people at the heart of the business, Reliance's inability to attract, retain or develop employees relative to the scale  and breadth of its operations could adversely affect its business.
Data Privacy Risk Risk Description In this digital economy, businesses collect, process, and analyse data from individuals to understand their  customers better and provide customised experiences.
Collecting and using data necessitates several concerns  about data privacy.
Stringent Data Privacy laws and regulations are in place that regulate the collection, storage, and handling of personal  information by businesses globally.
Presently, Information Technology Act 2000 (amendment 2008) governs the data  privacy requirements in our country and India is on the cusp of adopting a comprehensive personal data protection law.
At Reliance, due to the expansion of B2C businesses, and large scale digitisation, there is an imperative need to handle  personal data of customers, consumers, employees, partners and service providers.
While these data helps RIL give  personalised and customised services, it also poses risk of data breach and non-compliances to laws and regulations.
Management Discussion and Analysis 136 137 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Cybersecurity Risk Risk Response The Company realises the  consequence of digital  transformation in terms of increase  of the cyber-attack surface due to  use of new generation technologies  like Cloud, AI, ML, Blockchain etc.
and  takes utmost care to ensure that  cyber security controls are part of the  design itself so that the Company is  secure-by-design.
Measures taken by the Company  include shift-left strategy in ensuring  that security is completely integrated  into the DevOps pipeline, highest  order of security automation and  orchestration to attain efficiency in its  cyber defense, and validation of its  cyber posture by third party experts.
Increased cyber security awareness  through employees’ mandatory  trainings and training for RIL's service  providers are important controls and  the Company considers this as a  'Human Firewall'.
Reliance has also  developed an anti-phishing platform  in-house viz R-Phish, through which  Reliance conducts regular phishing  simulation to make sure that all its  users are phishing resistant.
All RIL's businesses, manufacturing  units are ISO 27001 compliant for  the last 5 years in a row and all its  retail operations (Reliance Retail and  Petroleum Retail (Jio BP) are certified  with the latest PCI DSS (Payment card  industry Data Security Standard).
Reliance is the only organised and  multi brand retail business in the  country to demonstrate PCI DSS  certification continuously for nine  years in a row.
Multiple layers of proactive and  reactive controls are adopted for  Digital Services to mitigate risk of  vulnerabilities such as Penetration  tests on a routine basis, a Bug- bounty program since the last 3  years to crowdsource security testing  of live products by independent  security researchers.
A mature  cybersecurity program based on  NIST (National Institute of Standards  and Technology) Cybersecurity  Framework has been adopted.
All systems and security tools are  monitored for any cyberattacks via a  24x7 Security Operations Centre.
Risk Response Reliance makes sure that all its  business processes follow privacy- by-design principle and makes sure  that the Company handles privacy  information securely and with all  fiduciary responsibilities.
Reliance  conducts privacy impact analysis for  all the businesses on a regular basis  and makes sure that the gaps if any  are closed efficiently.
Reliance is quite cognizant of the risks  in handling personal data and takes  utmost care to handle these securely.
Ensuring and safeguarding data  privacy is one of the top priorities  for RIL.
Reliance believes in staying  always ahead of the compliance  curve and remaining compliant  to all present and future laws and  regulations related to Data Privacy.
While Reliance is compliant with the  existing data privacy laws of India, it is  also in the process of implementing  global best practices on Data  Privacy as part of its readiness for the  impending regulation.
Risk Description COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated the digital transformation and the way the Company works has fundamentally  changed.
This has subsequently increased RIL's dependence on digital technologies.
While Reliance continues to  focus on large scale digitisation, it brings a lot of concerns around Cyber Security with the use of new technologies,  open source software, adoption of cloud, etc.
Consequently, cyber-attack surfaces also increase substantially which  increases the cyber security risks.
Digital services being technology driven, there is an inherent risk of errors, bugs, or security vulnerabilities in products  and internal systems.
Safety and Operational Risks Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) Risks in Operations Risk Description HSE risks include the effects of natural disasters (floods, earthquakes, among others) and safety lapses on human  capital.
The nature of its operations exposes the Company, its employees and the society, to a wide range of health,  safety, security and environment risks due to the geographical location and technical complexity of operations.
Various HSE regulations across geographies regulate Reliance’s business of Exploration & Production of oil and gas, and  their further refining and downstream processing.
A major HSE incident, such as fire, oil spill and security breach, can  result in loss of life, environmental degradation and overall disruption in business activities.
HSE risk in retail extends to food safety and waste management also.
The nature of retail operations exposes RIL's  employees and contractors to a wide range of occupational health hazards as well as safety risks due to complexity  of operational requirements.
Changes in HSE regulatory framework possibly will have lasting effect on Retail Business,  especially in the environmental domain like changes in plastic waste management and e-waste rules.
Risk Response During the year, RIL's facilities in  the hydrocarbon business have  continued focused efforts to  manage the risks for safe, reliable,  and compliant operations.
Safety  and operational risk management  framework continues to play a pivotal  role in consistently managing HSE  risks on a real-time basis.
Reliance entities have devised novel  ways to review and audit the facilities  periodically through virtual and  physical means.
Reliance has been  active in networking with industry and  sponsored and participated in the ‘6th  Global Summit on Process Safety by  Centre for Chemical Process Safety’  and continued its contribution in  developing safe industry practices  through participation in Standards  Committees of statutory authorities  (OISD, PNGRB, etc.)
Reliance’s digital safety platform  project has progressed well in  digitalising its key HSE processes  through Industry 4.0 technologies.
This year, Reliance rolled out solutions  for digitalising risk registers, three  lines of defense program across its  key hydrocarbon entities.
Reliance  has undertaken significant activities  on new projects in hydrocarbon  business, in its fuel retail business  and New Energy domain, which have  progressed through various phases.
Reliance has taken various measures  to protect health of its workforce  in the pandemic.
The Retail business poses risks  inherent to retail operations involving  fire, breakdown in work event and risk  related to ergonomics.
Every member  of the workforce is communicated  on the potential exposure to HSE  risks, and they are an integral part of  risk management.
For the Grocery  business, food safety checks have  been implemented to provide  multiple layers of assurance, thereby  ensuring the safety of consumers.
Safety and Environmental Risks During Transportation Risk Description With most of the crude being supplied to RIL by sea vessels, and the overwhelming majority of refined products being  exported by sea, road and pipeline, the Company faces the risk of HSE incidents, oil spills and so on, leading to disruption  in business activities.
Events like technical integrity failure, natural disasters, extreme weather, human error and other adverse events or  conditions could lead to loss of containment of hydrocarbons or other hazardous materials, as well as fires, explosions or  other personal and process safety incidents.
RIL operates a fleet of tugs, port service vessels and operations of port and terminal infrastructure and is exposed to a  complex and diverse range of marine risks, with respect to exploration vessels, oil tankers, chemical tankers, gas tankers,  and dry cargo vessels.
Management Discussion and Analysis 138 139 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Risk Response RIL has a strong vessel vetting,  incident monitoring and emergency  response system.
A robust ship  vetting programme ensures the  vessels that are contracted to carry  RIL cargo or those calling Sikka port  to load products ‘Free-on-board’  are screened based on risks prior to  their induction.
The third-party ship  vetting system, based on extensive  data analysis, provides a risk rating  benchmarked against other similar  vessels.
This allows a clear picture of  the quality of the vessel and whether  it is acceptable to RIL.
Periodic vendor management audits  are carried out for time charters and  STS service providers in accordance  with the Marine Assurance Framework.
Where physical inspection of time- charter vessels is not feasible due to  COVID-19 protocol, a desktop review  is carried out.
Emergency Response system has  been tried out in real scenario and  found to be adequate.
Incident  Management includes root cause  analysis and ensuring ship-owners'  addressal of the same.
The data  is further used in assisting legal/ operations in case of any potential  losses to RIL as a result of the incident.
RIL’s control framework for road  transportation has matured over  a period of time and is run in  collaboration with contractors.
The  contractors are supported by the  Company through capacity building  for their drivers in areas such as  defensive driving, route hazard  mapping and real time tracking.
Physical Security and Natural Calamity Risks Risk Description Due to the geographical spread of operations, both onshore as well as offshore, Reliance is vulnerable to manmade  and natural disasters.
It is an attractive target for activities related to terrorism, criminal and violent protests, which could  cause harm to people, infrastructure and disrupt business operations.
Pandemic conditions can also have a severe  impact.
Therefore, it is important to proactively focus on safeguarding people and infrastructure from all internal and  external threats.
Prompt and adequate response is required to deal with all the internal and external crises and at the same time have  the situational awareness to do so.
Business continuity plans are critical to ensure that business operations are not  disrupted and if required, are restored at the earliest.
Otherwise, this could adversely impact the Company’s operations  and reputation.
Some of the network locations, offices, employees and other ecosystems are subject to various forms of intentional or  natural disruptions, thereby impacting network availability, customer experience, restoration cost and efforts.
Risk Response Global Corporate Security (GCS)  focuses on adopting pre-emptive de- risking strategies to safeguard and  secure the Company.
GCS has robust  business continuity management  plans and capability to handle  disasters, natural calamities, and any  other disruptions or incidents.
GCS is responsible for securing the  people, assets and operations of RIL.
This is accomplished by continuous  situational awareness to proactively  mitigate risks and constantly  review and upgrade security plans.
These are supported by deploying  manpower along with an integrated  security platform with wide area  high end electronic sensors, drones,  seamless communication and AI  based analytics across the enterprise.
The COVID-19 crisis posed unique,  unprecedented challenges which  were successfully overcome by  adopting new, revised procedures  and protocols in handling men and  material at all sites.
Digital Services have developed  and implemented an Integrated  Disaster Recovery and Emergency  Response Process.
Integrated  response is facilitated by various  teams to keep the networks functional  and customer services intact.
It  has also implemented measures  for prevention and detection of  any physical security threats which  includes patrolling the vulnerable  areas, Real-time situational  awareness by deploying alarms  management and monitoring  through centralised Networks  Operations Centre (NoC).
Disaster  recovery processes and drills are  also conducted for managing  unscheduled downtime.
Security  & Loss Prevention (SLP) and Field  Operations teams proactively support  in reducing pilferage, theft and  losses, alarm alerts, video based  surveillance, GPS based trackers and  consumption monitoring.
Reliance Retail SLP de-risks,  safeguards and secures the Retail  business of the Company with a  Regulatory Compliance Risks Risk Description Increased regulatory scrutiny has raised the bar on regulatory compliance.
This requires alignment of corporate  performance objectives, with regulatory compliance requirements.
COVID-19 has led the government to announce a  range of notifications which companies need to adopt swiftly and effectively.
Changes in the regulatory environment, licensing processes and timelines could potentially impede the ease of  doing business.
Compliance and Control Risks prudent mix of physical security,  remote surveillance and data- based audit interventions.
Reliance  Retail actively monitors threat and  maintains detailed disaster recovery  and incident response mechanism  plans to ensure business continuity  during any disruption or incident.
Enhanced use of technological  interventions and AI based exception  identification, using CCTV to  provide a less intrusive and highly  accurate risk management solutions  across businesses.
Risk Response Reliance has adopted a digitally-  enabled comprehensive compliance  management framework.
It is  integrated with business processes,  risks and controls.
Changes in  regulations, including COVID-19  induced changes, are also tracked  and integrated within the Reliance  Compliance Management System.
Effective control and efficient  oversight of the senior management  is ensured by cascading the  responsibility matrix till the last  performer of the activity.
Apart  from assurance through Three  lines of defense, compliances  are also periodically monitored  through the Segment Compliance  Committees and the Group  Compliance Committee.
Regular interactions with various  trade associations/ councils help in  anticipating regulatory environment  and through attuning to any  policy changes.
The Company’s Code of Conduct,  training as well as focus on  ensuring 100% compliance and  continuous monitoring have  enabled a mature, digitally-enabled  compliance framework.
Management Discussion and Analysis 140 141 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Treasury Risks Risk Response The Company continues to maintain  sufficient liquidity buffer to meet  additional demands that may  emerge on account of the growth  and new businesses.
Reliance issued  fixed rate Long-term senior unsecured  notes of US$4.0 billion, primarily for  refinancing maturities.
Interest rate risk is managed  actively through financial derivative  instruments available to convert  floating rate liabilities into fixed rate  liabilities or vice-versa.
FX bonds  issuance of US$4.0 billion was done  at a fixed coupon to lock in the  prevailing low levels of interest rates  and credit spreads.
Foreign Exchange (FX) risk arising from  the mismatch of foreign currency  assets, liabilities and earnings is  tracked and managed as per the  Internal Risk Management Framework.
Direct investments are restricted to  Board approved select AAA rated  corporates.
Debt Mutual Fund  investments are managed and  monitored based on a tight internal  Risk Management Framework  and restricted to high credit  quality schemes.
Financial Risks Risk Description As part of managing the market facing assets and liabilities, Treasury is exposed to the following key risks: Liquidity Risk As the global economy continues to recover from COVID-19, Central banks maintained accommodative stance during  the year resulting in low interest rates and ample liquidity.
The RBI is expected to remain dovish in the near term to  support growth despite global rate hikes.
Overall liquidity situation is also expected to remain comfortably in surplus.
Interest Rate Risk Reliance borrows funds from domestic and international markets to meet its funding requirements.
Given the  accommodative stance from Central banks, interest rates remained low during the year and RIL benefited from it.
RIL is  now subject to risks arising from fluctuations in interest rates.
Foreign Exchange (FX) Risk Reliance prepares its financial statements in Indian Rupee (INR), but most of the payables and receivables of the  Hydrocarbon business are in US dollars.
Foreign currency liabilities are availed to fund its capital investments and  working capital requirements.
Rupee depreciation impacts the landed cost of the foreign currency liabilities.
The  depreciation for this year has been 3.7%.
Credit Risk Reliance deploys surplus liquidity primarily in Government securities, State Government securities, AAA Corporate bonds  and Debt mutual funds.
Corporate bonds and Debt Mutual Fund investments bear credit risk.
Insurance – Risk  Mitigation Reliance operations may be subject  to a number of circumstances which  are not wholly within the Company's   control and which could adversely  affect its operations.
To cover such  eventualities, Reliance maintains  a robust risk mitigation practice  by transferring the insurable risk to  insurer.
Mostly protection is on All Risk  basis which includes cover against  fire, explosions, natural catastrophes,  breakdown, terrorism etc.
Entire  insurance program is designed  in such a way that adequate  protection is available for all assets  belonging to Reliance and against  the liability arising out of business  operations.
Protection design is  best-in-class and takes care of entire  Reliance’s operations.
SEBI – Developments   During the Year During the year, SEBI came out  with SEBI (Listing Obligations and  Disclosure Requirements) (Second  Amendment) Regulations 2021 w.e.f.
May 05, 2021 including requirements  related to Risk Management.
Also, it may be mentioned that these  risk management practices have  been adopted by the Company since  year 2018, largely on lines of global  best practices.
Leading Edge Technology  – Governance, Risk,  Compliance and Audit  (GRCA 2.0) Platform THe GRCA 2.0 Platform, which is an  in-house developed platform on  open source technology, has enabled  real-time actionable dashboards  and real-time monitoring of risks  and controls across three lines  of defense.
The platform along  with robust ERP system and data  analytics capabilities is used for risk  management.
The platform enables  control evaluation via automated  real time monitoring of exception  alerts, timely resolution and is  scalable and agile.
Looking Ahead The world is entering into a new  energy era, which is going to be  highly disruptive.
New Energy and New  Materials will help RIL in its mission  to heal the environment.
It is an  expression of Reliance’s commitment  that We Care for our planet.
JIO has  developed deep expertise in multiple  emerging technologies like 5G, AI/ ML and blockchain and Mixed Reality.
JIO PLATFORMS is blossoming into a  global technology player.
Reliance  Retail continues to be amongst  the fastest growing retailers in the  world.
Reliance’s risk management  is facilitating better risk mitigation  strategies and assurance over the  effectiveness of risk management  across all categories of risks.
Reliance  has navigated through the Black  Swan event with record growth and  unmatched innovative response  and is much more resilient for future  in this Brittle, Anxious, Nonlinear,  Incomprehensible (BANI) world.
Reliance’s risk management is  agile for course correction and is  scalable to support new businesses  and ventures, including dealing  with upside risks.
Management Discussion and Analysis 142 143 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review • Reliance Industries Limited named  as India's No.1 Company in the  Forbes 2021 World's Best   Employers list • RIL certified once again as a Great  Place To Work® by GPTW Institute  among India's Best Workplaces in  Manufacturing 2021 • RIL ranked among 15 organisations  that featured in ‘India’s Best  Employer’s Among Nation   Builders List 2021’ • Reliance ranked among LinkedIn's  ‘Top Companies 2021 List’, sixth time  in a row • Sh.
Srikanth Venkatachari   (Joint CFO-RIL) won the CFO of the  Year Award by Financial Express Leadership Awards Technology, Patents, R&D and Innovation • Hazira Manufacturing Division  awarded for ‘CII Digital  Transformation (DX) Innovative Best  Practice 2021’ under Innovation in  Supply chain and Logistics • Reliance Foundation received  the ‘CII DX Award 2021’ under  ‘Innovation in CSR through Digital  Transformation’ category for  improving rural livelihoods Hazira Manufacturing Division  awarded for ‘CII Digital  Transformation (DX) Innovative Best  Practice 2021’ under Innovation in  Supply chain and Logistics RIL certified once again as a Great Place To Work® by GPTW Institute among India's Best  Workplaces in Manufacturing 2021 Sh.
Srikanth Venkatachari (Joint CFO-RIL) won the CFO of the Year Award by Financial Express • Reliance Retail awarded the ‘Most Admired Retail  Group’ by IMAGES • Reliance Digital awarded the ‘Most Admired Emerging  Retail Company of the Year’ at MAPIC India Retail  Awards • Reliance Digital awarded the ‘Best Brand’ at the  Economic Times Best Brands Awards.
• Reliance Retail won ‘2022 Association for Talent  Development (ATD)’ • Reliance Retail certified as Great Place To Work® • Ranked 3rd amongst most innovative firms in   Asia-Pacific by Fast Company Business Media Retail Awards Reliance Retail awarded    ‘Most Admired Retail Group’ by IMAGES Reliance Digital awarded the ‘Most Admired Emerging Retail  Company of the Year’ at MAPIC India Retail Awards Reliance Retail won ‘2022 Association for Talent   Development (ATD)’ • Jio Platforms Limited listed in  the TIME 100 Most Influential  Companies 2021 list within the  ‘Innovators’ category • Jio claimed the title of India’s  Strongest Brand as well as the  world’s Strongest Telecom Brand,  according to the Brand Finance  2021 report • Reliance Jio was selected as  the Digital Enterprise of the Year  by Drivers of Digital Awards and  Summit 2021 • Reliance Jio’s MyJio App won  Silver in the Most Effective App  for Consumers category at The  Maddies Awards 2021 • Reliance Jio won a Gold Medal  in the Most Admired Brand of the  Year category at the ACEF-Global  Customer Engagement Forum and  Awards 2021 • Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited  was recognised as an Essential  Worker Hero of the Year and  conferred a Gold Globee Award for  ‘Ensured 400+ Million Customers  Stay Connected during COVID-19  Lockdown’ at the 11th Annual 2021  Communications Excellence  Awards organised by the Globee®  Awards • MyGov Corona Helpdesk by Jio  Haptik won Gold in the Most  Effective Chatbot Solution category  at The Maddies Awards 2021 • Reliance Jio was recognised as  the 'D&I Company of the Year  in Telecommunications' at the  Diversity & Inclusion Awards 2021 • The JioFiber Campaign was  recognised as the Best Multi  Channel Campaign by an IT/ ITES/IOT Enterprise at the mCube  Awards 2021 • Jio won 8th edition of 'e4m Indian  Marketing Awards' under the Long  Term Marketing Strategy category Digital Awards Jio Platforms Limited listed in the TIME 100 Most Influential Companies 2021 list within the ‘Innovators’ category Jio claimed the title of India’s Strongest Brand as well as the world’s Strongest Telecom Brand, according to the Brand  Finance 2021 report Reliance Jio was selected as the Digital Enterprise of the Year by Drivers of Digital Awards and Summit 2021 • Jamnagar Manufacturing Division  won Gold Medal in ‘National  Awards for Manufacturing  Competitiveness 2020-21’  organised by International  Research Institute for  Manufacturing (IRIM) • R&D Planning Team awarded  'CII Innovation Award' for Novel  Adsorbent for Dowtherm & NMP  Purification & RELOX catalyst  commercialisation • R&D Team won 'Global Waste  Management Best Technology of  the Year Awards 2021', organised  by World Waste-to-Wealth Summit  2021 • R&D Team received 'Innovator of  the Year' award from Federation of  Indian Petroleum Industry (FIPI).
• R&D Team awarded 'IP Excellence  Award, 2021', organised by Questel  Orbit Management Discussion and Analysis 144 145 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Awards and Recognition  • Barabanki Manufacturing Division  won Platinum Award under Apex  India Green Leaf Award 2020 for  ‘Plastic waste Management’ in  Manmade fibre industry sector • Dahej Manufacturing Division won  Platinum Award in ‘Safety Systems  Excellence’ from FICCI • Dahej Manufacturing Division  won Platinum Award in ‘Apex India  Green Leaf Environment Excellence  2020’ in the Petrochemical Sector • CNBC TV18 won the Gold for English  Business News Channel of the Year  at ENBA • CNN News18 won the bronze for  English News Channel of the Year  at ENBA • CNN News18’s Marya Shakil and  Anand Narsimhan won the ENBA  Gold and Silver for the Best English  Anchor, respectively • News18 India’s Kishore Ajwani won  the Silver in the Hindi News Editor of  the Year categories at ENBA  • CNBC TV18's show 'India Business  Hour' won the award for Best News  Programme at Asian Academy  Creative Awards and Gold at  ENBA for the Best English Business  Programme  • News18 India’s ‘Desh Nahin Jhukne  Denge’ won the ENBA Silver for Best  Hindi Prime Time Show • CNN News18's 'The Race for  Whitehouse’ won Gold for the  Best International News Coverage  English at ENBA • CNN News18's 'The Right Stand’ won  Silver for the Best English Prime  Time Show at ENBA • News18 India won the Silver Special  Award for ‘Hindi Channel of the  Year for Fact Checking Practice’ at  ENBA • News18 India won the ENBA Gold for  Best Spot News Reporting in Hindi  for the show ‘Operation Giddh’  Health, Safety and Environment • Dahej Manufacturing Division  won Excellence Award in ‘Energy  Conservation and Management’  in the Petrochemicals Sector from  FICCI • Nagothane Manufacturing Division  won First prize in ‘16 th State level  Energy conservation 2020-21’  organised by Maharashtra Energy  Development Agency Energy and Water   Conservation/Efficiency RIL E&P, KG-D6 awarded for ‘Significant increase in Gas production’ by FIPI for the year 2021 Dahej Manufacturing Division won Excellence Award in ‘Energy Conservation and Management’ in the Petrochemicals Sector from FICCI Jamnagar Manufacturing Division won Platinum Award in ‘Apex India Green Leaf – Environment Excellence’ in the C2 Complex Network18 - Mission Paani Award CNN ENBA  - India's Most Trusted English News Channel triumphs Dahej Manufacturing Division conferred  Platinum Award in ‘Safety Systems Excellence’  by FICCI Vadodara Manufacturing Division won  Gold in ‘Apex India Green Leaf 2020’ for  Environment Excellence • Nagothane Manufacturing Division,  PP Plant secured 1st position in the  category of ‘Internal Stream Factor’  in the annual Spheripol Global  Benchmarking Survey, 2020 • R Cluster field development  awarded ‘Best Managed Project  of the Year’ and 'Special award  for significant increase in gas  production' by Federation of Indian  Petroleum Industry (FIPI) • Jamnagar Manufacturing Division  won Platinum Award in ‘Apex India  Green Leaf - Excellence in Energy  Efficiency’ in the SEZ Refinery • Jamnagar Manufacturing Division  won Platinum Award in ‘Apex  India Green Leaf – Environment  Excellence’ in the C2 Complex • Jamnagar Manufacturing Division  won Gold Award in ‘Apex India  Green Leaf – Water stewardship’ • Nagothane Manufacturing Division  won award for ‘Excellence in  Health, Safety and Environment’ in  the Petrochemicals Sector • Patalganga Manufacturing Division  won Greentech Effective Safety  Culture Award 2021 • Vadodara Manufacturing Division  won Gold in ‘Apex India Green Leaf  2020’ for Environment Excellence • Jamnagar Manufacturing Division  awarded ‘Best In-Class Safety  Excellence Award’ at the National  Awards for Excellence • Jamnagar Manufacturing Division  awarded ‘Manufacturing ICON  Award’ at the National Awards for  Excellence • RIL E&P, awarded ‘Best Managed  Project of the Year’ for R Cluster  field development by Federation of  Indian Petroleum Industry (FIPI)" Media and   Entertainment Awards • News18 Kannada and News18  Assam Northeast won the Gold in  their regions for the Best In-depth  Series for Regional Programs • Voot won the award for ‘Best Digital  Brand Campaign Of The Year’ at  OTT & Digital Marketing Innovation  Awards for The Gone Game Social  Media Marketing Campaign • Colors Tamil won the ‘Promax Gold  Award’ for Best Launch Campaign  for its show 'Kodeeswari' • Mission Paani was recognized  as ‘The Best Media Initiative’ at  the 3rd National Water Awards in  the presence of the Honourable  President of India Management Discussion and Analysis 146 147 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Hazira Manufacturing Division awarded for ‘Excellence in 3R (Manage Own Waste)’ in the Manufacturing sector 2021 Jamnagar Manufacturing Division won Gold Award in ‘Apex India Green Leaf – Afforestation’ • RIL won ‘Plastic Packaging Waste  Recycling Product Leadership  Award 2022’ from Frost & Sullivan • Hazira Manufacturing Division  awarded for ‘Excellence in 3R  (Manage Own Waste)’ in the  Manufacturing sector 2021 RIL's startup alumni have continued  to garner media, academic and  industry attention.
This is a testimony  to their effort and ability to thrive in a  competitive market.
• Slang Labs raised an undisclosed  round of funding from Google  Assistant Investments Program  along with 100x Entrepreneurs  and participation from existing  investor Endiya Partners and angel  investors • Ayushi Mishra of Drona Maps won  the 'Startup of the year' award in  the rural governance category  at the MeitY-NASSCOM Startup  Women Entrepreneurs Awards  2020-21 • Qzense Labs and Dozee featured  in the inaugural edition of  'Forbes Asia 100 To Watch' list  which spotlights notable small  companies and startups on the  rise across the Asia-Pacific region • Skill assessment platform for  recruiting and hiring talent,  DoSelect was acquired by Naukri.
com’s parent company InfoEdge.
This acquisition will add a powerful  layer of tech-led assessment to  the existing Naukri.com platform  and evolve DoSelect to become  the de facto solution for tech  companies to discover, access and  hire the best talent • RIL declared joint winner in the  ‘Excellence in Community Impact’  category for its comprehensive  work across the areas of Rural  Transformation, Health, Education,  Sports for Development, Disaster  Response with a special focus on  COVID-19 response including the  programs of Mission Anna Seva &  Mission COVID-19 Suraksha • Reliance Foundation’s Machli  App announced winner at World  Summit Awards 2021  for providing  digital solutions , contributing to  the achievement of the United  Nations Sustainable Development  Goals • Sir H N Reliance Foundation  Hospital's vaccination programme  won the 'Best Vaccine programme  by a private hospital' from India  Today Healthgiri awards Sustainability JioGenNext Alumni Startups CSR Awards • Jamnagar Manufacturing Division  won Gold Award in ‘Apex India  Green Leaf – Afforestation’ • Jamnagar Manufacturing  Division won Gold in ‘India Green  Manufacturing Challenge 2020-21’  organised by IRIM • Fynd, the online shopping  marketplace, was the subject of  a Harvard Business School case  study written by Prof. Ranjay Gulati,  Kairavi Dey and Rachna Tahilyani.
The case study delved into several  aspects of the business, including  how they’re moving forward post- investment by RIL.
The case study  also explores how the co-founders  of Fynd went about building their  offerings, enabling retail stores and  much more • Data analytics and consulting  company GlobalData predicts  Orbo to potentially become a  unicorn in the AI space • Electric Vehicle startup Ather  Energy acquired rights to the  AiKaan OTA (Over-The-Air) platform  from JioGenNext alumni AiKaan  Labs • JioGenNext alumni Patch becomes  CleverTap's first acquisition.
Patch is  a unique technology that enables  in-app voice, chat and more • Vidcare, an at-home diagnostics  company from MAP - JioGenNext's  new Market Access Program,  recently participated in Sling Shot  2021, Asia's most exciting deep tech  startup competition and won the  P&G Health Vision Award and a  cash prize of SG$ 20,000 • The Best Employee Engagement  Team of the Year award went  to Reliance Jio CHRO Innovation  award for its Khayal Rakhna  initiative for contributing to a social  cause • Reliance Foundation received the  Gold Globee® Business Excellence  2021 award for its work-from-home  implementation, which includes  Khayal Rakhna initiative • Reliance Foundation granted  'Sports for Social Change' award  instituted by The Hindu media  Group • Reliance Foundation recognised  for its 'Corporate Leadership in ESG'  at The CSR Journal – Excellence  Awards 2021 • Uptime AI Inc was recognised as  today’s leading tech innovators in  the Energy and Natural Resources  (ENR) sector at KPMG's ENRich 2021  Startup Search • Dozee has raised `71 crore in an  additional funding round led by  Doordash’s Gokul Rajaram to make  critical care more easily accessible  and available in Indian hospitals  and will launch new products • Aarca Research, a healthtech  startup from JioGenNext’s MAP ‘21  programme, announced pivotal  clinical validation data showing  the company’s non-invasive test’s  accuracy for early detection of  metabolic comorbidities • ThinkerBell Labs’ Annie, the self- learning Braille literacy device,  was featured in Shark Tank India  (Season 1 Episode 13).
Annie, is the  world’s first Braille literacy device  that helps visually impaired people  learn to read, write, and type in  Braille on their own in any medium  of instruction.
They were able to  successfully raise `1.05 crore for 3%  equity • Reliance Foundation conferred  IAA Olive Crown Award 2022  under ‘Green NGO of the Year  - Silver’ category for its green  initiatives aimed at conserving  natural resources and promoting  ecological sustainability across  India • Machli, AI-based Mobile  Application for marine fisherfolk  conferred mBillionth South Asia  Award for the year 2020-21 in  the category ‘Agriculture &  Environment' for providing a one- stop solution to all needs of the  fishing community • Reliance received the Golden  Peacock Award for Corporate  Social Responsibility – 2021 Management Discussion and Analysis 148 149 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Extending 'Care'  during COVID-19 152 Reliance's Integrated   Approach to   ESG governance 155 Responding to the   Material Issues 162 Driving the ESG   Growth in Reliance 166 NATURAL CAPITAL MANUFACTURED   CAPITAL SOCIAL AND   RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL INTELLECTUAL   CAPITAL We Care  The pervasive unifying thread that   runs through everything that Reliance does is the spirit of 'We Care'.
For Reliance, 'We Care' is not just about caring for the financial and economic  well-being of the Company and its stakeholders.
It is also about taking  cognisance of the non-financial and social parameters, the convergence of  which is critical to optimise trust and goodwill with its stakeholders and the larger  ecosystem.
The Company's unique strength lies in its ability to balance financial  and non-financial goals.
It gives Reliance the edge to tap opportunities across  the spectrum to strengthen its long-term sustainable value creation potential  while meeting the needs of its diverse stakeholders.
Given the complexity of Reliance's  operations and its growth aspirations,  it must embrace the latest technology  advances, invest in robust research  capabilities, nurture communities  and stay abreast of ever-evolving  customer preferences.
The Company  must also create a mutually  rewarding experience for employees  and reduce the environmental  impact of every action it undertakes.
Reliance understands the importance  of monitoring and mitigating risks  and identifying opportunities that  can directly or indirectly impact  its present and future existence.
Its  approach has always been holistic so  that the interdependencies between  the different aspects of business  and the cause-effect relationship  are synchronous.
Its determination  to walk this balanced path and grow  while keeping 'Care' at the core are  reflected in the Company's resilient  and sustained financial performance.
The disclosures made in this  part of the report are shaped  by industry best practices and  universally accepted standards and  frameworks such as Global Reporting  Initiative(GRI), International Integrated  Reporting Council (IIRC), Task Force on  Climate-Related Financial Disclosures  (TCFD), United Nations Sustainable  Development Goals (SDGs) and  World Economic Forum's International  Business Council (WEF-IBC) metrics.
In this report, Reliance has  enumerated its value creation story  by aligning to the six capitals of the  framework laid down by the IIRC  covering Natural Capital, Human  Capital, Manufactured Capital,  Intellectual Capital, Financial Capital  and Social and Relationship Capital.
This section focuses on Reliance's  value creation from the lens of  Non-financial Capitals of IIRC <IR>  framework.
The details of Financial  Capital is described in the Financial  Performance and Review (Page 44)  section of this report.
Caring for our planet:  Building a more   sustainable world 168 Towards a cleaner future 168 Highlights FY 2021-22 169 Management approach 169 Environmental performance 169 Energy efficiency of   operations 170 Climate change 171 Ecosystems and biodiversity 172 Waste management and  circular economy 172 Towards circularity 173 Water and  effluent management 175 Way Forward 175 Integrated  Approach to  Sustainable Growth HUMAN CAPITAL Nurturing the 'One Reliance'  Family: Creating a growth- driven workplace with care   and empathy 176 Highlights FY 2021-22 177 Management approach 177 Health, safety and  employee well-being 178 Diversity and inclusion 179 Talent management 180 Way Forward 187 Committed to growing with  care for the planet 188 Highlights FY 2021-22 189 Business performance 189 Strengthening the  framework to build a  digital-first company 192 Way Forward 193 Research and development for  a sustainable future 194 Reliance research and  development: A crucial driver  of sustained value creation 194 Highlights FY 2021-22 195 Innovation and technology 195 Leveraging its intellectual  capital to fight COVID-19 195 R&D focus areas 196 Way Forward 201 Caring for the community:   Building a stronger India 202 Highlights FY 2021-22 203 Management approach 203 Community development 203 Sustainable supply  chain management 210 Nurturing digital ecosystems 212 Customer satisfaction 213 Way Forward 215 Independent   Assurance Statement 216 Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 150 151Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited FINANCIAL CAPITAL Read Financial Performance   and Review for more details PG 44 Reliance Industries –  Extending 'Care' during COVID-19  The world has grappled with a health and humanitarian crisis rarely  seen in history as it battled the COVID-19 pandemic in the past two  years.
For Reliance, caring for its stakeholders during these troubled  times took centre stage.
Just as people around the globe were  struggling to manage the first wave of the pandemic, the debilitating  second wave struck the world and India in 2021.
Against this backdrop,  Reliance's enduring commitment to 'Serve' or deliver 'Seva' to India  and humanity became even more crucial.
It formed the nucleus of  proactive support to communities undertaken by the Company.
Drawing on its combined strengths,  the 'One Reliance' family worked  round the clock to quickly mobilise  efforts on the ground to deliver 'CARE'  and support the nation's fight against  the pandemic.
Since its inception, the  Company's dedication to inclusive  growth, sustainable development and  meeting stakeholder expectations  have been a part of its core values.
Reliance's commitment to its  stakeholders includes but is not  limited to the communities in which  it operates, the employees who drive  its growth, the suppliers and partners  who help achieve its business goals  and the customers who are the lifeline  of the Company.
Reliance's spirit of  'WE CARE' encompasses all Indians  and the humanity at large.
Today as  India and the world emerge out of  the shadows of COVID-19, the spirit  of resilience has become the new  lodestone guiding Reliance in the  post-pandemic era.
Employee Care During the pandemic, Reliance  extended care to its employees and  the 'One Reliance' family through a  four-pronged approach that covered  communications, risk reduction,  creating Infrastructure, and ensuring  health and well-being, with a focus  on mental health.
• In addition to implementing  stringent social distancing norms,  all work locations were sanitised  every three hours.
Materials  entering sites and townships were  fumigated to ensure safety.
• To contain the spread of the virus,  Reliance ran daily temperature  checks and ran a separate  Outpatient Department for  employees with symptoms.
• Reliance initiated an online  symptom-checker where the  employees filled questionnaires  daily to identify high-risk cases and  extend support, as required.
• The Company adopted robust  testing modalities in collaboration  with the state-of-the-art Reliance  Life Science Labs to maximise  testing capacity.
• Reliance developed dedicated  COVID-19 care centres across  various locations housing over  2,000 beds for critical patients.
• The Company implemented a  COVID Pass Authenticator that has  been integrated with the online  symptom checker and testing data.
• The Company announced an  initiative, 'Reliance Family Support  and Welfare Scheme', under which  it extends support to the bereaved  family members of the employees  who succumbed to COVID-19.
• The Company made provisions  for special COVID leave that  employees can avail if they or  their family members are affected  by the pandemic.
• For off-roll workforce members  who succumbed to the pandemic,  the Company, through Reliance  Foundation, extended its support  to the bereaved families by  contributing a lump sum payment  of `10 lakh directly to the nominee  of the deceased.
• In line with the Government of  India's guidelines, Reliance rolled  out its vaccination programme,  called Mission Vaccine Suraksha, for  all its employees and eligible family  members.
As of FY 2021-22, nearly  100% of the eligible employees  have been administered the  first dose under Mission Vaccine  Suraksha and 96% of all the eligible  employees are fully vaccinated.
•  To address physical and mental  health challenges, Reliance  implemented webinars on lifestyle  disorders and ways to manage the  post-pandemic impact, Diabetes  Control Mission, BMI reduction  programme, and lifestyle clinic,  amongst others.
• Teleconsultations with specialists  were conducted via the  JioHealthHub app.
• Yoga and meditation sessions and  peer-to-peer discussion platforms  were facilitated.
Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 152 153 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Community Care  Mission Oxygen: setting up  the largest production unit of  medical-grade liquid oxygen  from a single location in India Availability of medical grade oxygen  for impacted patients was a life-saving  need during COVID-19, especially  during the second wave.
Under the  dedicated personal supervision of  the Chairman and Managing Director,  Shri Mukesh D. Ambani, the Company  re-engineered its existing facilities  to set up the largest production  facilities in India to produce and  deliver medical oxygen from a  single location in record time.
The  Company adopted a two-pronged  approach to strengthening the  availability of medical-grade oxygen  in India, including: • Refocusing several industrial  processes at Reliance's Jamnagar  and other facilities for rapid scale- up in the production of medical- grade liquid oxygen.
• Managing the supply chain  by augmenting loading and  transportation capacities to  ensure the swift and safe supply  of oxygen to states and Union  Territories across India.
Despite not being a manufacturer of  medical-grade oxygen historically,  the Company's engineers quickly  reconfigured and optimised  operations, which were initially  designed for refining and producing  petrochemical grade oxygen to  produce high-purity medical-grade  oxygen during the second wave of the  pandemic.
Reliance also converted  nitrogen tankers into transport trucks  for medical-grade oxygen through  innovative and safe processes  approved by the Petroleum and  Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO),  the relevant regulatory body of the  Government of India.
In the words of Chairman and Managing  Director Shri Mukesh D. Ambani, "For me  and all of us at Reliance, nothing is  more important than saving every  life as India battles against a new  wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.
There is an immediate need to  maximise India's production and  transportation capacities for medical  grade oxygen.
I am proud of our  engineers at Jamnagar who have  worked tirelessly, with a great sense  of patriotic urgency, to meet this  new challenge.
I am truly humbled  by the determination and sense of  purpose shown by the bright, young  members of the Reliance family  who have once again risen to the  occasion and delivered when India  needs it the most."
Expanding COVID Care  Facilities  • As the second wave of COVID-19  infections gripped the country,  Reliance BP Mobility Limited  (RBML, Operating under the brand  name Jio-bp) reintroduced its  programme of supplying fuel  free of cost to COVID emergency  services vehicles.
Under the  pan-India programme, a total  of 2,203.59 KL was dispensed to  56,283 emergency vehicles (53,272  HSD and 3,011 MS) from May 13  to June 30, 2021.
•  Reliance procured and  administered 40+ lakh vaccine  doses.
Of this, 9.4 lakh doses were  given to various state governments  and 2 lakh to the armed forces.
Since its inception, Reliance has been  committed to sustainable growth,  which has only been possible due  to the underpinning governance.
The Company recognises the role of  robust governance mechanisms for  long-term value creation.
Efficient  corporate governance has acted as  a pillar of Reliance's sustained growth  throughout the year.
Reliance's Corporate Governance  practices are driven by the principles  of transparency, accountability,  and integrity.
This is operationalised  by relevant policies and Standard  Operating Procedures (SOPs) to  ensure compliance and good  governance for all stakeholders.
Board Governance Reliance’s senior leadership  comprises of a 14-member Board  which is responsible for direction  and oversight of Reliance.
The  Board of Directors come from  diverse backgrounds with unique  competencies and rich experience.
The induction into the Board of  Directors is instituted by the Board  level Human Resources, Nomination  and Remuneration Committee.
This  Committee oversees aspects which  include formulation of the criteria for  determining qualifications, positive  attributes, and independence of  a Director, and recommend to  the Board a policy, relating to the  remuneration of the Directors, Key  Managerial Personnel, and other  employees.
The Committee has  also developed a set of criteria for  evaluating the performance of the  Board of Directors, including that of  Independent Directors.
Attendance,  familiarity with the business, and  engagement are some of the key  parameters defined for evaluating  the Board's performance.
The Board  of Directors, through its Committees,  oversee the ESG initiatives  and performance.
Board diversity in skill-set, nationality,  experience, and perspective is  important for effective leadership and  governance.
A diverse Board provides  guidance and effective oversight  over the Company's operations.
It enhances responsiveness to  stakeholder needs, collaboration  across departments, and provides  expertise leading to the continuous  growth of the Company.
Presently,  the Board consists of two eminent  women directors.
Regulatory Issues and  Compliance Regulatory compliance at Reliance  has been of utmost importance,  especially in an evolving regulatory  scenario.
Reliance’s Regulatory  compliance risk is addressed by the  Reliance Compliance Management  System.
It is a digitally enabled  comprehensive compliance  management framework that's  integrated with business processes,  risks and controls and updated on  a regular basis.
Changes in regulations are  also monitored on an ongoing  basis by the Group Compliance  Committee.
The Directors get  monthly or quarterly information  on key statutory and regulatory  developments, as well as  key judicial rulings affecting  interpretation of important laws.
More information is available on   https://www.ril.com/ar2020-21/pdf/ Risk%20and%20Governance.pdf ESG Governance Reliance is on a continuous  improvement journey to create long- term value for its stakeholders.
The key  decisions that are taken pertaining to  ESG include indepth analysis through an  Integrated Profit and Loss lens.
Reliance  has integrated ESG into its governance  structure so that the Company can  have a better oversight and strengthen  management responsibility for  business-related ESG challenges and  opportunities.
The Corporate Social Responsibility  & Governance (CSR&G) Committee  oversees the implementation of  sustainability activities.
Business  Responsibility Report (BRR) describing  the initiatives taken by the Company  from an environmental, social and  governance perspective is reviewed  and recommended to the Board by the  CSR&G Committee.
The progress on the  Company’s CSR initiatives is periodically  reviewed by the CSR&G Committee  and the Company’s Board of Directors.
RIL continuously enhances its existing  systems and processes to capture  the impact of its social/economic and  developmental initiatives.
The Risk  Management Committee oversees  the ESG related risks and risk mitigation  measures.
Further, the Health, Safety  & Environment (HSE) Committee  reviews the environment related  policies and matters.
Detailed information on various Board  Committees is available on https:// www.ril.com/OurCompany/Leadership/ BoardCommittees.aspx and the Corporate  Governance section of this report.
Policies and Codes Policies and codes are the essential  components that help operationalise  governance frameworks.
Reliance's  policies and codes signify the Company's  commitment to the highest business  ethics and corporate values and are  communicated transparently to all the  relevant stakeholders.
A detailed list of  policies is available in the Corporate  Governance Section of this report.
Reliance's Integrated Approach to  ESG Governance Ramped up from zero to produce 11% of the liquid medical-grade oxygen  requirements of the country, including establishing the entire supply chain to  meet the urgent need Set up capacity of  2,000+ beds for COVID-19 care Increased capacity of Reliance-led  COVID-19 testing labs to  15,000+ Distributed 8.5+ crore Meals  Distributed 2,00,000+ gloves and 5,00,000+ ORS packets Distributed 1.4+ crore Masks  Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 154 155 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Code of Conduct With strict adherence to its  Code of Conduct Policy, RIL  maintains its reputation and  continues to earn the trust of its  stakeholders.
A robust Code of  Conduct Policy ensures integrity,  accountability, and transparency  in the Company.
RIL's code  lays down the responsibilities  and expectations for the  Directors, Business Partners,  Employees, Suppliers, and  other stakeholders.
To deal with  ethical transgressions in the  organisation, the Company has  established the Vigil Mechanism,  Whistle blower Policy, and Ethics &  Compliance Task Force (ECTF).
More information is available at  https://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/ IRStatutory/Code-of-Conduct.pdf Details of Reliance's governance  policies and codes can be accessed  on its website: https://www.ril.com/ investorrelations/downloads.aspx Towards Clean and Alternative Energy:   Reliance Net Zero announced its National Hydrogen Mission, which aims to boost green hydrogen  production.
As a Company that is always focused on growing businesses of the  future and making India a stronger economy, Reliance will lead by leveraging  its strengths that include finance, talent, technology, and proven project  execution capabilities.
The Company aims to play a meaningful role in meeting  the country's growing energy demand sustainably by making its New Energy  business truly global.
Reliance's Strategy  As a part of Reliance’s long-term strategy on emission reduction, the Company  is committed to reducing its overall operational GHG footprint – Scope 1 or  direct emissions and Scope 2 or indirect emissions from energy purchase.
The Company is already accelerating  its progress through resource  efficiency and energy conservation.
As the business evolves towards  its Net Zero target, digitalisation  is one factor that enables the  ecosystem.
Reliance is using its  global collaboration to help establish  the feasibility and successful  deployment of CCUS.
The Company's initiatives will  contribute towards the United Nations  Sustainable Development Goals (UN  SDGs) to combat climate change,  ensuring sustainable consumption  and production patterns, and  ensuring access to affordable,  reliable, sustainable, and modern  energy for all.
Reliance's Approach  Reliance is on the path of  transformation to move its legacy  businesses to Net Zero operations  and improve it further with the  best Corporate Governance and  sustainability systems.
The Company has already enlisted  eight global technocrats, many of  whom are advisers to governments  worldwide, as part of a nine member  New Energy Council.
This Council will  be vital in leading an accelerated  transition and providing futuristic  solutions to practical problems that  may arise along the way.
Reliance's approach is to create a  New Energy ecosystem, transition  to clean energy and convert clean  energy to Green Chemicals.
Reliance's Goal  Reliance believes that although  climate change is a global threat,  but tackling it in a timely manner  can offer an opportunity to create  a healthier, happier, more secure  and resilient future.
Therefore, the  global New Energy agenda has to  transcend from dialogue to action  and commitment through urgent  on-ground implementation.
Led by  this vision, Reliance had announced  a target to be Net Zero by 2035.
To achieve this ambitious goal,  Reliance announced to: • Establish and enable 100 GW of  solar energy by 2030 • Build Giga Factories to create and  offer a fully-integrated, end-to- end renewable energy ecosystem • Invest in value chain, partnerships  and future technologies,  including upstream and  downstream industries  • Transform its business to Net  Carbon Zero operations  Reliance's Commitment As the world develops new  technologies to combat the effects  of climate change, Reliance has  embraced the need of the hour and  spearheaded its initiatives towards  decarbonisation.
The Company is  transforming itself, embracing new- age technologies and establishing  a comprehensive green energy  ecosystem in India, ranging from  solar modules and batteries to  hydrogen fuel cells.
Reliance sees investments in  renewables and alternative energy  as an active way to ensure positive  outcomes for future generations.
With renewables and alternative  energy dominating the future power  generation mix, the Company is  changing the way it operates.
As one of the biggest energy markets  globally, India will play a key role  in transforming the world's energy  landscape.
The country has already  The O2C Net Zero plan is anchored on six key strategic initiatives, which  are as follows: Improving energy efficiency  Energy transition to clean and green renewable energy  from fossil fuels  Repurposing of petcoke gasification streams to utilise syngas for  producing chemicals and hydrogen  Producing syngas on a renewable basis through  biomass gasification Using Carbon Dioxide (CO2) as a recyclable resource and  adopting Carbon Capture Utilisation and Sequestration  (CCUS) pathways such as but not limited to synthetic fuels  and chemicals, mineral carbonation in construction materials,  algae cultivation for biofuels and food supplements, and other  technology-led solutions  Generating carbon credits and using them to offset hard-to- abate emissions  Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 156 157 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review The Company has made substantial  progress on photosynthetic biological  pathways to convert CO2 emissions  at Jamnagar into high-value proteins,  nutraceuticals, advanced materials,  and fuels.
The Company is taking  strong strides in its journey to develop  the next-gen Carbon Capture and  Storage (CCS) technologies.
It is  also evaluating options to convert  novel catalytic and electrochemical  transformations to use CO2 as a  valuable feedstock.
Reliance has also embarked on  making changes in the present  business, using less carbon-intensive  alternatives and changing the legacy  business model.
Promoting a net- zero strategy in energy production  and consumption is a key focus area  for the Company.
Championing an  aggressive energy transition, Reliance  sees a significant opportunity in  hydrogen and alternate energy as  the key to developing its business  of the future.
While doing so, the  Company is selecting meaningful  technologies for building a portfolio  that has the most efficient, smart and  sustainable solutions.
Progress Towards Task Force on Climate Related  Financial Disclosures (TCFD) In its quest to strengthen climate- related disclosures and the  management and reporting of  climate-related risks in response  to the TCFD recommendations, the  Company is further strengthening  its endeavour to move towards  Net Zero.
In line with the TCFD  risk methodology, it takes into  cognisance climate-related risks that  may hamper the Company's growth.
It has instituted steps to hedge  such identified risks using proper  lines of control.
Governance Governance is one of the most  vital components of a company's  climate risk framework.
This pillar  covers the Governance framework,  roles, responsibilities, and decision- making procedures by which a  company adheres to its climate- related commitments.
Reliance  has a robust Governance structure  to identify and mitigate climate- related risks and opportunities.
The  Company's material issues that  may impact climate change are  assessed at regular intervals.
The  Governance structure followed at  Reliance to oversee climate change  risk mitigation includes: The HSE Committee has broad oversight on climate-related governance.
The HSE Committee, CSR & Governance and the Risk Management Committee  oversees Company's ESG initiatives.
Strategy Reliance conducts a deep analysis  of the climate-related nuances  of all its businesses to formulate  critical strategic advantages and  competitive strengths of each  segment.
The structured materiality  assessment process also helps  determine issues vital to individual  business units and Reliance.
The  Company has outlined its way  to decarbonise in Reliance's  Net Zero Strategy.
A detailed discussion on the  Company's New Energy Business to  achieve Net Zero by 2035 is provided  in the MD&A section of this report.
Risk and Opportunities Climate-related risks pose threats  that have financial implications for  organisations, such as direct damage  to assets and indirect impacts on  the supply chain.
Reliance identifies  such risks at the Corporate and  site levels through integrated work  processes and group-wide risk  management.
It applies an Enterprise  Risk Management (ERM) framework  The Company has created Global  Corporate Security (GCS).
It is a  dedicated and distinct function that  focuses on adopting pre-emptive,  de-risking strategies to safeguard  and secure the Company from  disasters, natural calamities, and  any other disruptions or incidents  as a part of business continuity  management.
GCS ensures that the  people, assets, and operations of  Reliance are secure.
To combat climate change, Reliance  has embarked on an ambitious  journey to transition to new, green,  and clean energy.
However, this  transition to a lower carbon economy  brings its own set of risks which  include dynamic policy, legal,  regulatory, technology and market  developments and changes to  facilitate this transition.
Reliance sees a significant  opportunity in hydrogen and  alternate energy.
Details on the  Company’s energy transition plan  is provided in the Natural Capital  section and the details on creating a  green energy ecosystem is in the New  Energy section.
Metrics and Targets The disclosure on Metrics provides  information on how the Company  is progressing towards targeted  climate-related indicators.
These are  the mechanisms for measuring and  disclosing the progress in line with the  commitments or ambitions set for  managing and mitigating the impact  of climate-related risks.
Reliance  consistently discloses its metrics,  goals, and progress against them in  its Annual Integrated Report.
Reliance's assured climate-related  parameters and performance  metrics can be found in the section  on Natural Capital on PG 168-175 of this report.
Climate  related  governance Risk  Management  Committee HSE  Committee CSR &G  committee using top-down and bottom-up  approaches to anticipate any  issues and mitigate their impacts  in advance.
Climate-related risk  management initiatives are analysed  through the lens of physical and  transition risks.
To facilitate continuous  and real-time risk assessment,  Reliance has implemented a  'Three Lines of Defense' model  that encapsulates: • First line of defense by Business/ Process managers through  Self-verification • Second line of defense by the  Risk Management team through  Functional Assurance • Third line of defense by the  Internal Audit and Management  Assurance Function offering  Independent Assurance  Reliance’s business operations face  risks from natural calamities due to  the vast spread of its operational  locations.
Natural calamities which  are largely resultant of climate  change are being manifested in  terms of heat waves, erratic rainfall,  cyclones, floods, and drought.
Alignment with WEF-IBC Core Metrics  Theme Governing Purpose  Quality of governing body Stakeholder Engagement Ethical behaviour Risk and opportunity  oversight Report Section Corporate governance section PG 218  ;  Value-creation model PG 28 Corporate governance section PG 218  ; Responding to the Material Issues PG 162 Corporate governance section PG 218  ;  Human capital PG 176 Management Discussion and Analysis  Report; PG 42  ; Progress towards Task Force  on Climate Related Financial Disclosures  (TCFD) PG 158 Pillar-1 Governance Pillar-2 Planet Climate Change Natural capital PG 168  ; Progress  towards Task Force on Climate  Related Financial Disclosures  (TCFD) PG 158 Pillar-3 People  Dignity and Equality Health and well-being Skills for the future Corporate governance  section PG 218  ; Human capital PG 176   Human capital PG 176 Human capital PG 176   Pillar-4 Prosperity  Employment and wealth  generation Innovation of better  products and services Human capital PG 176  ; Value-creation  model PG 28  ; Consolidated Statement  of Cash Flow PG 402     Intellectual capital PG 194   Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 158 159 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review We Care: Maximising Shared Value EmployeesStakeholder  Group Investors Customers Suppliers NGOs Communities Government and  Regulatory Authorities For Reliance, employees  are at its core and one of  its most valuable assets  driving its consistent  success.
Reliance is  committed to providing  a progressive workplace  focused on its employees'  overall development  and well-being.
Investors play a critical  role in bolstering the  Company's financial  position and ensuring  its operational success.
Reliance is committed  to creating value for its  shareholders through  implementing scalable  business strategies.
Reliance places a great  emphasis on ensuring that  the requirements of its  customers are understood  and met.
Reliance aspires  to be the brand of choice  for all its customers  and remain relevant  through its customer- centric approach.
Reliance fosters long- term relationships with  its suppliers and ensures  compliance with the  Business Partner Code  of Conduct policies.
The  Company believes that  its suppliers enable the  organisation to source  responsibly and adhere to  the highest standards.
Reliance works together  with Non-Governmental  Organisations (NGOs) to  achieve holistic growth  and broaden the scope of  its objectives.
Reliance strives to provide  value to local communities  to maintain its social  licence to operate.
By  contributing to the  upliftment and growth of its  surrounding communities,  the Company aspires to  prosper with them.
Government policies  and regulations impact  Reliance's operations and  open up new avenues  for the Company to  pursue its goals.
Functions Engagement   Channels Frequency Key Factors Impact on Capitals • Human Resources • Corporate Services • Medical Services • Security • Investor Relations • Secretarial  and Compliance  • Manufacturing  division CSR teams • Reliance Foundation • Reliance  Foundation Youth Sports • Reliance Foundation  Institution of  Education and Research • Reliance Foundation • Reliance  Foundation Youth Sports • Reliance Foundation  Institution of  Education and Research • CSR Divisions: Retail,  Digital Services, O2C,  Oil and Gas E&P • Crude, feedstock,  and fuel sourcing  • Procurement  and contracting  Business Teams: • Retail • Digital Services • O2C • Oil and Gas E&P • Secretarial and  Business Compliance  • Legal Personal/group interactions,  mailers, trainings,  employee satisfaction  survey, townhalls Meetings, conferences,  investor calls, roadshows  and correspondence  Meetings,  surveys, web portals Meetings and through  Annual Reports or  compliance filings Meetings and correspondence,  participatory development  activities, project planning and  implementation meetings,  capacity building and  communities of practice Meetings, newsletters,  surveys, fieldwork and  trainings, digital services,  virtual engagement Industry representations,   filings, correspondence,   meetings Annually, Quarterly,  monthly, need- based, real-time Annually, half- yearly, quarterly,  monthly, need-based Annually, monthly,  need-based, real-time Real-time, need-based Annually,  ongoing partnerships  Annually,  ongoing partnerships Annually,  ongoing engagements Employee well-being,  health and safety,  performance reviews,  career development  conversations,  training, and upskilling  Natural Capital  Human Capital  Manufactured Capital Financial performance,  growth plans and  strategies, shareholder  returns and dividends Customer experience,  product and service  quality, Reliance's  response to demands  and expectations Terms and conditions,  procedures, and payments Community development,  Public infrastructure  development, community  health and well-being,  enable communities to  achieve their potential Community needs and  expectations, financial and  medical support, health,  nutrition, and livelihood  enhancing efforts, building  capacities and training Compliance with regulatory  requirements, collaboration  in government-led sectoral  plans and programmes Reliance adopts a stakeholder centric approach when making business decisions.
Understanding stakeholder  expectations and aligning business objectives are critical to Reliance's growth.
The Company regularly engages with its  stakeholders to seek constructive feedback and systematically identify and resolve their concerns.
Reliance has developed robust processes to communicate and engage with various stakeholder groups and instituted  necessary measures to meet their requirements and expectations appropriately.
The Company strives for economic  and ecological sustainability through these interactions and pre-empt and manage future uncertainties.
Reliance's Stakeholder engagement approach and inter-linkage with the Capitals:  Intellectual Capital  Social and Relationship Capital  Financial Capital Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 160 161 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Materiality is principle that determines  which topics or issues directly or  indirectly impact an organisation’s  ability to create value for all  stakeholders and stay competitive.
The Company conducts in-depth  materiality assessment at defined  intervals to identify the topics that  are pertinent to its business and  stakeholders.
At Reliance, materiality  assessment entails finding and  evaluating a wide range of potential  economic, environmental, and  social issues that could impact the  Company’s performance and its  stakeholders and then prioritising  them into important material topics.
Peer  Benchmarking Responding to the   Material Issues Identified a list of industry peers as well  as international standards viz.
GRI and  SASB and conducted a benchmarking  for material topics.
Identified key internal and external  stakeholder groups for RIL and  communicated with them regarding the  materiality assessment exercise.
Created questionnaires for relevant  stakeholder groups and collected  response from each stakeholder group.
Collated stakeholders' responses  and carried out a detailed analysis  of the responses.
Created a prioritised list of material  topics based on the results of  the analysis.
These topics will be  considered as material for RIL.
Key external stakeholder groups identified • Shareholders/ Investors • Government regulators • Customers • Employees • Local communities • Suppliers • NGOs Reliance has always strived to address issues concerning its  stakeholders and the growth of its businesses.
The Company  consistently works towards creating a long-term value for all its  stakeholders by responding to their needs and expectations.
Approach towards  Materiality Reliance operates in dynamic  environments, and the assessment  of material topics is an ongoing  process that helps the Company  in prioritising the topics depending  on its criticality.
Reliance conducted  a materiality assessment for the  listed entity during FY 2021-22.
The  selection of material topics involved  identifying probable material issues  considering international reporting  standards and the priorities of peers.
Subsequently, key internal and  external stakeholders that have an  impact and influence on Reliance  were identified for the materiality  assessment.
Inputs of the identified  stakeholders on the probable  material issues were captured  through relevant stakeholder  engagement mechanisms.
A  detailed analysis of each probable  material issue was undertaken,  considering the inputs of stakeholders  and management.
Further, the  material topics were prioritised  considering both management and  stakeholder perspectives.
Identification of important  stakeholders Stakeholders' survey for  determining the impact of  probable material topics Evaluation of stakeholder  perception of Reliance’s impact  with respect to material topics Prioritisation of material  topics for RIL Internal Stakeholder Questionnaire Comprehensive questionnaire  divided into 3 parts: • Part A: Prioritising identified stakeholders • Part B: Prioritising enlisted business impacts • Part C: Rating material topics External Stakeholder Questionnaire • Short questionnaire for rating of enlisted  material topics Methodology Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 162 163 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Through the focused materiality assessment process, RIL has identified the following key issues that are material to the  growth of the Company and the well-being of all its stakeholders.
Environment Why the issue is material to Reliance Climate Change With the increasing awareness around  climate change, it is crucial for Reliance to  address the challenges by taking conscious  efforts to ensure that the Company continues  to respond to the issues arising out of  climate change and develop a pathway to  decarbonise its operations.
1 Managing Environmental   Impacts Being a company with a vision to contribute  materialy to the future of India, it is critical  for Reliance to continue its environmental  management efforts that are aimed at creating  positive impacts and minimising negative  impacts that may result from unpredictable  spills or unmanaged GHG emissions.
Energy Efficiency   of Operations While the world is moving towards optimal  eco-efficiency, it is important that Reliance  manages its raw material and assets in the  most efficient manner to generate superior  returns while reducing carbon footprint  through its energy efficient operations.
Water and Effluent  Management Water availability and accessibility are key  concerns.
Being a responsible corporate,  Reliance needs to map and manage the  water used across its operations and ensure  that the consumption is socially equitable  and environmentally sustainable.
Waste Management &  Circular Economy In a decade where waste management  is a critical issue and moving towards a  circular economy can be an alternative, it is  critical for Reliance to continue innovating  its processes to materialise its vision of  scaling up the recycling of its materials and  maximising circularity across the value chain.
Sustainable Supply Chain  Management With its extensive supplier footprint spread  across the globe, it is important for Reliance  to address the issues of quality, safety,  environmental impacts, and social aspects  such as human rights and fair wages.
Disaster Preparedness and  Management With the criticality of climate change impacts  being manifested in unpredictable weather  patterns, cyclones, droughts, and downpour,  it has become important for Reliance  to continue its endeavours in planning,  organising, coordinating, and implementing  measures for the prevention and mitigation  of disasters.
Raw Material Security Efficient reuse of materials to minimise  dependency on raw materials and predicting  future requirements is essential for Reliance  to ensure raw material security and efficient  consumption.
Ecosystem and Biodiversity Ecosystem and biodiversity loss can have a  grave impact on a company’s reputational  risk.
Hence, it is important that Reliance  continues its conscious efforts to ensure  proper care is being taken by the Company  to preserve flora and fauna within its  geographical scope.
2 3 6 10 9 5 4 8 Governance Why the issue is material to Reliance Economic Performance The Company’s undeterred focus on financial  and operational performance is essential for  maximising stakeholder value and ensuring  consistent growth of the organisation, year  after year.
Regulatory Issues and  Compliance Compliance is the foundation to build the  reputation of the Company.
It is crucial for  Reliance to continue to ensure regulatory  compliance to build trust among its  stakeholder groups while also ensuring that  its operations are in line with relevant and  applicable laws to avoid legal violations.
21 Code of Conduct Code of Conduct embodies a company’s  vision and mission and defines business  practice principles.
For an organisation like  Reliance, it helps dovetail the Company  ethos, set the highest standard of values, and  create a healthy business relationship with all  stakeholders.
25Risk Management Risk management is of paramount  importance for Reliance to ensure that the  Company is safe from volatility, the current  and emerging risks and uncertainties  surrounding its business.
Having a robust  risk management system and effective  monitoring protocols will ensure Reliance  continues to manage its existing risks while  parallelly identifying any new risks that may  impact its ability to create value over the  long run.
23 Grievance Redressal  Mechanisms Establishing effective grievance redressal  mechanisms is essential for Reliance to track  the issues raised by stakeholders and take  immediate actions to resolve their concerns.
22 24 Social Why the issue is material to Reliance Innovation and Technology To meet the needs of its stakeholders and  achieve consistent growth, it is critical  for Reliance to strengthen its innovation  capabilities and leverage cutting-edge  technologies to remain relevant in the ever- evolving macro-economic environment.
7 Employee health and safety is a non- negotiable aspect for Reliance to ensure that  its human capital is provided with a working  environment that places utmost emphasis  on their mental and physical well-being.
Diversity and Inclusion For Reliance, it is essential to promote  a progressive and inclusive workplace  that onboards people from diverse  backgrounds and provides them meaningful  growth opportunities, thereby resulting in  organisational growth.
Customer Satisfaction To remain competitive in a fast-changing  business environment, it is important for  Reliance to position itself as a customer- focused organisation by offering them a  wide range of choices, outstanding value  proposition, and unmatched experience  across all its business segments.
Talent Management To strengthen its talent pool, it is critical for  Reliance to invest in uninterrupted growth  and development, which is supported by  meaningful engagement activities and  learning opportunities.
As a people-centric entity, managing and  maintaining cordial labour relations is  important for Reliance to ensure that the  needs and rights of its entire workforce are  addressed.
To ensure ethical conduct, it is important for  Reliance to confirm that all its businesses  comply with the applicable national and  local laws surrounding human rights and  implement measures to avoid incidents of  human rights violations.
Security and asset protection is an essential  aspect for Reliance to ensure safety of all its  assets and reliability in operations.
Health, Safety, and Employee  Well-being 11 12 Security and Asset  Management 15 Labour Management18 Human Rights19 Community Development Being a responsible organisation, community  development is an indispensable aspect for  Reliance.
It is essential for the Company to  continue implementing community-facing  programmes that can benefit society and  result in true economic growth.
17 To protect its businesses, customers,  infrastructure, and internal users from  security threats, it is critical for Reliance to  focus on data privacy and cybersecurity by  implementing measures and strengthening  its systems and processes.
Data Privacy and  Cybersecurity 14 13 16 Business Ethics, Integrity and  Transparency 20 At Reliance, ethics and integrity have always  been the key values that have enabled the  organisation to gain stakeholder trust and  build a strong reputation.
These aspects  are critical for Reliance to ensure that the  organisation conducts business in an  ethical and transparent manner to remain  successful over the long run.
1.
Climate change 2.
Managing Environmental  Impacts  3.
Energy Efficiency of  operations 4.
Water and effluent  management 5.
Raw material security 6.
Ecosystem and  biodiversity 7.
Innovation and  Technology 8.
Waste management &  Circular economy 9.
Sustainable supply chain  management 10.
Disaster Preparedness  and Management 11.
Health, safety and  employee well-being 12.
Diversity and inclusion 13.
Customer Satisfaction 14.
Data privacy and  cybersecurity 15.
Security and Asset  management 16.
Talent Management 17.
Community Development 18.
Labour Management 19.
Human Rights 20.  Business Ethics, Integrity  and Transparency 21.
Regulatory issues and  compliance 22.
Grievance Redressal  Mechanisms 23.
Risk Management 24.
Economic Performance 25.
Code of conduct  Natural Capital  Human Capital  Manufactured Capital  Intellectual Capital  Financial Capital   Social and  Relationship Capital  Risk Management  Governance Matrix Importance to OrganisationImportance to Stakeholders 21 25 14 7 8 3 4 18 15 2212 19 10 23 2 16 5 9 16 20 1113 17 24 Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 164 165 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Driving ESG Growth in Reliance Interplay of Capitals Natural Capital Human Capital Manufactured Capital Intellectual Capital Financial Capital Social and   Relationship Capital Plans of adding direct and indirect  jobs to the economy through the  energy transition Deployment of Electric Vehicles for  deliveries by Reliance Retail Heavy investment in renewable  energy, operational eco-efficiency R&D in technology that produces  biofuel using various organic  feedstock wastes Skilled workforce addition to  drive Reliance's vision in New and  Alternate Energy Adequate training on Asset  Management to ensure  compliance and maximise  asset availability Appropriate customer, supplier,  and business partner engagement  continuing the Reliance legacy that is  built on trust and relationships Creation of IP, technology expertise  backed by a strong talent pool Target of developing infrastructure  for New and Alternate Energy, four  Giga factories in the pipeline Digitalisation of processes,  enhancing employee safety in  critical operations Increase Jio bandwidth to ensure  maximum accessibility Development of commercial- scale continuous catalytic  pyrolysis technology  • Revenue: `7,92,756 crore • Capital expenditure: `1,45,352 crore • EBITDA: `1,25,687 crore R&D for net bags and bag  on roll applications using  biodegradable plastic Best-in-class Electronic Lab  Notebook (ELN) integrated with  the Laboratory Information  Management System (LIMS),  giving research employees  better amenities Developed Multizone Catalytic  Cracking (MCC), an in-house disruptive  innovation, for converting various  hydrocarbons to generate chemical  building blocks.
Jio has indigenously  developed and launched a full stack  of digital products, platforms and  services backed by AI/ML,Block- chain, IoT, NLP etc.
R&D to create medical grade  oxygen for community support  during COVID-19  Developed a technology (under  RIL’s flagship programme Algae to  Oil) that converts sunlight, CO2 and  sea water to renewable bio-crude.
This technology has the potential to  convert CO2 to valuable products to  combat climate change Investment to build a New Clean  Energy business Increased HSE expenditure,  ensuring adequate  funds for environmental  initiatives and associated  infrastructure development Investment in setting up Integrated  Renewable manufacturing facilities  for Solar PV Module (Manufacture  of Polysilicon, Wafer, Cell & Module);  Electrolyser; Energy-storage Battery;  Hydrogen value chain Financial support for the family  members of deceased employees,  ensuring the well-being of all Reliance increased its expenditure  on Research and Development to  `2,608 crore this year to encourage  new ideas, innovation, and  pioneering technologies Watershed projects completed  in several villages ensuring water  accessibility and quality Reliance Foundation's Mission  Vaccine Suraksha ensured  vaccinations for family  members of employees Partnered with WhatsApp to  simplify the entire 'Prepaid  Recharge' process for its  digital business Developed JioPhone Next  which is the world's most  affordable smartphone  In FY 2021-22, JioGenNext  announced its Market Access  Programme (MAP '21) with 11 high- potential businesses Decarbonisation of  legacy businesses Talent pool to ensure  business resilience Performance measures that integrate  business value streams, P&Ls, and  financial reporting available across the  enterprise to the individual  Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 166 167 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review The Company will also invest  in enhancing the value chain,  partnerships, and future technologies,  including upstream and downstream  industries.
Its multifaceted  projects include: • Integrated PV manufacturing from  sand to PV modules, including  building an ecosystem of  ancillary units • Battery chemicals and components,  cells and pack manufacturing and  energy storage system • Electrolyser and  Hydrogen value chain • Power generation to ensure round- the-clock availability • Power generation for  production of Hydrogen • Conversion of  Hydrogen to chemicals • Power electronics systems  required to support renewable  energy such as inverters, chargers,  DC-DC converters • Renewable energy for mobility Management Approach Reliance has a robust governance  framework to track, assess, and  improve how it manages its  natural capital consumption.
The  Company has implemented annual  environmental and sustainability  action plans that are regularly  assessed and revised.
Reliance adopts a comprehensive  strategy at the Group level that  establishes company-wide HSE  objectives and processes for plant  operations to promote operational  discipline and performance.
The  Company has developed a well- defined HSE audit programme to verify  that management standards are  followed across its operations.
The Group Safety and Operational Risk  team monitor the quarterly evaluation  of business plans.
They also regularly  perform independent reviews of  environmental aspects at the segment  and site levels.
The asset lifecycle  is covered by a comprehensive  review system, which includes the  phases of implementation, operation,  and closure.
Reliance continues to  strengthen its compliance systems  and processes through rigorous  internal and external audits.
The Board level CSR and Governance  committee has oversight on  Foundations and its related disclosures.
The Board level monitoring at regular  intervals is a testimony to the proactive  approach taken by Reliance to ensure  responsible and sustainable growth.
Environmental  Performance Managing Environmental  Impact Reducing the environmental footprint  across Reliance's businesses is key  to its operational performance.
The Company's environmental and  sustainability stewardship ensures that  its manufacturing sites meet consent  terms and environmental regulations  beyond compliance.
Reliance  complies with all applicable laws and  regulations and periodically audits  operations to confirm compliance.
The  Company ensures that its employees  are regularly trained and updated  on changing laws and regulations,  measures to prevent pollution,  minimise waste and other solutions to  reduce environmental impact.
The Company adopts comprehensive  measures and advanced technology  to reduce waste, energy and water  usage.
It is also focused on reducing  and eliminating flaring and venting  of feed and product gases, including  volatile organic compounds.
Reliance  tracks, streamlines and manages GHG  emissions across its manufacturing  units.
Retrofitting investments are made  across every manufacturing division  to reduce the environmental impact  and energy consumption.
Real-time  monitoring of stack emissions through  Continuous Emission Monitoring  System (CEMS) has enabled Reliance  to adhere to local standards for  parameters like SOx, NOx and TPM  emissions.
Initiatives like converting  organic waste into bio-manure  through vermicomposting, stringent  monitoring measures to prevent  spills during storage, safe handling  and transportation of hydrocarbon  materials, have significantly reduced  the negative environmental impacts of  its operations.
Highlights FY 2021-22 NATURAL   CAPITAL Caring for Our Planet: Building a More Sustainable World The unchecked rise in global temperatures and the resulting climatic disruptions  are impacting people, communities, and the business environment in multiple  ways.
However, it is heartening to note the growing awareness among individuals,  communities, governments and businesses who are coming together in constructive  and impactful ways to contain the damage.
Urgent affirmative action undertaken  at the national and international levels is helping build a more robust and carbon- efficient foundation to secure the future of the planet.
Recognising the urgent need of  containing the impact of climate change, a rapid transition from fossil fuels to a new  era of green, clean and renewable energy is imperative.
Reliance understands that the  global new energy agenda needs to move from dialogue to action and commitment  to urgent implementation on the ground.
352% Increase in Renewable Energy  Consumption in RIL RJIL received 'A-' in  CDP 2021 which is  in the Leadership  band This is higher than the Asia regional  average of 'B-', and higher than the  Media, telecommunications & data  centre services sector average of 'B'.
2.11 million GJ Energy savings through conservation  efforts in RILReliance is taking proactive steps to  demonstrate its care for the planet  and manage the criticality of climate  change.
Chairman and Managing  Director Shri Mukesh D. Ambani  outlined the Company’s mega- investment in the New Green Energy  business at its 44th Annual General  Meeting (AGM).
Having committed  to Net Zero by 2035, he detailed an  ambitious strategy and roadmap for  implementing this vision.
Reliance  announced an investment of `75,000  crore to build an end-to-end green  energy ecosystem.
The Company has re-engineered  its traditional energy business  completely and is poised to  become a global leader in Clean  and Green Energy and Materials.
Its  energy transition strategy focuses  on accelerating the adoption of  clean energy through a path of 'Just  Transition'.
It focuses on addressing  associated risks and ensuring that the  transition is fair, inclusive and creates  value for all stakeholders, leaving  no one behind.
This commitment  extends Reliance’s philosophy of  'We Care' to chart the way for the  planet to survive and thrive again.
“The world is entering a new  energy era, which is going to  be highly disruptive.
The age  of fossil fuels, which powered  economic growth globally for  nearly three centuries, cannot  continue much longer”.
Shri Mukesh D. Ambani  Chairman and Managing Director Towards a Cleaner Future Reliance has started developing the  Dhirubhai Ambani Green Energy Giga  Complex on 5,000 acres in Jamnagar,  Gujarat.
It is planned to be among the  world’s largest Integrated Renewable  Energy manufacturing facilities.
Under the plan, the Company  aims to build four Giga factories to  manufacture and integrate critical  components of the New Energy  ecosystem with the aim of bridging  the green energy divide in India and  globally.
Reliance aims to invest in  Giga factories in Solar, Battery, and  Hydrogen value chains.
1.64% Reduction in GHG emission in RIL Committed to  invest in Solar  and Hydrogen  Giga factories,  value chain,  partnerships  and future  technologies Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 168 169 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Material Topics • Energy Efficiency of Operations • Climate Change • Managing Environmental Impact • Water and Effluent management • Waste Management and  Circular Economy • Ecosystems and Biodiversity United Nations SDGs Energy Efficiency of  Operations Reliance recognises its obligation  towards climate change-related risks.
As a global player, it is incumbent  upon Reliance to overcome the  challenges of transitioning to a lower  carbon regime.
The Company has  in place best-in-class technologies  and good operations & maintenance  (O&M) practices that ensure optimal  energy consumption at applicable  sites.
During FY 2021-22, the energy  efficiency improvement initiatives  resulted in energy savings of 2.11  million GJ for RIL.
These include: • Energy saving technology feature  implementation in 2.3 GHz Time  Division Duplex band which entails  turning off radios during non traffic  hours (02:00 AM and 05:00 AM).
• Hot Aisle and Cold Aisle separation  by installing cold air containment to  avoid mixing of cold and hot air.
• Smart lighting system and motion  sensors implementation for lighting  load reduction in all Server Halls.
• Diesel Generator (DG)  demobilisation implementation for  identified sites where low utilised  DGs are replaced with a 100 AH  additional Li-ion battery.
• Optimising DG run hours by  prioritizing site operation on battery  before DG in absence of grid power.
Climate Change Reliance has always been cognisant  of the impending climate change  and the effect it can have on the  future.
In FY 2021-22, the Company  ensured that it will continue its  business-wise endeavours so that it  is on its track to become a Net Zero  organisation.
It understands that  controlling the increase of global  temperatures by 1.50C above pre- industrial levels is no longer a choice  but a necessity and Reliance has  been extremely proactive in taking  exemplary strides to decarbonise  its operation.
The Reliance O2C  business is deploying several energy  conservation solutions using next- generation digital technologies.
It  has integrated Internet of Things (IoT)  and Machine Learning (ML) solutions  in oil fields, repurposed petcoke  gasification to utilise synthesis gas  to produce chemicals and hydrogen  and generate synthesis gas on a  renewable basis through biomass  gasification .
Reliance Retail has  initiated the use of battery-operated  equipment for material handling to  eliminate fossil fuel consumption.
It ensures that idle trucks in waiting  areas turn off their ignitions, reducing  emissions, noise levels and fuel  consumption.
The heavy investments  have been instrumental in helping  Reliance manage its footprint.
NATURAL CAPITAL RIL adopts a strategy to manage energy based on the five tenets of  energy management: Eliminate unnecessary energy use through process and heat  integration, quick restoration of equipment performance,  consumption optimisation using simulation models, and  reduce-recover-reuse programmes.
Improve energy usage efficiency using simulation tools,  deploying best practices, and upgrading equipment  and technology.
Adjust operations to reduce energy consumption by  redesigning the product basket and optimise the use of  installed capacity.
Optimise the cost of energy consumed through an  enterprise-wide fuel planning and scheduling mechanism.
Reduce carbon intensity by judicious selection of energy  sources and ramping up renewable energy use to offset  emissions from fossil fuels.
Across manufacturing sites, the  Company has taken up energy  optimisation and waste heat recovery  projects, co-firing biomass with  fossil fuel, opportunistic equipment  upgrades and flare gas recovery  to improve energy efficiency and  resource conservation.
The O2C  manufacturing sites at Barabanki,  Dahej, Hazira and Hoshiarpur have  utilised 3.09 million GJ of bio-energy.
The Company has also achieved a  16% reduction in flaring at E&P and  O2C sites compared to FY 2020-21.
This year the volume of flared and  vented hydrocarbons was 1,32,491 MT.
530.20 million GJ Total Energy Consumption in RIL 3.12 million GJ Renewable Energy Consumption  in RIL Reliance Retail has undertaken several  measures, including the upgradation  of conventional equipment and  rooftop insulation of warehouses  to improve energy efficiency.
The  Retail team is encouraging the use  of day lights and HVLS fans to reduce  the overall energy consumption of  warehouses and stores.
The Reliance digital business  accounts for one of the lowest  carbon intensity per TB of data  usage with the right energy systems  in place.
In the last financial year,  Jio had a total energy consumption  of 6.69 million MWh out of which  65,283.53 MWh was wheeled from  renewable sources.
Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited’s  energy efficiency projects and  measures are an important part of  achieving its carbon reduction goals  and Net Zero emissions milestone.
As  a fast growing telecommunications  company in India, it has introduced  initiatives and measures to optimise  energy consumption at all facilities.
RIL's GHG Emissions Parameter Unit FY 2021-22 FY  2020-21 FY  2019-20 FY   2018-19 Scope 1 CO2e million ton 43.96 44.67 47.50 29.69 Scope 2 CO2e million ton 1.19 1.25 1.45 1.14 Dedicated Energy Teams pursue  relentless monitoring of energy  performance at all sites and at the  group level.
The Company uses  in-house mechanisms to monitor  different energy usage parameters in  real-time.
Along with tools to facilitate  decision-making, simulation and  visualisation of energy efficiency,  the monitoring system is also  integrated with production control  systems that make the Company’s  energy management system agile,  flexible, and effective.
Energy audits  and benchmarking studies are also  conducted periodically to identify  performance gaps.
The air emissions recorded for RIL includes: Parameter Unit FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21 FY 2019-2020 FY 2018-19 TPM ‘000 ton 1.81 2.02 1.85 2.29 SOx ‘000 ton 20.74 21.61 22.53 22.61 NOx ‘000 ton 37.85 39.88 42.01 34.43 VOC ‘000 ton 46.66 41.31 46.15 41.88 Reliance Jio has also been a  forerunner when it comes to  decarbonising its operation.
Reliance  Jio Infocomm Limited (RJIL) has  received its highest ‘A-’ rating in CDP’s  2021 global rating of companies on  the way it manages its environmental  impacts.
Jio is the only telecom and  digital services firm in India to receive  a leadership rating on CDP’s Global  Environment Impact.
The Science  Based Targets initiative (SBTi) has  validated the corporate greenhouse  gas emissions reduction target(s)  submitted by RJIL.
In FY 2021-22, the  Scope 1 emissions were 0.49 million  tonnes of CO2 and Scope 2 emissions  were 3.36 million tonnes of CO2.
Jio  also calculates its Scope 3 emissions,  which accounted for 4.55 million  tonnes of CO2 in FY 2021-22.
Jio has  also been able to reduce 51,574  tonnes of CO2 emission by procuring  power from renewable sources.
Reliance continues to meet  its growing energy demands  with sources that have minimal  environmental impacts.
The total  renewable energy consumption  increased by 352% Y-o-Y.
Hazira  manufacturing unit contributes  significantly to the renewable energy  generation, and generated 13,60,181 GJ  in FY 2021-22.
Reliance also co-fired  biomass with coal at its Dahej and  Hazira manufacturing units to reduce  dependence on natural resources.
Speaking at the International Climate  Summit 2021, Reliance Chairman and  Managing Director Shri Mukesh D.  Ambani expressed his optimism that  India can become the first country in  the world to produce Green Hydrogen  at less than US$ 1 per 1 kg in 1 decade  to meet the 1-1-1 target.
India has  set the goal to reach 450 GW of  renewable energy capacity by 2030.
Reliance has committed to enable at  least 100 GW of solar energy by 2030,  leading to creation of a pan-India  network of kilowatt and megawatt- scale solar energy producers who  can produce Green Hydrogen for  local consumption.
This endeavour  by Reliance is aligned with its vision of  making India the first country globally  to make hydrogen affordable.
Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 170 171 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Ecosystems and  Biodiversity Reliance conducts periodic  environmental impact studies for  biodiversity and marine ecosystems  surrounding its greenfield and  brownfield projects to assess the  ecological status and mitigate  negative impacts, if any, on the  neighbouring ecosystem.
The impactful greenbelt development  and habitat restoration efforts have  borne fruits as more than 2.3 crore  saplings have been planted across  India, covering more than 2,600 Ha of  green belt area till date.
In FY 2021-22,  6 lakh + saplings were planted across  various sites, and 70 Ha of green belt  area was developed.
6 lakh+ (2.3+ crore since inception) Saplings  planted across various sites in India  during FY 2021-22 Waste Management and  Circular Economy Reliance is a firm believer in the 3Rs  of a circular economy – Reduce,  Reuse, Recycle.
The Company  collects, sorts, and recycles plastics  to reduce dependency on new  and virgin resources to improve  circularity in plastics.
The Company strongly focuses  on responsible and efficient  resource consumption.
The waste  management initiatives go far  beyond regulatory compliances to  strengthen the circular economy.
Some of the initiatives taken by the  Company include: • Recron ® GreenGold™ Polyester  Staple Fibre (rPSF): Reliance recycles  over 2 billion PET bottles every year  to make Recron GreenGold Fibre.
Reliance has adopted an innovative  asset-light business model to  support entrepreneurs for setting  up toll manufacturing plant with  minimal market risk and augment  its recycling capacity.
• Green Polyolefin (gPO): Reliance  is developing green polyolefin  products, which are introduced  to the market as sustainable  packaging solutions for non-food  and non-pharma applications.
These products can be used in the  automotive segment, appliances,  paint pails, warehousing pellets, PE  films, HDPE blow moulding, HDPE  injection moulding and raffia bags.
• Waste to Road (W2R): Reliance has  developed an innovative product  for hard to recycle end-of-life  plastics called ReRoute™, which is  used in preparing roads.
• Reliance has collaborated with  India’s CSIR-National Chemical  Laboratory (CSIR-NCL) to recycle  COVID-19 PPE waste.
Useful products  such as automotive components  and flowerpots are being made  from the recycled PPEs.
• Hazardous waste from Reliance  operations is recycled as alternate  fuels and raw material (AFR) for the  cement industry.
Additionally, Reliance Retail is  extremely conscious about the waste  it may generate and is proactive in  managing waste at every stage of  its product lifecycle.
Re-usable totes  and crates are used to a large extent  to reduce generation of packaging  wastage.
Supplier cartons are  re-used where possible.
Reliance  Retail’s vision is to move towards 100%  paperless operations at its facilities.
Reliance Jewels uses carry bags  and envelopes made with recycled  paper at its stores.
Towards Circularity To grow responsibly in magnitude and  scale while satisfying all stakeholders  expectations lie at the core of  Reliance’s operation.
The Company  recognises the need to move to  a low-carbon economy.
It takes  proactive initiatives to accelerate  the change and has enhanced its  internal governance framework to  minimise and mitigate risk.
Reliance is  working on a multipronged approach  covering various aspects of the  circular economy through a cradle- to-cradle approach.
It has identified  short, medium and long term  strategies to accelerate the progress  of circularity for plastics.
In the short  term, the focus is on increasing the  Company’s PET recycling footprint  and usage of Multi-layered Plastics  (MLP) for road construction.
In the  medium term, it is focusing on  polyolefin recycling.
In the long term,  the Company is looking at chemical  recycling alternatives such as Waste  to Oil (W2O) and Hydrothermal  Liquefaction (HTL), among others.
Reliance supports projects that  encourage circularity, such as the  development of the R|ELANTM fabric, in  recognition of the growing consumer  preference for environmentally- friendly products.
The Company  is also developing commercial  scale continuous catalytic pyrolysis  technology.
The process has been  successfully demonstrated as a pilot  delivering promising results to convert  unsegregated mixed waste plastics  into Pyrolysis Oil.
These products have  significant scope in accelerating  global circularity.
Reliance Retail’s packaging is based  on the core principle of a Sustainable  Circular Economy.
The 3Rs for Retail  business stands for: In FY 2021-22, the volume of waste disposed and recycled across the  Company’s operations for RIL and Jio stood at : Parameter Unit FY 2021-22 RIL Hazardous waste (disposed) '000 MT 15.70 Hazardous Waste diverted from disposal '000 MT 58.66 Non-Hazardous waste (disposed) '000 MT 797.55 Reliance Jio Hazardous waste (disposed) '000 MT 2.01 Non-hazardous waste (disposed) '000 MT 1.38 Reduce: Reduction of usage of  packaging material and packaging  material waste.
Reuse: Multi-use packaging instead  of single-use/ single time packaging.
Recycle: Converting waste  packaging into materials for new  packaging items.
Packaging Design Approach  Targeted for Sustainable  Packaging For Reliance’s brand Hamleys, the  plush toys developed out of India  are made of 100% sustainable fibre  sourced from the Company.
30% (~54K units) of Hamley’s  e-commerce orders are fulfilled by  Reliance’s re-useable gamified, up  cycled packaging.
NATURAL CAPITAL Jio-bp has made strategic  engagements to enable the Electric  Mobility ecosystem.
Jio-bp has tied- up with BluSmart, an all EV ride hailing  company operating in Delhi NCR for  providing their fleet with state-of-the- art charging facilities.
Jio-bp also operationalised battery  swapping service under Vehicle as a  Service (VaaS) model with Swiggy, so  that their driver partners seamlessly  deliver food to customers and reduce  carbon footprints.
Jio-bp signed MoU with the Mahindra  Group in December 2021 to explore  the development of EV products  and services, alongside identifying  synergies in low-carbon and  conventional fuels.
A MoU was also  signed with Piaggio and moEVing  for exploring some of the exciting  solutions in electric mobility space.
Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 172 173 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review  Water and Effluent  Management Water is a critical resource used  in the operations.
With Reliance’s  philosophy to reduce freshwater  dependence, the Company has  commissioned state-of-the-art  technologies to reduce specific  freshwater consumption, maximise  recyclability and minimise external  discharge.
The world-class  desalination unit at Jamnagar  provides strategic advantage in terms  of water management.
Reliance continues to focus on  maximising wastewater recyclability  and reusability of treated water.
The treated effluent is reused in  cooling towers, horticulture activities  and firewater networks.
Rainwater  harvesting capacities are being  augmented to 3,17,669 kL across  RIL.
All the manufacturing divisions  have water efficient faucets and  reuse treated wastewater for  domestic purposes.
Reliance converts more than 2 billion  post-consumer PET bottles.
Reliance  plans to double its PET recycling  capacity to 5 billion PET bottles by  setting up a recycled polyester staple  fibre (PSF) manufacturing facility in  Andhra Pradesh.
Reliance’s R|Elan™  Green Gold converts polyester from  ocean bound plastic into high quality  branded polyester.
The Company  introduced a new product, R|Elan™  Ecogold, with Ciclo, one of the most  environment-friendly fabrics that  encourages sustainable fashion  across different segments.
Reliance is driving various initiatives  such as Fashion for Earth in  partnership with Lakmé Fashion  Week and the United Nations in  India, Hub Excellence Programme  and Circular Design Challenge to  inculcate circularity and sustainability  concepts in polymer, textile, and  fashion industries.
Satyajit Vetoskar’s ‘Bandit’ label of  accessories at the FDCI x Lakmé  Fashion Week in March 2021 was  the winner of the Circular Design  Challenge.
David Abraham and  Rakesh Thakore for their label  Abraham and Thakore presented  a collection created from recycled  PET under the theme “Assemble,  Disassemble and Reassemble” as a  pre-launch initiative.
Reliance Retail in FY 2021-22 has made  significant Investments in automation  to improve operational efficiency and  productivity in its quest to reduce  overall water consumption.
The  Company has employed mechanised  crate washers at fruits and vegetable  processing centres that have reduced  the consumption of water.
In FY 2021-22, the total water  withdrawn for RIL stands at  224.19 million kilolitre out of which  32.94 million kilolitre was discharged  and 103.54 million kilolitre was  recycled.
Additionally, the E&P vertical  reported on 5.25 million kilolitre of  produced water.
NATURAL CAPITAL Green Initiatives - Packaging Design & Application Pallet Pallets are  developed with  30% recycled  HDPE instead  of 100% new  polymer Shelving Bin Multiple use  plastic bins  instead of  corrugated  paper bin box Delivery Tote Multi use Totes  deployed for  primary &  secondary  movement in  place of single  use plastic bags  and corrugated  boxes Delivery Bags Development  of multiple  use customer  delivery bags.
Each delivery  bag is made  from R Elan Green  Gold fabric using  ~10 PCR_PET  bottles Tote Partition Minimum use  of corrugated  paper partition to  avoid damages  due to rattling,  replacing  conventional  (non- biodegradable)  Bubble Film  & Inflated Air  Packaging Protective Pack In-house  corrugated  packaging waste  in shredded  protective  packaging Recycle RecycleRecycleReuse Reuse Reduce 7.42 1.07 40.08 0.140.03 51.25  Groundwater  Surface water  Rain water  Seawater  Desalination  Third Party Water RIL'S WATER CONSUMPTION   BY SOURCE (%) Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 174 175 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Way Forward Reliance is going through a  transformative phase.
With  its commitment to be Net  Zero by 2035, it is investing  heavily across all the levers  of decarbonisation and  changing its business which  previously was heavily  dependent on fossil fuels  to new avenues of energy.
The Company has planned  significant investments in  the next decade and will  work along with strategic  collaborators/partners to  help India and the world  transition to clean and  green energy.
Highlights FY 2021-22 TOTAL WORKFORCE STRENGTH  FOR FY 2021-22 3,42,982  Reliance Group 116% Increase in total person -hours of  training in Jio 2,15,614 Retail 67% Increase in Women workforce  at Retail 83,347 Jio INCREASE IN NEW RECRUITS AS  AGAINST THE PREVIOUS YEAR 56% RIL 132% Retail 22,642 RIL 177 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review HUMAN   CAPITAL Nurturing the ‘One Reliance’ Family:   Creating a Growth-driven Workplace   with Care and Empathy Reliance has always believed that its greatest strength is the ONE RELIANCE  family that has powered its inclusive growth since the beginning.
The Company regards its people as its most valuable asset.
Therefore,  caring for its people holistically, enabling them to build meaningful  careers and ensuring their overall well-being, is central to the Company’s  organisational culture, strategic priorities and future aspirations.
In turn,  led by the organisational spirit of service and care, every member of the  Reliance Family goes that extra mile to create value for society and serve as  a Goodwill Ambassador of the Company.
Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth As one of India’s largest private- sector employers, Reliance focuses on  fostering the sustained development  of its human capital through a well- defined strategy underlined with  care, empathy, inclusiveness and  respect.
The Company’s culture of  boldly embracing the future and  empowering successive generations  to take up seemingly unsurmountable  challenges helps it attract some  of the best minds from across the  world.
Reliance nurtures a progressive  people environment, where purpose- driven talent is empowered by a  strong, consistent, and meritocratic  Human Resources (HR) framework.
Over the years, Reliance has  continued to place a great emphasis  on enriching its human capital.
The Company ensures that its  people have an encouraging work  culture and continuous learning  opportunities.
Additionally, it has  invested in creating a world- class workplace that interweaves  productivity, health and safety, and a  deep sense of belonging.
Reliance believes that its success is  inextricably related to the success  of its people.
Continuous learning,  structured career advancement  opportunities and an industry- leading employee value proposition  are part of its value creation strategy  for its people.
The entrepreneurial  culture at Reliance has nurtured an  energised and motivated talent pool  that is translating opportunities into  reality for the Company every day  while carving enriching professional  paths for themselves.
Material Topics Management Approach The Company has strong systems  and processes to monitor and  improve its workforce’s quality  continuously and implement  measures required to support a  dynamic business environment.
One of the significant challenges  the Company faced was  ensuring people’s mental health  and well-being during COVID-19.
During the year, Reliance periodically  assessed employee sentiment  studies through feedback on wellness  & safety, learning, productivity,  communications, and overall  organisational response to the  pandemic.
Additionally, various  cohort-specific measurement  frameworks were launched to receive  feedback across the employee  lifecycle at multiple touchpoints.
These included new joiner experience,  exit feedback, and cadre experience  surveys targeting the campus cadres’  learning journey, Reliance Emerging  Leaders, Graduate Engineering  Trainees, Chartered Accountancy  Trainees, Executive Trainees, and  others.
Over the last year, Reliance  has received overwhelmingly positive  feedback from eligible employees  and has endeavoured to ensure  consistent action planning and  remedial measures for any gap  areas identified.
• Health, Safety and  Employee Well-being • Diversity and Inclusion  • Talent Management • Labour Management  and Human Rights • Business Ethics, Integrity  and Transparency • Grievance Redressal Mechanism United Nations SDGs 176 Reliance Industries Limited HUMAN CAPITAL Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 178 179 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Health, Safety and  Employee Well-being Reliance's Health, Safety, and  Environment (HSE) Policy reflects the  importance of human value.
The HSE  Policy is enabled by the Operating  Management System (OMS).
The  OMS is a framework to deliver  and sustain conformance to the  essentials at all times and achieve  excellence in operating activities  and processes.
The OMS provides a  systematic approach to consistently  reduce Health, Safety, Security, and  Environment (HSSE) risks in operating  activities.
Risk management is at the  heart of the OMS and implementation  of a standardised Risk Management  process has brought enhanced risk  understanding down to the asset  facing personnel who understand  and manage operating risk on a  real time basis.
The governance of OMS is entrusted  to a fully equipped and well-qualified  HSE and Process Safety organisation  embedded within the operating  entities.
A Safety & Operational Risk  function has been put in place at the  corporate level to bring in technical  expertise and to provide independent  assurance.
This function facilitates  aligning the requirements of OMS  with global and national standards  such as OSHA, API, PESO, PNGRB,  OISD and NFPA.
The Company implemented a  three lines of defense approach to  have an independent view of OMS  implementation requirements in the  operating and maintenance activities.
The principles set out in OMS have  been imbibed in operations and are  helping to achieve safe, compliant  and reliable operations.
The OMS  framework is based on the principle  of continual improvement.
Systems  and processes have been put in  place to analyse incidents and  implement learnings to further  improve the operations from safety  and reliability point of view.
Reliance Retail has implemented  measures to provide a safe and  healthy workplace and access  to benefits.
With the onset of the  pandemic, the Company moved to  a remote working environment and  offered employees with benefits of  location flexibility, extended maternity  leaves, guidance on accessing  doctors on the Reliance network  and coordination for hospitalisation  and medicines among many other  initiatives.
It extended its well-being  benefits to all employees to ensure  their physical and mental well-being.
As part of this, several webinars  were conducted for employees on  Empathy, Physical well-being, Mental  health and Behavioural and Mental  adjustments to remote working  models.
Structured communication  around vaccination ensured eligible  employees register themselves and  their family members for vaccinations  through the government app – CoWIN  or Aarogya Setu as applicable and  follow the mandated process.
In FY 2021-22, key initiatives  undertaken to promote health  and well-being across the  Company included: • Providing psychological and  financial support through  emergency assistance or  additional insurance coverage on a  case-to-case basis • Scaling internal counselling  capabilities with external partners,  giving employees time offs  and breaks for mental well- being and self-care • Setting up adequate IT  infrastructure support to enable  employees to work-from- home efficiently • Launch of ‘Project Sakhi’ shaped by  three key pillars – Women Safety  and Hygiene, 24*7 Outreach and  Career Progression to reinforce  safety, hygiene and well-being of  women store employees • One tap ‘StreeShakti’ WhatsApp  group created for the safety and  well-being of women employees at  the stores through which updates  are shared on the group regularly Diversity and Inclusion Reliance’s philosophy of 'We Care'  has helped it draw talent who  not only bring expertise and  experience to the Company but  also have shared values.
It takes  pride in its diverse workforce that  transcends nationalities, cultures,  genders, abilities, generations,  and experiences.
Reliance strives to build a conducive  environment where each employee  has the chance to participate,  contribute and grow while tapping  its rich and diversified human capital  to realise its aspirations and build a  long-term competitive edge.
Diversity  and Inclusion (D&I) at Reliance is  incorporated into the Company’s  people strategy and focuses on three  key dimensions of gender, ability,  and generation.
The Reliance Group’s Diversity &  Inclusion (DEI) Charter was launched  by Ms Isha Ambani, affirming  Reliance’s unwavering commitment  to the values of Diversity, Equity and  Inclusion.
The Company follows a  5E framework (Educate, Encourage,  Enable, Experience and Effectiveness)  to support a more inclusive workplace  for all.
Group D&I efforts focused on  demonstrating “intended inclusivity”  and further strengthening the culture  of allyship through interventions such  as inclusive leadership program,  inspiring leader connects, created  various platforms for employees  to connect/share and learn and a  Group D&I Portal to showcase the  One Reliance Inclusion Story to all  and ensuring people can access  information relevant to them based  on their life stage and career stage.
The Company launched a 21-day  campaign on the International Day of  Happiness for the Reliance Family.
The  campaign was curated to encourage  employees and their families to  develop healthy habits focusing on  mental, physical, financial, social, and  spiritual wellness.
More than 2000  employees joined this initiative, where  a new activity was shared every day  and participants were encouraged to  socialise and share the learnings of  their experience with others through  various platforms.
A 21 Day  Campaign to Mark  International Day of  Happiness R-SWASTHYA - FRAMEWORK Enabling  Work Environment Authentic   Leadership PHYSICAL COVID Support &   Vaccination Lifestyle Diseases   Initiatives PME MENTAL De-Stigmatise Mental First-Aid Employee Assistance Programme Manager Awareness & Sensitisation SPIRITUAL Meditation Sessions Spiritual Connect Session FINANCIAL Finance Awareness Sessions Cohort Based Sessions SOCIAL Platforms for connection Volunteering            Psychological                                                                                                                                         Introspection                                  Safety &                                                                                                                            Financial                              Connection &                 Resilience                                                                                                                        & Fulfillm ent                           Security                                                                                                                                          Stability                                    Belongingness Happiness   &  Well-being Autonomy &   Fulfillment Supportive   Managers The programme is a focused effort to  develop the capabilities of managers  to ensure mental well-being in the  organisation.
In the spirit of self- reliance, the programme includes  interventions that train individuals  on self-care and build resilience to  deal with life and work challenges.
R-Swasthya serves as a platform  where communities of trust can be  formed, inculcating a deep sense of  psychological safety necessary for  people to thrive.
These are spaces  where employees can lean on each  other and provide mutual support  when facing stress and anxiety.
In  addition, the programme helps  develop well-being champions  who can act as listening posts  and support employees without  prejudice and judgement.
Several unique initiatives under  R-Swasthya were rolled out for the  employees and their families during  the year.
Over 15,000 employees and  families attended about 60 webinars.
Additionally, engagements on mental  wellness, education and awareness,  physical health, financial planning,  mindfulness, and others were  organised throughout the year.
Safety Parameters   (FY 2021-22) RIL Retail Jio Lost Time Injury 35 49 5 Lost Time Injury   Frequency Rate (per million man-hours) 0.13 0.06 0.07 In Malaysia, there were 46 injuries and the LTIFR was 4.73 per million man- hours.
In December 2021, there was a fatality at one of our RIL sites, involving  1 contractor workman.
The incident has been thoroughly analysed and  corrective actions have been taken to strengthen our systems further to  prevent recurrence of such incidents in future.
R-Swasthya Reliance has taken several measures to institutionalise care and ensure  the holistic well-being of all its employees.
The R-Swasthya initiative is an  integrated approach based on the five pillars of well-being mainly, Physical,  Mental, Financial, Social and Spiritual wellness.
HUMAN CAPITAL Equip with Future  Skills • Future skill ready • Learner need  based skill  system • Self nomination  based Aspire to Grow • Preparing for future role • Aspirational for future  career opportunities • Developmental  interventions to meet the  employees' aspirations • Talent marketplace for  certified talent pool Ready to Jumpstart • RINO: Online induction  to assimilate the  Reliance culture and  way of work • Role readiness  certification   "My First 90 Days" Build Leadership Capabilities • Build capabilities based on  the Leadership Archetypes • Future ready Leader • Coaching - Performance,  Transition, Succession • 4 levels of leadership Strive to Perform • Continuous Learning in current role • Capability based Learning/Precision  Learning system to fill the gaps • Functional & Behavioral capabilities Employee Development Journey... in the flow of work & life Learning agenda is no more Push-based, its Pull based.
It is employee-centric and meets the organisation's talent needs!
Employee  Capabilities Employee  Aspirations Organisation's  Talent Needs Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 180 181 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Reliance Retail has adopted a top- down approach to demonstrate the  spirit of inclusion & diversity.
As a  starting point, more than 200 senior  leaders have been sensitised on  ‘Unconscious Biases’, which often  serve as impediments to building an  inclusive workplace.
Reliance Retail  has implemented two significant  flagship programmes, ‘Jagriti’ and  ‘Pragati’, to enable women employees  to grow to managerial roles at stores.
These programmes are designed  to empower women employees to  overcome their mental barriers and  inhibitions and generate belief in their  abilities to become managers and  successfully lead stores and teams.
Select women employees were put  through various training programmes  and promoted as store and  department managers to encourage  more women to take on leadership  roles and boost gender diversity.
Currently, there are over 370 stores led  by women managers, of which the  Grocery business has 204 women- led stores, followed by Trends with 76.
There has been a perceptible and  definitive improvement in hygiene,  discipline and working conditions  at these stores.
Reliance Retail has gone a step  further.
Its ‘Sahakari Bhandar’ has  employed close to 100 differently- abled boys and girls under the  programme ‘Saksham’, transforming  their lives right from training to  employment and then engagement.
There are exclusive rewards &  recognition programmes designed  for them at the workplace as well  as cultural activities to ensure their  continued engagement.
'HerCircle' A first-of-its-kind digital networking  platform launched by Smt.
Nita  Ambani aims to accelerate women’s  empowerment and strengthen the  bonds of sisterhood globally.
It offers  women from all over the world a  joyful and safe space for interaction,  engagement, collaboration and an  extended mutual support group.
Talent Management Onboarding the right talent and  investing in their growth is key to  Reliance’s people strategy.
The  Company seeks out and develops  high-potential employees, providing  them with accelerated learning and  development opportunities.
Talent Development has always  remained a key enabler for achieving  business and talent outcomes.
The  Company focuses on four key areas  to promote the culture of continuous  improvement and development  among the employees.
Four key focus areas of Reliance: Building Future  Readiness and Talent  Sustainability Building Leaders of  Tomorrow Nurturing Young  Talent Fostering Talent  in the Virtual  Ecosystem Building future readiness  and talent sustainability Reliance aspires to be a global  leader in the energy and materials  space, sustaining the leadership  position of O2C, and achieving Net  Zero.
The Company operates in a  highly volatile and disruptive industry  scenario which requires sharp focus  on building capabilities across the  value chain.
Therefore, upskilling  for future-readiness is a critical  business imperative.
Reliance’s key initiatives: A.  Upskilling for new-age  technologies, power skills  and domain knowledge  During the year, the Company  launched several deep skilling  initiatives to develop and  strengthen digital and data  skills of its employees both at  an organisation level as well as  for specific focus groups.
These  include training for specialised  skills to enhance Digital, Data  and Design Thinking capabilities  among employees.
The ‘Power Skills of Future’  initiative aims at developing  critical behavioural skills.
Immersive mini simulations on  ten future skills were launched  during the year, benefiting more  than 3,500 employees.
Reliance also launched ‘Learning  Challenge’, an innovative  effort to develop critical power  skills.
The challenge witnessed  participation from over  12,500 employees.
Based on business needs, 177  future domain skills have been  identified across the organisation,  64% of which are addressed  through relevant initiatives.
Some  of the training initiatives include  IWCF and BOSIET HUET (E&P),  Techno-Commercial Expertise in  Procurement Risk Management,  Business Acumen, Export  Import management (P&C),  Value-Based Selling, Customer  Centricity and Business Risk  Management (Petchem).
Further, continuous learning is  at the centre of all the talent  development interventions at  Reliance Retail.
The intent is to  inspire a pull-based learning  culture in which employees  are provided with multiple  opportunities and mediums  to learn.
The learning strategy  has been defined as per the  role-based employee lifecycle  from new role readiness  programmes to next role  readiness programmes.
The objective for defining  a structured capability  development strategy is two-fold: • Encourage people’s  productivity by creating  a sustainable learning  environment within  the organisation.
• Enable employees to learn the  knowledge and skill they need  to excel in their position using  digital tools and technology.
Approach: The Petchem Academy  launched a monthly initiative 'Story  Sutra' to cover a business story by  employees.
Till date, 7 episodes have  been successfully concluded with  participation by more than 1,000  employees.
Every episode received  average participant rating of more  than 4.6 on the scale of 5.
Impact:  • Uplifting and changing  employees’ mood.
• Improving the information retention  up to 22 times more by weaving it  through stories instead of sharing  the facts alone.
• Improving decision making  of the employees.
Approach: R-Aadya is a gender inclusion programme which firmly believes  that each gender has a unique set of realities and ways of knowing and  understanding the world.
The initiative focuses on gender specific needs  and challenges; and through a set of development interventions aims at  addressing the specific personal life stages and career stage needs of women  employees in partnership with all the stakeholders.
Impact: The programme reached out to nearly 5,000 employees resulting in a  allyship in the organisation with an increased awareness on inclusion, equality,  equity and diversity.
Empowering Women at Reliance  through R-Aadya Healing while  learning through  powerful business  stories HUMAN CAPITAL Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 182 183 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review B.
Talent reviews and  succession planning   Reliance emphasises robust  succession planning to identify  high potential talent and prepare  them for critical leadership  positions.
Sustained efforts were  taken to ensure that high calibre  employees led critical roles within  the organisation.
Building leaders of tomorrow  The Company follows a  structured and comprehensive  leadership development  approach that focuses on  building and empowering  leaders at all levels.
Some of the  interventions undertaken include: • Career Acceleration  Programme (CAP), the  Company's flagship leadership  development programme,  which identifies high potential  talent through rigorous  evaluation and supports  their development to fast- track their growth.
• Step-Up, a development  programme aims at building  transitional leadership  capability for First Level, Senior  Level and Group Leader  roles.
The programme was  redesigned as an end-to-end  digital learning journey for  the participants.
• R-Aadya, the leadership  programme, seeks to address  the unique challenges women  leaders face and build a more  inclusive environment.
• The First Line Young  Engineers at Reliance (FLYER)  programme seeks to build  commercial and business  acumen among engineering  talent to groom them as  effective technical leaders.
Nurturing young talent  Reliance emphasises young  talent and offers entry-level  programmes at prominent  institutions, enabling fresh  graduates from campuses to join  the organisation and contribute  to its expansive ecosystem.
Reliance continues to nurture  talent through entry-level  programmes, with hiring efforts  ramped up in FY 2021-22: • Graduate Engineer Trainee  (GET) programme for  engineering talent.
• Reliance Emerging Leaders  Programme (RELP) for  management graduates.
The young talent undergoes a  careful selection process and  a unique gamified orientation  into the world of Reliance.
They  are mentored by senior leaders  and experts, and are involved  in live projects to develop their  capabilities to prepare them for  future leadership roles.
• Base Camp is responsible for  onboarding all new hires at  Reliance to quickly acclimatise  them to the Company’s  culture and equip them  with the necessary tools for  smooth transitioning.
The  flagship programme under  Base Camp is the Discover  Reliance session that is offered  both as a virtual session and  self-paced learning module.
During FY 2021-22, 100% of the  newly joined employees have  completed all the trainings.
• Reliance deploys a structured  role and skill-based approach  for building people manager  capabilities.
This includes  interventions for first-time,  asset facing and experienced  people managers.
Over 2,200  unique people managers  were benefitted through 800+  trainings during the year.
• The Company’s initiative  ‘Ascender’ focuses on key  behavioural skills such as  communication, prioritisation,  and planning.
They are offered  both as self-learning paths  and instructor led sessions.
During the fiscal, over 10,000  participants were covered  through this initiative.
• Reliance Retail has developed a  strong managerial talent pool  in its Grocery Business stores  through its Flagship ‘Graduate  Store Trainee Programme.’ The  programme allows final-year  students to strengthen their  managerial skills through the  ‘earn-while-you-learn’ scheme,  which consists of blended  learning tools spread over  nine months and includes  e-learning courses, on-the-job  trainings, job shadowing, and  specially designed projects.
The initiative launched in  2019, presently employs over  200 persons and is further  looking to hire at least 800  trainees next year.
Additionally,  Reliance Retail is committed  to providing employment  opportunities across India  with a special focus on Tier 2,  3 and 4 towns over and above  the metro cities.
• Reliance's initiative 'The  Ultimate Pitch' has been a  huge success in nurturing  entrepreneurial thinking  and innovation among  India’s youth.
The initiative's  7th season was hosted in a  3D virtual setup, witnessing  15,200+ student registrations  and 1,600+ ideas across 350+  B-School campuses.
Fostering talent in the virtual  ecosystem  To ensure the continued  development of talent in the  face of changing realities,  all the initiatives seamlessly  operated in the virtual mode of  delivery, with the focus of efforts  pinned on holistic development  and well-being.
•  In line with its philosophy of  nurturing a digitally enabled  learning value chain, Reliance  leverages both internally and  externally curated content to  deliver an excellent learner  experience.
The Company  has partnered with the world’s  best learning content partners  to meet the requirements  of effective learning.
In FY  2021-22, employees from  the Hydrocarbons division  consumed more than 2.4 lakh  hours of digital learning content  across various platforms:  -  LinkedIn Learning - Over  1,09,000 employees  are actively engaged  in developing micro- skills via the platform  across the company  -  Coursera- Over 26,000  employees are deep-skilling  through intense learning  journeys to build skill  proficiency via this medium  -  Learnet – Over 51,000  employees are active on the  social learning platform and  are committed to blogging,  sharing, and learning  via the platform   These mediums have  democratised learning which is  accessible anytime, anywhere  and on any device.
They are  available to anyone and provide  a superior learner experience.
• The talent initiatives also  involved the parents and  spouses of the participating  employees in the efforts  towards employee  development and well- being by sending them  acknowledgements.
Approach: Reliance’s CAP initiative  is designed to identify high potential  employees.
The programme is a  journey of learning and self-reflection  with preparatory assistance and  access to previous CAPs.
Impact:  • The programme expanded to over  8,000+ employees this year.
• Participants get an opportunity  to work on cross-functional  assignments and roles.
• The programme, till date, has  boosted the career progression of  over 70% of the participants.
• The programme has been  instrumental in retaining high  performing and potential talent  with average retention being 96%  over the years.
Nurturing Talent  through the Career  Acceleration  Programme (CAP)  HR and L&D Key Parameters Parameter RI L* Jio Retail Reliance  Group** Number of employees 22,642 83,347 2,15,614 3,42,982 Number of new hires 1,843 57,883 1,68,910 2,32,822 Number of voluntary separations # 1,785 28,473 69,266 -- Differently-abled employees 45 0 1,351 1,410 Number of Female employees 1,303 8,280 48,882 63,167 Paternity leaves taken by employees 463 2,504 902 4,090 Employees back in the same year after Paternity Leave 463 2,456 814 3,954 Maternity leave taken by employees 43 213 251 608 Employees back in the same year after Maternity Leave 43 208 226 578 Total man hours of training (in Hours) 7,65,273 88,41,082 1,31,37,620 2,27,78,582 * RIL in this context only includes India operations.
** Consolidated data for the Group includes RIL, Jio, Retail, Media and Malaysia operations.
# Voluntary separations exclude death, retirement and other involuntary separations.
Reliance is committed to talent management and investing in people.
The Company recognises that it can play a  fundamental role in providing skill building opportunities to the young or unskilled workforce.
Reliance takes immense  pride in developing skillsets relevant for India and Indians in evolving economic models.
This is reflected in the 2.2+ Crore  person-hours of training imparted during the reporting year.
The Company has a substantial workforce that is under the  age of 30 (representing 55.2%), and in the consumer facing businesses the Company also provides job opportunities to  the employees in the Non-Supervisory category (over 50% as shown in the graphs below).
Nonetheless, there are factors  which contribute to separations and the Company recognises that these are inevitable and monitors them as an  important matrix for employee retention.
For RIL, the most common reasons for the voluntary separations have been identified as – diverse career advancement  opportunities available in the market, pursuing higher education, and relocating to areas closer to home.
In the digital services business voluntary separations was primarily driven by specific frontline non-supervisory roles  pertaining to sales and service.
Retail employs a young staff, typically in the twenties.
With reopening of the economy, multiple opportunities opened  up for young employees, enabling them to explore new sectors and workforce models.
Retail implemented significant  engagement programs to secure critical talent.
Retail’s people practices have allowed it to get certified by the Great  Place to Work Institute as one of the Top 100 Best Workplaces in the country.
HUMAN CAPITAL Employees by Skill Breakdown 3.6 15.5 59.1 1.2 0.4 20.2   Leader   Manager   Executive   Trainee   Apprentice   Non-Supervisory RIL (%) 0.3 1.4 17.2 26.0 55.1 JIO (%)   Sr. Leader   Leader   Manager   Supervisory   Non-Supervisory 0.3 8.6 17.4 73.7 RETAIL (%)   Leader   Executive   Manager   Non-Supervisory Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 184 185 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Grooming Future Leaders 'Spectrum', Reliance Hydrocarbons’ annual dedication to the Company’s culture of continuous and holistic  development, ran its 6th edition on the theme of 'Learning Unlimited'.
The two week-long learning intervention witnessed  deep leadership involvement of 100+ leaders as speakers, guides, and content designers.
This initiative delivered  business-led, future-focused immersive learnings through innovative new formats covering 13,000+ learners in  65+ sessions.
Eminent industry leaders such as Smt.
Arundhati Bhattacharya, Ex Chairperson SBI and Independent  Director, Reliance, led “Spectrum Talks”.
The marquee event saw the participation of 1,200 Company employees.
Reliance continues to celebrate ‘Inspire’ in September 2021 to recognise internal facilitators.
During Inspire 2021, over 1,200 internal  facilitators were thanked for their contribution to the learning agenda.
Additionally, 800 People Managers who played an active  role in their team’s learning were recognised as Learning Enablers.
Immersive Learning Inspiring micro learning, leadership  talks, SME Sessions, Simulations,  Speed Monitoring, Idea Hackathon,  Day in the life of Leader, and more v Leadership Presence Strong presence as speakers,  facilitators, and content designers Future-focused Approach Centred around themes   of future of business   and future skills Engaging Families Open to families with a variety of  sessions and activities v Continued Learning The Spectrum Reflection campaign  keeps the spirit of the programme  alive beyond the event by making the  content available to all Digitally enabled people  transformation Reliance is building a world-class  digitally enabled platform, aptly  named PeopleFirst, that places  ‘people at the centre’.
PeopleFirst aims to provide a highly  personalised and curated employee  experience to help people find their  purpose and passion at work, and  reinforces growth and well-being.
It has simplified employee services  and brought them to the fingertips  of each employee, no matter their  location or role.
The platform acts as a world-class  real time integrated performance  management system, with wide  customisation choices by business  and workforce, linking individual  performance to business outcomes,  feedback from primary and  agile project teams and many  more features.
In the near future, the Company will  have visibility on employee skills,  automated, dynamic and individual  career maps for each employee,  and integrated learning needs with  personal aspirations.
PeopleFirst will facilitate swifter  adoption of 'future of work' practices  and seamless access to all  infrastructure and benefits.
Fostering employee  centric innovation  platform The spirit of innovation is central to  Reliance's credo.
The core element of  the organisation’s DNA is Innovation  which enables the Company to  add value to all its stakeholders.
Be  it inspiring the first generation of  retail investors in India, setting up the  world’s largest grassroots refinery,  or ushering in the Fourth Industrial  Revolution, Reliance’s disruptive  innovations continue to fulfil the  aspirations of millions of Indians.
Innovation within the Company  endeavours to catalyse ‘integrated  innovation-led exponential growth’.
Reliance leverages cutting-edge  digital technologies to develop and  deploy relevant programmes that  empower all its stakeholders and  foster a culture of innovation.
1  Mission Kurukshetra (MK) aspires  to equip all members of Reliance  with new-age tools to innovate,  thereby democratising creativity  and resourcefulness.
It is an  interactive digital platform  through which ideas, big or  small, are submitted, refined,  and executed to create a lasting  positive impact.
Through MK,  human capital practice hands- on creative problem solving and  climb the upskilling ladder.
Launched in 2014, MK is now  a treasure trove of more than  35,700 path-breaking ideas  that have the potential to  springboard the organisation.
2,775 new ideas were submitted  in FY 2021-22 under MK.
New-age Gateway 3D and 360-degree gateway  enhanced the experience manifold HUMAN CAPITAL Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 186 187 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review 2  Having pledged to achieve  Net Zero emissions by 2035,  Reliance is well on course to help  decarbonise India’s growing  economy and make the human  experience more pleasant for all  through its New Energy business.
Reliance’s New Energy Council  (NEC) has been set up to guide  the science, technology, and  innovation vision and to construct  pathways to sustainability.
Global  thought-leaders and new energy  pioneers will join forces with the  Company to accelerate the  shift away from fossil fuels and  leverage technology to drive  innovation-led growth in India.
The NEC comprises leading  lights in sustainability such as  Dr. Alan Finkel (Special Adviser  to the Australian Government  on Low Emissions Technologies  & Former Chief Scientist,  Australia), Dr. David Milstein  (Professorial Chair at Weizmann  Institute of Science & Founder of  Molecular Design Centre, Israel),  Dr. Geoffrey Maitland (Professor  at Imperial College London,  Founder Qatar Carbonates  and Carbon Storage Research  Centre), Mr. Henrik Stiesdal  (Professor at Technical University  of Denmark’s Department of  Wind Energy), Dr. Martin Green  (Professor at University of  New South Wales, Australia),  Dr. Rachid Yazami (Entrepreneur,  former Professor & Principal  Scientist at NTU Singapore), and  Dr. Robert Armstrong (Professor  of Chemical Engineering and  Director, MIT Energy Initiative,  USA).
The Company is committed  to furthering the Hon'ble Prime  Minister’s goal of reaching  450 GW of renewable energy  by the end of this decade and  ensuring that the post-pandemic  recovery is green and equitable.
Labour management and  human rights Reliance adheres to the principles  of the United Nations Global  Compact (UNGC) in human rights,  labour practices, environmental  protection, and anti-corruption.
The  Company’s operational units comply  with local and national regulations.
Further, the Company’s Values and  Behaviours, and the Code of Conduct  provide necessary policy and  operating framework for execution  of its strategic vision.
The collective  bargaining agreements encompass  nearly all non-supervisory  permanent employees across all  manufacturing facilities.
There were zero occurrences of child  labour, forced labour, involuntary  labour, sexual harassment, or  discriminatory employment  throughout the reporting period.
Men  and women selected for the same  cadre programme receive equal pay  at the entry-level.
Business ethics, integrity  and transparency Reliance has robust governance  and Code of Conduct policies for  its human capital.
The Company’s  Board level Human Resources,  Nomination and Remuneration  Committee periodically reviews and  evaluates overall human resources  and associated policies from time to  time.
Further, the decisions relating  to the employee Code of Conduct  are monitored through Ethics and  Compliance Task Force (ECTF), which  consists of an Executive Director,  General Counsel, Group Controller,  and Group Company Secretary.
This Task Force evaluates incidents  of suspected or actual violations of  the Code of Conduct and reports  them to the Audit Committee every  quarter.
In addition to this, Reliance  has mandatory e-learning courses,  which aim to equip its employees  with the required understanding  and knowledge to effectively  conduct its business in an ethical  manner and prevent, identify, and  respond to violations.
Grievance redressal  mechanism To deal with concerns of ethics,  non-compliance, and violations of  its Code of Conduct, Reliance has  established a vigil mechanism and a  whistle blower policy for its employees  and directors.
The whistle-blower  can make a protected disclosure  through an e-mail or dedicated  telephone line or a letter to the ECTF  or to the Chairman of the Audit  Committee.
RIL’s Code of Conduct,  Vigil mechanism and Whistle blower  policy form the foundation of the  Company’s commitment towards  ethical conduct at all levels.
Employee volunteering Several studies indicate that  employee volunteering instils  a sense of purpose amongst  employees and has the potential  to increase productivity and higher  workplace morale.
Throughout the  year, Reliance organised numerous  employee volunteering activities to  provide them with a meaningful and  gratifying experience.
These activities  saw increased participation of  employees from all levels across the  Company.
The Reliance Foundation  organised the engagements to  promote various causes through  partner NGOs around the country.
Our recognitions • Reliance has been recognised  with the Great Place to Work®  certification from the Great Place  to Work® Institute, based on their  Trust Index© assessment.
This is  the second time that Reliance  has been Great Place to Work— Certified™.
RIL was also one among  15 organisations that featured in  their ‘India’s Best Employers Among  Nation Builders List-2021’.
Way Forward As Reliance reimagines its  future, the Company is also  strengthening its talent  development frameworks to  groom the next generation  of leaders and workforce.
The Company will continue  to create opportunities to  increase the diversity in the  workforce.
Reliance will continue to  extend support to help tackle  any COVID-19 challenges and  better adapt to the post- pandemic world.
Building  this relationship of trust and  shared values with its people  empowers the Company  to realise its aspiration of  creating a more sustainable  and inclusive future for India  and the world.
• Reliance has been featured in  LinkedIn's Top Companies list of  2022.
The Company has achieved  this feat for the 6th time in a row.
• Reliance is ranked #52 globally in  the Forbes “World’s Best Employers  2021” list, making it the top-most  Indian Company on the list.
• Reliance Foundation and Jio won  two awards for their Diversity &  Inclusion initiatives at the 3rd D&I  Summit & Awards.
MANUFACTURED   CAPITAL Committed to Growing with Care for the Planet Reliance believes that the global new energy agenda needs to move  from dialogue to action, from commitment to urgent implementation  on the ground.
Therefore, it has made a bold commitment to meet its  ambitious Net Zero target by 2035.
Largest   Petcoke Gasifier   globally Satellite   Cluster field  commissioned   in April 2021 Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 188 189 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Reliance has always been a  frontrunner in leveraging digital  technologies to tap new market  opportunities and improve business  operations.
The launch of Jio in  2016 with the aim of bridging the  digital divide in India is a testimony  to the Company’s focus on digital  technologies.
Post the 2021 spectrum  auction, Jio's spectrum footprint has  increased 56% to 1,732 MHz, which  bolsters its network capacity to  meet the ever increasing demand  for data services.
Business Performance Digital Services The year 2021 marks five years  since Jio began its commercial  operations in September 2016.
Over these five years, Jio changed  the communication landscape of  India.
With 410.2 million subscribers,  Jio’s services span geographies,  income, and social classes.
One of  the most important factors behind  the steady growth of Reliance Jio  is its customer centricity on the  back of three key pillars: innovative  products/services, affordable tariffs  and plans, and network expansion  and augmentation .
Jio has built a network to serve every  citizen, home, and enterprise across  the country with over 99% population  coverage for mobility network.
JioFiber services has increased its  homes passed to almost 20 million.
Jio’s widest and deepest market  presence and ahead of the curve  investment in next-generation  communication and digital  technologies have helped steady  business growth.
It has created a full  stack of digital products, platforms,  and services to serve evolving  consumers and business needs.
Jio partners with globally established  and new age platforms across the  full suite of digital and connectivity  services.
Some of the major  partnerships and milestones are  mentioned below: Reliance Jio and Google cloud have  embarked on a comprehensive,  long-term strategic relationship with  a goal of powering 5G in enterprise  and consumer segments nationwide.
Google Cloud will provide a complete  end-to-end cloud offering for fully  automated lifecycle management of  Jio’s 5G network and services.
Highlights FY 2021-22 Reliance Retail crossed 15,000 stores milestone 1,732 MHz Increased Jio’s spectrum footprint 68.2 MMT Production meant for sale 1.4 MMBPD Crude refining capacity Reliance is conscious of the need to  build environmentally responsible  capabilities and robust state-of-the- art infrastructures that make judicious  use of nature's resources to build  world-class products and services.
Reliance has always focused on  the efficient use of resources and  advanced digital technologies in  its operations.
The Company has  strategies in place to ensure efficient  use of all capital goods, enhancing  flexibility of operations, meeting  ever evolving consumer demands,  and contributing to addressing  global challenges such as climate  change.
The Company strives for  total system optimisation and  economies by improving its assets'  efficiency, performance, and lifecycle.
As a Company, its philosophy of  'We Care' has ensured that its facilities  are technologically advanced,  innovative, flexible and limit their  environmental footprint.
Owing to the diverse set of  businesses Reliance operates  in, the Company relies heavily  on the optimum utilisation of its  manufactured capital to ensure  sustained growth across businesses.
Reliance Retail has crossed 15,000  stores milestone and has a direct  presence across 7,000+ cities, with  services in 98% of India's pin codes.
Extensive supply chain network,  largest network of stores, digital  and new commerce platform offers  Retail strategic advantages over its  competitors.
Exploration & Production  (E&P) has R Cluster Field and Satellite  Cluster field together producing  ~18 MMSCMD.
The Company's O2C  business includes the world’s largest  and most integrated O2C Complex at  Jamnagar Supersite with 1.4 MMBPD  crude refining capacity.
Material Topics • Raw Material Security • Security and Asset Management United Nations SDGs  MANUFACTURED CAPITAL Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 190 191 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review In addition, Jio and Google Cloud  will collaborate to bring a portfolio  of 5G edge computing solutions to  help industries address business  problems.
Reliance will also augment  its compute workload for the Retail  business taking advantage of  Google’s AI/ML, e-commerce, and  demand forecasting offerings.
This will help Reliance leverage  Google Cloud with increased  reliability and performance, and  the scale-up needed to respond to  customer demand.
JioPhone Next jointly designed by Jio  Platforms and Google was launched  during the reporting period.
JioPhone  Next is among the most affordable  smartphone anywhere globally  with a unique financing option and  unprecedented features like an all  new Pragati OS.
Jio also partnered with WhatsApp  to simplify its entire 'Prepaid  Recharge' process.
Jio has relentlessly driven network  improvements for enhanced  customer experience through network  automation, Next-Gen platform  deployment, advanced analytics,  and data sciences.
Jio’s 5G stack is a comprehensive  5G solution which is fully cloud  native, software defined and digitally  managed.
5G coverage planning  has been completed for 1,000 top  cities across the country based on  targeted customer consumption  and revenue potential using heat  maps, 3D maps and ray tracing  technology.
Within two years of its  launch, Jio has become the largest  fibre broadband provider with over  5 million connected homes with an  average data usage of almost 300 GB  per home, per month.
O2C Reliance’s O2C structure enables  an integrated decision-making  approach to maximise and optimise  the entire value chain.
The integrated  O2C business consists of state- of-the-art manufacturing assets,  including a refinery with an integrated  off-gas cracker and gasification  unit, aromatics, multi-feed and gas  crackers, downstream manufacturing  facilities, logistics and supply-chain  infrastructure.
O2C business includes the world's  largest and most integrated O2C  complex at the Jamnagar Supersite.
O2C will focus on transforming into  a Net Zero entity by transitioning  from fossil fuels to renewables for  energy demand and adopting a  circular and sustainable business  model.
Optimisation, cost reduction  and debottlenecking are other focus  areas of the O2C business.
Reliance Retail Reliance Retail is India’s largest  and most profitable retailer with a  diverse omni-channel presence  via integrated store concepts  and digital commerce platforms.
Retail’s performance demonstrates  a robust business model, superior  understanding of evolving consumer  needs and highly capable staff.
The  Company operates in consumer  electronics, fashion and lifestyle,  grocery, pharma, and connectivity  consumption baskets.
Retail's strategic advantage and  competitive strength include its  largest store network and strong  supplier relationships that straddle  across the value chain.
The  Company's extensive supply chain  covers the length and breadth of the  country and supports product design  and development, serves customers  across segments and deploys  cutting edge technology to improve  business efficiencies.
Reliance Retail continued its  investments in network and  infrastructure expansion.
The business  added ~7 new stores every day during  the financial year and crossed the  15,000 store milestone.
Retail is trusted  by more than 193 million registered  customers.
It has also bolstered retail  capabilities through acquisitions,  partnerships, and strategic  investments.
During FY 2021-22, it  invested over ` 9,700 crore.
Retail  made significant investments in a  broad range of companies, including  Just Dial, 7-Eleven, Milkbasket,  Kalanikethan and Ritu Kumar.
It also  invested US$ 200 million in Dunzo,  India's leading last-mile delivery and  quick commerce player, for a 25.8%  stake on a fully diluted basis.
`9,700 crore* Invested in Reliance Retail in  FY 2021-22 to bolster capabilities and  brand portfolio New Energy Having committed to Net Zero  by 2035, the Company detailed  an ambitious strategy and  roadmap to achieve the target  at Reliance Industries’ 44th Annual  General Meeting (AGM).
In this context, Reliance aims to build  four Giga factories to manufacture  and integrate critical components of  the new energy ecosystem.
• Solar Photovoltaic Giga Factory • Advanced Energy  Storage Giga Factory • Electrolyser and  Hydrogen value chain Its existing infrastructure and  materials will support the four Giga  factories.
The Company's Jamnagar  complex will provide infrastructure  and utilities to manufacture ancillary  material and equipment needed to  support these Giga factories so that  all critical materials are available  in time.
The Company will also  help independent manufacturers  to build capabilities to be part  of the ecosystem.
Over the years, Reliance has  demonstrated significant  engineering, project management  and construction capabilities  combining physical and digital  technologies.
Reliance aspires to  repurpose these capabilities, along  with major international organisations  to execute and deliver world-class,  renewable energy solutions.
MANUFACTURED CAPITAL Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 192 193 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Exploration and  Production (E&P) Reliance is India's leading deepwater  E&P operator with best-in-class  safety and reliability track record.
The  Company is committed to maximising  shareholder value and conducting  business in an environmentally  responsible manner.
Highlights of FY 2021-22: • Satellite Cluster field was  commissioned in April 2021, two  months ahead of schedule, with peak  production of 6.1 MMSCMD.
Together  with R-cluster field, the fields are  currently producing ~18 MMSCMD  and contributing ~20% of India’s  domestic production.
• Exploration is underway in the proven  geological fairways.
• Reliance has divested all its shale  gas assets and exited from the  business in the USA.
With the expected commissioning of  the MJ field in 3Q, FY 2023, the KG D6  block will produce more than 1 BCFe/ day by FY 2024, thereby contributing  ~30% of India’s gas production.
This  will help to meet a significant portion  of India’s demand and reduce the  country’s dependence on imported gas  and meet the growing clean energy  requirements of the nation.
Strengthening the  Framework to Build a  Digital-first Company Raw Material Security Reliance strives to enhance raw  material utilisation by adopting  the 3R philosophy.
Efficient waste  management is well ingrained into  its business model, which helps  in minimising dependency on  raw material.
The Company has  deployed IT systems to understand  current trends and predict future  requirements based on real-time  data tracking and monitoring  of business operations.
The  Company’s O2C business focuses  on cost reduction, debottlenecking  and optimisation to enhance its  competitive advantage.
Reliance  also makes strategic investments  in various companies to ensure raw  material security.
Reliance has partnered with several  companies to build an entire  green energy ecosystem.
The key  acquisitions and investments are  mentioned in the New Energy section  on page 22 and 23 of the report.
Way Forward The Company's undeterred  focus on efficient use of  its manufactured capital  has helped deliver robust  operational and financial  performance across all  businesses.
Reliance remains  steadfast on its Net Zero  commitment.
It will focus on  the next big value creation  engine - New Energy and  New Materials business  through its mega-investment.
In 2016, the Company  launched Jio with the aim of  bridging the digital divide in  India.
Now, RIL has launched  a New Energy business to  bridge the green energy  divide in India and globally.
Reliance will continue to  focus on providing a superior  customer experience across  its businesses.
It will continue  to bolster its manufactured  capital through investments,  acquisitions, strategic  partnerships and  environmentally conscious  ways to meet consumer  demands and tap emerging  opportunities into sustainable  business ventures.
Security and Asset  Management The protection and security of assets  across businesses are critical for  Reliance to ensure the reliability of  its operations.
The Company uses  analytics-led and technology-driven  measures to ensure the safety of  all assets.
The Company's Group  Security function and teams provide  assurance to businesses at all levels  to manage security risks through  continuous monitoring and assessing  emerging risks.
The Company has  instituted management plans for  robust disaster recovery, crisis, and  business continuity.
The Company is a forerunner in  adopting advanced technologies  and smart manufacturing processes  in its value chain.
It uses advanced  technologies such as machine  learning-based solutions to predict  equipment and process health to  take corrective/preventive actions  and the use of drones for inspection  of inaccessible points.
Secured  Connected System (RelianceSCS),  Company's smart manufacturing  system, is based on real-time  information using advanced  analytics to predict the future state  of operations established on the  foundation of securely connected  sensors and systems.
In addition,  Global Corporate Security (GCS)  officers are engaged round the clock  to ensure the safety of employees,  assets and operations.
Innovation and  Technology Reliance believes that innovation  and technology will pave the way  for its steady growth.
The spirit of  innovation is central to Reliance's  value system.
Innovation, a core  element of the organisation's DNA  enables the Company to create value  for all stakeholders.
As a result, the  Company invests significantly in R&D  efforts.
The Company always looks for  market opportunities and leverage its  intellectual capital to tap the same.
Be it inspiring the first generation of  retail investors in India, setting up the  world’s largest grassroots refinery,  Reliance’s disruptive innovations  fulfil the aspirations of millions of  Indians.
Its continuous innovation  efforts include advancement in  biological science to tackle climate  change, deriving value out of waste to  promote circular economy, affordable  and clean energy initiatives, among  many others.
As a consequence of  the Company's relentless efforts, it  has witnessed several breakthroughs  over the years.
In FY 2021-22 a total of  123 patents were granted to Reliance  and 152 new patent applications filed  in various jurisdictions.
Reliance has  been granted 1,323 patents till date.
Reliance has a robust internal  Intellectual Property (IP) governance  framework that ensures that these  patents are in close alignment with  the organisation’s business objectives.
The IP governance framework helps in  meeting all compliance requirements  in areas such as confidential  information management, third  party engagement management,  regulatory requirements across the  globe, among others.
Reliance has implemented various  digital initiatives to support its R&D  efforts.
The R&D team has adopted  a benchmarked Intellectual Property  management system that provides  enterprise-wide end-to-end  workflow management, streamlining  and automating various portfolio  management processes.
This system  also acts as a centralised repository  of various intellectual properties.
The  Company's R&D has implemented  best-in-class Electronic Lab Notebook  (ELN) which is seamlessly integrated  with the Laboratory Information  Management System (LIMS).
The ELN  application provides scientists with  a robust platform to capture and  store structured and unstructured  data as they conduct experiments  or execute laboratory procedures.
ELN user interface is flexible and can  be tailored by creating experiment  templates that allow the scientist to  easily enter information and directly  capture results from analytical  instruments and barcode systems for  sample lifecycle management.
Leveraging its Intellectual  Capital to Fight COVID-19  The outbreak of COVID-19 disrupted  every economy worldwide and tested  human vulnerabilities.
Nevertheless,  governments and businesses left  no stone unturned to minimise the  impact of COVID-19 on health and  the economy.
Reliance, a responsible  organisation, leveraged its intellectual  capital to contribute to the country's  fight against COVID-19.
Reliance’s scientists analysed more  than 1,000 genomes of the virus.
The  knowledge base was used to develop  novel cost-effective diagnostic  kits called ‘R-Green’ and ‘R-Green  pro one’.
These kits have received  ICMR approval and showed a high  degree of accuracy and specificity  during validation studies.
Reliance  has also collaborated with IIIM-CSIR  (Jammu) to develop an RT-LAMP  Kit to facilitate the point-of-care  diagnosis of COVID-19.
The R&D team actively contributes  to the Company's technical wisdom  to facilitate innovation globally  by publishing research articles  on diagnostics and treatment.
Application of natural-astaxanthin for  Highlights FY 2021-22 1,000+ Researchers and Scientists 152 Patent applications filed 123 Patents granted `2,608 crore R&D expenditure  Reliance has more than 1,000  scientists and engineers to support  R&D activities.
The Company runs  initiatives and campus recruitment  drives to continually attract the best  minds to expand its R&D capabilities.
Reliance laboratories and R&D  facilities are equipped with advanced  infrastructure that provides the  optimal environment to accelerate  the development of innovative  products and services for customers  and the greater well-being of the  planet, communities and the country.
Material Topics • Innovation and Technology • Data Privacy and Cyber Security United Nations SDGs Research and Development for a Sustainable Future Led by its philosophy of 'We Care', Reliance strives to make its products  and services affordable and accessible for all by reducing complexity,  leveraging technology, and exploring sustainable options through its  Research and Development (R&D) initiatives and investments.
The Company's R&D strengths are the foundation that enables it to build the  edifice of a great company that brings exceptional products and services  to customers far and wide.
The Company's Intellectual Capital fuels its  ambition to develop innovative products, processes and catalysts to build  a sustainable and profitable business.
Reliance encourages new ideas,  innovation, and pioneering technologies to create sustainable and long- term value for its stakeholders.
INTELLECTUAL   CAPITAL Reliance Research and  Development: A Crucial  Driver of Sustained Value  Creation Shareholder   Value R&D will build an IP portfolio  to provide a long-term  competitive advantage Societal   Value R&D will help businesses  to reach all segments of  society through products  developed for masses Customer   Value R&D will support all  technologies to create  customer value with  short-term as well as  long-term projects Won the CII Innovation  Award For Reliance's Novel Adsorbent for  Dowtherm & NMP Purification &  RELOX catalyst commercialisation  for PET production Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 194 195 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review  COVID-19 management published in  ‘Biomedicine and Pharmacotherapy’  journal is recognised as top 100  research paper.
The paper is listed  in WHO’s global repository.
The  flow-virometry-based method  proposed by Reliance for robotics- based high-throughput sample  testing has received accolades from  international communities, such as  the Future Virology journal.
PSA based oxygen concentrators  can produce oxygen with 93% (+- 3%)  purity.
The unit is an excellent solution  during hospitalisation situation due  to COVID-19 to maintain the SpO2  level of a patient.
Reliance R&D has  designed oxygen generator with a  purity of 90% to 95% with 5 LPM oxygen  leveraging its expertise in adsorption  technology.
As adsorbents contribute  significantly to the cost of the PSA unit,  the Company’s R&D team is working  extensively for in-house adsorbent  development for oxygen PSA systems.
R&D Focus Areas Bio-innovations  Reliance recognises that  advancements in biological science  could transform economies and  societies to tackle climate change  issue.
At Reliance, the core biology  stream was integrated with digital  sciences and engineering for  development of Next-Gen tools and  eco-friendly technologies for a safe  and healthy planet.
Reliance's synthetic biology platform  aims for innovation-led growth  via hybridising competencies  developed in genetic engineering,  photosynthesis, omics, big-data  analytics and robotics.
The platform  has helped improve productivity  outcomes for novel products and  create new business opportunities  in food, personal care and next- generation biomaterials.
Reliance  demonstrated robust and scalable  year-round outdoor algal cultivation  continuously for more than four years.
Reliance has successfully  demonstrated the application of  algae biomass for food and feed  application in a sustainable and  eco-friendly way.
It has also initiated  work to commercialise super protein  powder from algae for various Indian  and global snacks, health drinks, and  texturised meat substitutes.
Algal  biomass produced in a sustainable  way using seawater, sunlight, and  CO2 was harvested and processed  to develop a rich and appropriate  source of highly nutritious food and  feed ingredients.
The ingredients  have successfully replaced the  prevalent and environmentally  regressive fish meal ingredient from  various applications.
Reliance has also developed  Microbial cell factories for  fermentation production of one of  the strongest biomaterials such  as Spider Silk for advanced fabric  and personal care application.
Collaboration with some of the  leading personal care brands is  ongoing for developing unique skin  and hair care formulations using this  recombinant spider silk.
The Company also leverages  advanced analytical science to fast- track innovation in biology.
'Digital  tongue' is an algorithm for prediction  of taste of the proteins and proving  enzyme-system to bias taste of food  towards customer's requirement.
Several ML (Machine Language)  tools were developed and used in  computational biology platforms to  fabricate DNA to make novel products  from microbial cell factories.
The CRISPR platform demonstrated  genome alteration of algae  and cyanobacteria using  programmable nucleases.
The  R&D team is working relentlessly  for developing molecular tools and  applications of the technology for  agricultural and synthetic biology  product development.
The team is applying this technology  for higher algal biomass and novel  product development in crops  that conventional methods cannot  produce.
The Company aims to use  this path breaking technology to solve  significant challenges.
Coal which cannot be mined and, if  not redeemed for its value in the form  of methane production, would be a  waste of natural resources.
Reliance's  Bio CBM process is targeted at  converting coal that cannot be mined  to methane, which will help improve  the country's energy security and  even help reduce GHG emissions.
Circular Economy  The single use plastic in food  packaging and consumer goods  mostly ends up in landfills.
Reliance  recognises the negative impact of  single use plastic on the environment.
Reliance is exploring sustainable  solutions to reuse plastic waste  to promote and adopt a circular  economy to tackle this menace.
The Company's R&D team and the  Sustainability Solutions team in the  Reliance-Petchem business have  launched ReRouteTM, the only product  of its kind in the market today that  can be used to make bituminous  concrete road surfacing using the  'dry mix' process.
The R&D team also developed net  bags and bag on roll applications  using biodegradable plastic.
These  have been tested at Reliance Retail  stores.
The materials showed excellent  properties required for flexible as  well as rigid packaging.
Innovations  in biodegradable plastic technology  have also moved from bench scale to  pilot scale development.
Reliance's low temperature  continuous catalytic pyrolysis  technology can convert plastic waste  containing multi-layer film polymers  into stable oil.
The technology does  not require any feed segregation  or clean up.
Additionally, this novel  process gives a higher yield and  enhanced stability.
The produced  stable oil can be readily processed in  a refinery or petrochemical units such  as FCC, Coker, Steam cracker, etc.
Reliance uses RCAT HTL technology to  produce biofuel using various organic  feedstock wastes to derive value  from the waste.
Produced biofuel  can be utilised for heat and power  applications or as a transportation  fuel.
Biofuel generated using the  technology has been successfully  tested in commercial engines,  and the technology is ready for  commercialisation.
The technology  has the potential to significantly  contribute to the Company's Net Zero  goal by achieving a 25% blend in its  refining capacity.
Discarded PET based fabrics  have a detrimental impact on  the environment.
As an essential  step towards a circular economy  and addressing the challenge of  discarded PET based fabrics, the  Company's R&D is targeting to  separate PET from mixed fabric  blends and convert it back to fibers  and into fabric.
The R&D team has  also developed a process to recycle  waste tyres and is exploring ways to  convert waste recyclable polyester  material into valuable chemicals to  make polyurethane with improved  physical properties.
The team  developed a bench process using  a Reliance proprietary solvent to  separate different layers of polymer.
Separate layers can be recycled as  per their different functionalities and  processability.
Earlier, a benign process was used  to recover high-value metals,  vanadium and nickel, from petcoke  cinder, which is a leftover by the  product from entrained flow  gasifiers.
Hydro process demands  a large quantity of acid or alkali for  leaching, and pyro process involves  very high temperature (> 1,700OC).
The R&D team has developed a  hybrid process where salt roasting  at low temperature, followed by  hydrometallurgical processing steps,  leads to the extraction of vanadium  and nickel at a significantly lower cost  than the conventional process.
R&D  team is also pursuing various national  and international collaborative  projects to utilise CO2.
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Approach: The Polymer R&D team  developed a novel process using  in-house developed chemical  ‘RESOLVE’ for separation of polymer  layers in multilayer packaging.
The process is a simple two-step  approach using ‘RELSOLVE’ separating  medium and it avoids the complex  multistep process involving various  solvents and antisolvents for the  recovery of the polymer layers.
Impact: The process helps in  recovering the polymer layer in pure  form without dissolution.
Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 196 197 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Chemical Recycling  of Multilayer  Packaging Material Industry and Infrastructure  Reliance has its pulse on evolving  consumer needs, and it leverages  its intellectual capital to develop  novel solutions for industry and  infrastructure use.
Following are  the key initiatives undertaken  by the R&D team: • R&D team has developed a novel  functional emulsion based SBR  rubber.
Reactive silica composite  prepared from this reactive product  has low rolling resistance and  excellent abrasion properties.
• Poly Vinyl Chloride (PVC) is generally  processed with a higher quantity of  external plasticisers to make it more  flexible and processable.
However,  this flexible PVC polymer has poor  leaching properties.
Reliance has  developed internally plasticised- PVC (IP-PVC), which does not need  external plasticisers.
Additionally,  IP-PVC does not lose its inherent  properties of flexibility and neither  does it leach any plasticiser into  the environment.
• R&D team has developed quick and  visible methods for identification  of industrial popcorn samples  from normal elastomer/polymer  samples, thereby, enhancing the  safety quotient of the elastomers or  polymer processes.
• R&D team has developed a  novel polymer, disentangled high  molecular weight polyethylene  (DPE), for lightweight helmets, cut- resistant gloves.
• The chlorination of PVC produces  chlorinated Polyvinyl Chloride  (CPVC).
UV-light meditated  photochlorination of PVC to CPVC  is a common industrial practice  to produce CPVC resin.
Reliance  has developed in-house visible  light mediated photochlorination  by replacing hazardous UV light.
The CPVC has improved resin  properties than the commercially  available option.
• R&D team has developed  an innovative, green, and  commercially viable process  to produce selective infrared  transmitting polymeric materials.
The NIR-transmitting material is  produced through solid-state  reactive processing and is cheaper,  non-toxic, air and moisture stable  with the added advantage  of the flexibility to mould into  the desired shape.
• R&D team is developing  technologies to make low- cost carbon fibers using  various raw materials.
• There is a growing demand for  novel solutions that provide  protection to process and structural  components from corrosive  environment.
R&D team has  developed thermoset composite  solutions that can be coated on  surfaces to provide adequate  protection from mild to the harsh  corrosive environments.
Affordable and Clean Energy  Reliance believes that climate  change presents an opportunity  to create a healthier, happier, and  sustainable planet.
Affordable and  clean energy options will realise this  opportunity for humanity.
The R&D  team has been operating a large  pilot facility near Jamnagar, where it  converts sunlight, CO2 and seawater  to renewable bio-crude.
The ponds  have been operating continuously  without any failure for more than  four years.
No other organisation in  the world has been able to cultivate  algae without crashes and significant  downtime.
Reliance has developed  all the technology components which  will be instrumental in converting  CO2 to useful products to combat  climate change.
The Company has  also developed a  catalytic gasification  technology that can  convert a variety  of carbonaceous  feedstocks like  petcoke, coal,  biomass, etc.
into  hydrogen and  syngas.
The novel catalytic process can  be used to convert challenging  feedstocks like high-ash Indian  coal and agricultural residue into  hydrogen or syngas.
The Company  has successfully completed plant  testing of the technology with  different agricultural residues and  high-ash Indian coal, and 10 TPD plant  capacity is being worked out.
A high temperature-polymer  electrolyte membrane (HT-PEM) fuel  cell system has been built and is  presently being tested on simulated  Reliance-Jio towers.
In coming years  renewable hydrogen will supply fuel  cells to produce in-situ hydrogen.
Oil to Chemicals (O2C)  Fossil fuels like gasoline and diesel  have a high carbon footprint  impacting the environment.
Having committed to a Net Zero  target by 2035, Reliance strives to  explore innovative options to adopt  sustainable practices.
Reliance's  Multizone Catalytic Cracking (MCC)  is an in-house disruptive innovation  to generate chemical building blocks  for speciality materials from refinery  streams or whole crude instead of  fuels.
The MCC is a vital technology  enabler that will help in Jamnagar's  O2C transformation.
The 3KBPSD MCC  demo plant is in the advanced design  stage and has been constructed  for a demonstration before building  a full-scale commercial plant.
A unique technology has also been  developed to separate the aromatics  BTX component from olefinic MCC  gasoline and recycle the raffinate  stream to MCC riser for maximising  petrochemicals production.
Refining and Petrochemicals  Reliance has developed a high- capacity sodium removal adsorbent  and a process to remove trace  amounts of sodium from disulphide  oil (DSO).
This solution has been  commercialised at Jamnagar.
The treated DSO is being utilised in  Reliance's Refinery Off-Gas Cracker  (ROGC) unit replacing imported costly  additive, Dimethyl disulphide (DMDS).
A facility is also being developed at  the JMD to transport the product to  Reliance's other petrochemical sites  to use them in-stream crackers.
The R&D team has developed an  in-house RELOX (Reliance Oxidation)  catalyst for the purification of  nitrogen gas streams.
The RELOX  catalyst purifies nitrogen gas  streams containing hydrocarbon  impurities and is used in the nitrogen  purification unit.
The RELOX catalyst  is being supplied to the PET HMD  site, where production is in progress.
The Company aims to use RELOX  catalyst in all PET plants for nitrogen  gas purification.
Thermic fluids are predominantly  used in high temperature process  applications between 150O C and  400O C. For the first time globally, the  R&D team has developed an in-house  novel adsorbent and a process for  the online purification of thermic  fluids.
The technology has been  commissioned at Dahej and Silvassa  plants and is under commissioning  in Hazira.
Besides being superior  to conventional techniques like  distillation and alkali wash, this  technology is environmentally friendly  and cost effective.
The R&D team has developed  REL-ORCAT, a proprietary catalytic  technology, for olefins removal or  BI reduction from aromatics rich  hydrocarbon streams.
The technology  with its superior catalyst has the  potential to replace conventionally  used clay-based catalyst.
The team  has also developed an eco-friendly,  single-step adsorptive process to  purify recycling/waste MEG generated  in polyester plants.
Further, to  maximise propylene yield, conversion  and reduce the coke make, the team  has developed a process for High  Active FCC catalyst.
Biodegradation is the most  sustainable and economical way  of industrial effluent treatment, as  it leads to terminal conversion of  organic pollutants into microbial  biomass without leaving behind  toxic residues.
Once established, it’s  a self-regenerating system.
Tailor  made microbial consortia have been  developed, scaled, and implemented  for consistent chemical oxygen  demand (COD) remediation at the  polyester ETP plant at Patalganga  Manufacturing Division (PMD).
Similarly, a specialised microbial  consortium has been implemented  for COD reduction at Silvassa  Manufacturing Division (SMD) for  smooth and uninterrupted operations.
Climate action  R&D team has developed a mixed  oxide stable catalyst to convert  methanol and CO2 to a high-value  Di-methyl carbonate (DMC) product  that can be used as a solvent and  specialty chemical.
The process  and the catalyst have been scaled  up to a pilot stage.
The team has  also developed a sorbent based  circulating fluidised bed process  for concentrating CO2 from dilute  refinery and power plant flue  gases.
The process is protected by  several patents.
Under RIL's flagship programme,  Algae to Oil, the R&D team has  developed a technology that utilises  abundant sunlight, waste CO2 and  sea water, to produce valuable  products.
This process has a huge  potential to utilise atmospheric CO2  and convert it to a valuable green  crude oil, thus reducing the carbon  footprint to a significant extent and  combating climate change.
RIL has  been operating a large pilot facility at  Gagwa near Jamnagar.
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 198 199 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Phishing is a form of Cyber-attack  where Cybercriminals attempt to  trick individuals by disguising as  a trustworthy source.
Although  organisations have tried numerous  ways to prevent phishing attacks,  there is no full-proof solution.
Therefore, employees become the  last line of defence.
Several organisations use Simulation  based anti-phishing exercises as  a method to educate employees.
However, it only assesses an  employee’s susceptibility to phishing  attacks which varies with every  new simulation.
To address this, Reliance has  developed a phishing simulation  platform ‘R-phish’ to conduct anti- phishing exercises on a periodic basis  and to calculate the user awareness  index ‘Phishing Resistance Score  (PRS)’.
PRS, which is a function of  multiple factors attributing to user  awareness initiatives, determines  user’s resistance to identifying a  phishing email.
Way Forward Reliance believes that innovation and  technology will be key to its continuous  growth.
Over the years, Reliance has leveraged  digital technologies and tapped business  opportunities through innovative business  models.
Customer-centricity, care, and  commitment to building a better world and  India have always been at the core of its  innovation and R&D efforts.
The Company has  always focused on developing new products  at affordable prices and expanding product  applications to broaden the access and  reach of its offerings.
Having committed to a  Net Zero target by 2035, Reliance focuses on  developing innovative products and solutions  that contribute towards building a sustainable  world.
Reliance will focus its R&D efforts to develop  technologies that promote circularity and  help it fulfil its ambition to build an entire  green energy ecosystem.
The Company will  continue to focus on industry innovation to  explore alternative and sustainable options for  industrial and infrastructural needs.
Digital Services  Leveraging its technology investment  and customer engagement, Jio  has indigenously developed and  launched a full stack of digital  products, platforms and services  for multiple ecosystems serving  consumers and businesses.
The Jio  R&D team, with over 9,000 technical  and research professionals, has  developed leading technology  platforms spanning 5G stack, cloud  and edge compute, devices &  operating systems, blockchain, IoT,  mixed reality, AI / ML, secure identity  and natural language processing,  among others.
Till date, Jio has been  granted 417 patents across multiple  jurisdictions for the pioneering  initiatives it has undertaken.
In  FY 2021-22 alone, the company filed  for 110 patents and was granted  46.
Among the key technology  areas covered by these patents  are vDLT (Virtual Distributed Ledger  Technology), 5G User Equipment, AI for  Health and Agriculture, IoT, Industrial  4.0 and AR/ VR.
Data Privacy and Security  Considering the wide range of digital  services Jio offers, it is important  for the company to provide a safe  and secure experience while using  its services.
Jio always strives to  assure users that their personal  information is protected.
To this end,  data privacy, data protection, and  information security form an intrinsic  part of Jio's service design across the  entire lifecycle.
Jio’s privacy and security programme  focuses on three key aspects of  embedding security in design,  effective governance and enabling  organisation-wide security  awareness.
Jio tries to minimise the  chances of security incidents by  defining and implementing a highly  effective governance structure.
It has  implemented a holistic information  security management programme  to protect its business, customers,  infrastructure, services, and internal  users from security threats.
The  Company has policies (including  Data Privacy Policy), standards, and  processes in place.
Jio also conducts security risk  assessments to evaluate and identify  security flaws in services, products,  and technology.
It has implemented  state-of-the-art security monitoring  infrastructure and effective incident  detection and management  processes.
Suspected events are  analysed and verified for its impact  on assets and organisation.
The  incident movement processes  define the criticality level for every  incident and are managed in line with  documented processes.
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 200 201 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review R-phish: A phishing  simulation platform  to measure user  awareness level SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP   CAPITAL Management Approach Reliance’s Corporate Social  Responsibility (CSR) programmes are  designed based on the requirements  of Schedule VII of Section 135 of the  Companies Act, 2013.
The Board level CSR & Governance  (CSR&G) Committee oversees the  Company’s community development  programmes, ensuring stringent  due diligence, evaluation, and  impact tracking.
The CSR policy provides the  framework for implementing the  programmes that are designed  to reflect the Company’s vision,  mission, and focus areas for  community development.
The policy is periodically revisited to  reflect the community’s changing  needs and accommodate  legislative changes mandated by  amendments in the Act.
Reliance has positively impacted  5.75+ crore people through its efforts,  with a total CSR spend of `1,186 crore  during FY 2021-22.
A detailed overview  of the Company’s CSR programmes  and financial outlay is available in  Annexure II of the Board's Report.
Community Development Reliance partners with local  communities, governments, and  other stakeholders to design and  implement its social development  programmes that bring to life its  pervasive philosophy of Care and  Empathy for all.
Through Reliance Foundation, the  Company implements its community  development programmes focusing  on Rural Transformation, Health,  Education, Sport for Development,  Disaster Response and Art,  Culture and Heritage to achieve  comprehensive, inclusive, and  sustainable development.
Health Rural  Transformation Education Sports for  Development Disaster Response Arts, Culture and  Heritage Highlights FY 2021-22 5.75+ crore Lives touched through CSR initiatives  since inception Caring for the Community:   Building a Stronger India Harmonious relationships and partnerships built on trust have been  Reliance’s first principles of business since its inception.
Coupled with  its ethos of 'We Care', these principles have steered Reliance to create  unmatched transformational value for its stakeholders, be it communities,  partners, customers and others.
Today the Company’s empowered  stakeholders are, in turn, creating tangible and sustainable value for their  stakeholders and the larger eco-system to help build the new India.
410.2 million Jio subscribers 193 million Retail customer base 17,000+ O2C customer base From the time it was founded,  Reliance made a promise of 'We Care'  to all those who are touched by  the Company and beyond.
Its  commitment to stand with the  nation and serve those most in need  with care and empathy continues  unabated.
Throughout its journey to  becoming India’s most successful  business house, the Company has led  with the intent of building a purpose- led organisation and fostering  mutually enriching relationships with  all its stakeholders.
Reliance’s ability to grow and prosper  in harmony with the community and  other stakeholders while balancing  financial and non-financial needs is  paramount to its sustained success.
As a responsible corporate citizen,  it has upheld its philanthropic spirit  and has improved the quality of  life for millions of people across the  nation.
Today, as Reliance builds  the Company of the future to reach  even greater heights, it continues to  be motivated by the single-minded  desire to make a difference to India  and Indians and extend CARE to all.
Material Topics • Community Development • Sustainable Supply  Chain Management  • Customer Satisfaction United Nations SDGs 40+ lakh Free COVID-19 vaccinations provided  to employees, extended families and  general communities Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 202 203 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Health for All Through Reliance Foundation, the  Company broadens access to quality  and affordable healthcare in India.
The Foundation’s ‘Health for All’ motto,  integrated healthcare model and  delivery network, brings care and  cure to some of the most vulnerable  sections of society.
The Reliance  Family, including the Foundation,  came together to strengthen  India’s fight against COVID-19.
It  continued to build on its commitment  of supporting and uplifting the  community through its development  efforts and interventions led  by care and ‘Seva’ through the  tumultuous times.
The Reliance family’s  COVID-19 response Reliance has always been at the  forefront of assisting and uplifting  communities.
During the pandemic,  the Company has taken remarkable  measures as part of its 'We Care'  endeavours.
Mission Oxygen, Mission  COVID Infra, Mission Anna Seva,  Mission Employee Care, and Mission  Vaccine Suraksha are some of the  efforts that supported the most-at- need communities during the crisis.
Reliance has extended all efforts  to provide end-to-end support in  the Shahdol and Kotma regions in  India.
Under Mission COVID Suraksha,  over 50,000 masks and 5,000 hand  sanitisers were distributed to the  frontline workers, community, and  police officials in these regions.
18 oxygen concentrators were  handed over to the Shahdol  District Administration by Reliance  Foundation and Coal Bed Methane  (CBM) CSR team.
As part of Mission Anna Seva, more  than 3,000 dry ration kits were  distributed to the community,  labourers and agencies working  for COVID relief in Shahdol.
The  team supported the establishment  and operation of two COVID Care  Centres in Shahdol.
The Company provided financial  support to the District Administration  in Shahdol to purchase an Emergency  Ambulance for the Police and  undertake other COVID-19 related  relief activities in the district.
The  CSR team in Shahdol also extended  support to 15 children who had lost  one or both parents to COVID-19.
They provided an allowance of  `2,000 per month to every impacted  child.
In coordination with CBM HR,  the team provided 1,000 doses of  COVID-19 vaccine to the district  health department to support  the community vaccination  drive in Shahdol.
Initiatives by Reliance equipped the  villagers to better handle the crisis  with awareness about precautionary  measures like social distancing,  avoiding social gatherings,  proper washing of hands and the  importance of sanitation.
Reliance Foundation installed a 10 KL  Oxygen plant at District Government  Hospital, Kakinada, which can supply  medical-grade oxygen to about 200  patients for 48 hours.
The Foundation  also took up community vaccination  drives providing free vaccination to all  eligible persons in the nearby villages.
Delivering Health Services to  the Underserved Across India Reliance aims to provide quality and  affordable healthcare to society’s  most vulnerable members.
Reliance’s  health outreach programme also  provides primary health services to  the underprivileged communities  across the plant locations in  Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana,  Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and  Uttar Pradesh through 12 MMUs and  several health camps.
Through  MMUs and camps, over 2.4 lakh  consultations were provided  during the year.
Under the Government of Madhya  Pradesh’s “Adopt an Anganwadi”  initiative, Reliance Foundation  has renovated and beautified  6 Anganwadis or childcare centres,  in the state during FY 2021-22.
The  Foundation has beautified and  renovated 53 Anganwadis till date.
The renovation and beautification of  these Anganwadis are helping the  children learn and develop in clean,  healthy, and sanitized environments.
Reliance is increasing focus on  women’s healthcare and well-being  progressively.
Initiatives such as  ‘HerCircle’ and ‘One-Stop Breast Clinic'  were launched during FY 2020-21 to  strengthen infrastructure for women’s  health.
HerCircle aims to create  a network of women by sharing  meaningful content that include  motivating films, life-skill development  guides and expert-led masterclasses  to inspire and empower women,  including entrepreneurs.
The platform  has touched 50 million lives within a  year of its launch.
For our overall COVID-19 response, please  refer to PG 152 SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 204 205 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review During COVID-19, Reliance Foundation  connected rural communities with  government officials and experts  to address various issues such as  enrolling for government schemes,  agriculture and allied services  inputs, securing farm machinery  at subsidised costs and access to  temporary procurement centres and  markets.
RFIS also undertook efforts  to raise awareness about COVID-19,  supported employment drives  to meet temporary paramedical  staffing needs and facilitated  the availability of medicines and  other requirements.
Foundation  provided specialist help and advice  to Gram Panchayat leaders in  Extending Critical Care to Communities  during COVID-19 “The COVID-19 pandemic is a  humanitarian crisis.
It has tested the  very spirit of humanity.
But even in the  darkest hour, our spirit has shone bright.
We, as a people, have come together and  fought this battle with immense empathy  and compassion”.
Smt Nita M. Ambani  Founder & Chairperson of Reliance Foundation rural communities on schemes for  financial support and livelihood  opportunities through virtual  conferences for farmers, fishing  communities, livestock owners and  migrant labourers.
These services  reached close to four million people  in rural India.
The Mobile Medical Units (MMUs) of  Reliance Foundation helped raise  awareness about precautionary  measures in rural communities  while delivering healthcare  services.
Information on COVID-19  vaccination centres and awareness  about symptoms were shared  across 20 states.
Our Support to the People in Shahdol  and Kakinada Reliance set up Gujarat’s first  paediatric COVID-19 hospital at  Jamnagar.
Around 50,000 PPE kits,  N95 masks, triple layer masks and  medical examination rubber gloves  were handed over to the Guru Gobind  Singh Hospital.
The Padana veterinary  hospital provided consultation  support to 19,000+ animal cases from  50 surrounding villages.
Women’s groups were supported  under the Swashray initiative in  preparing and selling healthy food  Our Support to the People in Jamnagar products that earned them a good  amount.
The construction of a  primary school building along the  lines of ‘Building as Learning Aid’  concept in Lalwadi was undertaken.
In Jamnagar and Dwarka districts,  HIV/AIDS affected children were  given nutritional kits every quarter.
In Dwarka and Khambhaliya,  two ambulances were made  available to reduce response time  during emergencies.
Building the New India, One  Village at a Time Through Reliance Foundation, the  Company is undertaking several  projects to enhance sustainable  livelihood opportunities.
The  interventions focus on improving  critical development indicators such  as rural livelihoods, water, food and  nutrition, women empowerment  and access to knowledge resources.
Reliance has reached out to over  14.5 million people and empowered  50,600+ villages across India through  various initiatives under the Rural  Transformation Programme.
During FY 2021-22, over 121 lakh m3  of water harvesting capacity was  created through the construction  or upgradation of facilities such  as earthen or masonry dams and  check dams, agricultural ponds  and open wells.
As a result, over  5,600 hectares of land is estimated  to get guaranteed irrigation for  at least two agricultural seasons.
Consequently, 364 villages now  have better access to drinking water.
Reliance Foundation has undertaken  various initiatives to support, promote,  nurture, and incubate FPOs across  the country.
The Company also  assists these farmers in developing  and strengthening market links to  enhance their incomes by enabling  them to form FPOs through the  Foundation.
To date, Reliance  Foundation is engaged intensively  with over 100 FPOs.
Around 63% of FPO  members reported an incremental  Although the region of Uttarkashi,  Uttarakhand receives ample rain  during monsoons, lack of proper  storage and irrigation left the  Kharwan village often high and dry  during summers.
Reliance Foundation  engaged with the Gram Panchayat  to mobilise the community to come  together to build an irrigation canal  to ensure a more consistent supply  of water.
Smt.
Jagdamba Devi,  Reliance Foundation announced  the Women Connect Challenge, a  global call for solutions to improve  women’s participation in everyday  life by meaningfully changing how  they access and use technology.
Ten organisations across India were  chosen as grantees for the Women- Connect Challenge India, established  by the Reliance Foundation and the  United States Agency for International  Development (USAID).
The  organisation’s solutions encouraged  women farmers, entrepreneurs, and  members of Self-Help Groups to  solve social and cultural hurdles and  bridge the gender digital gap.
These  initiatives to bridge the gender digital  divide and boost women’s economic  empowerment through technology  will benefit over 3,00,000 women and  girls across 17 states.
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL Through its Drishti programme,  Reliance through Reliance Foundation  has improved and restored the vision  of people from underprivileged  sections of society.
In partnership with  the National Association for The Blind  (NAB) India, Govel Trust – Aravind Eye  Hospitals, and Sankara Eye Hospital  (unit of Sri Kanchi Kamakoti Medical  Trust), Drishti has facilitated over  20,400 transplants since its launch in  2003.
In association with NAB, Drishti  also publishes India’s only Braille  newspaper in Hindi and reaches  over 24,000 visually impaired people  across India and 15 other countries.
RF also engages in vision screenings  within the local community and has  conducted over 6,000 consultations  during FY 2021-22.
Furthermore, Reliance is augmenting  rural households’ nutritious intake by  promoting Reliance Nutrition Gardens  (RNG), which are modest kitchen or  backyard gardens.
Reliance aims to augment the lives  of farmers, fishermen and women,  livestock owners, and rural youth  across the country by delivering  critical information, thereby  protecting livelihoods.
Initiatives  such as interactive awareness,  broadcast dissemination services,  and troubleshooting programmes  assist the rural population living in  hinterlands to stay informed.
The  initiative engages with over 1,000  knowledge partners, including  research institutes, universities,  specialist technical agencies,  and grassroots organisations.
Understandable and straightforward  information in vernacular languages  is circulated using numerous digital  platforms such as voice messages,  WhatsApp, Jiochat, and audio- video conferencing.
annual income of `40,000 or more in  the last year due to their association  with the Foundation.
These FPOs have  a combined annual revenue of more  than `114 crore.
Business activities  and promotion of FPOs in respective  locations have increased the source  of income and have improved the  economic situation of farmers by  giving them better bargaining power,  reducing the cost of production, and  providing linkages.
Sarpanch and 30 women and youth  volunteers from the village worked  relentlessly for 28 days to reconstruct  the 1.5 km long irrigation canal  through shramdaan to address water  scarcity between May and June 2021.
This inspiring display of community  participation has ensured ease of  irrigation, benefiting 85 households  in the village.
Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 206 207 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review programme has demonstrated  impact and contribution to the  holistic development of the villages in  the following ways: For 89% of the farmers Rain was no longer a primary  source for irrigation 79% of the farmers Reported an increase in area under  assured irrigation in the last five years 54% of the farmers Adopted efficient irrigation techniques 85% of the farmers Could crop their fields two or  more times a year More than 50% of the farmers Cultivate three or more types  of crops annually 89% intervention village residents Have the primary source of water within  200m from their house 75% intervention village residents Reported reduction in the inconvenience  caused to women in fetching water Reliance Foundation’s flagship  programme of Bharat India Jodo (BIJ)  has worked on water interventions  for the past ten years.
This initiative  works with communities affected by  variable rainfall, repeated droughts,  dependency on rainfed agriculture,  severe soil degradation, migration  for manual work, lack of basic  facilities and uncertain earnings.
BIJ’s  initiatives are broadly based on four  aspects: organising and capacitating  the community, participatory  budgeting, collaboration with Gram  Panchayats and the Government for  synergies and building community  capacities for water resources,  including critical support for water  harvesting and management.
The capacities created through  these activities have resulted in  improved water availability for  agriculture and household needs.
Based on a study conducted, the  Reliance Foundation's Impact  Assessment for Water Interventions Giving Sight, Giving  Opportunity Improving Livelihoods through Farmer  Producer Organisations (FPOs) Towards Water Security through  Shramdaan Women Connect  India Challenge IMPACT  ASSESSMENT Sports for Development The ‘Sports for Development’  programme promotes sports  activities to achieve critical outcomes  such as learning and developing  leadership skills and improving health  and empowerment among children  and youth in India.
An integrated  set of interventions under this  programme offers aspiring athletes  in India a strong and free resource  to develop their skills and abilities in  various sports.
Enabling Youth through  Sports: RFYS-AIFC Workshops  Aid Nagaland, Arunachal and  JK Football Coaches In conjunction with the Association  of Indian Football Coaches (AIFC),  Reliance Foundation Youth Sports  (RFYS) organised a three-day course  for 33 coaches from Nagaland  and Arunachal Pradesh.
Tangbao  Singto, Technical Director and  Assistant Coach of Indian Super  League (ISL) team Hyderabad FC,  well-known in Indian football circles,  helped organise the event.
Another  such workshop was organised for  35 Jammu and Kashmir coaches  assisted by the former Indian  football player, Mehrajuddin Wadoo  and former Indian national youth  team coach, Sajid Dar.
The camps  educated participants on topics such  as acceptable behaviour, effective  communication, player scouting, and  safeguarding youngsters from all  types of abuse.
Disaster Response Natural catastrophes wreak havoc  on human lives, livelihoods, and  intensity wherever they strike.
The  impact is amplified in developing  countries such as India, with inherent  socio-economic inequities.
Reliance  Foundation aims to ease the suffering  of those affected by such events.
The Foundation adopts a two- pronged approach to respond to  natural disasters.
The programme  provides early warning and advisory  services to build community  preparedness and ensures speedy  response post disaster.
Reliance  Foundation strives to respond quickly  to disasters by interacting directly with  affected communities by leveraging  its strengths – human resources and  information technology.
Through Reliance Foundation,  the Company extended support  to communities impacted by  cyclones -Tauktae, Yaas, Jawad-  and flood-affected communities in  the states of Gujarat, Maharashtra,  Goa, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Uttar  Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha, and  Kerala by distributing dry ration kits,  livestock shelters during FY 2021- 22.
The activities were organised  in collaboration with government  agencies such as INCOIS, IMD,  agriculture, animal husbandry,  fisheries, and Jio and RRVL.
Reliance also mobilised its trained  disaster response volunteers to  respond to the community’s needs  swiftly and effectively.
Reliance’s  disaster response was given ISO  Certification 9001:2015.
Education and Skill  Development: Bridging the  Literacy Divide Reliance Foundation believes in  quality education for all, irrespective  of their financial, geographical, and  cultural challenges.
To achieve its  mission of providing education to  children across the nation, Reliance  delivers quality education to  15,000+ children annually through  14 Reliance Foundation Schools,  including Dhirubhai Ambani  International School, to fulfil its  mission of educating children  across India; 9,395 online courses  and 12,903 webinars have been  When the Tauktae cyclone was  approaching, Sh.
Vasrambhai  Solanki, a fisherman and President of  Bhidiya Koli Samaj Boat Association,  received forecasts through the voice  message service and the RFIS.
He was  a member of the WhatsApp group of  the Veraval Fish Landing centre and  had participated in various marine  fisheries related field programmes  conducted by RFIS.
Based on the  forewarnings, the Association advised  its members not to take their boats  into the sea during this time.
They  also recalled boats from the ocean  saving precious lives and livelihoods.
Further, the warnings helped the  community to move their boats and  other equipment to a safer place,  preventing further damage.
completed by around 754 teachers  and 126 non-teaching staff of 13  Reliance Foundation Schools on  technology platforms.
With the goal of empowering India's  brightest youth with the potential to  lead India’s technologically driven  growth, the Reliance Foundation  Scholarships were awarded to 76  students in August 2021, to full-time  undergraduate and postgraduate  students of Artificial Intelligence (AI)  and Computer Sciences.
This year the  scholarships will be awarded to 100  students of AI, Computer Sciences,  Mathematics and Computing and  Electrical / Electronic Engineering.
The CSR initiatives across Shahdol  CBM, Dahej Manufacturing Division  and Model Economic Township  Limited (METL) are focused on active  engagement with the students in  local schools and colleges.
One  notable activity is to assist students in  appearing for entrance examinations  of prestigious schools such as  Navodaya and Sainik schools.
The  projects helped children keep up with  studies through remedial classes  run by volunteers in their villages  during the lockdown.
Reliance’s CSR team at Nagothane  launched the Lakshya initiative  to support students who cannot  afford private coaching classes.
The  Lakshya initiative, started in 2015,  prepares students from surrounding  villages for competitive exams for  securing jobs in services like the  Police, Army, Navy, Railway, SSC,  and Banking.
It includes on-ground  Empowering through Education training provided by subject matter  experts like security personnel,  Reliance Foundation school  teachers, counsellors and others.
The preparatory platform trains  students free of cost.
The CSR team  also aims to address the inferiority  complex among rural students.
They  work with them to build their self- confidence and help shape their  careers.
The team provides required  guidance and encouragement to  students to prepare them for jobs  that can provide them with security,  respect, and social standing in  their communities.
To date, 114 students have enrolled  in the training programme, of which  21 students (23.94%) have qualified  for the competitive examinations  conducted by the Government, with  female candidates outnumbering the  male candidates.
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 208 209 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Sri Singh from Lalpur village in  Shahdol, Madhya Pradesh, lost her  father at a young age.
Since then,  the three family members, her  mother, elder sister, and Sri, have tried  extremely hard to make ends meet.
Her mother, an educated lady, took it  upon herself to earn for the family by  tutoring local students.
She wished to  give her daughters a good education  so that they could come out of this  devastating situation and end their  financial struggles.
Reliance Foundation stood firmly  by their family.
Her mother, Shipra,  works as a Shiksha Mitra with the  Foundation and prepares children  for school entrance exams.
Sri’s  elder sister secured admission in  a Navodaya school and thereafter  qualified for several higher education  opportunities.
She is presently  pursuing a nursing course.
Both the daughters have earnestly  worked and studied hard to end  their mother’s struggles and help her  lead a comfortable life.
Sri secured  admission last year in Class 7 in the  Beohari Navodaya Vidyalaya.
Shipra’s  dream of giving her daughters  a quality education has been  fulfilled.
Sri and her sister are shining  examples in their village.
Today, they  are motivating other students in the  village to follow their example.
Sri Singh makes her  mother proud Reliance  Foundation  Information  Systems: A lifeline  for many in good  times and bad Reviving and Nurturing  India’s Art, Culture and  Heritage India is a land of diverse cultures.
Reliance through the Foundation  endeavours to ensure that the youth  appreciate and connect with the  country’s rich heritage and arts.
Reliance Foundation defines ways  to protect and promote India’s  priceless heritage to sustain and  make art and culture relevant to the  younger generation.
This rich art  and cultural ethos runs across all of  Reliance’s businesses.
Reliance collaborated with pioneering  designer Ritu Kumar and Reliance  Retail Ventures Limited (RRVL) to  charter a new, untried interpretation  of India’s crafts and textiles.
It took the  country’s vibrant and diverse culture  beyond existing ideas in couture  and fashion.
This was a novel step  to preserve, nurture and celebrate  India’s art and textiles heritage.
Employee Volunteering &  Social Change Volunteering is a significant enabler  to express and share gratitude,  essential for developing resilience  in challenging times.
At Reliance,  volunteering has been a key lever  for giving back to the communities.
Reliance Foundation continued with  the virtual mode of volunteering  due to the pandemic.
In FY 2021- 22, volunteering was expanded  to newer areas of engagement  to address present and future  challenges.
The programmes were  crafted and implemented to focus  on harnessing skills of the immense  people resources and their expertise  available within the organisation.
The objective of these programmes  has been the holistic development  of beneficiaries while concentrating  on thematic areas of education  and capacity building of social  organisations.
These programmes are  congruent with the goals of Reliance  Group of Industries and the UN SDGs.
Reliance Foundation continued to  work extensively with two major  beneficiary groups – children  and youth.
During FY 2021-22, the  employee volunteering activities  focused on building the capacities of  staff members of social development  organisations across India.
The  highlights of the year are as follows: • This was the third consecutive  year for the Month of Good Deeds,  which encourages employees  and their families to give back to  the community by volunteering  their time and skills.
These sessions  reached more than 4,400 children,  youth, and NGOs from cities like  Giridh and Koderma (Jharkhand),  Rourkela, Rajpura, Alibaug and  several metros.
• Employees and their families from  Jio Digital organised 30 virtual  sessions on art and language  skills in the second edition of the  Jio Digital Monsoon Camp for  more than 5,300 children from  Jammu, Srinagar, Latur, Tuticorin,  Erode and others.
• Volunteers from the Learning  and Development team from the  Hydrocarbons and Retail divisions  located across metros and  Nagapattinam, Shillong, Warangal,  Begusarai trained 1,000 staff  members from NGOs on advanced  excel, report writing, stakeholder  management etc.
• Virtual sessions on raising  awareness on plastic and waste  segregation were conducted by  expert volunteers in partnership  with the Indian Centre for Plastics in  the Environment (ICPE).
Over 3,800  children attended the sessions,  including students from Reliance  Foundation schools.
Nearly 21,000 lives have been touched  due to the invaluable contribution of  Reliance employees and their family  members in FY 2021-22.
Sustainable Supply Chain  Management Reliance takes pride in diversified  portfolio of businesses spread across  Oil and Gas (O2C, E&P), Retail and  Digital.
The Company relies heavily  on its excellence in supply chain  management aided by efficient  and robust systems and processes  to run seamless operations and  efficiently manage its vast pool of  suppliers and partners.
Managing a Vibrant  Supplier Network To effectively deliver high -quality  projects with stringent timelines,  managing a substantial number of  suppliers located across the globe  is key to any company’s success.
Reliance ensures regular interface  and interactions with its partners  and vendors across various levels to  address this need.
All procurement  and Contracting (P&C) activities for  Exploration and Production (E&P)  Division are primarily governed  by contracts signed with the  Government of India.
E&P Project  Development and Operations require  highly specialised technical goods  and services.
Reliance is one of the  very few vendors in the world that  can cater to these technological and  expertise requirements at exceedingly  high precision and satisfactory levels.
Through its sustained investment  in mega projects and operations,  Reliance has contributed to  developing India’s chemicals and  engineering supplier base.
Supporting  and encouraging its suppliers to  indigenise, expand their capabilities  and increase their economic value  has always been the focus of the  Company.
Reliance has procured  goods and services worth more  than `23,800 crore from indigenous  suppliers in FY 2021-22.
The Company  ensures a high quality of service by  working with its contractors to ensure  that their employees are competent,  and that work is carried out in a  safe environment complying with  statutory requirements.
Some of these  initiatives include : • Standardisation of PPEs for  contract workers • Fair & transparent practices for  statutory compliance • Contractor performance  evaluation including Safety and  Environment Performance • Trade & Safety test for all  contract workers • Focus on safety practices  and records during new  contractor registration • Weekly visit of safety ambassadors  to plants for improvement of  contract worker safety • Training for field personnel on safe  handling of hazardous chemicals Reliance also ensured that COVID-19  vaccinations were made available  for the Company’s suppliers and  their employees.
Sustainable Supply Chain  Processes and Supplier  Engagement Reliance has developed systems and  processes with years of expertise  and experience to build and manage  a sustainable and effective supply  chain.
Ongoing collaborations  and partnerships have helped the  Company maintain a long-term  productive relationship with suppliers.
focused on reducing paper use and  its physical transfer through end-to- end digital ‘Procurement to Pay Cycle’  processes and preference for digital  invoices over paper invoices.
Reliance  received over 90% of the invoices  from suppliers in digital format.
The  procurement decisions are also  based on the energy efficiency  of the products.
Reliance encouraged the  development of India’s engineering  talent by replacing imported RE13 Spin  Finish oil for PFY with indigenously  developed Spin finish oil components  developed in the Company’s  technical laboratories.
Reliance uses  Vendor Managed Inventory (VMI)  for select categories, long-term  agreements with packaging suppliers,  and conducts joint programmes  with vendors and reduce system  costs to ensure sustainable supplier  collaborations.
Reliance has developed a query  management system for supplier  queries, vendor self-service facility  for transaction-related queries,  development of P&C helpdesk  and ‘Chatbot’ for online, real- time feedback to suppliers.
The  Company has shown care towards  its contract workers with multiple  safety performance evaluations and  defining PPE norms by work type.
It  ensures 100% compliance to the laws  and regulations, including verification  of contract worker wages payment.
Reliance extends support to the  local community by encouraging its  suppliers to source talent from 'near  plant' communities.
The Company  is conscious about the regeneration  and safe disposal of its waste.
The  total sale of e-waste including used  oil and batteries, catalyst and plastic  waste to the vendors is authorised by  the Central and State Pollution Control  Boards (CPCB/SPCB) for efficient and  environmentally friendly recycling  and disposal of that waste.
Waste  materials like wood, paper, metal, etc.,  are also recovered or recycled.
The sustainable sourcing ethos of  Reliance focuses on eight parameters Green packaging Environment  protection Make in India &  developing India’s  engineering talent Supplier  collaboration Digital enabling  interaction with  suppliers Contract worker care Community support Regeneration/Safe  disposal Green packaging involves using  recycled plastic or PET flakes,  recycling plastic / wooden pallets  used for domestic market, and  optimising bag specifications  to reduce material usage and  palletisation to ensure safe handling  and faster turnaround.
The packaging  design approach is based on the  core principles of a sustainable  circular economy of reduce,  reuse, and recycle.
Environment protection is ensured  by the co-development of  environmentally conscious and  safe products with suppliers, like  the development of Silicon spray  using environment-friendly solvents  during FY 2021-22.
The Company also  SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 210 211 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Transparent and Robust  Process for Identification and  Evaluation of Suppliers Reliance follows an in-depth and  robust evaluation process for its  suppliers that involves sending out  a global notice inviting Expression  of Interest (EOI) that publishes the  requirements of all major goods and  services.
The EOIs received are then  evaluated based on parameters  such as technical competence, past  experiences, HSE performance, quality  system and financial strength for  shortlisting bidders in response to the  issuance of Request for Proposal.
The Supplier Code of Conduct,  developed by Reliance, forms the  basis of the Company’s relationship  with its suppliers.
Reliance’s belief  that its suppliers need to comply  with Labour and Human rights,  Health and Safety, Environmental  Protection, Ethical Conduct, Business  Integrity and Confidentiality Laws and  Standards is reflected in its Supplier  Code of Conduct.
The Company  facilitates a range of measures to  comply with the prevalent Anti- Money Laundering, Anti-Bribery and  Prevention of Corruption Act and  the Supplier Code of Conduct.
The  compliance function and Ethics and  Compliance Task Force (ECTF) have  built a strong capability to undertake  regulatory compliance checks,  counterparty checks, real-time  screening of any suspicious internal  transactions, and investigations  of reported incidents to curb any  unlawful behaviour by its suppliers.
All suppliers are compliant with the  Reliance Group Business Partner  Code of Conduct (BPCOC).
Reliance  strictly adheres to all the procurement  processes for the contracts signed  with the Government of India.
Third-party vendors are identified  and evaluated based on their track  record and capability of meeting  the Company standards.
Reliance  is moving towards a per-piece/per- pallet based contract from the cost- plus contracts to enable a significant  cost advantage.
The operational  performance of these vendors,  once onboarded, are continuously  measured and monitored against  defined parameters, and corrective  actions demanded where necessary.
Supplier engagement is an overly  critical factor for Reliance, and  the same is ensured during the  procurement process through regular  meetings / communication.
Suppliers  and Reliance work as Partners to  achieve the laid down objectives  of the Company.
Nurturing Digital  Ecosystems JioGenNext JioGenNext began with the  leadership's vision of encouraging  startups.
They saw early on that  startups would increasingly  become a major powerhouse of  talent, technology, and creativity  for the country.
JioGenNext has  been essential in catalysing the  Indian entrepreneurial ecosystem  and enabling various businesses  to attain scale by launching them  in the Reliance ecosystem since  its debut in 2014.
Startup Reseau  recognised it at the NEXTT Summit  2021 as one of the top five corporate  innovation and corporate venture  capital programmes in India.
It has  conducted more than 16 cohorts  supporting 170 startups who have  collectively raised over `2,600 crore in  early-stage venture capital.
In FY 2021-22, JioGenNext  announced its Market Access  Programme (MAP ‘21) with 11 high- potential businesses.
MAP focuses  on two areas of advice and  opportunity for startups: 1.
Reliance / Jio access: To  connect founders in the  Reliance / Jio ecosystem.
Create  and accelerate interactions  between startups and internal  stakeholders to identify  partnerships and possibilities that  can help them expand quickly.
It’s a one of a kind ‘customer-as- mentor’ approach.
2.  Business Mentorship: To  assist businesses on product  innovation, go-to-market  strategy, recruiting, marketing,  funding, and product-market  fit, all of which are related to  a startup's overall business  success.
The programme is  tailored to each startup's specific  needs and goals.
MAP currently operates on an annual  cohort model, with entrepreneurs  being accepted on a rolling basis  throughout the year.
JioGenNext  intends to use MAP to increase its  value addition to entrepreneurs and  develop win-win collaborations in the  startup ecosystem.
Customer Satisfaction For Reliance, customers are the key  to a sustainable future.
Winning their  trust drives the Company to surpass  consumer expectations continuously.
Across all its businesses, Reliance  aims to offer customers a diverse  selection of options, an exceptional  value proposition, high standards of  quality, and an unrivalled experience.
The Company continued to provide  its millions of customers with high- quality service across all business  verticals throughout the challenges of  the COVID-19 pandemic and beyond.
Customer Satisfaction  Surveys Understanding consumer demands  and responding to market realities  are critical to the success of  Reliance’s businesses.
Reliance  engages customers through various  channels to understand their needs  and obtain crucial insights into  their requirements, interests, and  preferences.
The Company is always  agile and aware of the changing  market environment, which allows it to  build services that are market-driven.
Reliance’s customer engagement  initiatives include direct feedback  through one-on-one meetings/ visits, calls to dedicated operation  desk lines, surveys and meets  that are arranged regularly.
This  allows effective customer contact,  ensuring compliance with corporate  norms and standards, identifying  process improvement opportunities,  and providing solutions to any  unique concerns encountered  by the customer.
Reliance Jewels conducts ‘Mystery  Audits’ to measure customer  satisfaction.
This includes audits on  critical parameters that contribute  to the overall customer experience,  such as cover employee appearance,  ease of store navigation from the  customer perspective, ability of  employees to recommend and pitch  products and handle objections.
In  addition to obtaining feedback from  converted customers, Reliance also  collects non-converted customer  feedback through an online feedback  form, which helps the Company  understand customer preference and  satisfaction levels.
Delivering Superior  Customer Experience Reliance is at the forefront of  applying technology to automate  sales processes for improved  customer experience and cost  and time savings.
Reliance was  the first to introduce a web-based  sales operations system that allows  customers to check their accounts  around the clock.
The Company  continues to develop its systems  and processes.
As a result, it has  introduced and intends to roll out  additional features and flexibilities  in the system to give customers  easy access and convenience of  operation.
Reliance complies with  all contractual commitments and  legal and legislative requirements  related to sales.
Reliance is improving the user  experience across its businesses  through digitisation.
Measures such  as collaborative planning using  Client Relationship Management  (CRM) systems to manage demand  successfully and mobile applications  for approvals, account management,  and customer visits have aided  in providing customers with  service excellence .
As of March 31, 2022, RIL received  1,191 customer complaints, of which  1,125 were successfully resolved.
Subsequently, most of the remaining  complaints have been resolved .
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 212 213 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review Way Forward Reliance continues its efforts to build a more inclusive  India.
The Company works closely with communities  and collaborates with various organisations and  business groups with shared values to empower and  enable those most in need.
Powered by its talented  and committed team, the Company has successfully  established replicable and scalable development  models to transform many more lives across  the country.
Reliance's success is underpinned by its forward- looking strategies.
Its robust business model is ever  ready to adapt and evolve to embrace change  and realise the potential of emerging opportunities.
The Company's support for the most marginalised  communities strengthens its commitment to help  achieve the United Nations Sustainable Development  Goals (UN SDGs).
It remains invested in understanding  and responding to the changing needs of its customers  and has built deep-rooted relationships with them.
Customers continue to be at the core of Reliance's  future growth trajectory.
To strengthen the Indian entrepreneurial ecosystem, the  Company will expand its efforts to empower budding  entrepreneurs through JioGenNext.
It has nurtured  a responsive partner network that remains the force  behind its steady growth in every addressable market.
The Company will further enhance its supply chain  management systems and processes, banking on  decades of expertise and experience.
Reliance will  boost its supplier base to include many more small and  medium-sized businesses from the local communities.
The Company has successfully navigated  macroeconomic headwinds and other obstacles  throughout the year to create long-term value for all  stakeholders.
Reliance stays firm in its resolution to  build a stronger nation by enabling lives and livelihoods  through outcome-oriented social change endeavours  led by its philosophy of 'We Care' and duty of 'Seva' or  'Service' to all.
Netmeds is an online pharmacy  digital commerce platform managed  and operated by Reliance Retail.
Netmeds spread COVID-19 awareness  through its app and through  awareness camps at many Netmeds  stores.
Netmeds also created a new  COVID-19 essentials category, with a  wide assortment of products, in the  app for customers to place orders  easily.
The Fulfillment Centre team  went beyond its call of duty to deliver  essential products to customers in  times of crisis and fear when courier  partners were not available to make  the deliveries.
Customers whole- heartedly appreciated this act of  humanity and kindness, as evident  through their testimonials.
Netmeds  has ensured exceptional customer  delight led by its B2B sales force team  that personally delivered medicines  to pharmacies on multiple occasions,  enabling timely availability to  customers.
Netmeds also supported  its group companies by on-time  delivery of Remdesivir, PPE kits and  other COVID related medicines.
Netmeds: Standing  by customers  through COVID-19 Data Privacy and Security Reliance places tremendous  importance on security and privacy  in each of its businesses.
Within Jio's  privacy and security programme, the  focus is on three essential aspects:  embedding security in design,  effective governance, and allowing  organisation-wide security awareness.
A highly efficient governance  architecture with optimised  processes ensures asset protection,  customer data privacy, and fewer  security breaches.
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 214 215 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review To enhance customer experience at  Reliance Fashion & Lifestyle offline  outlets, the Company launched  various targeted initiatives.
It  launched Project CASH at Reliance  Trends stores.
The project focused  on rigorous store team capability  building and assessment for a  consistent brand experience,  improved product options,  coordinated visibility to aid customer  decision-making and upgraded the  cashiering process to smoothen  the point-of-sale experience.
The  aim was to ensure that each client  was well-served.
The results were  reflected in an improved Net Promoter  Score (NPS) of 21% absolute for Trends  Small-town and 12% absolute for  Trends, with a 63% increase in NPS  feedback response rate.
Within the online store, an  improvement in NPS of 7% was  achieved through the launch of  several customer focused initiatives  and process improvements, such as  aggressive promised delivery dates  and adherence to the same, supply  chain speed improvements across  order journey by an average of one  day, improved refund speed with  99% returns getting repaid at the  door.
To further enhance customer  service on the platform, the Company  has focused on reducing queue  waiting time and increasing first-time  solution percentage, improving NPS of  customer interactions.
Elevating Customer  Experience at  Reliance Fashion  and Lifestyle Reliance Retail reorganised its  customer service Standard Operating  Process (SOP) across functions and  formats to deliver an enhanced  customer experience at the store  and online.
The focus is to simplify  systems and processes, and train  and empower people to deliver  a faster resolution to customers.
Human resources and scheduling  restructuring for its Customer Action  Centre have helped the Company  respond to calls and emails from  customers.
The abandoned call  percentage was always kept at less  than one per cent, and no pendency  to customers reaching out on email  and social channels.
Reliance Retail  created a specialised team whose  primary responsibility is to track  orders placed online by customers  and communicate with them to  ensure that they are delivered and  installed as efficiently as possible.
The Company launched a Remote  Technical Support (RTS) desk that  Redefining customer centricity at  Reliance Retail eliminates the need for repair  engineers to travel to customer  locations.
Troubleshooting is done  over the phone with videos and  images, providing customers quick  resolution to technical issues.
RTS also  helped pull off faster replacements,  which reduced complaints by 20%.
The Company empowered customers  with various self-service initiatives  including deploying cancellation  feature on the app.
It reduced  complaints related to cancellations  and refunds by 15%.
As a result of  supply bottlenecks during the year,  imported spares were not readily  available, adversely impacting  repair service levels.
Reliance Retail  improved the repair Service Level  Agreements (SLA) to 82% closure  within three days and 94% closure  within seven days by working  closely with brands to prioritise ResQ  customer repairs, increasing spares  inventory levels and enabling quick  supply to service centres.
Independent Assurance Statement to Reliance Industries Limited on  their Sustainability Disclosures in the Integrated Annual Report for  Financial Year 2021-22 Integrated Approach to Sustainable Growth 216 217 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Governance Corporate  Overview Management   Review To the Management of Reliance Industries  Limited, 3rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV,  222, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400021,  Maharashtra, India.
Introduction We, KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services  LLP (‘KPMG’), have been engaged for the  purpose of providing assurance on the  selected sustainability disclosures presented  in the Integrated Annual Report (‘the Report’)  of Reliance Industries Limited (‘RIL’ or ‘the  Company’) for FY 2021-22.
Our responsibility was  to provide assurance on the selected aspects of  the Report as described under ‘boundary, scope  and limitations’ below.
Reporting Criteria RIL has developed its report based on the  applicable accounting standards and has  incorporated the principles of the International  Integrated Reporting Framework (<IR>) published  by the International Integrated Reporting  Council (IIRC), into the Management Discussion  and Analysis section of the Report.
The Company’s sustainability performance  reporting criteria has been derived from the  GRI Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative,  United Nation’s Sustainable Development  Goals (UN SDGs), the American Petroleum  Institute / The International Petroleum Industry  Environmental Conservation Association’s (API/ IPIECA) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, and  the Business Responsibility Reporting (BRR)  framework of the Securities and Exchange Board  of India (SEBI).
RIL has also referred to new and emerging  frameworks such as the Task Force on Climate- related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and the  WEF-IBC metrics.
Assurance Standards We conducted the assurance in  accordance with: • The requirements of the International  Federation of Accountants’ (IFAC)  International Standard on Assurance  Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised)  Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or  Reviews of Historical Financial Information.
- Under this standard, we have reviewed  the information presented in the Report  against the characteristics of relevance,  completeness, reliability, neutrality and  understandability.
- Limited assurance consists primarily of  enquiries and analytical procedures.
The procedures performed in a limited  assurance engagement vary in nature  and timing and are less in extent than for a  reasonable assurance engagement.
- Reasonable assurance is a high level of  assurance, but it is not a guarantee that it  will always detect a material misstatement  when it exists.
Boundary, Scope, and Limitations • The boundary of our assurance covers  the sustainability performance of RIL’s  manufacturing divisions, refineries,  exploration and production in India;  business divisions such as chemicals,  fibre intermediates, petroleum, polyester,  polymers, Recron and RP Chemicals units in  Malaysia, petro-retail division facilities under  Reliance BP Mobility Limited (RBML), terminal  operations, LPG, Reliance Jio Infocomm  Limited (RJIL), Reliance Retail Ventures Limited  (RRVL), and corporate office at Reliance  Corporate Park, Navi Mumbai.
• The reporting period for all the above  business units except Recron and RP  Chemicals, Malaysia was from 01 April 2021 to  31 March 2022.
The reporting period for Recron  and RP Chemicals, Malaysia was from 01  January 2021 to 31 December 2021.
• The scope of reasonable assurance included  total number of employees, new employee  hires, diversity of governance bodies  and employees, parental leave and total  manhours of training for Reliance group.
The sustainability performance data for  RIL covered under reasonable assurance  were total energy consumption, reduction  in energy consumption, renewable energy  generated, direct (scope 1) GHG emissions  and energy indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions,  quantity of flared and vented hydrocarbons,  emissions of total particulate matter, oxides  of nitrogen, oxides of sulphur, and volatile  organic compounds (VOC), water withdrawal,  waste water discharged, water recycled,  hazardous and non-hazardous waste  disposed, and the number of injuries, fatalities  and Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR).
• Additionally, the data subjected to limited  assurance for RIL included, markets served,  mechanisms for advice and concerns about  ethics, governance structure and chair of  the highest governance body.
For Reliance  Jio Infocomm Limited (RJIL), the sustainability  performance data covered under limited  assurance were total energy consumption,  renewable energy consumption, direct  (scope 1) GHG emissions, energy indirect  (scope 2) GHG emissions and other indirect  (scope 3) GHG emissions (limited to business  travel, upstream leased assets, upstream  transportation and distribution, capital goods,  purchased goods and services, fuel and  electricity and waste disposal), hazardous  and non-hazardous waste disposed, number  of injuries, fatalities and Lost Time Injury  Frequency Rate (LTIFR).
For Reliance Retail  Ventures Limited (RRVL), the data on number  of injuries, fatalities and Lost Time Injury  Frequency Rate (LTIFR), were covered under  limited assurance.
For Recron Malaysia and  RP Chemicals Malaysia, the performance  data namely total energy consumption, direct  (scope 1) GHG emissions, energy indirect  (scope 2) GHG emissions, emissions of total  particulate matter, oxides of nitrogen, oxides  of sulphur, water withdrawal, wastewater  discharged, water recycled, hazardous and  non-hazardous waste disposed, number  of injuries, fatalities and LTIFR were covered  under limited assurance.
The assurance scope excludes: • Aspects of the report other than those  mentioned above; • Data and information outside the defined  reporting period; • Strategy, regulatory compliances and other  related linkages expressed in the Report; • The Company’s statements that describe  expression of opinion, belief, aspiration,  expectation, aim or future intention and  assertions related to intellectual property  rights and other competitive issues.
Assurance Procedures Our assurance process involved performing  procedures to obtain evidence about the  reliability of specified performance data.
The nature, timing and extent of procedures  selected depend on our judgment, including  the assessment of the risks of material  misstatement of the selected sustainability  performance data whether due to fraud or  error.
In making those risk assessments, we  have considered internal controls relevant to  the preparation of the Report in order to design  assurance procedures that are appropriate  in the circumstances.
Our assurance  procedures also included: • Assessment of RIL’s reporting procedures  regarding their consistency with the  application of the GRI Standards.
• Evaluating the appropriateness of the  quantification methods used to arrive  at the sustainability performance  presented in the Report.
• Verification of systems and procedures  used for quantification, collation, and  analysis of sustainability performance data  included in the Report.
• Understanding the appropriateness  of various assumptions, estimations  and materiality thresholds used by RIL  for data analysis.
• Discussions with the personnel at  the corporate and business unit level  responsible for the performance data  presented in the Report.
• Discussion on sustainability aspects with  senior executives at the different plant  locations and at the corporate office to  understand the risks and opportunities  from sustainability context and the strategy  RIL is following.
• Assessment of data reliability and accuracy.
• For the data and information related to  RIL’s financial performance, we have relied  on its audited financial statements for  the FY 2021-22.
• Review of the Company’s Business  Responsibility Report section to check  alignment with the National Voluntary  Guidelines on Social, Environmental  and Economic Responsibilities of  Business (NVG-SEE) • Verification of performance data  through virtual conference meetings  with manufacturing units at Barabanki,  Dahej, Hazira, Hoshiarpur, Jamnagar DTA,  Jamnagar SEZ, Jamnagar C2 complex,  Jamnagar Pet Coke Gasification unit,  Nagothane, Naroda, Patalganga, Silvassa,  Vadodara; Recron Malaysia facilities at Nilai  and Melaka; RP Chemicals Malaysia; Petro- retail division facilities under RBML, Terminal  Operations and LPG; On-shore and Off- shore exploration and production facilities  at Gadimoga and Shahdol; Reliance Jio  Infocomm Limited; Reliance Retail Ventures  Limited; and Corporate office at Reliance  Corporate Park, Navi Mumbai.
Appropriate documentary evidence was  reviewed to support our conclusions on  the information and data verified.
Where  such documentary evidence could not be  shared with us due to sensitive nature of the  information, our team verified the same during  the site interactions using screen sharing tools.
Independence The assurance was conducted by a  multidisciplinary team including professionals  with suitable skills and experience in auditing  environmental, social and economic  information in line with the requirements  of ISAE 3000 (Revised) standard.
Our work  was performed in compliance with the  requirements of the IFAC Code of Ethics for  Professional Accountants, which requires,  among other requirements, that the members  of the assurance team (practitioners) be  independent of the assurance client, in  relation to the scope of this assurance  engagement, including not being involved  in writing the Report.
The Code also includes  detailed requirements for practitioners  regarding integrity, objectivity, professional  competence and due care, confidentiality and  professional behaviour.
KPMG has systems and  processes in place to monitor compliance with  the Code and to prevent conflicts regarding  independence.
The firm applies ISQC 1 and  the practitioner complies with the applicable  independence and other ethical requirements  of the IESBA code.
Responsibilities RIL is responsible for developing the Report  contents.
RIL is also responsible for identification  of material sustainability topics, establishing  and maintaining appropriate performance  management and internal control systems, and  derivation of performance data reported.
This  statement is made solely to the Management  of RIL in accordance with the terms of our  engagement and as per scope of assurance.
Our work has been undertaken so that we  might state to RIL those matters for which we  have been engaged to state in this statement  and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent  permitted by law, we do not accept or assume  responsibility to anyone other than RIL for our  work, for this report, or for the conclusions  expressed in this independent assurance  statement.
The assurance engagement is  based on the assumption that the data and  information provided to us is complete and  true.
We expressly disclaim any liability or  co-responsibility for any decision a person or  entity would make based on this assurance  statement.
By reading this assurance statement,  stakeholders acknowledge and agree to the  limitations and disclaimers mentioned above.
Conclusions Based on our assurance procedures and in line  with the boundary, scope and limitations, we  conclude that, for the selected performance  data subjected to limited assurance procedures  as defined under the scope of assurance,  nothing has come to our attention that causes  us not to believe that these are appropriately  stated in all material respects, in line with the  reporting principles of the GRI Standards.
The  sustainability performance data that have been  subjected to reasonable assurance procedures  as defined under the scope of assurance, are  fairly stated in all material respects and are in  alignment with the GRI standards.
Anand S. Kulkarni Technical Director KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP 19 July 2022 Shri Dhirubhai H. Ambani Founder Chairman “Between my past, the present and the future, there is one common factor:  Relationship and Trust.
This is the foundation of our growth.” Transparency, Disclosure  and Accountability are  three main pillars of  corporate governance.
At  RIL, the six core values (viz.
Customer Value, Ownership  Mindset, Respect, Integrity,  One Team and Excellence)  enshrined in our Values  and Behaviours guide our  corporate governance  framework.
This report is prepared in accordance  with the provisions of the Securities  and Exchange Board of India  (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015  (Listing Regulations) and the report  contains the details of Corporate  Governance systems and processes  at Reliance Industries Limited (“RIL” or  “the Company”).
This report is divided into  following sections: 1.
Statement on Company’s  Philosophy on  Code of Governance 2.
Corporate Governance Structure,  Policies and Practices 3.
Board of Directors 4.
Board Committees 5.
Framework for monitoring  Subsidiary Companies 6.
General Body Meetings 7.
Means of Communication 8.
General Shareholder Information 9.
Other Disclosures  Statement on Company’s  Philosophy on Code of  Governance Corporate Governance encompasses  a set of systems and practices to  ensure that the Company’s affairs are  being managed in a manner which  ensures accountability, transparency  and fairness in all transactions in the  widest sense.
The objective is to meet  stakeholders’ aspirations and societal  expectations.
Good governance  practices stem from the dynamic  culture and positive mindset of the  organisation.
We are committed  to meet the aspirations of all our  stakeholders.
This is demonstrated  in shareholder returns, high credit  ratings, awards and recognitions,  governance processes and an  entrepreneurial performance focussed  work environment.
Additionally, our  customers have been benefited from  high quality products delivered at  extremely competitive prices.
The essence of Corporate Governance  lies in promoting and maintaining  integrity, transparency and  accountability in the management’s  higher echelons.
The demands  of Corporate Governance require  professionals to raise their competence  and capability levels to meet the  expectations in managing the  enterprise and its resources effectively  with the highest standards of  ethics.
It has thus become crucial  to foster and sustain a culture that  integrates all components of good  governance by carefully balancing the  inter-relationship among the Board of  Directors, Board Committees, Finance,  Compliance & Assurance teams,  Auditors and the Senior Management.
Our employee satisfaction is reflected  in the stability of senior management,  ability to attract talent across  various levels and substantially  higher productivity.
Above all, we feel  honoured to be integral to India’s social  development.
Details of several such  initiatives are available in the Report on  Corporate Social Responsibility.
At RIL, Corporate Governance is  all about maintaining a valuable  relationship and trust with all the  stakeholders.
We consider stakeholders  as partners in our success and  remain committed to maximising  stakeholders’ value, be it Customers,  Local Communities, Employees,  Suppliers & Distributors, Trade Unions,  NGOs, Investors & Shareholders and  Government & Regulatory Authorities.
This approach to value creation  emanates from RIL’s belief that  sound governance system, based  on relationship and trust, is integral  to creating enduring value for all.
We  have a defined policy framework for  ethical conduct of businesses.
We  believe that any business conduct  can be ethical only when it rests on  the six core values viz.
Customer Value,  Ownership Mindset, Respect, Integrity,  One Team and Excellence.
At RIL, we believe that as we move  closer towards our aspirations of being  a global corporation, our Corporate  Governance standards must be  globally benchmarked.
Therefore, we  have institutionalised the right building  blocks for future growth.
The building  blocks will ensure that we achieve our  ambition in a prudent and sustainable  manner.
RIL not only adheres to the  prescribed Corporate Governance  practices as per the Listing  Regulations, but is also committed  to sound Corporate Governance  principles and practices.
It constantly  strives to adopt emerging best  practices being followed worldwide.
It is our endeavour to achieve higher  standards and provide oversight  and guidance to the management  in strategy implementation, risk  management and fulfilment of stated  goals and objectives.
Over the years, we have strengthened  governance practices.
These practices  define the way how business is  conducted and value is generated.
Stakeholders’ interests are taken into  account before making any business  decision.
RIL has the distinction of  consistently rewarding its shareholders  for over four eventful decades from  Initial Public Offer (IPO).
Since then,  RIL has moved from one big idea  to another and these milestones  continue to fuel its relentless pursuit of  ever-higher goals.
On standalone basis, we have  grown by a Compounded Annual  Growth Rate (CAGR) of Revenues  22.2%, Earnings Before Interest, Tax,  Depreciation and Amortisation (EBITDA)  before exceptional items 23.1% and Net  Profit before exceptional items 24.1%.
The financial markets have endorsed  our sterling performance and the  market capitalisation has increased by  CAGR of 31.6% during the same period.
In terms of distributing wealth to our  shareholders, apart from having a  track record of uninterrupted dividend  payout, we have also delivered  consistent unmatched shareholder  returns since listing.
The result of our  initiative is our ever widening reach  and recall.
Our shareholder base  has grown from 52,000 after the IPO  to a consolidated present base of  around 33 Lakh.
For decades, RIL is growing in step  with India’s industrial and economic  development.
The Company has  helped transform the Indian economy  with large projects and world-class  execution.
The quest to help elevate  India’s quality of life continues and  is unabated.
It emanates from a  fundamental article of faith: ‘What is  good for India is good for Reliance’.
We believe, Corporate Governance is  not just a destination, but a journey to  constantly improve sustainable value  creation.
It is an upward-moving target  that we collectively strive towards  achieving.
Our multiple initiatives  towards maintaining the highest  standards of governance are detailed  in this Report.
Corporate Governance  Structure, Policies and  Practices The Company has put in place an  internal multi-tier governance structure  with defined roles and responsibilities  of every constituent of the system.
The Company’s shareholders appoint  the Board of Directors, which in turn  govern the Company.
The Board has  established various Committees to  discharge its responsibilities in an  effective manner.
The Chairman and  Managing Director (CMD) provides  overall direction and guidance to  the Board.
In the operations and  functioning of the Company, the CMD is  assisted by four Executive Directors and  a core group of senior level executives.
Corporate Governance Report K. Sethuraman Savithri Parekh Jyoti Jain Sridhar  Kothandaraman Ratnesh   Rukhariyar Mohana V 218 219 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  RIL Governance Structure Shareholders Ethics &  Compliance  Task Force Board of   Directors Corporate   Social  Responsibility  and Governance  Committee Risk   Management  Committee Finance  Committee Human  Resources,  Nomination and  Remuneration  Committee Health, Safety  and Environment  Committee Stakeholders’  Relationship  Committee Audit   Committee Role and responsibilities of  constituents of Governance  Structure Board of Directors: The Board of  Directors is the apex body constituted  by shareholders for overseeing the  Company’s overall functioning.
The  Board provides strategic direction  and leadership and oversees the  management policies and their  effectiveness looking at long-term  interests of shareholders and other  stakeholders.
The Board, inter alia,  reviews and guides corporate  strategy, major plans of action, risk  policy, annual budgets, acquisitions  and divestments.
It also monitors  implementation and effectiveness  of governance structures.
For further  details, see the section titled “Board of  Directors” in this report.
The Chairman is responsible for  fostering and promoting the integrity  of the Board while nurturing a culture  where the Board works harmoniously  for the long-term benefit of the  Company and all its stakeholders.
The  Board and it’s Committees provide  effective governance to the Company.
The Chairman takes a lead role in  managing the Board and facilitating  effective communication among  the Directors.
The Human Resources,  Nomination and Remuneration  Committee reviews succession  planning of the Board and Senior  Management.
Based on the manner  of performance evaluation laid by  the HRNR committee, a consolidated  report is provided to the Chairman  to facilitate individual feedback and  advice to the Directors.
Board Committees: The Board  has delegated its functioning in  relevant areas to designated Board  Committees to effectively deal with  complex or specialised issues.
For  further details, see the section titled  “Board Committees” in this report.
Company Secretary: The Company  Secretary plays a key role in ensuring  that the Board (including committees  thereof) procedures are followed and  regularly reviewed.
The Company  Secretary ensures that all relevant  information, details and documents  are made available to the Directors  and Senior Management for effective  decision-making at the meetings.
The Company Secretary is primarily  responsible to assist and advise the  Board in the conduct of affairs of the  Company, to ensure compliance with  applicable statutory requirements,  to provide guidance to Directors and  to facilitate convening of meetings.
The Company Secretary assists the  Chairman in management of the  Board’s administrative activities such  as meetings, schedules, agenda,  communications and documentation.
The Company Secretary interfaces  between the management and  regulatory authorities for governance  matters.
The Company’s internal  guidelines for Board and Committee  meetings facilitate decision-making  process at its meetings in an informed  and efficient manner.
Ethics / Governance Policies At RIL, we strive to conduct our  business and strengthen our  relationships in a manner that is  dignified, distinctive and responsible.
We adhere to ethical standards  to ensure integrity, transparency,  independence and accountability  in dealing with all the stakeholders.
Therefore, we have adopted various  codes and policies to carry out our  duties in an ethical manner.
Some of  these codes and policies are: • Values and Behaviors • Code of Conduct and Our Code • Code of Conduct for Prohibition of  Insider Trading • Code of Practices and Procedures  for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished  Price Sensitive Information • Business Partner Code of Conduct • Health, Safety and  Environment Policy •  Vigil Mechanism and  Whistle-blower Policy • Prevention of Sexual Harassment of  Women at Workplace Policy • Corporate Social  Responsibility Policy • Policy for selection of  Directors and determining  Directors’ independence • Remuneration Policy for Directors,  Key Managerial Personnel and  other employees • Dividend Distribution Policy • Policy for determining  Material Subsidiaries • Policy on Subsidiary Governance • Policy on Materiality of Related Party  Transactions and on dealing with  Related Party Transactions • Policy for Performance Evaluation  of Independent Directors,  Board, Committees and other  individual Directors • Policy on determination and  disclosure of Materiality of  Events and Information and Web  Archival Policy • Policy for Preservation of Documents • Group Risk Management Policy • Materiality Policy for  Commodity Exposure • Commodity and Freight Risk  Management Policy • Foreign Exchange & Derivatives Risk  Management Policy • Investment Governance Policy • Data Privacy Policy • Group Information Security Policy • Intellectual Property Policy • Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Policy • Anti-Money Laundering Procedure Code of Conduct The Company has in place a  comprehensive Code of Conduct  and Our Code (the Codes) applicable  to the Directors and employees.
The  Codes give guidance and support  needed for ethical conduct of  business and compliance of law.
The Codes reflect the core values of  the Company viz.
Customer Value,  Ownership Mindset, Respect, Integrity,  One Team and Excellence.
A copy of the Code of Conduct  and Our Code are available on the  website of the Company.
The Codes  have been circulated to the Directors  and Senior Management Personnel  and its compliance is affirmed  by them annually.
A declaration on confirmation of  compliance of the Code of Conduct,  signed by the Company’s Chairman  and Managing Director is published  in this Report.
Vigil Mechanism and  Whistle-blower Policy The Company promotes safe, ethical  and compliant conduct of all its  business activities and has put in  place a mechanism for reporting  illegal or unethical behaviour.
The  Company has a Vigil Mechanism and  Whistle-blower policy under which the  employees are encouraged to report  violations of applicable laws and  regulations and the Code of Conduct  – without fear of any retaliation.
The  reportable matters may be disclosed  to the Ethics & Compliance Task Force  which operates under the supervision  of the Audit Committee.
Employees  may also report violations to the  Chairman of the Audit Committee  and there was no instance of denial of  access to the Audit Committee.
The Vigil Mechanism and  Whistle-blower Policy is available on  the website of the Company.
Anti-Bribery &  Anti-Corruption Policy The Company is committed in  doing business with integrity  and transparency and has a  zero-tolerance approach to  non-compliance with the anti-bribery  policy.
The Company prohibits  bribery, corruption and any form of  improper payments / dealings in  the conduct of business operations.
Training / awareness programs are  conducted on periodical basis to  sensitise employees.
The Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption  Policy is available on the website  of the Company.
Prevention of Sexual  Harassment of Women at  Workplace Policy In accordance with the requirements  of the Sexual Harassment of Women  at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition  & Redressal) Act, 2013 (“POSH Act”)  along with the Rules made thereunder,  the Company has in place a policy  which mandates no tolerance against  any conduct amounting to sexual  harassment of women at workplace.
The Company has constituted Internal  Committee(s) (“ICs”) to redress and  resolve any complaints arising under  the POSH Act.
Training / awareness  programs are conducted throughout  the year to create sensitivity towards  ensuring respectable workplace.
Risk Management, Internal  Controls and Compliance The Company has put in place the  “Reliance Management System”  (“RMS”) as a part of its transformation  agenda.
RMS incorporates an  integrated framework for managing  risks and internal controls.
The  internal financial controls have  been documented, embedded and  digitised in the business processes.
Internal controls are regularly  tested for design, implementation  and operating effectiveness.
RMS  is enabled through extensive use  of technology to support the risk  management processes, ensure  the ongoing effectiveness of internal  controls in processes, compliance with  applicable laws and regulations.
The Compliance Function ensures  compliance activities related to the  Financial, Operational and People  Management Systems of the various  group entities.
This includes various  statutes such as industrial and  labour laws, taxation laws, corporate  and securities laws, health, safety  and environmental laws, etc.
All  compliance activities are supported  by a robust online compliance  monitoring system (iRCMS) to  ensure ongoing compliance.
The  ongoing effectiveness of compliance  management activities is reviewed  Corporate Governance Report 220 221 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  independently by the Group  Audit Function.
The combination of independent  governance, assurance and oversight  structures, combined with automated  risk management, controls and  compliance monitoring, ensures  robustness and integrity of financial  reporting, management of internal  controls and ensures compliance  with statutory laws, regulations and  company’s policies.
These provide  the foundations that enable optimal  use and protection of assets, facilitate  the accurate and timely compilation  of financial statements and  management reports.
Audits and Internal Checks  and Balances The Statutory Auditors and the Group  Internal Audit Function perform  independent reviews of the ongoing  effectiveness of the Reliance  Management System which integrates  various components of the systems of  internal control.
Corporate Governance  Practices RIL strives for highest Corporate  Governance standards and  practices.
It, therefore, endeavours  to continuously improve and adopt  the best of international Corporate  Governance codes and practices.
Some of the implemented global  governance norms and best practices  include the following: • All securities related filings with  Stock Exchanges are reviewed  every quarter by the Stakeholders’  Relationship Committee.
• The Company has independent  Board Committees covering matters  related to Risk Management, Health,  Safety and Environment, Corporate  Social Responsibility, Internal  Audit, Financial Management,  Stakeholders’ Relationship, Directors’  Remuneration and the nomination  of Board members.
• The Company also has several  other Executive Committees of  senior management who review the  ongoing effectiveness of operational  and financial risk mitigations and  governance practices.
• The Group has an independent  Internal Audit Function that provides  risk-based assurance across all  material areas of Group Risk and  Compliance exposures.
• The Company undergoes  quarterly secretarial compliance  certification from an independent  Company Secretary who is in  whole-time practice.
• The Company has appointed an  independent firm of Chartered  Accountants to conduct concurrent  audit of share registry and other  incidental functions carried out by  Registrar and Transfer Agent.
RIL’s Integrated Reporting RIL published its maiden Integrated  Annual Report in the FY 2016-17  aligned with the International  Integrated Reporting Council’s  (IIRC) <IR> framework.
The concept  of the six capitals of business as  suggested by the <IR> framework has  been ingrained into the Company’s  management philosophy and has  become an important enabler for RIL’s  value creation story.
RIL’s Integrated  Reporting is covered in Management  Discussion and Analysis Report.
Shareholders’  Communications The Board recognises the importance  of two-way communication with  shareholders, giving a balanced report  of results & progress and responding  to questions & issues raised.
Shareholders seeking information  related to their shareholding may  contact the Company directly or  through the Company’s Registrar  and Transfer Agent, details of which  are available on the Company’s  website.
RIL ensures that complaints  of its shareholders are responded  to promptly.
A comprehensive  and informative shareholders’  referencer is available on the website  of the Company.
Board of Directors At RIL, it is our belief that an  enlightened Board consciously creates  a culture of leadership to provide a  long-term vision and policy approach  to improve the quality of governance.
The Board’s actions and decisions  are aligned with the Company’s best  interests.
The Board is committed  to the goal of sustainably elevating  the Company’s value creation.
The  Company has defined guidelines  and an established framework for  the meetings of the Board and its  Committees.
These guidelines seek  to systematise the decision-making  process at the meetings of the Board  and Committees in an informed and  efficient manner.
Board Composition and category of Directors The Company’s policy is to maintain an optimum combination of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Composition Analysis Independence  Diversity (Gender)  Diversity (Nationality) Category % Category % Category % Independent Directors 50.00 Women 14.29 Indian 71.43 Non-Independent Directors 50.00 Men 85.71 Foreign 28.57 Core skills / expertise / competencies available with the Board  The Board comprises qualified and experienced members who possess required skills, expertise and competencies that  allow them to make effective contributions to the Board and its Committees.
The following skills / expertise / competencies have been identified for the effective functioning of the Company and are  currently available with the Board:  • Leadership / Operational experience • Strategic Planning  • Industry Experience, Research & Development and Innovation  • Global Business  • Financial, Regulatory / Legal & Risk Management  • Corporate Governance While all the Board members possess the skills identified, their area of core expertise is given in their respective  profiles below.
Profile of Directors Brief profile of Directors of the Company including their category, shareholding in the Company, number of other  Directorships including name of listed entities where he / she is a director alongwith the category of their directorships,  committee positions held by them in other companies as a Member or Chairperson, area of expertise and other details  are given below: Mukesh D. Ambani** Chairman and Managing Director (DIN: 00001695) Citizen of India Appointed  April 1, 1977 Shareholding *  80,52,020 equity shares Other Directorship(s) *#  4 Directorship in other listed company(ies) and  category of directorship *   Nil Committee membership(s) / chairmanship(s)  in other company(ies) *^  Nil Areas of expertise • Leadership / Operational experience • Strategic Planning • Industry Experience, Research &  Development and Innovation • Global Business • Financial, Regulatory / Legal &  Risk Management • Corporate Governance Prof. Dipak C. Jain Independent Director (DIN: 00228513) Citizen of USA Appointed  March 28, 2015 Shareholding *  Nil Other Directorship(s) *#  3 Directorship in other listed company(ies) and  category of directorship *   Nil Committee membership(s) / chairmanship(s)  in other company(ies)  *^  2 Areas of expertise • Leadership / Operational experience • Strategic Planning • Industry Experience, Research &  Development and Innovation • Global Business • Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report 222 223 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar Independent Director (DIN: 00074119) Citizen of India Appointed  March 28, 2015 Shareholding *  Nil Other Directorship(s) *#  6 Directorship in other listed company(ies) and  category of directorship *   Godrej Agrovet Limited – Independent Director Committee membership(s) / chairmanship(s)  in other company(ies) *^  Nil Areas of expertise • Leadership / Operational experience • Strategic Planning • Industry Experience, Research &  Development and Innovation • Financial, Regulatory / Legal &  Risk Management • Corporate Governance Adil Zainulbhai Independent Director (DIN: 06646490) Citizen of USA Appointed  June 18, 2014 Shareholding *  Nil Other Directorship(s) *#  7 Directorship in other listed company(ies) and  category of directorship *   Cipla Limited – Independent Director Network18 Media & Investments Limited –  Independent Director TV18 Broadcast Limited – Independent Director Larsen and Toubro Limited – Independent  Director Committee membership(s) / chairmanship(s)  in other company(ies) *^  7 – (including 5 as Chairman) Areas of expertise • Leadership / Operational experience • Strategic Planning • Industry Experience, Research &  Development and Innovation • Global Business • Financial, Regulatory / Legal & Risk Management • Corporate Governance Raminder Singh Gujral Independent Director  (DIN: 07175393) Citizen of India Appointed  June 12, 2015 Shareholding *  12,800 equity shares Other Directorship(s) *#  3 Directorship in other listed company(ies) and  category of directorship *   Adani Power Limited – Independent Director Adani Green Energy Limited – Independent  Director Committee membership(s) / chairmanship(s)  in other company(ies) *^  3 – (including 2 as Chairman) Areas of expertise • Leadership / Operational experience • Strategic Planning • Industry Experience, Research &  Development and Innovation • Financial, Regulatory / Legal & Risk Management • Corporate Governance Dr. Shumeet Banerji Independent Director (DIN: 02787784) Citizen of USA Appointed  July 21, 2017 Shareholding *   14,400 equity shares Other Directorship(s) *#  3 Directorship in other listed company(ies) and  category of directorship *   Nil Committee membership(s) / chairmanship(s)  in other company(ies) *^  Nil Areas of expertise • Leadership / Operational experience • Strategic Planning • Global Business • Financial, Regulatory / Legal & Risk Management • Corporate Governance Arundhati Bhattacharya Independent Director  (DIN: 02011213) Citizen of India Appointed  October 17, 2018 Shareholding *  91 equity shares Other Directorship(s) *#  2 Directorship in other listed company(ies) and  category of directorship *   Nil Committee membership(s) / chairmanship(s)  in other company(ies) *^  Nil Areas of expertise • Leadership / Operational experience • Strategic Planning • Global Business • Financial, Regulatory / Legal & Risk Management • Corporate Governance His Excellency Yasir  Othman H. Al Rumayyan Independent Director (DIN: 09245977) Citizen of Saudi Arabia Appointed  July 19, 2021 Shareholding *  Nil Other Directorship(s) *#  Nil Directorship in other listed company(ies) and  category of directorship *   Nil Committee membership(s) / chairmanship(s)  in other company(ies) *^  Nil Areas of expertise • Leadership / Operational experience • Strategic Planning • Industry Experience, Research &  Development and Innovation • Global Business • Corporate Governance K. V. Chowdary Non-Executive Director (DIN: 08485334) Citizen of India Appointed  October 18, 2019 Shareholding *  Nil Other Directorship(s) *#  4 Directorship in other listed company(ies) and  category of directorship *   CCL Products (India) Limited – Independent  Director Divi’s Laboratories Limited – Independent  Director Tata Motors Limited – Independent Director Committee membership(s) / chairmanship(s)  in other company(ies) *^  5 – (including 1 as Chairman) Areas of expertise • Leadership / Operational experience • Strategic Planning • Financial, Regulatory / Legal & Risk Management • Corporate Governance Nita M. Ambani** Non-Executive Director (DIN: 03115198) Citizen of India Appointed  June 18, 2014 Shareholding *  80,52,021 equity shares Other Directorship(s) *#  2 Directorship in other listed company(ies) and  category of directorship *   EIH Limited – Non-Executive Director Committee membership(s) / chairmanship(s)  in other company(ies) *^  Nil Areas of expertise • Leadership / Operational experience • Strategic Planning • Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report 224 225 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  Nikhil R. Meswani Executive Director (DIN: 00001620) Citizen of India Appointed  June 26, 1986 Shareholding *  35,80,529 equity shares Other Directorship(s) *#  1 Directorship in other listed company(ies) and  category of directorship *   Nil Committee membership(s) / chairmanship(s)  in other company(ies) *^  1 – (as Chairman) Areas of expertise • Leadership / Operational experience • Strategic Planning • Industry Experience, Research &  Development and Innovation • Global Business • Financial, Regulatory / Legal & Risk Management • Corporate Governance Hital R. Meswani Executive Director (DIN: 00001623) Citizen of India Appointed  August 04, 1995 Shareholding *  34,38,688 equity shares Other Directorship(s) *#  4 Directorship in other listed company(ies) and  category of directorship *   Nil Committee membership(s) / chairmanship(s)  in other company(ies) *^  1 – (as Chairman) Areas of expertise • Leadership / Operational experience • Strategic Planning • Industry Experience, Research &  Development and Innovation • Global Business • Financial, Regulatory / Legal & Risk Management • Corporate Governance P.M.S.
Prasad Executive Director (DIN: 00012144) Citizen of India Appointed  August 21, 2009 Shareholding *  6,40,000 equity shares Other Directorship(s) *#  5 Directorship in other listed company(ies) and  category of directorship *   Network18 Media & Investments Limited – Non- Executive Director TV18 Broadcast Limited – Non-Executive Director Committee membership(s) / chairmanship(s)  in other company(ies) *^  4 Areas of expertise • Leadership / Operational experience • Strategic Planning • Industry Experience, Research &  Development and Innovation • Global Business • Financial, Regulatory / Legal & Risk Management • Corporate Governance Pawan Kumar Kapil Executive Director (DIN: 02460200) Citizen of India Appointed  May 16, 2010 Shareholding *  56,533 equity shares Other Directorship(s) *#  1 Directorship in other listed company(ies) and  category of directorship *   Nil Committee membership(s) / chairmanship(s)  in other company(ies) *^  Nil Areas of expertise • Leadership / Operational experience • Industry Experience, Research &  Development and Innovation • Financial, Regulatory / Legal & Risk Management * as on March 31, 2022 ** Promoter Director # excluding Directorship(s) in foreign companies and Section 8 companies under the Companies Act, 2013.
^ In accordance with Regulation 26 of the Listing Regulations.
Notes: a) Smt.
Nita M. Ambani is the spouse of Shri Mukesh D. Ambani.
b) Shri Nikhil R. Meswani and Shri Hital R. Meswani are brothers and not related to Promoter Director.
c) None of the other Directors are related to any other Director on the Board.
The detailed profile of the Directors is available on the website of the Company.
The number of Directorship(s) and Committee Membership(s) / Chairmanship(s) of all Directors is / are within the respective limits prescribed under  the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations.
Board Independence Shri Yogendra P. Trivedi joined the Board  of the Company in 1992 and the Board  has benefitted from his sage counsel  for nearly 30 years.
He demitted  office as a Director of the Company  effective from the conclusion of the  44th Annual General Meeting (Post IPO)  held on June 24, 2021, due to health  reasons.
The Board places on record  its deepest gratitude and appreciation  towards valuable contribution made  by Shri Yogendra P. Trivedi to the growth  and governance of the Company  during his tenure as a Director of  the Company.
Further, His Excellency  Yasir Othman H. Al Rumayyan was  appointed as an Independent Director  of the Company w.e.f.
July 19, 2021.
Every Independent Director, at the  first meeting of the Board in which he  / she participates as a Director and  thereafter at the first meeting of the  Board in every financial year, gives a  declaration that he / she meets the  criteria of independence as provided  under the law and that he / she  is not aware of any circumstance  or situation, which exist or may be  reasonably anticipated, that could  impair or impact his / her ability to  discharge his / her duties with an  objective independent judgement and  without any external influence.
In the opinion of the Board, the  Independent Directors fulfil the  conditions specified in the Listing  Regulations and are independent of  the management.
Selection and Appointment of  Independent Directors Considering the requirement of skill  sets on the Board, eminent persons  having an independent standing  in their respective field / profession  and who can effectively contribute  to the Company’s business and  policy decisions are considered by  the Human Resources, Nomination  and Remuneration Committee, for  appointment, as an Independent  Director on the Board.
The Committee,  inter alia, considers qualification,  positive attributes, area of expertise  and number of Directorship(s) and  Membership(s) held in various  committees of other companies by  such persons in accordance with  the Company’s Policy for Selection of  Directors and determining Directors’  independence and recommends to  the Board their appointment.
Meeting of Independent  Directors The Company’s Independent Directors  met three times during the FY 2021-22.
Such meetings were conducted to  enable the Independent Directors  to discuss matters pertaining to  the Company’s affairs and put  forth their views.
Corporate Governance Report 226 227 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  Remuneration of the Executive Directors for the financial year 2021-22 (` in crore) Name of the Director Salary &  allowances Perquisites Retiral benefits Commission  payable Total Stock Options Mukesh D. Ambani Nil Nikhil R. Meswani 5.88 0.47 0.37 17.28 24.00 - Hital R. Meswani 6.30 0.05 0.37 17.28 24.00 - P. M. S. Prasad 11.51* 0.03 0.35 - 11.89 - Pawan Kumar Kapil 4.05* 0.02 0.15 - 4.22 - *includes performance linked incentives for the FY 2020-21 paid in FY 2021-22.
Board Meetings and Attendance Number of Board meetings and attendance of Directors  During the FY 2021-22, 5 (five) Board meetings were held as against the statutory requirement of four meetings.
The  details of Board meetings and attendance of Directors at these meetings and at last annual general meeting (AGM)  are given below: Name of the Director Last AGM  held on June  24, 2021 Board Meetings held on %  Attendance  of Director April 30,  2021 July 23,  2021 September 02,  2021 October 22,  2021 January 21,  2022 Mukesh D. Ambani Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% Yogendra P. Trivedi * Yes Yes NA NA NA NA 100% Prof. Dipak C. Jain Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% Adil Zainulbhai Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% Raminder Singh Gujral Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% Dr. Shumeet Banerji Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No 80% Arundhati Bhattacharya Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% His Excellency Yasir Othman  H. Al Rumayyan ** NA NA Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% K. V. Chowdary Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% Nita M. Ambani Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% Nikhil R. Meswani Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% Hital R. Meswani Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% P. M. S. Prasad Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% Pawan Kumar Kapil Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No 80% % Attendance at meeting 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 85.71% * demitted office as a Director effective conclusion of the 44th Annual General Meeting (Post IPO) held on June 24, 2021.
** appointed as an Independent Director w.e.f.
July 19, 2021.
Board familiarization and  induction program The Board members are provided with  necessary documents / brochures,  reports and internal policies to  enable them to familiarise with the  Company’s procedures and practices.
Periodic presentations are made at  the Board and Committee meetings  on business and performance  updates of the Company including  Finance, Sales, Marketing of the  Company’s major business segments,  practices relating to Human  Resources, overview of business  operations of major subsidiaries,  global business environment, business  strategy and risks involved.
Monthly / quarterly updates on  relevant statutory, regulatory  changes and landmark judicial  pronouncements encompassing  important laws are regularly circulated  to the Directors.
Visits to various plant  locations are generally organised  for the Independent Directors to  enable them to understand and get  acquainted with the operations of the  Company.
However, due to COVID-19  pandemic such visits were not  organised during the FY 2021-22.
Details of such familiarisation  programmes for the Independent  Directors are available on the website  of the Company.
Succession Planning The Company believes that sound  succession plans for the senior  leadership are very important for  creating a robust future for the  Company.
The Human Resources,  Nomination and Remuneration  Committee works along with the  Human Resource team of the  Company for a structured leadership  succession plan.
Board Compensation The Company’s Remuneration Policy  for Directors, Key Managerial Personnel  and other employees is available on  the website of the Company.
The Company’s remuneration  policy is directed towards rewarding  performance, based on review of  achievements.
The remuneration  policy is in consonance with existing  industry practice.
The tenure of office of the Managing Director and Whole-time Directors is for 5  (five) years from their respective date of appointment and can be terminated  by either party by giving three months’ notice in writing.
They are also eligible for  re-appointment.
There is no separate provision for payment of severance fees.
Remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors for the financial  year 2021-22 (` in crore) Name of the Director Sitting Fee Commission Total  Yogendra P. Trivedi * 0.07 0.47 0.54 Prof. Dipak C. Jain 0.08 2.00 2.08 Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar 0.33 2.00 2.33 Adil Zainulbhai 0.28 2.00 2.28 Raminder Singh Gujral 0.25 2.00 2.25 Dr. Shumeet Banerji 0.17 2.00 2.17 Arundhati Bhattacharya 0.16 2.00 2.16 His Excellency Yasir Othman  H. Al Rumayyan ** 0.06 1.40 1.46 K. V. Chowdary 0.32 2.00 2.32 Nita M. Ambani 0.05 2.00 2.05 Total 1.77 17.87 19.64 * demitted office as a Director effective conclusion of the 44th Annual General Meeting  (Post IPO) held on June 24, 2021.
** appointed as an Independent Director w.e.f.
July 19, 2021.
During the year, there were no other pecuniary relationships or transactions of  Non-Executive Directors with the Company.
The Company has not granted any  stock options to its Non-Executive Directors.
Directors’ & Officers’ Liability Insurance In line with the requirements of Regulation 24(10) of the Listing Regulations, the  Company has in place a Directors and Officers Liability Insurance policy.
Performance Evaluation criteria for Directors The Human Resources, Nomination and Remuneration Committee has  devised the criteria for evaluation of the performance of the Directors including  the Independent Directors.
The said criteria specify certain parameters like  attendance, acquaintance with business, communication inter se between  board members, effective participation, domain knowledge, compliance with  code of conduct, vision and strategy, benchmarks established by global peers  etc., which is in compliance with applicable laws, regulations and guidelines.
Board Committees The Board has constituted seven main Committees, viz.
Audit Committee,  Human Resources, Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Stakeholders’  Relationship Committee, Corporate  Social Responsibility and Governance  Committee, Risk Management  Committee, Health, Safety and  Environment Committee and Finance  Committee and is authorised  to constitute other functional  Committees, from time to time,  depending on business needs.
The  recommendations of the Committees  are submitted to the Board for  approval.
During the year, all the  recommendations of the Committees  were accepted by the Board.
Shri K. Sethuraman, Group Company  Secretary and Chief Compliance  Officer (upto October 22, 2021, date  of his demitting office as Company  Secretary) and Smt.
Savithri Parekh,  Joint Company Secretary and  Compliance Officer (designated as  Company Secretary and Compliance  Officer w.e.f.
October 22, 2021), acted  as secretaries to all the committees  constituted by the Board.
Procedure at Committee  Meetings  The Company’s guidelines relating to  the Board meetings are applicable  to the Committee meetings.
The  composition and terms of reference of  all the Committees are in compliance  with the Companies Act, 2013 and  the Listing Regulations, as applicable.
Each Committee has the authority  to engage outside experts, advisors  and counsels to the extent it considers  appropriate to assist in its functioning.
Minutes of the proceedings of  Committee meetings are circulated to  the respective Committee members  and also placed before the Board  for its noting.
Corporate Governance Report 228 229 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  Audit Committee Composition Sr. No.
Name of the Director Designation 1 Raminder   Singh Gujral Chairman 2 Dr. Raghunath   A. Mashelkar Member 3 Adil Zainulbhai Member 4 K. V. Chowdary Member Shri Yogendra P. Trivedi demitted  office as a Director of the Company  effective conclusion of the 44th Annual  General Meeting (Post IPO) held on  June 24, 2021, and accordingly, ceased  to be chairman and member of the  Committee.
He had attended all the  meetings of the Committee held upto  June 24, 2021.
Shri Raminder Singh Gujral has  been appointed as Chairman of the  Committee w.e.f.
June 30, 2021.
All the members of the Audit  Committee possess requisite  qualifications.
Human Resources, Nomination and Remuneration Committee Composition Sr. No.
Name of the Director Designation 1 Adil Zainulbhai Chairman 2 Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar Member 3 Raminder Singh Gujral Member 4 Dr. Shumeet Banerji Member 5 K. V. Chowdary Member Shri Yogendra P. Trivedi demitted office as a Director of the Company effective conclusion of the 44th Annual General  Meeting (Post IPO) held on June 24, 2021, and accordingly, ceased to be a member of the Committee.
He had attended all  the meetings of the Committee held upto June 24, 2021.
Brief terms of reference Terms of Reference of the Committee inter alia include the following:  • Formulate the criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes and independence of a Director and recommend  to the Board a policy, relating to the remuneration of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other employees.
• Formulate the criteria for evaluation of performance of the Independent Directors and the Board of Directors.
• Devise a policy on Board Diversity.
• Identify persons who are qualified to become Directors and who may be appointed in senior management in  accordance with the criteria laid down and to recommend to the Board their appointment and / or removal.
• Specify the manner for effective evaluation of performance of Board, its Committees and Individual Directors to  be carried out either by the Board, by the Human Resources, Nomination and Remuneration Committee or by an  independent external agency and review its implementation and compliance.
• Recommend to the Board, all remuneration, in whatever form, payable to senior management.
• Review Human Resource policies and overall human resources of the Company.
The detailed terms of reference of the Committee is available on the website of the Company.
Meeting and Attendance 5 (Five) meetings of the Committee were held during the year as against statutory requirement of one meeting.
The details  of the meetings and attendance of members of the Committee at these meetings are given below: Date of the Meeting Attended by %  Attendance  at Meeting Adil  Zainulbhai Dr.  Raghunath   A. Mashelkar Raminder  Singh  Gujral Dr.  Shumeet  Banerji K. V.  Chowdary April 28, 2021 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% June 23, 2021 Yes Yes Yes No Yes 80% July 16, 2021 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% October 14, 2021 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% January 13, 2022 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% % Attendance of member 100% 100% 100% 80% 100% The Chairman of the Committee was present at the last Annual General Meeting held on June 24, 2021.
Risk Management Committee Composition Sr. No.
Name of the Member Designation 1 Adil Zainulbhai Chairman 2 Dr. Shumeet Banerji Member 3 K. V. Chowdary Member 4 Hital R. Meswani Member 5 P. M. S. Prasad Member 6 Alok Agarwal (Chief Financial Officer) Member 7 Srikanth Venkatachari (Joint Chief Financial Officer) Member Brief terms of reference Terms of Reference of the Committee  inter alia include the following:  • Recommend appointment,  remuneration and terms of  appointment of auditors including  cost auditors.
• Approval of payment to  statutory auditors, including cost  auditors, for any other services  rendered by them.
• Review with the management,  the quarterly financial statements  before submission to the  Board for approval.
• Review with the management,  the statement of uses /  application of funds.
• Review and monitor the auditor’s  independence, performance and  effectiveness of audit process.
• Approval or any subsequent  modification of transactions with  related parties of the Company.
• Review the findings of any internal  investigations by the internal  auditors into matters where there is  suspected fraud or irregularity or a  failure of internal control systems of  a material nature and reporting the  matter to the Board.
• Review the functioning of the  whistle-blower mechanism /  oversee the vigil mechanism.
• Review financial statements, in  particular the investments made by  the Company’s unlisted subsidiaries.
The detailed terms of reference of the  Committee is available on the website  of the Company.
Meeting and Attendance 12 (Twelve) meetings of the Committee  were held during the year, as against  the statutory requirement of four  meetings.
The details of the meetings  and attendance of members of  the Committee at these meetings  are given below: Date of the Meeting Attended by %  Attendance  at Meeting Raminder  Singh Gujral Dr. Raghunath  A. Mashelkar Adil  Zainulbhai K. V.  Chowdary April 20, 2021 Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% April 30, 2021 Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% July 21, 2021 Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% July 23, 2021 Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% August 24, 2021 Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% October 14, 2021 Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% October 22, 2021 Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% November 24, 2021 Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% January 18, 2022 Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% January 21, 2022 Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% February 15, 2022 Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% March 25, 2022 Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% % Attendance of member 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% The representatives of Statutory Auditors are permanent invitees to the Audit Committee meetings held quarterly, to  approve financial statement.
The representatives of Statutory Auditors, Executives from Accounts department, Finance  department, Corporate Secretarial department and Internal Audit department attend the Audit Committee meetings.
The Lead Cost Auditor attends the Audit Committee meeting where cost audit report is discussed.
The Chairman of the Committee was present at the last Annual General Meeting held on June 24, 2021.
The Internal Audit Department of the Company, co-sourced with professional firms of Chartered Accountants, reports  directly to the Audit Committee.
Corporate Governance Report 230 231 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  Brief terms of reference Terms of Reference of the Committee inter alia include the following: • Frame Risk Management Plan and Policy.
• Oversee implementation / Monitoring of Risk Management Plan and Policy.
• Periodically review and evaluate the Risk Management Policy and Practices with respect to risk assessment and risk  management processes.
• Review of cyber security and related risks.
The detailed terms of reference of the Committee is available on the website of the Company.
Meeting and Attendance 3 (Three) meetings of the Committee were held during the year as against statutory requirement of two meeting.
The  details of the meetings and attendance of members of the Committee at these meetings are given below: Date of Meeting Attended by %  Attendance  at Meeting Adil  Zainulbhai Dr. Shumeet  Banerji K. V. Chowdary Hital R.  Meswani P. M. S.  Prasad Alok  Agarwal Srikanth  Venkatachari July 08, 2021 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% December 09, 2021 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% January 04, 2022 Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes No 71.43% % Attendance of  member 100% 100% 100% 66.67% 100% 100% 66.67% Corporate Social Responsibility and Governance Committee Composition Sr.  No.
Name of the Director Designation 1 Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar Chairman 2 Dr. Shumeet Banerji Member 3 Nikhil R. Meswani Member Shri Yogendra P. Trivedi demitted office as a Director of the Company effective conclusion of the 44th Annual General  Meeting (Post IPO) held on June 24, 2021, and accordingly, ceased to be chairman and member of the Committee.
He had  attended all the meetings of the Committee held upto June 24, 2021.
Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar has been appointed as Chairman of the Committee w.e.f.
June 30, 2021.
Brief terms of reference Terms of Reference of the Committee inter alia include the following:  • Formulate and recommend to the Board, a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy indicating the activities to be  undertaken by the Company as specified in Schedule VII to the Companies Act, 2013.
• Recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred on the CSR activities.
• Approve Corporate Sustainability Reports and oversee the implementation of sustainability activities.
• Monitor the CSR activities undertaken by the Company.
• Oversee the implementation of polices contained in the Business Responsibility Policy Manual and to review and  recommend the Business Responsibility Report to the Board for its approval.
The detailed terms of reference of the Committee is available on the website of the Company.
Meeting and Attendance 4 (Four) meetings of the Committee were held during the year.
The details of the meetings and attendance of members of  the Committee at these meetings are given below: Date of the Meeting Attended by % Attendance  at MeetingDr.
Raghunath  A. Mashelkar Dr. Shumeet  Banerji Nikhil R.  Meswani April 27, 2021 Yes Yes Yes 100% July 17, 2021 Yes Yes Yes 100% October 16, 2021 Yes Yes Yes 100% January 15, 2022 Yes Yes Yes 100% % Attendance   of member 100% 100% 100% Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee Composition Sr.  No.
Name of the Director Designation 1 K. V. Chowdary Chairman 2 Arundhati Bhattacharya Member 3 Nikhil R. Meswani Member 4 Hital R. Meswani Member Shri Yogendra P. Trivedi demitted office as a Director of the Company effective conclusion of the 44th Annual General  Meeting (Post IPO) held on June 24, 2021, and accordingly, ceased to be chairman and member of the Committee.
He had  attended all the meetings of the Committee held upto June 24, 2021.
Shri K.V.
Chowdary has been appointed as Chairman of the Committee w.e.f June 30, 2021.
Brief terms of reference Terms of Reference of the Committee inter alia include the following:  • Oversee and review all matters connected with transfer of Company’s securities.
• Monitor implementation and compliance with the Company’s Code of Conduct for Prohibition of Insider Trading.
• Consider, resolve and monitor various aspects of interest of shareholders, debenture holders and other security holders  including the redressal of investors’ / shareholders’ / security holders’ grievances related to transfer / transmission of  securities, non-receipt of annual reports, non-receipt of declared dividend, issue new / duplicate certificates, general  meetings and so on.
• Review measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders.
• Review various measures and initiatives taken by the Company for reducing the quantum of unclaimed dividends  and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants / annual reports / statutory notices by the security shareholders  of the Company.
The detailed terms of reference of the Committee is available on the website of the Company.
Meeting and Attendance 4 (Four) meetings of the Committee were held during the year as against statutory requirement of one meeting.
The  details of the meetings and attendance of members of the Committee at these meetings are given below: Date of the Meeting Attended by %  Attendance  at Meeting K. V.  Chowdary Arundhati  Bhattacharya Nikhil R.  Meswani Hital R.  Meswani April 16, 2021 Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% July 21, 2021 Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% October 19, 2021 Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% January 18, 2022 Yes Yes Yes No 75% % Attendance of   member 100% 100% 100% 75% The Chairman of the Committee was present at the last Annual General Meeting held on June 24, 2021.
Corporate Governance Report 232 233 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  Investor Grievance Redressal The number of complaints received  and resolved to the satisfaction of  investors during the financial year  2021-22 (out of the investor base of 33  lakh) and their break-up is as under: Type of Complaints No.
of  Complaints Non-Receipt of Annual  Reports 82 Non-Receipt of Dividend 120 Non-Receipt of Interest /  Redemption payments 11 Transfer of securities 670 Rights Issue related 157 Total 1,040 As on March 31, 2022, no complaints  were outstanding.
The response time for attending to  investors’ correspondence during the  financial year 2021-22 is as under: Particulars No.
% Total number of  correspondence  received during the  FY 2021-22 4,24,407 100.00 Replied within 1 to 4  days of receipt 4,23,812 99.86 Replied after 4 days  of receipt 595 0.14 Compliance Officer Shri K. Sethuraman demitted office  of Group Company Secretary and  Chief Compliance Officer of the  Company w.e.f.
close of business  hours of October 22, 2021.
Post  demitting office as Company  Secretary and Chief Compliance  Officer, Shri K. Sethuraman is President  – Group Corporate Secretarial and  Governance.
Smt.
Savithri Parekh,  Company Secretary and Compliance  Officer, is the Compliance Officer  of the Company.
Health, Safety and  Environment Committee Composition Sr. No.
Name of the Director Designation 1 Hital R. Meswani Chairman 2 Dr. Raghunath A.  Mashelkar Member 3 Arundhati  Bhattacharya Member 4 P. M. S. Prasad Member 5 Pawan Kumar Kapil Member (RRVL) were material subsidiaries  of the Company, as per the  Listing Regulations.
In terms of the provisions of  Regulation 24(1) of the Listing  Regulations, appointment of one  of the Independent Directors of the  Company on the Board of material  subsidiaries was applicable only  to JPL, RJIL and RRL.
Prior to RRL and  RJIL becoming material subsidiaries  of the Company, Prof. Dipak C. Jain  was appointed as an Independent  Director on the Board of RRL and  Prof. Dipak C. Jain, Shri Adil Zainulbhai  and Dr. Shumeet Banerji were  appointed as Independent Directors  on the Board of RJIL and they are  continuing as such.
The Board of JPL  has appointed Shri Raminder Singh  Gujral and Dr. Shumeet Banerji as  Independent Directors.
Keeping in view good Corporate  Governance Prof. Dipak C. Jain and  Shri Adil Zainulbhai are also on the  Board of RRVL, an unlisted subsidiary,  which is statutorily not required to  appoint on its Board an Independent  Director of the Company.
For better  administration and governance,  key subsidiary companies have  voluntarily appointed Independent  Directors on their respective Boards.
The composition and effectiveness  of Boards of subsidiaries is reviewed  by the Company periodically.
Governance framework is also  ensured through appointment of  Managerial Personnel and Secretarial  Auditor.
A robust compliance  management system covering all the  subsidiaries is also in place.
Guidance  is provided to subsidiaries on  matters relating to conduct of Board  meeting, training and familiarisation  programmes for the Independent  Directors on the Board of subsidiaries.
The Company is in compliance  with Regulation 24A of the Listing  Regulations.
The Company’s material  subsidiaries undergo Secretarial Audit.
Copy of Secretarial Audit Reports of  JPL, RJIL, RRL and RRVL forms part of this  report.
The Secretarial Audit Report of  these material subsidiaries does not  contain any qualification, reservation,  adverse remark or disclaimer.
Reliance Global Energy Services (Singapore) Pte.
Limited (RGESS) has become a  material subsidiary of the Company, based on the audited financial statements  for the FY 2021-22.
The Company monitors performance of subsidiary companies, inter alia, by the  following means: • Financial statements, in particular investments made by subsidiary  companies, are reviewed quarterly by the Company’s Audit Committee.
• Minutes of Board meetings of subsidiary companies are placed before the  Company’s Board regularly.
• A statement containing all significant transactions and arrangements entered  into by subsidiary companies is placed before the Company’s Board.
• Presentations are made to the Company’s Board on business performance of  major subsidiaries of the Company by the senior management.
The Company’s Policy for determining Material Subsidiaries is available on the  website of the Company.
General Body Meetings Annual General Meetings The date, time and venue of the Annual General Meetings held during preceding  three years and the special resolution(s) passed thereat, are as follows: Year Date Time Venue Special Resolution(s) Passed 2020-21 June 24,  2021 02:00  p.m. Held through video  conference / other  audio-visual means (Deemed venue - 3rd Floor,  Maker Chambers IV, 222, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021) (i)  Reappointment  of Dr. Shumeet  Banerji as an  Independent Director 2019-20 July 15,  2020 02:00  p.m. Held through video  conference / other  audio-visual means (Deemed venue - 3rd Floor,  Maker Chambers IV, 222, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021) No special  resolution was passed.
2018-19 August 12,   2019 11:00  a.m. Birla Matushri Sabhagar,  19, Sir Vithaldas Thackersey  Marg, Near Bombay  Hospital & Medical Research  Centre, New Marine Lines,  Mumbai – 400 020 (i)  Reappointment of Shri  P. M. S. Prasad as a  Whole-time Director  (ii)  Reappointment  of Shri Raminder  Singh Gujral as an  Independent Director Tribunal Convened Meeting In accordance with the order dated January 28, 2022 passed by the Hon’ble  National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Mumbai Bench, the Company convened  meetings of its Equity Shareholders, Secured Creditors and Unsecured Creditors  on March 09, 2022, through video conferencing / other audio visual means,  in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and  the Listing Regulations, to consider and approve, the Scheme of Arrangement  between Reliance Industries Limited & its shareholders and creditors and  Reliance Syngas Limited & its shareholders and creditors.
Members and Creditors exercised their vote(s) by remote e-voting during the  period from 01:00 p.m. on Friday, March 04, 2022 till 05:00 p.m. on Tuesday, March  08, 2022.
Further, the facility for voting through electronic voting system was also  available at the meeting.
Brief terms of reference Terms of Reference of the Committee inter alia include the following: • Monitor and ensure the highest standards of environmental, health  and safety norms.
• Review the Company’s health, safety and environment related policy and  making recommendations as necessary.
•  Review the Company’s performance on health, safety and environment  related matters and suggest improvements.
The detailed terms of reference of the Committee is available on the website  of the Company.
Meeting and Attendance 4 (Four) meetings of the Committee were held during the year.
The details of the  meetings and attendance of members of the Committee at these meetings  are given below: Attendance Attended by %  Attendance  at Meeting Hital R.  Meswani Dr. Raghunath   A. Mashelkar Arundhati  Bhattacharya P. M. S.  Prasad Pawan  Kumar  Kapil April 15, 2021 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% July 15, 2021 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% October 20, 2021 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% January 14, 2022 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 100% % Attendance  at meeting 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Finance Committee Composition Sr. No.
Name of the Director Designation 1 Mukesh D. Ambani Chairman 2 Nikhil R. Meswani Member 3 Hital R. Meswani Member Brief terms of reference Terms of Reference of the Committee inter alia include the following: • Review the Company’s financial policies, risk assessment and minimisation  procedures, strategies and capital structure, working capital and cash flow  management, and make such reports and recommendations to the Board.
• Exercise all powers to borrow money (otherwise than by issue of debentures)  within limits approved by the Board, and take necessary actions connected  therewith, including refinancing for optimisation of borrowing costs.
• Review banking arrangements and cash management.
The detailed terms of reference of the Committee is available on the website  of the Company.
Meeting Details During the FY 2021-22, one meeting of the Committee was held on  January 01, 2022.
Framework for Monitoring Subsidiary Companies During the FY 2021-22, Jio Platforms Limited (JPL), Reliance Jio Infocomm  Limited (RJIL), Reliance Retail Limited (RRL) and Reliance Retail Ventures Limited  Corporate Governance Report 234 235 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  The Scrutiniser submitted his report  on March 10, 2022, after completion  of scrutiny and results of the e-voting  were announced on the same day.
The resolution approving the said  Scheme of Arrangement was passed  with  requisite majority.
Voting results of the aforesaid  meetings are available on the website  of the Stock Exchanges and website  of the Company.
Resolution(s) passed through  Postal Ballot During the year, appointment of  His Excellency Yasir Othman H. Al  Rumayyan as an Independent Director  of the Company was approved by  members of the Company.
Procedure adopted for postal  ballot In accordance with General Circular  Nos.
14/2020 dated April 8, 2020 and  17/2020 dated April 13, 2020 read with  other relevant circulars, including  General Circular No.
10/2021 dated  June 23, 2021, issued by the Ministry  of Corporate Affairs (“MCA Circulars”),  resolution was proposed to be  passed by means of Postal Ballot,  only by way of remote e-voting  process (“e-voting”).
The Company  had engaged the services of KFin  Technologies Limited (formerly known  as KFin Technologies Private Limited)  (“KFin”) as the agency to provide  e-voting facility.
Shri Mehul Modi, a Practising Chartered  Accountant, (Membership No.
:  048940), Partner, Deloitte Haskins  & Sells LLP, Chartered Accountants  acted as Scrutiniser for conducting  the Postal Ballot in a fair and  transparent manner.
In accordance with the MCA Circulars,  the Postal Ballot Notice dated  September 18, 2021, was sent only by  electronic mode to those members  whose names appeared in the  Register of Members / List of Beneficial  Owners as on Friday, September  17, 2021 (“Cut-Off Date”) received  from the Depositories and whose  e-mail addresses were registered  with the Company / Depositories.
Instructions for voting by (i) individual  2021, the Company has sent letters  to all holders of physical securities of  the Company intimating them the  requirement to furnish valid PAN, KYC  details and Nomination details.
Further,  where the mobile numbers of the  concerned shareholders / allottees  were available, the Company has  also sent SMS to them to update their  e-mail address.
Chatbot: State of the art Chatbot  application was deployed, during  the First Call & Second and Final  Call process of Rights Issue and the  Annual General Meeting held in 2021,  to provide instant automated query  resolution / support to the investors  / shareholders.
NSE Electronic Application  Processing System (NEAPS) / New  Digital Portal: NEAPS is a web-based  application designed by NSE for  corporates.
Further, in 2022, NSE has  launched a new digital portal for  filings done with NSE.
All periodical  and other compliance filings are  filed electronically on NEAPS / New  Digital Portal.
BSE Listing Centre (Listing Centre):  Listing Centre is a web-based  application designed by BSE for  corporates.
All periodical and  other compliance filings are filed  electronically on the Listing Centre.
SEBI Complaints Redress System  (SCORES): Investor complaints are  processed at SEBI in a centralised  web-based complaints redress  system.
The salient features of this  system are centralised database of  all complaints, online upload of Action  Taken Reports (ATRs) by concerned  companies and online viewing by  investors of actions taken on the  complaints and their current status.
Designated exclusive email-IDs:  The Company has designated the  following email-IDs exclusively for  investor servicing: • For queries on Annual  Report: investor.relations@ril.
com; rilagm@ril.com • For queries in respect of  shares in physical mode:  rilinvestor@kfintech.com Shareholders’ Feedback Survey:  The Company sends feedback form  seeking shareholders’ views on  various matters relating to investor  services and Annual Report for  improvement in future.
General Shareholder  Information Annual General Meeting Monday, August 29, 2022 at 2:00 P.M.   IST through Video Conferencing /  Other Audio Visual Means as set out  in the Notice convening the Annual  General Meeting.
Deemed venue  of the meeting is 3rd Floor, Maker  Chambers IV, 222, Nariman Point,  Mumbai 400 021. Dividend Payment Date Between August 29, 2022 and  September 3, 2022, for electronic  transfer to the shareholders who have  furnished bank account details to the  Company / its Registrar.
Physical warrants shall be dispatched  to the shareholders, who have not  registered their ECS mandates.
Financial Year April 1 to March 31 Financial Calendar (Tentative) Results for  the quarter ending June 30, 2022 – Fourth  week of July, 2022 September 30, 2022 – Fourth week  of October, 2022 December 31, 2022 – Third week  of January, 2023 March 31, 2023 – Fourth  week of April, 2023 Annual General Meeting – June / July Listing on Stock Exchanges Equity Shares BSE Limited (BSE) Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,   Dalal Street, Mumbai - 400 001 Scrip Code – 500325 Presentations to institutional  investors / analysts: Detailed  presentations are made to institutional  investors and financial analysts on  the Company’s quarterly, half-yearly  as well as annual financial results  and are sent to the Stock Exchanges.
These presentations, video recordings  and transcript of the meetings are  available on the website of the  Company.
No unpublished price  sensitive information is discussed  in the meetings with institutional  investors and financial analysts.
Website: The Company’s website  (www.ril.com) contains a separate  dedicated section ‘Investor  Relations’ where shareholders’  information is available.
Annual Report: The Annual Report  containing, inter alia, Audited Financial  Statement, Audited Consolidated  Financial Statement, Board’s Report,  Auditors’ Report and other important  information is circulated to the  members and others entitled thereto.
The Management Discussion and  Analysis Report forms part of the  Annual Report.
The Annual Report  is also available on the website  of the Company.
Chairman’s Communiqué: A copy  of the Chairman’s speech is sent to  all the shareholders, whose e-mail  addresses are registered with the  Company / Depository Participants.
The document is also available on the  website of the Company.
Letters / e-mails / SMS to Investors:  The Company addressed various  investor-centric letters / e-mails / SMS  to its shareholders during the year.
This include reminders for claiming  unclaimed / unpaid dividend from  the Company; claiming shares lying  in unclaimed suspense account with  the Company; dematerialisation of  shares, updating e-mail, PAN and bank  account details.
The Company has  also sent first call notice as well as  second and final call notice to holders  of partly paid-up rights equity shares  for the payment of call money due on  shares held by them.
In accordance with the SEBI Circular  No.
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/ CIR/2021/655 dated November 03,  shareholders holding shares of  the Company in demat mode, (ii)  Shareholders other than individuals  holding shares of the Company  in demat mode, (iii) Shareholders  holding shares of the Company in  physical mode, and (iv) Shareholders  who have not registered their e-mail  address, were explained in the  Postal Ballot Notice.
Members exercised their vote(s)  by e-voting during the period from  09:00 a.m. on Monday, September  20, 2021 till 05:00 p.m. on Tuesday,  October 19, 2021.
The Scrutiniser submitted his report on  October 21, 2021, after the completion  of scrutiny and result of the e-voting  was announced on the same  day.
The summary of voting result  is given below: Particulars % of  total  votes Result Votes in favour of   the Resolution 98.0384 Passed  with   requisite   majority Votes against   the Resolution 1.9616 The said resolution was passed with  requisite majority on October 19, 2021.
Voting result of postal ballot is  available on the website of the  Stock Exchanges and website  of the Company.
There is no immediate proposal for  passing any resolution through postal  ballot.
However, if required, the same  shall be passed in compliance of  provisions of the Companies Act, 2013,  the Listing Regulations or any other  applicable laws.
Means of Communication Quarterly results: The Company’s  quarterly / half-yearly / annual  financial results are sent to the Stock  Exchanges and published in ‘Indian  Express’, ‘Financial Express’ and  ‘Loksatta’.
They are also available on  the website of the Company.
News releases, presentations: Official  news releases and official media  releases are generally sent to Stock  Exchanges and are also available on  the website of the Company.
National Stock Exchange of India  Limited (NSE) Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G,   Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),  Mumbai - 400 051 Trading Symbol – RELIANCE ISIN: INE002A01018 During the FY 2021-22, the partly  paid-up equity shares of the  Company were made fully paid-up.
Consequently partly paid-up equity  shares (ISIN - IN9002A01024 and   ISIN - IN9002A01032) cannot be traded.
Global Depository Receipts  (GDRs) Luxembourg Stock Exchange 35A Boulevard Joseph II,  L-1840, Luxembourg Overseas Depository The Bank of New York Mellon  Corporation 240, Greenwich Street, New York,   NY 10286, United States of America Domestic Custodian ICICI Bank Limited Empire Complex, 1st Floor, 414,   Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel  (West), Mumbai - 400 013 Debentures BSE Limited (BSE) Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,   Dalal Street, Mumbai - 400 001 National Stock Exchange of India  Limited (NSE) Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G,   Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),  Mumbai - 400 051 Bonds Singapore Exchange Limited 2 Shenton Way, #02-02 SGX Centre 1  Singapore 068804 Luxembourg Stock Exchange 35A Boulevard Joseph II,  L-1840, Luxembourg India International Exchange  (IFSC) Limited (India Inx) 1st Floor, Unit No.
101, The Signature  Building No.13B, Road 1C, Zone 1, GIFT  SEZ, GIFT CITY, Gandhinagar – 382 355 Corporate Governance Report 236 237 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  Commercial Papers BSE Limited Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal  Street, Mumbai - 400 001 Payment of Listing Fees Annual listing fee for the FY 2022-23  has been paid by the Company to BSE  Limited and National Stock Exchange  of India Limited.
Payment of Depository Fees Annual Custody / Issuer fee is being  paid by the Company within the due  date based on invoices received from  the Depositories.
Fees Paid to the Statutory  Auditors Total fees for all services paid by the  Company and its subsidiaries, on  a consolidated basis, to Statutory  Auditors of the Company and other  firms in the network entity of which  the Statutory Auditors are a part,  during the year ended March 31, 2022,  is ` 63.96 crore.
Credit Rating The Company’s financial discipline  and prudence is reflected in the strong  credit ratings ascribed by rating  agencies.
There has been no revision  in credit ratings during the FY 2021-22.
The details of the Credit Rating are  mentioned in Management Discussion  and Analysis Report.
Debenture Trustee Axis Trustee Services Limited The Ruby, 2nd Floor, SW, 29, Senapati Bapat Marg, Dadar (West), Mumbai – 400 028 Tel: +91-22-62300451 Fax: +91-22-62300700 E-mail: debenturetrustee@axistrustee.in;  complaints@axistrustee.in Website Address: www.axistrustee.in Stock Market Price Data a.
Fully paid-up equity shares Month National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) BSE Limited (BSE) High Price (`) Low Price (`) Volume (No.)
High Price (`) Low Price (`) Volume (No.)
April 2021 2,046.90 1,876.70 15,09,93,414 2,046.10 1,877.60 1,07,96,371 May 2021 2,191.70 1,906.00 17,27,73,768 2,191.50 1,906.50 1,13,93,388 June 2021 2,274.90 2,081.00 23,23,91,973 2,274.50 2,081.10 1,07,07,303 July 2021 2,153.55 2,016.25 9,94,14,777 2,153.00 2,016.60 85,84,891 August 2021 2,283.75 2,041.15 13,01,79,899 2,283.00 2,041.00 56,47,303 September 2021 2,570.00 2,255.00 15,18,31,805 2,565.00 2,130.00 1,20,91,987 October 2021 2,751.35 2,495.00 10,78,87,018 2,750.00 2,495.85 1,39,66,442 November 2021 2,602.20 2,309.00 14,82,50,427 2,602.10 2,309.40 77,89,362 December 2021 2,498.50 2,247.10 13,21,80,849 2,496.00 2,248.00 66,71,512 January 2022 2,567.30 2,305.00 12,67,10,759 2,566.50 2,305.05 83,04,227 February 2022 2,456.40 2,243.00 11,58,83,508 2,456.00 2,242.50 1,17,24,907 March 2022 2,688.00 2,180.00 14,50,25,237 2,688.00 2,181.00 65,26,204 [Source: This information is compiled from the data available on the websites of BSE and NSE] b.
Partly paid-up equity shares Month National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) BSE Limited (BSE) High Price (`) Low Price (`) Volume (No.)
High Price (`) Low Price (`) Volume (No.)
April 2021 1,116.20 955.10 1,47,07,870 1,115.65 951.00 10,75,015 May 2021 1,048.90 963.05 96,33,462 1,055.00 963.50 5,64,389 June 2021 1,639.00 1,458.00 1,20,39,405 1,639.00 1,452.40 8,21,082 July 2021 1,523.00 1,388.25 68,66,556 1,529.00 1,388.40 4,52,341 August 2021 1,640.35 1,402.00 1,50,45,300 1,639.20 1,416.15 5,30,283 September 2021 1,917.00 1,616.40 96,10,724 1,916.75 1,611.10 4,35,775 October 2021 2,111.20 1,851.00 1,16,25,279 2,110.00 1,856.00 3,99,867 November 2021 * 1,920.00 1,666.40 68,28,422 1,919.00 1,800.90 89,409 [Source: This information is compiled from the data available on the websites of BSE and NSE] * Trading in partly paid-up equity shares has stopped from November 09, 2021.
Share Price Performance in comparison to broad based indices – BSE Sensex and NSE Nifty  as on March 31, 2022 RIL Share  Performance on BSE Sensex Performance RIL Share  Performance on NSE NIFTY Performance FY 2021-22 31.49% 18.30% 31.53% 18.88% 2 Years 136.77% 98.75% 136.57% 103.13% 3 Years 93.24% 51.45% 93.27% 50.25% 5 Years 299.33% 97.73% 298.93% 90.38% 10 Years 604.03% 236.52% 602.04% 229.80% RIL’s share price on BSE and NSE has been adjusted for the FY 2017-18 and earlier years, on account of issue of bonus shares  in the FY 2017-18.
BSE Sensex vs RIL Share Price  BSE SENSEX  RIL 65,000 62,500 60,000 57,500 55,000 52,500 50,000 47,500 45,000 3,000 2,850 2,700 2,550 2,400 2,250 2,100 1,950 1,800 Apr-21 May-21 Jun-21 Jul-21 Aug-21 Sep-21 Oct-21 Nov-21 Dec-21 Jan-22 Feb-22 Mar-22 BSE Sensex RIL Share Price NSE Nifty vs RIL Share Price  NSE NIFTY  RIL 18,000 17,500 17,000 16,500 16,000 15,500 15,000 14,500 14,000 3,000 2,850 2,700 2,550 2,400 2,250 2,100 1,950 1,800 Apr-21 May-21 Jun-21 Jul-21 Aug-21 Sep-21 Oct-21 Nov-21 Dec-21 Jan-22 Feb-22 Mar-22 NSE Nifty RIL Share Price Registrar and Transfer Agent  KFin Technologies Limited Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32,  Gachibowli, Financial District,  Nanakramguda, Hyderabad - 500 032  Toll Free No.
: 1800 309 4001 (From 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.)  Fax: +91 40 67161680  E-mail: rilinvestor@kfintech.com  Website: www.kfintech.com  Corporate Governance Report 238 239 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  Share Transfer System  As mandated by SEBI, securities of  the Company can be transferred /  traded only in dematerialised form.
Shareholders holding shares in  physical form are advised to avail  the facility of dematerialisation.
In this regard, a communication  Distribution of shareholding by size as on March 31, 2022 Category (Shares) Total Holders (Unique) Shares * % of total Shares Upto 500 31,14,015 19,99,20,000 2.95 501 - 1000 1,11,051 7,85,92,792 1.16 1001 - 5000 88,897 17,49,01,706 2.59 5001 - 10000 7,761 5,31,78,453 0.79 10001 - 20000 2,993 4,10,73,176 0.61 Above 20000 3,134 621,83,27,887 91.91 Total 33,27,851 676,59,94,014 100.00 * including partly paid-up equity shares Dematerialisation of Shares Mode of Holding % of total shares * NSDL 96.03 CDSL 3.10 Physical 0.87 Total 100.00 *including partly paid-up equity shares Build-Up of Equity Share Capital The statement showing build-up of equity share capital is available on the website of the Company.
Corporate Benefits to Investors (A) Dividend declared for the last 10 years Financial Year Date of Dividend Declaration Dividend per Equity Share of ` 10/- each (`) 2011-12 June 7, 2012 8.50 2012-13 June 6, 2013 9.00 2013-14 June 18, 2014 9.50 2014-15 June 12, 2015 10.00 2015-16 March 10, 2016 10.50 2016-17 July 21, 2017 11.00 2017-18 July 5, 2018 (post bonus issue 1:1) 6.00 2018-19 August 12, 2019 6.50 2019-20 July 15, 2020 6.50 (Pro-rata dividend on paid-up value of equity share) 2020-21 June 24, 2021 7.00 (Pro-rata dividend on paid-up value of equity share) (B) Bonus issues of fully paid-up equity shares Financial Year Ratio 1980-81 3:5 1983-84 6:10 1997-98 1:1 2009-10 1:1 2017-18 1:1 Liquidity The Company’s equity shares are among the most liquid and actively traded shares on the Indian Stock Exchanges.
RIL shares consistently rank among the top few frequently traded shares both in terms of the number of shares traded  as well as value.
Shareholding Pattern as on March 31, 2022 Sr. No.
Category of shareholder Number of  shareholders Total number of   shares (Fully Paid-up) Total number of  shares (Partly Paid-up) Total number of  shares (Fully Paid-up &  Partly Paid-up) % of total  number  of shares  (A+B+C) (A) Promoter  and Promoter Group (1) Indian 51 3,32,27,48,048 - 3,32,27,48,048 49.11% (2) Foreign - - - - - Total Shareholding  of Promoter  and Promoter Group 51 3,32,27,48,048 - 3,32,27,48,048 49.11% (B) Public Shareholding (1) Institutions 2,239 2,53,32,80,623 - 2,53,32,80,623 37.44% (2) Non-institutions 33,25,560 70,12,19,216 10,64,705 70,22,83,921 10.38% Total  Public Shareholding 33,27,799 3,23,44,99,839 10,64,705 3,23,55,64,544 47.82% (C) Non-Promoter   Non-Public (1) Shares held by  Custodian(s)  against which  Depository Receipts  have been issued 1 20,76,81,422 - 20,76,81,422 3.07% Total shares  held by Non- Promoter Non-Public  1 20,76,81,422 - 20,76,81,422 3.07% Total (A) + (B) + (C) 33,27,851 6,76,49,29,309 10,64,705 6,76,59,94,014 100.00% Category-Wise Shareholding (%) 49.11% 37.44% 10.38% 3.07%   Promoter & Promoter Group  Public - Institutions  Public - Non-Institutions  GDR Holders encouraging dematerialisation of  shares and explaining procedure  thereof, was also sent during the  year to the concerned shareholders  of the Company.
During the year, the Company  obtained, a certificate from a  Company Secretary in Practice,  certifying that all certificates for  transfer, transmission, transposition,  sub-division, consolidation, renewal,  exchange and deletion of names were  issued as required under Regulation  40(9) of the Listing Regulations.
The  certificate was duly filed with the  Stock Exchanges.
Corporate Governance Report 240 241 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  Relevant data for the average daily turnover for the FY 2021-22 is given below: Fully paid-up equity shares Particulars BSE NSE Total Shares (Nos.)
4,60,500 69,09,369 73,69,869 Value (` in crore) 105.77 1,575.99 1,681.76 Partly paid-up equity shares* Particulars BSE NSE Total Shares (Nos.)
34,126 6,74,664 7,08,790 Value (` in crore) 4.81 100.95 105.76  * Trading in partly paid-up equity shares has stopped from November 09, 2021.
[Source: This information is compiled from the data available on the websites of BSE and NSE] Exposure of the Company to commodity risks, which are  material is as under: Commodity  Name Exposure  towards  the  particular  commodity  (` in crore) Exposure  in quantity  terms  towards the  particular  commodity  (in 1000  Metric Ton) % of such exposure hedged through  commodity derivatives Domestic  market International  market OTC Exchange OTC Exchange* Total Crude 2,92,061 71,381 - - 14.98 30.17 45.15 Middle Distillates 1,50,574 29,518 - - 47.01 14.22 61.23 Light Distillates 89,488 15,167 - - 7.53 37.54 45.07 Polymer 68,100 5,903 - - - - - Petchem   Intermediate 47,033 6,417 - - 0.18 1.35 1.53 Polyester 28,628 2,700 - - - - - Total 6,75,884 1,31,086 *Includes OTC transactions cleared through International Exchanges.
Outstanding Global  Depository Receipts (GDRs)  / Warrants and Convertible  Bonds, Conversion Date and  likely impact on Equity GDRs: Outstanding GDRs as on  March 31, 2022 represent 20,76,81,422  equity shares constituting 3.07% of  Company’s paid-up equity share  capital.
Each GDR represents two  underlying equity shares in the  Company.
GDR is not a specific  time-bound instrument and can  be surrendered at any time and  converted into the underlying equity  shares in the Company.
The shares  so released in favour of the investors  upon surrender of GDRs can either be  held by investors concerned in their  name or sold in the Indian secondary  markets for cash.
To the extent of  shares so sold in Indian markets,  GDRs can be reissued under the  available head-room.
There are no outstanding warrants  or convertible bonds having any  impact on equity.
RIL GDR Programme The Global Depository Receipts of the  Company are listed on Luxembourg  Stock Exchange and are traded on  the International Order Book (London  Stock Exchange) and amongst  qualified institutional investors on the  over-the-counter market in the United  States of America.
RIL GDRs are exempted securities  under US Securities Law.
RIL GDR  programme has been established  under Rule 144A and Regulation S of  the US Securities Act, 1933.
Reporting  is done under the exempted route of  Rule 12g3-2(b) under the US Securities  Exchange Act, 1934.
The Bank of New York Mellon is an  Overseas Depository and ICICI Bank  Limited is the Domestic Custodian of  all the Equity Shares underlying the  GDRs issued by the Company.
Employee Stock Options Particulars with regard to Employees’  Stock Options are available on the  website of the Company.
Commodity Price Risks /  Foreign Exchange Risk and  Hedging Activities The Company is subject to commodity  price risks due to fluctuation in  prices of crude oil, gas, refinery  and petrochemical products.
Also,  Company’s payables and receivables  are partly in foreign currencies and  due to fluctuations in foreign exchange  rates, it is subject to Currency risks.
The Company has in place a robust  risk management framework for  identification and monitoring and  mitigation of commodity price and  foreign exchange risks.
The risks are  tracked and monitored on a regular  basis and mitigation strategies  are adopted in line with the risk  management framework.
For further  details on the above risks, please  refer the Enterprise Risk Management  section of the Management Discussion  and Analysis Report.
Risk Management Policy  with respect to Commodities  including through Hedging • Commodities Exposure    The Company is exposed to price  volatility on various Petroleum,  Petrochemical and other Energy  related commodities, as part of  its business operations.
Due to the  dynamic markets, prices of such  Commodities fluctuate and can  result in Margin Risk.
This policy  prescribes the guidelines for  hedging Commodities Price risks.
• Hedging Policy   Exposures are identified and  measured across the Company  so that appropriate hedging  can be done on a net basis.
For  Commodities hedging, there  exist Over The Counter (OTC)  and Exchange markets that offer  financial instruments (derivatives),  that enable managing  the Price risk.
Strategic decisions regarding  the timing and the usage of  derivatives instruments such  as Swaps / Futures / Options,  are taken based on various  factors including market  conditions, physical inventories,  macro-economic situation.
These  decisions and execution are done  in line with the Board approved  Commodities Risk Management  framework.
The Risk Management  Committee has oversight on all  hedging actions taken.
More details on Risk Management  are covered under the Enterprise  Risk Management section of the  Management Discussion and  Analysis Report.
Plant Locations in India  Oil to Chemicals DTA Jamnagar Refinery  Village Meghpar / Padana, Taluka Lalpur, Jamnagar – 361 280, Gujarat, India  SEZ Jamnagar Refinery Unit of Reliance Jamnagar SEZ Village Meghpar / Padana, Taluka Lalpur, Jamnagar – 361 280, Gujarat, India Hazira Manufacturing Division Village Mora, P. O. Bhatha, Surat-Hazira Road, Surat – 394 510, Gujarat, India Dahej Manufacturing Division P. O. Dahej – 392 130, Taluka: Vagra, District Bharuch, Gujarat, India Vadodara Manufacturing Division P. O.
Petrochemicals, Vadodara – 391 346, Gujarat, India Patalganga Manufacturing  Division B-1 to B-5 & A3, MIDC Industrial Area, Patalganga – 410 220, District Raigad, Maharashtra, India Nagothane Manufacturing  Division P. O.
Petrochemicals Township, Nagothane – 402 125, Roha Taluka, District Raigad, Maharashtra, India Silvassa Manufacturing Division 342, Kharadpada, P. O. Naroli – 396 235, Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, India Barabanki Manufacturing  Division Dewa Road, P. O. Somaiya Nagar, Barabanki – 225 123, Uttar Pradesh, India Hoshiarpur Manufacturing  Division Dharamshala Road, V. P. O. Chohal, District Hoshiarpur – 146 024, Punjab, India Oil & Gas KG D6 Village Gadimoga, Tallarevu Mandal, East Godavari District – 533 463,  Andhra Pradesh, India Coal Based Methane Village & P. O.: Lalpur,   Tehsil: Burhar, District Shahdol,   Madhya Pradesh – 484 110, India Composites Vadodara Composites Division Vadodara - Halol Expressway,   Village -Asoj, Taluka – Waghodia, Vadodara – 391 510, Gujarat, India Textiles Naroda Manufacturing Division 103 / 106, Naroda Industrial Estate, Naroda, Ahmedabad – 382 330, Gujarat, India Address for Correspondence For shares held in physical form KFin Technologies Limited Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32,  Gachibowli Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad - 500 032 Toll Free No.
: 1800 309 4001   (From 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.) Fax: +91 40 67161680 E-mail: rilinvestor@kfintech.com Website: www.kfintech.com For shares held in demat form Depository Participant(s) of the  investor concerned and / or KFin  Technologies Limited.
Any query on the Annual  Report Smt.
Savithri Parekh Company Secretary and  Compliance Officer Reliance Industries Limited 3rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV,  222, Nariman Point, Mumbai - 400 021 E-mail: investor.relations@ril.com;   rilagm@ril.com Transfer of unpaid / unclaimed  amounts and shares to  Investor Education and  Protection Fund Pursuant to the provisions of Section  124(5) of the Companies Act, 2013 read  with the rules framed thereunder,  the dividend lying in the Unpaid  Dividend Account which remains  unpaid or unclaimed for a period of  seven consecutive years along with  underlying shares are transferred by  the Company to Investor Education  and Protection Fund (IEPF).
During the  year, the Company has credited `26.76  crore to IEPF pursuant to the provisions  of the Companies Act, 2013.
The  cumulative amount transferred by the  Company to IEPF up to March 31, 2022  is ` 298 crore.
In accordance with the provisions  of the Companies Act, 2013, the  Company has transferred 9,78,201  equity shares of ` 10/- each, to the  credit of IEPF Authority, during the  FY 2021-22, in respect of which dividend  had not been paid or claimed by the  members for seven consecutive years  Corporate Governance Report 242 243 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  or more.
The Company has initiated necessary action for transfer of shares in  respect of which dividend has not been claimed since FY 2014-15, consecutively,  by the members.
The Company has uploaded on its website, the details of unpaid and unclaimed  amounts lying with the Company as on March 31, 2022.
Details of shares transferred to IEPF Authority during FY 2021-22 are also available  on the website of the Company.
The Company has also uploaded these details  on the website of the IEPF Authority (www.iepf.gov.in).
The voting rights on the shares transferred to IEPF Authority shall remain frozen till  the rightful owner claims the shares.
Last date to claim unclaimed / unpaid dividends before transfer to IEPF, for the  financial year 2014-15 and thereafter, are as under: Financial Year Declaration Date Date to claim before transfer  to IEPF March 31, 2016 March 10, 2016 April 15, 2023 March 31, 2017 July 21, 2017 August 26, 2024 March 31, 2018 July 5, 2018 August 4, 2025 March 31, 2019 August 12, 2019 September 11, 2026 March 31, 2020 July 15, 2020 August 14, 2027 March 31, 2021 June 24, 2021 July 26, 2028 The last date for claiming unclaimed dividend for the FY2014-15 was July 18, 2022.
The procedure for claiming underlying shares and unpaid / unclaimed dividend  from IEPF Authority is covered in the Shareholders’ Referencer available on the  website of the Company.
Further, in accordance with the IEPF Rules, the Board of Directors have appointed  Smt.
Savithri Parekh as Nodal Officer of the Company and Shri Vivin Mally as  Deputy Nodal Officer of the Company for the purposes of verification of claims  of shareholders pertaining to shares transferred to IEPF and / or refund of  dividend from IEPF Authority and for coordination with IEPF Authority.
The details  of the Nodal Officer and Deputy Nodal Officer are available on the website  of the Company.
Equity Shares in the Unclaimed Suspense Account In terms of Regulation 39 of the Listing Regulations, details of the equity shares  lying in the Unclaimed Suspense Account are as follows: Particulars No.
of shareholders  (phase-wise transfers) No.
of equity shares Aggregate number of shareholders and the  outstanding shares in the Unclaimed Suspense  Account lying as on April 1, 2021 74,804 70,46,162 Less: Number of shareholders who approached  the Company for transfer of shares (1,878) (2,53,478) Add: Number of shareholders and aggregate  number of shares transferred to the Unclaimed  Suspense Account during the year 0 0 Less: Number of shares transferred to IEPF  Authority during the year (1,408) (68,146) Aggregate number of shareholders and the  outstanding shares in the Unclaimed Suspense  Account lying as on March 31, 2022 71,518 67,24,538 The voting rights on the shares in the suspense account shall remain frozen till  the rightful owner claims the shares.
has filed an appeal before the SAT  against this order.
(iii)  The Company had issued  debentures with convertible  warrants in the year 1994 and  allotted equity shares against the  warrants in the year 2000.
In this  matter, SEBI had filed a complaint  on July 16, 2020, inter alia against  the Company before the Special  Court, Mumbai, for taking  cognizance of alleged offences  under Regulations 3, 5 and 6 of  SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and  Unfair Trade Practices relating to  Securities Market) Regulations,  1995 and section 77(2) and  section 77A of Companies Act,  1956.
The Special Court, Mumbai,  vide order dated September 30,  2020, dismissed SEBI’s complaint  as barred by limitation.
Against  the said order of the Special  Court, SEBI has filed a revision  application before the Hon’ble  High Court, Bombay and the  same is pending.
(iv)  On December 22, 2021, SEBI   issued a show cause notice  inter alia to RIL asking it to show  cause as to why inquiry should  not be held against it in terms  of SEBI (Procedure for Holding  Inquiry and Imposing Penalties  by Adjudicating Officer) Rules,  1995 read with Section 15I of  the Securities and Exchange  Board of India Act, 1992 for  alleged violation of Principle No.
4 under Schedule A – Principles  for Fair Disclosure of UPSI read  with Regulation 8(1) of SEBI  (Prohibition of Insider Trading)  Regulations, 2015 read with  Regulation 30(11) of SEBI (Listing  Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations,  2015.
The alleged violation, if  established, will make RIL liable  for monetary penalty (of not  less than `1 lakh and which may  extend to maximum of `1 crore)  under Section 15HB of the SEBI Act,  1992.
RIL has filed a detailed reply  to this show cause notice.
Other Disclosures Disclosure on materially  significant related party  transactions that may have  potential conflict with the  Company’s interests at large The Company’s major related party  transactions are generally with its  subsidiaries and associates.
The  related party transactions are entered  into based on considerations of  various business exigencies, such  as synergy in operations, sectoral  specialisation and the Company’s  long-term strategy for sectoral  investments, optimisation of market  share, profitability, legal requirements,  liquidity and capital resources of  subsidiaries and associates.
All the contracts / arrangements /  transactions entered by the Company  during the financial year with related  parties were in its ordinary course of  business and on an arm’s length basis.
During the FY 2021-22, the Company  had not entered into any contract  / arrangement / transaction with  related parties which could be  considered material in accordance  with the policy of the Company  on Materiality of Related Party  Transactions and on dealing with  Related Party Transactions.
The  Company has made full disclosure of  transactions with the related parties  as set out in Note 34 of Standalone  Financial Statement, forming part of  the Annual Report.
There were no materially significant  related party transactions which could  have potential conflict with interest of  the Company at large.
The Company’s Policy on Materiality  of Related Party Transactions and  on dealing with Related Party  Transactions is available on the  website of the Company.
Details of non-compliance  by the Company, penalties,  strictures imposed on the  Company by stock exchange  or SEBI, or any statutory  authority, on any matter  related to capital markets,  during the last three years (i)  The Securities and Exchange  Board of India (SEBI), on August 8,  2014 had passed an adjudication  order on a show cause notice  issued to the Company for alleged  non-disclosure of the diluted  Earnings per Share in the quarterly  financial results for the quarters  ended June 2007, September  2007, December 2007, March 2008,  June 2008 and September 2008  and imposed monetary penalty  of `13 crore.
On an appeal by the  Company, the Hon’ble Securities  Appellate Tribunal set aside SEBI’s  order and remanded the matter  for fresh consideration by SEBI.
SEBI  issued a fresh show cause notice  dated April 5, 2016 in the matter  alleging incorrect disclosure of  the diluted Earnings per Share.
The Company filed a reply to the  show cause notice and attended  the personal hearing on July  26, 2016.
SEBI appointed new  Adjudicating Officer (AO).
The last  hearing before the AO was held on  November 22, 2018.
Further details  sought by AO were provided  in December 2018.
After more  than 2 years, the AO sent a letter  dated March 19, 2021 granting an  opportunity to the Company to  make additional submissions and  personal hearing in the matter.
The Company filed additional  submissions in the matter.
The AO,  vide his order dated September  20, 2021, disposed off the show  cause notice without levy  of any penalty.
(ii)  On December 16, 2010, SEBI issued  a show cause notice (SCN), inter  alia to the Company (RIL) in  connection with the trades by RIL  in the stock exchanges in 2007 in  the shares of Reliance Petroleum  Limited, then a subsidiary of RIL.
Hearings were held before the  Whole Time Member (WTM) of  SEBI in respect of the SCN.
By  an order dated March 24, 2017,  the WTM passed the directions:  (i) prohibiting inter alia RIL from  dealing in equity derivatives in  the ‘Futures & Options’ segment  of stock exchanges, directly or  indirectly, for a period of one year  from the date of the order; and (ii)  to RIL to disgorge an amount of  ` 447.27 crore along with interest  at the rate of 12% per annum  from November 29, 2007 till the  date of payment.
In May 2017,  RIL and the other noticees filed  an appeal before the Securities  Appellate Tribunal (SAT) against  this order.
SAT, by a majority order  (2:1), dismissed the appeal on  November 5, 2020 and directed  RIL to pay the disgorged amount  within sixty days from the date  of the order.
The appeal of RIL  and other noticees has been  admitted by the Hon’ble Supreme  Court of India.
By its order dated  December 17, 2020, the Hon’ble  Supreme Court of India directed  RIL to deposit ` 250 crore in the  Investors’ Protection Fund, subject  to the final result of the appeal  and stayed the recovery of the  balance, inclusive of interest,  pending the appeal.
RIL has  complied with the order dated  December 17, 2020 of the Hon’ble  Supreme Court of India.
In the very same matter, on  November 21, 2017, SEBI issued  show cause notice, inter alia, to RIL,  asking RIL to show cause as to why  inquiry should not be held in terms  of SEBI (Procedure for Holding  Inquiry and Imposing Penalties  by Adjudicating Officer) Rules,  1995 and penalty not be imposed  under the provisions of the  Securities and Exchange Board of  India Act, 1992.
The Adjudicating  Officer of SEBI passed an order on  January 1, 2021 imposing a penalty  of ` 25 crore on RIL.
RIL has paid  the penalty under protest and  Corporate Governance Report 244 245 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  Sr.  No.
Particulars Regulation Compliance   Status Yes / No / N.A.
Key Compliance observed 8 Related party transactions 23 Yes • Policy on Materiality of related party transactions and dealing  with related party transactions • Prior approval including omnibus approval of Audit Committee for  related party transactions • Quarterly review of related party transactions • Disclosure on related party transactions 9 Subsidiaries of   the Company 24 Yes • Appointment of Company’s Independent Director on the Board of  unlisted material subsidiaries • Review of financial statements and investments of unlisted  subsidiaries by the Audit Committee • Minutes of the board of directors of the unlisted subsidiaries are  placed at the meeting of the Board of Directors • Significant transactions and arrangements of unlisted  subsidiaries are placed at the meeting of the Board of Directors 10 Secretarial Audit 24A Yes • Secretarial Audit of the Company and of material unlisted  subsidiaries incorporated in India • Secretarial Audit Report of the Company and of material  subsidiaries are annexed with the Annual Report of the Company • Annual Secretarial Compliance Report 11 Obligations with respect to  Independent Directors 25 Yes • Tenure of Independent Directors • Meetings of Independent Directors • Appointment and cessation of Independent Directors • Familiarisation of Independent Directors • Declaration from Independent Director that he / she meets  the criteria of independence, are placed at the meeting of  Board of Directors • Directors and Officers insurance for all the Independent Directors 12 Obligations with respect  to employees including  Senior Management,  Key Managerial Persons,  Directors and Promoters 26 Yes • Memberships / Chairmanships in Committees • Affirmation on compliance with Code of Conduct by Directors and  Senior Management • Disclosures by Senior Management about potential  conflicts of interest • No agreement with regard to compensation or profit sharing in  connection with dealings in securities of the Company by Key  Managerial Personnel, Director and Promoter 13 Other Corporate  Governance requirements 27 Yes • Compliance with discretionary requirements • Filing of quarterly, half-yearly and yearly compliance report on  Corporate Governance 14 Website 46(2)(b)  to (i) Yes • Terms and conditions of appointment of Independent Directors • Composition of various Committees of the Board of Directors • Code of Conduct of Board of Directors and Senior  Management Personnel • Details of establishment of Vigil Mechanism /  Whistle-blower policy • Criteria of making payments to Non-Executive Directors • Policy on dealing with related party transactions • Policy for determining material subsidiaries • Details of familiarisation programmes imparted to  Independent Directors Weblinks for the matters referred in this Report are as under: Particulars Website link Policies and Codes Values and Behaviours https://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/VB.pdf Code of Conduct https://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/Code-of-Conduct.pdf Our Code https://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatut ory/ourcode.pdf Familiarisation Programme for  Independent Directors https://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/Downloads.aspx Remuneration Policy for Directors, Key  Managerial Personnel and other employees https://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/Remuneration-Policy- for-Directors.pdf Disclosures in relation to the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention,  Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 The Company is committed to provide a work environment which ensures that every employee is treated with dignity,  respect and afforded equal treatment.
Please refer Human Capital section of Management Discussion and Analysis  Report, for more details.
Adoption of Mandatory and Discretionary Requirements The Company has complied with all mandatory requirements of Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations.
The Company has adopted the following discretionary requirements of the Listing Regulations: Audit Qualification The Company is in the regime of unmodified opinions on financial statements.
Reporting of Internal Auditor The Internal Audit Department of the Company, co-sourced with professional firms of Chartered Accountants, reports  directly to the Audit Committee.
Compliance of Corporate Governance requirements specified under Regulations 17 to 27 and  Regulation 46(2)(b) to (i) of the Listing Regulations Sr.  No.
Particulars Regulation Compliance   Status Yes / No / N.A.
Key Compliance observed 1 Board of Directors 17 Yes • Composition and Appointment of Directors • Meetings and quorum • Review of compliance reports • Plans for orderly succession • Code of Conduct • Fees / compensation to Non-Executive Directors • Minimum information to be placed before the Board • Compliance Certificate by Chief Executive Officer and Chief  Financial Officer • Risk management plan, risk assessment and  minimisation procedures • Performance evaluation of Independent Directors • Recommendation of Board for each item of special business 2 Maximum Number  of Directorships 17A Yes • Directorships in listed entities 3 Audit Committee 18 Yes • Composition • Meetings and quorum • Chairperson present at Annual General Meeting • Role of the Committee 4 Nomination and  Remuneration Committee 19 Yes • Composition • Meetings and quorum • Chairperson present at Annual General Meeting • Role of the Committee 5 Stakeholders  Relationship Committee 20 Yes • Composition • Meetings and quorum • Chairperson present at Annual General Meeting • Role of the Committee 6 Risk  Management Committee 21 Yes • Composition • Meetings and quorum • Role of the Committee 7 Vigil Mechanism 22 Yes • Vigil Mechanism and Whistle-Blower Policy for  Directors and employees • Adequate safeguards against victimisation • Direct access to the Chairperson of Audit Committee Corporate Governance Report 246 247 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  Particulars Website link Policy for selection of Directors and  determining Directors’ independence https://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/Policy-for-Selection-of-Directors.pdf Policy for determining Material Subsidiaries https://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/Material-Subsidiaries.pdf Policy on Materiality of Related Party  Transactions and on dealing with Related  Party Transactions https://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/Policy-on-Materiality-of-RPT.pdf Policy on Determination and Disclosure of  Materiality of Events and Information and  Web Archival Policy https://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/MaterialityPolicy.pdf Vigil Mechanism and Whistle-Blower Policy https://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/Vigil-Mechanism-and-Whistle- Blower-Policy.pdf Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Policy https://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/RIL-Anti-bribery-and-Anti- corruption-Policy.pdf Reports Quarterly, Half-yearly and Annual Financial  Results (from 2002 to 2022) https://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/FinancialReporting.aspx Presentation to institutional investors and  analysts (from 1999 to 2022) https://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/FinancialReporting.aspx Annual Report (from 1976 to 2022) https://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/FinancialReporting.aspx Chairman’s Communication  (from 2002 to 2022) https://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/Chairman-Communication.aspx Sustainability Reports https://www.ril.com/Sustainability/CorporateSustainability.aspx Shareholders’ Information Composition of Board of Directors and  Profile of Directors https://www.ril.com/OurCompany/Leadership/BoardOfDirectors.aspx Composition of various Committees of the  Board and their terms of reference https://www.ril.com/OurCompany/Leadership/BoardCommittees.aspx ESOS Disclosure under SEBI (Share Based  Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity)  Regulations, 2021 as on March 31, 2022 https://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/ESOS-2006-Disclosure-2021-22.pdf  https://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/ESOS-2017-Disclosure-2021-22.pdf Details of unpaid and unclaimed amounts  lying with the Company as on date of last  Annual General Meeting (i.e.
June 24, 2021)  and details of shares transferred to IEPF  during FY 2021-22 https://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/ShareholdersInformation.aspx Build-up of Equity Share Capital https://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/Build-up-of-Equity- Share-Capital.pdf Shareholders’ Referencer https://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRForms/Shareholders-Referencer.pdf Investor Contacts https://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/Investor-Contacts.aspx Certificate of Non- Disqualification of Directors Certificate from Dr. K. R. Chandratre,  Practising Company Secretary,  confirming that none of the Directors  on the Board of the Company have  been debarred or disqualified from  being appointed or continuing as  directors of companies by the SEBI,  Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any  such other Statutory Authority, as  stipulated under Regulation 34(3) of  the Listing Regulations, is attached  to this Report.
CEO and CFO Certification The Chairman and Managing Director  (CMD) and the Chief Financial Officer  (CFO) of the Company give annual  certification on financial reporting  and internal controls to the Board in  terms of Regulation 17(8) of the Listing  Regulations, copy of which is attached  to this Report.
The CMD and the CFO  also give quarterly certification on  financial results while placing the  financial results before the Board  in terms of Regulation 33(2) of the  Listing Regulations.
Compliance Certificate of the  Auditors Certificate from the Company’s  Auditors, S R B C & CO LLP and D T S &  Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants,  confirming compliance with  conditions of Corporate Governance,  as stipulated under Regulation 34 of  the Listing Regulations, is attached  to this Report.
Certificate on Compliance  with Code of Conduct I hereby confirm that the Company  has obtained from all the members  of the Board and Senior Management  Personnel, the affirmation that they  have complied with the ‘Code of  Conduct’ and ‘Our Code’ in respect of  the FY 2021-22.
Mukesh D. Ambani Chairman and Managing Director May 06, 2022 To: The Members Reliance Industries Limited 3rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV, 222 Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 Maharashtra, India.
I have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of Reliance  Industries Limited having CIN L17110MH1973PLC019786 and registered office at 3rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV, 222, Nariman  Point, Mumbai 400021, Maharashtra, India (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before me by the Company  for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Clause 10(i) of  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In my opinion and to the best of my information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification  Number (DIN) status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to me by the  Company & its officers, I hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company, as stated below for the  financial year ended 31 March 2022, have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Director by  the Securities and Exchange Board of India, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such other Statutory Authority.
Sr. No.
Name of Director DIN Date of appointment  in the Company 1.
Mukesh Dhirubhai Ambani 00001695 01.04.1977 2.
Dipak Chand Jain 00228513 04.08.2005 3.
Raghunath Anant Mashelkar 00074119 09.06.2007 4.
Adil Zainulbhai 06646490 20.12.2013 5.
Raminder Singh Gujral 07175393 12.06.2015 6.
Shumeet Banerji 02787784 21.07.2017 7.
Arundhati Bhattacharya 02011213 17.10.2018 8.
Veerayya Chowdary Kosaraju 08485334 18.10.2019 9.
Nita Mukesh Ambani 03115198 18.06.2014 10.
Nikhil Rasiklal Meswani 00001620 26.06.1986 11.
Hital Rasiklal Meswani 00001623 04.08.1995 12.
Madhusudana Sivaprasad Panda 00012144 21.08.2009 13.
Pawan Kumar Kapil 02460200 16.05.2010 14.
His Excellency Yasir Othman H. Al Rumayyan 09245977 19.07.2021 Ensuring the eligibility of the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the  management of the Company.
My responsibility is to express an opinion on these, based on my verification.
This certificate  is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the  management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Dr. K. R. Chandratre                                                                                                               FCS No.
: 1370, C. P.
No.
: 5144 Place: Pune Date: 6 May 2022 UDIN: F001370D000282893 Peer Review Certificate No.
: 1206/2021 Certificate of Non-Disqualification of Directors (pursuant to Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para C Clause (10)(i) of the SEBI   (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015) Corporate Governance Report 248 249 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  To, The Board of Directors Reliance Industries Limited 1.
We have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement of Reliance Industries Limited (“the Company”)  for the year ended March 31, 2022 and to the best of our knowledge and belief:  i.  these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements  that might be misleading;  ii.
these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with  existing accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
2.
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the year which  are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s Code of Conduct.
3.
We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and we have  evaluated the effectiveness of Company’s internal control systems pertaining to financial reporting.
We have not  come across any reportable deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls.
4.
We have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit Committee that:  i. there are no significant changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the year;  ii.
there are no significant changes in accounting policies during the year; and  iii.
there are no instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware.
(Mukesh D. Ambani) (Alok Agarwal) (Srikanth Venkatachari) Chairman and Managing Director  Chief Financial Officer  Joint Chief Financial Officer May 06, 2022 CEO / CFO Certificate Under Regulation 17(8) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India   (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 To, The Members, Jio Platforms Limited Office - 101, Saffron, Nr.
Centre Point  Panchwati 5 Rasta, Ambawadi  Ahmedabad - 380006 We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and adherence to good  corporate practices by Jio Platforms Limited [CIN: U72900GJ2019PLC110816] (hereinafter called the ‘Company’) for the  financial year ended March 31, 2022 (hereinafter called the ‘period under audit ’).
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a  manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the Company’s corporate conducts/statutory compliances  and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records  maintained by the Company and provided to us through access to the Company’s in-house portal as also the information  provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, we  hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the period under audit, complied with the statutory provisions  listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the  extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter.
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the  Company for the audit period according to the provisions of: i.
The Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the Rules framed thereunder; ii.
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder; and iii.
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign  Direct Investment and Overseas Direct Investments.
iv.
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and the Rules framed thereunder; We have also examined compliance by the Company with the applicable clauses of the Secretarial Standard on Meetings  of Board of Directors (SS-1) and Secretarial Standard on General Meetings (SS-2) issued by the Institute of Company  Secretaries of India.
During the period under audit, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Standards, etc.
mentioned above.
During the period under audit, provisions of the following Acts, Rules and Regulations were not applicable to the Company: i.
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder to the extent they relate to  External Commercial Borrowings; ii.
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992:-  a)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993  regarding the Act and dealing with clients;  b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015;  c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;  d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; *  e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021;  f) The Securities and Exchange Board of lndia (lssue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;  g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021;  h) The Securities and Exchange Board of lndia (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; and Secretarial Audit Report of Material Subsidiaries Secretarial Audit Report of Jio Platforms Limited For the Financial Year ended March 31, 2022 [Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No.
9 of the Companies   (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014] Corporate Governance Report 250 251 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance   i) The Securities and Exchange Board of lndia (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018.
*  The Company being a material subsidiary of Reliance Industries Limited (“RIL”) as defined in Regulation 16(1)(c)  of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 as amended, certain employees  of the Company have been categorised as “Designated Persons” and are covered by the RIL’s Code of Conduct  framed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, of RIL.
iii.
The Company has not entered into any listing agreements with the stock exchanges.
We further report that - The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Non-Executive Directors and  Independent Directors.
The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place during the period under  audit were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notices were given to all directors of the Company of the schedule of the Meetings of the Board (including  Meetings of Committee), except where consent of the directors was received for scheduling meeting at a shorter notice.
Agenda and detailed notes on agenda were also sent to all the directors of the Company at least seven days in advance,  except where consent of directors was received for circulation of the Agenda and notes on Agenda at a shorter notice.
A  system exists for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and  for ensuring meaningful participation by the directors at the meetings.
All decisions at the Meetings of the Board and its Committee were carried out unanimously as recorded in the minutes of  the meetings of the Board of Directors or Committees of the Board, as the case may be.
We further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the Company commensurate with its size and  operations to monitor and ensure compliance with the applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the period under audit, no specific events/actions which have a major bearing on the  Company’s affairs have taken place, in pursuance of the above referred laws, rules, regulations and standards except  for the following: 1.
Board of Directors of the Company at their meeting held on 12th October 2021, have approved the incorporation of two  Wholly Owned Subsidiaries of the Company for carrying on the business of communication services including satellite  based communication services.
Necessary steps are in progress for such incorporation.
2.
On 17 th November 2021, the Company allotted 40,00,000 Equity Shares at pari passu ranking of face value Rs.
10/- each  to JPL ESOS 2020 Trust amounting to total Rs.
4,00,00,000.
3.
On 04 th January 2022, the Company allotted 33,40,000 Equity Shares at pari passu ranking of face value Rs.
10/- each to  JPL ESOS 2020 Trust amounting to total Rs.
3,34,00,000.
For BNP & Associates Company Secretaries [Firm Regn.
No.
P2014MH037400] PR No.
637/2019 Kalidas Ramaswami Partner FCS: 2440 / CP No.
22856 UDIN : F002440D000273073 Place: Mumbai Date: 5th May 2022 Note: This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral part  of this report.
To, The Board of Directors / Members, Jio Platforms Limited  Office - 101, Saffron, Nr.
Centre Point  Panchwati 5 Rasta, Ambawadi  Ahmedabad - 380006  Re: Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.
Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility of the management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion  on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the  correctness of the contents of the secretarial records.
The verification was done on test-check basis to ensure that  correct facts are reflected in secretarial records.
We believe that the process and practices, we followed provide a  reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4.
Wherever required, we have obtained management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and  regulations and happening of events, etc.
5.
The compliance of the provisions or corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards, is the  responsibility of management.
Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test-check basis.
6.
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or  effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For BNP & Associates Company Secretaries [Firm Regn.
No.
P2014MH037400] PR No.
637/2019 Kalidas Ramaswami Partner FCS: 2440 / CP No.
22856 UDIN : F002440D000273073 Place: Mumbai Date: 5th May 2022 Annexure A Corporate Governance Report 252 253 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  To, The Members Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited, Office – 101, Saffron, Nr.
Centre Point Panchwati 5 Rasta, Ambawadi Ahmedabad - 380 006 We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to  good corporate practices by Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited, (CIN: U72900GJ2007PLC105869) (hereinafter called the  ‘Company’) for the financial year ended March 31, 2022 (‘period under audit’’).
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner  that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the Company’s corporate conducts/statutory compliances and for  expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records  maintained and provided to us through access to the Company’s in-house portal and also the information provided  by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized representatives, during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, we hereby  report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the period under audit, complied with the statutory provisions listed  hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in  the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter.
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the  Company for the period under audit according to the provisions of: (i)  The Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the Rules made thereunder; (ii)  The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder; (iii) The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and the Rules made thereunder; (iv)   The Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the Rules/ Regulations made thereunder to the extent of Overseas  Direct Investments and External Commercial Borrowings; (v)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021; (vi) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 ; (vii) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; We have also examined compliance by the Company with the applicable clauses of the Secretarial Standard on Meetings  of Board of Directors (SS-1) and Secretarial Standard on General Meetings (SS-2) issued by the Institute of Company  Secretaries of India.
During the period under audit, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Standards, as  mentioned above We have also examined, on test-check basis, the relevant documents and records maintained by the Company according  to the following laws applicable specifically to the Company: 1.
The Indian Telegraph Act, 1885; 2.
The Indian Wireless Telegraphy Act, 1933; 3.
The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997; 4.
The Information Technology Act, 2000 5.
The Aadhaar and Other Laws (Amendment) Act, 2019 Based on such examination and having regard to the compliance system prevailing in the Company, we report that, the  Company has complied with the provisions of the above laws during the audit period.
Secretarial Audit Report of Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited For The Financial Year Ended 31st March, 2022 [Pursuant to Section 204 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No.9 of the Companies   (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial personnel) Rules, 2014] During the period under audit, provisions of the following acts, rules and regulations were not applicable to the Company: 1.
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder with respect to Foreign  Direct Investment .
2.
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 :  (a)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993  relating to the Companies Act, 2013 and dealing with clients;  (b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;  (c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;  (d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021;  (e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021;  (f) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-back of Securities) Regulations, 2018.
We further report that: The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Director, Non-Executive  Directors and Independent Directors and there were no changes in the composition of the Board of Directors  during the period.
Adequate notice was given to all directors of the Company of the schedule of the meetings of the Board (including  meetings of the Committees) except where consent of directors was received for shorter notice.
Agenda and detailed  notes on Agenda were also sent to all the directors of the Company at least seven days in advance , except where consent  of directors was received for circulation of the Agenda and notes on Agenda at a shorter notice.
A system exists for  seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda items before the meetings and for meaningful  participation by the directors at the meetings.
All decisions at the meetings of the Board and the meetings of the Committees were carried out unanimously as recorded  in the minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors or Committees of the Board, as the case may be.
We further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the Company, which are commensurate with its size  and operations , to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the period under audit, the following specific events / actions having major bearing on the  Company’s affairs have taken place in pursuance of the above referred laws, rules, regulations and standards: (i)   During the year under review, the Commercial Papers (CPs) issued by the Company were listed on BSE Limited in  accordance with the provisions of SEBI Operational Circular bearing No : SEBI/HO/DDHS/P/CIR/2021/613 dated August 10,  2021.
As on March 31, 2022, CPs amounting to Rs.
18,150 crores were listed on BSE Limited.
(ii)  During the year under review , the Company has issued and allotted on Private Placement basis 50,000 – 6.20%  Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures (PPD 17 or “NCDs”) on Private Placement basis 50,000 – 6.20%  NCDs (PPD17) of face value of Rs.
10 lakh each, for cash, at par, aggregating to Rs.
5,000 crore and these NCDs are listed  on BSE Limited and The National Stock Exchange of India Limited.
For BNP & Associates Company Secretaries [FRN: P2014MH037400] PR No : 637/2019 Kalidas Ramaswami Partner FCS No :2440/ CP No 22856) (UDlN: F002440D000278584) Date: May 06, 2022 Place: Mumbai Note: This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral part  of this report.
Corporate Governance Report 254 255 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  To, The Members, Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited Office – 101, Saffron, Nr.
Centre Point Panchwati 5 Rasta, Ambawadi Ahmedabad - 380006 Re: Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.
Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility of the Management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion  on the secretarial records based on our audit.
2.
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were considered appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance  about the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records.
The verification was done on test-check basis to  ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial records.
We believe that the process and practices, we followed  provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4.
Wherever required, we have obtained Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and  regulations and happening of material events, etc.
5.
The compliance of the provisions or corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards, is the  responsibility of the Management.
Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test-check basis.
6.
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or  effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For BNP & Associates Company Secretaries [FRN: P2014MH037400] PR No : 637/2019 Kalidas Ramaswami Partner FCS No :2440/ CP No 22856) (UDlN: F002440D000278584) Date: May 06, 2022 Place: Mumbai Annexure A To, The Members, Reliance Retail Limited 3rd Floor, Court House Lokmanya Tilak Marg Dhobi Talao Mumbai- 400 002 We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good  corporate practices by Reliance Retail Limited (“the Company”).
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided us  a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/ statutory compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Management’s responsibility The Management along with the Board of Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company complies with the provisions of  all applicable laws and maintains the required statutory records and documents in the prescribed manner.
Auditor’s responsibility Based on audit, our responsibility is to express an opinion on the compliance with the applicable laws and maintenance  of records by the Company.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the auditing standards CSAS 1 to CSAS 4 (“CSAS”)  prescribed by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
These standards require that the auditor complies with statutory and  regulatory requirements and plans and performs the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about compliance with applicable  laws and maintenance of records.
Due to the inherent limitations of an audit including internal, financial and operating controls, there is an unavoidable risk that  some misstatements or material non-compliances may not be detected, even though the audit is properly planned and  performed in accordance with the CSAS.
Basis for Opinion We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness  of the contents of the secretarial records.
The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in the  secretarial records.
We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Opinion Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained  by the Company and provided either as scanned copies by email or through permitted access to the Company’s in-house  portal and also the information provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized representatives during the conduct  of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering the financial  year ended on March 31, 2022 (“the Financial Year”), complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the  Company has proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the  reporting made hereinafter: We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for  the Financial Year according to the provisions of: i)  The Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the rules made thereunder; ii)  The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder- Not Applicable to the Company  during the Audit Period; iii)  The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder; iv)  Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Overseas  Direct Investment; v)  The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’):-  a)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011- Not  Applicable to the Company during the Audit Period;  b)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 - Not  Applicable to the Company during the Audit Period;  c)  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 (up to August 12, 2021) and The  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 (with effect  from August 13, 2021) - Not Applicable to the Company during the Audit Period; Secretarial Audit Report of Reliance Retail Limited For the Financial Year ended March 31, 2022 [Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No.9 of the Companies   (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel), Rules, 2014] Corporate Governance Report 256 257 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance   d)  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 (up to August 15, 2021) -  Not Applicable to the Company during the Audit Period;  e)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021 (with effect  from August 16, 2021)- Not Applicable to the Company during the Audit Period;  f)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993  regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client - Not Applicable to the Company during the Audit Period;  g)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009 (up to June 9, 2021) & The  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021 (with effect from June 10, 2021) – Not  Applicable to the Company during the Audit Period; and  h)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018 - Not Applicable to the Company  during the Audit Period.
i)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 - Not Applicable to the  Company during the Audit Period;  We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following: i)  Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India; ii)  The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with Stock Exchange(s) and the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015, - Not Applicable to the Company during the Audit Period;  During the period under review the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines,  Standards, etc.
mentioned above.
We further report that, the Company has identified the following laws as specifically applicable to the Company: i)  The Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006 and Rules; ii)  The Legal Metrology Act 2009 and Rules; iii)  State Agriculture Produce Marketing Act; iv)  The Bureau of Indian Standards Act, 2016; v)  The Trade Marks Act, 1999 We further report that- The Board of Directors of the Company is constituted comprising Executive Director, Non-Executive Directors, Independent  Directors and Woman Director.
There were no changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place during the  period under review.
Adequate notice was given to all directors of the Company of the meetings of the Board (including meetings of the Committees),  except where consent of directors was received for shorter notice.
With the consent of the directors, the agenda and detailed  notes on agenda for the Board meetings (including meetings of the Committees), were sent less than seven days before the date  of the respective meeting(s).
We further report that the Company has devised a system which enables the directors to seek and obtain further information  and clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
All decisions made at Board Meetings and Committee Meetings have unanimous consent of directors (excluding the directors  who are concerned or interested in specific items) as recorded in the minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors or  Committees of the Board, as the case may be.
We further report that having regard to the compliance system prevailing in the Company and as per explanations  and management representations obtained and relied upon by us the Company has adequate systems and processes  commensurate with the size and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules,  regulations and guidelines.
For Shashikala Rao & Co. Company Secretaries ICSI Unique Code: P2010MH067400 PR 845/2020 Shashikala Rao Partner Place: Mumbai     FCS 3866 CP No 9482 Date: May 05, 2022 UDIN  F003866D000276182 To, The Members, Reliance Retail Limited Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter: 1.
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
2.
Wherever required, we have obtained a Management Representation about the compliance of laws, rules and  regulations and happening of events, etc.
3.
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or  effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Shashikala Rao & Co. Company Secretaries ICSI Unique Code: P2010MH067400 PR 845/2020 Shashikala Rao Partner     FCS 3866  CP No 9482 UDIN  F003866D000276182 Place: Mumbai Date: May 05, 2022  Annexure to the Secretarial Audit Report Corporate Governance Report 258 259 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  To, The Members, Reliance Retail Ventures Limited CIN: U51909MH2006PLC166166 4th Floor, Court House, Lokmanya Tilak Marg, Dhobi Talao, Mumbai- 400002 We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance with applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to  good corporate practices by Reliance Retail Ventures Limited (hereinafter called the “Company”) for the Financial Year  ended 31st March, 2022.
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating  the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records  maintained by the Company and furnished to us through access to the Company’s in-house portal and also the  information provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized representatives during the conduct of  secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering the financial  year ended on 31st March 2022, complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company has  proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting  made hereinafter: We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the  Company for the financial year ended on 31st March, 2022 according to the provisions of: i.
The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the rules made thereunder; ii.
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder - Not Applicable as the  Securities of the Company are not listed on any Stock Exchange.
iii.
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder; iv.
The Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign  Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial Borrowings : Not Applicable to the extent of  External Commercial Borrowings; v.  The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI  Act’) : are not applicable as the Securities of the Company are not listed on any Stock Exchange;  a.
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011-  except to the extent of being an ‘acquirer’ as defined , of a listed entity;  b.
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;  c.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;  d.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 (up to 12th August,  2021) and The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity)  Regulations, 2021 (with effect from 13th August, 2021);  e.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 (up to  15th August, 2021);  f.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993  regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client;  g.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009 (up to 9th June, 2021)  and The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021 (with effect from  10th June, 2021) Secretarial Audit Report of Reliance Retail Ventures Limited For The Financial Year Ended 31st March, 2022 [Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies   (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]  h.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018  i.
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021 (with  effect from 16th August, 2021)  j.
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 vi.
Framework/ Operational Circular for Issue and Listing of Commercial Papers issued by Securities and Exchange Board  of India including amendments thereto  The Management of the Company has confirmed that there are no laws identified which are specifically applicable  to the Company.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable Standards/Regulations of the following: (i)  Secretarial Standards with regard to Meeting of the Board of Directors (SS-1) and General Meetings (SS-2) issued by The  Institute of Company Secretaries of India; (ii)  The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with the Stock Exchanges : Applicable to the extent of  Commercial Papers listed during the period under review.
During the period under audit, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines,  Standards, etc.
mentioned above.
We further report that: - • The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive  Directors including a Woman Director and Independent Directors.
No changes in the composition of the Board of  Directors took place during the period under audit.
• Adequate notice is given to all Directors of the schedule of the Board Meetings (including Committees Meetings) except  where consent of directors was received for shorter notice.
Agenda and detailed notes on agenda were also sent  atleast seven days in advance, except where consent of directors was received for circulation of the Agenda and notes  on Agenda at a shorter notice.
A system exists for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the  agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful participation by the directors at the meeting.
• As recorded in the Minutes of Board/Committee Meetings, all decisions of the Board and Committees thereof were  carried out unanimously.
We further report that based on review of compliance mechanism established by the Company and on the basis of the  Compliance Certificate(s) issued by the Company Secretary based on the certificates issued by functional heads and  taken on record by the Board of Directors at their meeting(s), we are of the opinion that there are adequate systems and  processes in place which commensurate with size and operations of the Company, to monitor and ensure compliance  with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the financial year under audit, the following were the event/actions which occurred,  having a major bearing on the Company’s affairs in pursuance of the above referred laws, rules, regulations, guidelines,  standards, etc: • Members of the Company at the Annual General Meeting held on 29th September 2021 have pursuant to Section 180(1) (a) of the Act, passed a Special Resolution for Sale/ lease/ transfer.
or otherwise disposing of logistics infrastructure  assets of the company to a special purpose vehicle which would house the logistics infrastructure assets catering to  the requirements of business of the Company, subsidiaries and associates which is proposed to be owned by SEBI  Registered Infrastructure Investment Trust set up by the Company as the sponsor under SEBI (Infrastructure Investment  Trusts) Regulations, 2014 • Members of the Company at the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 3rd March 2022 passed a Special Resolution and  increased the limits to make loans, investments and give guarantees etc upto ` 1,00,000 crore (Rupees One Lac crore) ,  outstanding at any point of time • The equity shareholders, at NCLT convened meeting held on 30th November 2021, pursuant to NCLT order dated 18th  October 2021, approved with requisite majority, a Composite Scheme of Arrangement between Future Enterprises  Limited and the Company and their respective shareholders and creditors for the transfer and vesting of logistics and  warehousing undertaking to the Company from Future Enterprises Limited as a going concern on a slump sale basis on  terms and conditions as set out in the said Scheme.
Corporate Governance Report 260 261 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  Further as informed, the Future Group companies involved in the Composite Scheme of arrangement conducted the  meetings of their shareholders and their creditors in April 2022.
The results of voting on the Composite Scheme were  intimated to the Stock Exchanges by Future Retail Limited ( FRL) and other listed companies involved in the Scheme.
As  per these results, the shareholders and unsecured creditors of FRL have voted in favour of the said Composite Scheme.
But the Secured Creditors of FRL have voted against the said Composite Scheme.
in view thereof, the said Composite  Scheme of Arrangement cannot be implemented.
• The Company has issued Commercial Papers and listed the same on BSE Limited pursuant to Circulars issued by SEBI.
• The Company has completed acquisition and control of Just Dial Limited , a listed Company by acquiring 66.96% of its  paid up share capital.
The Report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure A hereto and forms an integral part  of this report.
For S. N. ANANTHASUBRAMANIAN & Co. Company Secretaries ICSI Unique Code: P1991MH040400 Peer Review Cert.
No.
: 606/2019 Aparna Gadgil Partner ACS: 14713| COP No.
: 8430 ICSI UDIN:A014713D000277514 6th May, 2022 I Thane To, The Members, Reliance Retail Ventures Limited CIN: U51909MH2006PLC166166 4th Floor, Court House, LokmanyaTilak Marg, Dhobi Talao, Mumbai- 400002 Our Secretarial Audit Report for the financial year ended 31st March 2022 of even date is to be read along with this letter.
Management’s Responsibility 1.
It is the responsibility of the management of the Company to maintain secretarial records, devise proper systems  to ensure compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and regulations and to ensure that the systems are  adequate and operate effectively.
Auditor’s Responsibility 2.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these secretarial records, standards and procedures followed by the  Company with respect to secretarial compliances.
3.
We have conducted the Audit as per the applicable Auditing Standards issued by the Institute of Company  Secretaries of India.
4.
We believe that audit evidence and information obtained from the Company’s management is adequate and  appropriate for us to provide a basis for our opinion.
5.
Wherever required, we have obtained reasonable assurance about whether the statements prepared, documents or  Records, in relation to Secretarial Audit, maintained by the Auditee, are free from misstatement.
6.
Wherever required, we have obtained the management’s representation about the compliance of laws, rules and  regulations and happening of events, etc Disclaimer 7.
We have conducted our Audit remotely, based on the records and information made available to us through  electronic platform by the Company, due to Covid 19 pandemic induced lockdown and restrictions in place, for the  purpose of issuing this report.
8.
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or  effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
9.
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
For S. N. ANANTHASUBRAMANIAN & Co. Company Secretaries ICSI Unique Code: P1991MH040400 Peer Review Cert.
No.
: 606/2019 Aparna Gadgil Partner ACS: 14713| COP No.
: 8430 ICSI UDIN:A014713D000277514 6th May, 2022 I Thane Annexure A Corporate Governance Report 262 263 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  To the Members Reliance Industries Limited 3rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV, 222, Nariman Point, Mumbai – 400021, India 1.
The Corporate Governance Report prepared by Reliance Industries Limited (the “Company”), contains details as  stipulated in regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of regulation 46(2) and para C and D of Schedule V of the  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as  amended (“the Listing Regulations”) (‘applicable criteria’) with respect to Corporate Governance for the year ended  March 31, 2022.
This report is required by the Company for annual submission to the Stock exchange and to be sent to  the Shareholders of the Company.
Management’s Responsibility 2.
The preparation of the Corporate Governance Report is the responsibility of the Management of the Company  including the preparation and maintenance of all relevant supporting records and documents.
This responsibility  also includes the design, implementation and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation and  presentation of the Corporate Governance Report.
3.
The Management along with the Board of Directors are also responsible for ensuring that the Company complies with  the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the Listing Regulations, issued by the Securities and Exchange  Board of India.
Auditor’s Responsibility 4.
Our responsibility is to provide a reasonable assurance in the form of an opinion whether the Company has complied  with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the Listing Regulations.
5.
We conducted our examination of the Corporate Governance Report in accordance with the Guidance Note on  Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes (Revised 2016) and the Guidance Note on Certification of Corporate  Governance, both issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”).
The Guidance Note on Reports or  Certificates for Special Purposes (Revised 2016) requires that we comply with the ethical requirements of the Code of  Ethics issued by ICAI.
6.
We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1, Quality  Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance and Related  Services Engagements.
7.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks associated  in compliance of the Corporate Governance Report with the applicable criteria.
The procedures include but not  limited to verification of secretarial records and financial information of the Company and obtained necessary  representations and declarations from directors including independent directors of the Company.
8.
The procedures also include examining evidence supporting the particulars in the Corporate Governance Report on  a test basis.
Further, our scope of work under this report did not involve us performing audit tests for the purposes of  expressing an opinion on the fairness or accuracy of any of the financial information or the financial statements of the  Company taken as a whole.
Independent Auditor’s Certificate on compliance with the conditions of   Corporate Governance as per provisions of Chapter IV of Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended Opinion 9.
Based on the procedures performed by us as referred in paragraph 7 and 8 above and according to the information  and explanations given to us, we are of the opinion that the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate  Governance as stipulated in the Listing Regulations, as applicable for the year ended March 31, 2022, referred to in  paragraph 1 above.
Other matters and Restriction on Use 10.
This report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness with  which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
11.
This report is addressed to and provided to the members of the Company solely for the purpose of enabling it to  comply with its obligations under the Listing Regulations and should not be used by any other person or for any other  purpose.
Accordingly, we do not accept or assume any liability or any duty of care or for any other purpose or to any  other party to whom it is shown or into whose hands it may come without our prior consent in writing.
We have no  responsibility to update this report for events and circumstances occurring after the date of this report.
For D T S & Associates LLP For S R B C & CO LLP Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Reg.
number: 142412W/ W100595 ICAI Firm Reg.
number: 324982E/E300003 per T P Ostwal per Vikas Kumar Pansari Partner Partner Membership No.
: 030848 Membership No.
: 093649 UDIN: 22030848AIMQME5858 UDIN: 22093649AIMNVY3491 Place: Mumbai Place: Mumbai Date: May 6, 2022 Date: May 6, 2022 Corporate Governance Report 264 265 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  266 267 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  Board’s Report Dear Members, The Board of Directors present the Company’s Forty-fifth Annual Report (Post- IPO) and the Company’s audited financial  statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2022.
Financial Results The Company’s financial performance (standalone and consolidated) for the year ended March 31, 2022 is  summarised below: Standalone Consolidated 2021-22 2020-21 2021-22 2020-21 `  crore US$  million* `  crore US$  million* `  crore US$  million* `  crore US$  million* Profit Before Tax (Before Exceptional Items) 46,786 6,173 22,908 3,133 81,306 10,727 49,819 6,814 Current Tax 787 104 - - 3,161 417 (2,205) (302) Deferred Tax 6,915 912 4,732 647 13,136 1,733 483 66 Profit For The Year (Before Exceptional Items) 39,084 5,157 27,640 3,780 65,009 8,577 48,097 6,578 Exceptional Items (net of tax) ^ - - 4,304 589 2,836 374 5,642 772 Profit For The Year 39,084 5,157 31,944 4,369 67,845 8,951 53,739 7,350 Net Profit attributable to Non-Controlling Interest - - - - (7,140) (942) (4,611) (631) Net Profit Attributable to Owners of the Company 39,084 5,157 31,944 4,369 60,705 8,009 49,128 6,719 Balance in Retained Earnings 41,893 6,937 14,146 3,141 1,96,059 27,073 32,972 4,766 Pursuant to Scheme of Arrangement # - - 32,416 4,434 - - (728) (99) Fresh issue of equity by subsidiaries # - - - - 259 34 1,18,170 16,163 Sub-Total 80,977 12,094 78,506 11,944 2,57,023 35,116 1,99,542 27,549 Appropriations Transferred to Statutory Reserve - - - - (115) (15) (128) (18) Transferred to Profit & Loss A/c ^ (33,217) (4,543) - - - - Transferred (to)/from Debenture Redemption Reserve - - - - (524) (69) 41 6 Transferred (to)/from Special Economic Zone  Reinvestment Reserve (4,135) (546) 525 72 (4,135) (546) 525 72 Dividend on Equity Shares (4,297) (567) (3,921) (536) (4,297) (567) (3,921) (536) Closing Balance 72,545 10,981 41,893 6,937 2,47,952 33,919 1,96,059 27,073 Figures in brackets represent deductions.
* 1 US$ = ` 75.7925 Exchange Rate as on March 31, 2022 (1 US$ = `73.11 as on March 31, 2021).
^ Refer Note 32 of the Standalone Financial Statement and Note 31 of the Consolidated Financial Statement.
# Refer Note 15 of the Standalone and Consolidated Financial Statements.
Results of operations and  the state of Company’s  affairs Highlights of the Company’s  financial performance for  the year ended March 31,  2022 are as under: Standalone • Value of sales and services was  ` 4,66,425 crore (US$ 61.5 billion) • Exports for the year was ` 2,54,970  crore (US$ 33.6 billion) • EBITDA for the year was ` 66,185 crore  (US$ 8.7 billion) • Cash Profit for the year was ` 56,275  crore (US$ 7.4 billion) • Net Profit for the year was at ` 39,084  crore (US$ 5.2 billion) Consolidated • Value of sales and services was  ` 7,92,756 crore (US$ 104.6 billion) • EBITDA for the year was ` 1,25,687  crore (US$ 16.6 billion) •  Cash Profit for the year was ` 1,10,778  crore (US$ 14.6 billion) •  Net Profit for the year was at ` 67,845  crore (US$ 9.0 billion) Dividend The Board of Directors has  recommended a dividend of ` 8/-  (Rupees eight only) per equity share of  ` 10/- (Ten rupees) each fully paid-up  of the Company (last year ` 7 per  equity share of ` 10/- each).
Dividend  is subject to approval of members at  the ensuing Annual General Meeting  and shall be subject to deduction of  income tax at source.
The dividend recommended is in  accordance with the Company’s  Dividend Distribution Policy.
The  Dividend Distribution Policy of  the Company is available on the  Company’s website and can be  accessed at https://www.ril.com/ DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/Dividend- Distribution-Policy.pdf Details of material  changes from the end of  the financial year The continuance of corona virus  (COVID-19) pandemic globally  and in India is causing significant  disturbance and slowdown of  economic activity.
The operations  and revenue were impacted due  to COVID-19.
During the year under  review, there is no significant impact  of COVID-19 on the operations  of the Company.
Material events during the  year under review Receipt of First call and  Second and Final call on  partly paid-up equity shares  issued on Rights Basis During the FY 2020-21, the Company  had issued and allotted 42,26,26,894  partly paid-up equity shares of ` 10/-  each, on rights basis, at an issue  price of ` 1,257/- per fully paid-up  equity share (including a premium of  ` 1,247/- per equity share).
An amount  equivalent to 25% of the issue price viz.
` 314.25 per equity share was received  on application.
During the year under review, the First  Call of ` 314.25 per partly paid-up  equity share was payable from May  17, 2021 to May 31, 2021.
The Second and  Final call of ` 628.50 per partly paid- up equity share was payable from  November 15, 2021 to November 29,  2021.
An amount of ` 81 crore, towards  call money, is yet to be received as on  March 31, 2022.
The funds received pursuant to  Rights Issue, have been utilised for  the objects stated in the Letter of  Offer dated May 15, 2020, towards  repayment of certain borrowings  of the Company and general  corporate purposes.
Receipt of fourth tranche on  partly paid listed unsecured  redeemable non-convertible  debentures (PPD Series-IA) During the year under review, the  Company received payment of 4th  tranche, aggregating ` 250 crore,  from the holders of PPD Series IA.
The  said funds have been utilised for  repayment of existing borrowings  and other purposes in the ordinary  course of business.
Issue of Senior Unsecured  Notes During the year under review, the  Company has issued fixed rate senior  unsecured notes for an aggregate  amount of US$ 4 billion across three  tranches.
The proceeds from the  issuance of the Notes have been  utilised primarily for refinancing of  existing borrowings, in accordance  with the applicable law.
Scheme of Arrangement  between the Company and  Reliance Syngas Limited The Board of Directors of the  Company had approved the  Scheme of Arrangement between  (i) the Company & its shareholders  and creditors and (ii) Reliance  Syngas Limited & its shareholders  and creditors (“Gasification  Scheme”).
The Gasification Scheme,  inter alia, provides for transfer of the  Gasification undertaking (as defined  in the Gasification Scheme) from  the Company to Reliance Syngas  Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary  of the Company, as a going concern  on slump sale basis for a lump  sum consideration on the terms  and conditions as detailed in the  Gasification Scheme.
The Gasification Scheme  was approved by: a.  the Shareholders and  Creditors of the Company on  March 9, 2022; and b.  the Hon’ble National Company  Law Tribunal, Mumbai Bench  and Ahmedabad Bench on  March 30, 2022.
The Appointed Date of the Gasification  Scheme is March 31, 2022 and the  Gasification Scheme became  effective from April 4, 2022.
Withdrawal of the Scheme  of Arrangement between the  Company and Reliance O2C  Limited During the year under review, the  Company and Saudi Aramco mutually  determined that it would be beneficial  for both the parties to re-evaluate the  proposed investment in O2C business  in light of the changed context, due  to evolving nature of the Company’s  business portfolio.
The Board of Directors of the Company  had on November 19, 2021, approved  withdrawal of the Scheme of  Arrangement between the Company  and Reliance O2C Limited (“O2C  Scheme”) from Hon’ble National  Company Law Tribunal (“NCLT”).
NCLT,  Mumbai Bench has vide its order  dated December 3, 2021 approved the  withdrawal of the O2C Scheme.
Reclassification of Reliance  Industrial Infrastructure  Limited Reliance Industrial Infrastructure  Limited was reclassified from the  category of ‘Promoter Group’ of the  Company to ‘Public’.
Management Discussion  and Analysis Report Management Discussion and Analysis  Report for the year under review,  as stipulated under the Securities  and Exchange Board of India  (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015  (“Listing Regulations”), is presented in  a separate section, forming part of  the Annual Report.
Business Operations  / Performance of the  Company and its major  subsidiaries Major developments and business  performance of the Company and its  major subsidiaries consolidated with  the Company are given below: Retail Retail segment delivered an  all-time-high revenue & profit, driven  by highest ever store sales and  sustained growth momentum in  digital & new commerce.
The business  ensured continuity of operations and  safety of its employees and their  families through double vaccination.
The business strengthened its  competencies across brands, supply  Board’s Report 268 269 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  chain and technology, through a  number of acquisitions and formed  strategic relationships with key players  and market innovators.
The business achieved a revenue of  ` 1,99,749 crore and an all-time-high  EBITDA of ` 12,423 crore for the  FY 2021-22 as operating environment  returned to near normalcy.
Digital Services Digital services segment achieved  revenue of ` 1,00,161 crore, an  increase of 10.9% Y-o-Y and EBITDA  of ` 40,268 crore, a growth of 18.3%  Y-o-Y.
Customer engagement on  the Jio network increased further  with average per capita data and  voice usage at 19.7 GB and 968  minutes per month for the quarter  ended March 2022.
Jio’s network carried almost 10% of  the global mobile data traffic in 2021,  and Jio continues to remain the  broadband network of choice with  over 50% share of India’s data traffic,  thereby underlining the ‘Jio effect’ on  the digital ecosystem in India.
Jio was  the digital lifeline during the continuing  pandemic and over 130 million new  users joined the network on a gross  basis during FY 2021-22.
Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited (RJIL)  has now also become the largest fiber  broadband provider with over 5 million  connected homes with an average  data usage of almost 300 GB per  home per month.
Jio has continued  to rollout last mile infrastructure at an  elevated pace and now has almost 20  million homes passed on its network.
Jio’s consumer platforms include apps  and services in Media, Commerce,  Education, Financial Services, IoT  offering personalized content in easily  discoverable format with intuitive UI.
Leveraging its technology investments  and customer engagement, Jio  has indigenously developed and  launched consumer applications  and use cases.
Jio’s in-house R&D  team, with over 9,000 technical  and research professionals, has  innovated and developed leading  technology platforms spanning 5G  stack, Cloud and Edge Compute,  Devices & Operating Systems,  Blockchain, IoT, Mixed Reality, AI / ML,  Secure Identity and Natural Language  Processing, among others.
Media and Entertainment The business posted highest ever  consolidated operating profit and  margins with continued improvement  in news business profitability and  strong margins in entertainment  business.
This was despite the  challenging business environment  at the beginning and end of the year  due to the pandemic wave and global  macro events, respectively.
During the  FY 2021-22, Network18 reported value  of services of ` 6,831 crore (growth  of 25.1% Y-o-Y) and an all-time-high  EBITDA of ` 1,080 crore (growth of 35.7%  Y-o-Y).
The improvement in profitability  is a result of strong operating  performance driving revenue growth  across businesses, accompanied by  continued cost controls.
Oil to Chemicals The Oil to Chemicals (O2C) business  delivered strong performance on the  back of recovery in global demand,  robust global economic recovery,  rising vaccination rates and easing  social distancing measures.
In  FY 2021-22, the Company remained  among the largest producers of  transportation fuels, exporting 34.7  MMT of products across the globe to  meet most stringent US specifications.
The downstream products also  delivered robust growth, surpassing  its pre-pandemic level business  performance on the back of leveraging  high level of integration from feedstock  to finished goods, strong global  business networks, multi-modal  logistics capabilities and enhanced  digital capability with all stakeholders  across the value chain.
Overall production meant for sale  increased from 63.6 MMT to 68.2  MMT.
The business achieved near full  capacity utilisation despite several  waves of COVID-19 and also processed  10 new crudes during the year.
Revenues for the O2C business  increased by 56.5% on account of  increase in crude prices and higher  volumes.
The segment performance  was primarily driven by better  transportation fuel cracks due to  robust consumption on improved  road mobility as COVID restrictions  eased and increasing international  travel with more countries re-opening  their borders.
During the FY 2021-22,  O2C business reported revenue  of ` 5,00,900 crore and EBITDA of  ` 52,722 crore.
Oil and Gas (Exploration &  Production) Revenue for Oil and Gas (Exploration  & Production) business for the year  increased by 250.1% Y-o-Y to ` 7,492  crore primarily due to ramp-up of gas  production from KG D6 and improved  price realization.
EBITDA for the year,  sharply increased to ` 5,457 crore,  with EBITDA margin of 72.8%.
Satellite  Cluster Field was commissioned  in April 2021, two months ahead of  schedule despite COVID-19 challenges.
All five wells have been opened, tested  and ramped up, achieving a peak  production of 6 MMSCMD.
Together,  the R Cluster and Satellite Cluster fields  are currently producing ~18.9 MMSCMD  and contributing ~20% of India’s  domestic gas production.
During the year, Reliance Eagleford  Upstream Holding, LP (REUHLP) a wholly  owned step-down subsidiary of the  Company, signed an agreement with  Ensign Operating III, LLC to divest its  interest in certain upstream assets in  the Eagleford shale play of Texas, USA.
With this transaction, the Company  has divested all its shale gas assets  and exited from the shale gas  business in the US.
Credit Rating The Company’s financial discipline  and prudence is reflected in the strong  credit ratings ascribed by rating  agencies.
The details of credit ratings  are disclosed in the Management  Discussion and Analysis Report, which  forms part of the Annual Report.
Consolidated Financial  Statement In accordance with the provisions of  the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)  and the Listing Regulations read with  Ind AS-110-Consolidated Financial  Statement, Ind AS-28-Investments  in Associates and Joint Ventures  and Ind AS-31-Interests in Joint  Ventures, the consolidated audited  financial statement forms part of  the Annual Report.
Subsidiaries, Joint  Ventures and Associate  Companies During the year under review,  companies listed in Annexure I  to this  Report have become and / or ceased  to be the Company’s subsidiaries, joint  ventures or associate companies.
A statement providing details of  performance and salient features of  the financial statements of Subsidiary  / Associate / Joint Venture companies,  as per Section 129(3) of the Act,  is provided as Annexure A to the  consolidated financial statement and  therefore not repeated in this Report to  avoid duplication.
The audited financial statement  including the consolidated financial  statement of the Company and all  other documents required to be  attached thereto is available on  the Company’s website and can be  accessed at https://www.ril.com/ ar2021-22/pdf/RIL-Integrated-Annual- Report-2021-22.pdf.
The financial  statements of the subsidiaries,  as required, are available on the  Company’s website and can be  accessed at https://www.ril.com/ InvestorRelations/Downloads.aspx.
The Company has formulated a  Policy for determining Material  Subsidiaries.
The Policy is available  on the Company’s website and can  be accessed at https://www.ril.com/ DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/Material- Subsidiaries.pdf Reliance Retail Limited, Jio Platforms  Limited, Reliance Jio Infocomm  Limited and Reliance Retail Ventures  Limited are material subsidiaries  of the Company, as per the  Listing Regulations.
Secretarial Standards The Company has followed the  applicable Secretarial Standards, i.e.
SS-1 and SS-2, relating to ‘Meetings of  the Board of Directors’ and ‘General  Meetings’, respectively.
Directors’ Responsibility  Statement Your Directors state that: a)  in the preparation of the annual  accounts for the year ended  March 31, 2022, the applicable  accounting standards read  with requirements set out under  Schedule III to the Act have been  followed and there are no material  departures from the same; b)  the Directors have selected such  accounting policies and applied  them consistently and made  judgements and estimates that  are reasonable and prudent so as  to give a true and fair view of the  state of affairs of the Company  as at March 31, 2022 and of the  profit of the Company for the year  ended on that date; c)  the Directors have taken proper  and sufficient care for the  maintenance of adequate  accounting records in  accordance with the provisions  of the Act for safeguarding the  assets of the Company and for  preventing and detecting fraud  and other irregularities; d)  the Directors have prepared  the annual accounts on a  going concern basis; e)  the Directors have laid down  internal financial controls to  be followed by the Company  and that such internal financial  controls are adequate and are  operating effectively; and f)  the Directors have devised  proper systems to ensure  compliance with the provisions  of all applicable laws and that  such systems are adequate and  operating effectively.
Corporate Governance The Company is committed to  maintain the highest standards of  Corporate Governance and adheres  to the Corporate Governance  requirements set out by the Securities  and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”).
The Company has also implemented  several best governance practices.
The report on Corporate Governance  as stipulated under the Listing  Regulations forms part of the Annual  Report.
Certificate from the Auditors of  the Company confirming compliance  with the conditions of Corporate  Governance is attached to the report  on Corporate Governance.
Business Responsibility  Report In accordance with the Listing  Regulations, the Business  Responsibility Report (BRR) describing  the initiatives taken by the Company  from an environmental, social and  governance perspective is available  on the Company’s website and can  be accessed at https://www.ril.com/ DownloadFiles/BRR2021-22.pdf Contracts or arrangements  with Related Parties All contracts / arrangements /  transactions entered by the Company  during the financial year with related  parties were in its ordinary course of  business and on an arm’s length basis.
During the year under review, the  Company had not entered into any  contract / arrangement / transaction  with related parties which could be  considered material in accordance  with the policy of the Company  on materiality of related party  transactions or which is required to be  reported in Form No.
AOC-2 in terms  of Section 134(3)(h) read with Section  188 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the  Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
The Policy on Materiality of Related  Party Transactions and on dealing  with Related Party Transactions as  approved by the Board is available  on the Company’s website and can  Board’s Report 270 271 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  be accessed at https://www.ril.com/ DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/Policy-on- Materiality-of-RPT.pdf.
During the year under review,  the Policy on Materiality of  Related Party Transactions and  on dealing with Related Party  Transactions was amended to  align it with the amendments in the  Listing Regulations.
There were no materially significant  related party transactions which  could have potential conflict with the  interests of the Company at large.
Members may refer to Note 34 of the  Standalone Financial Statement which  sets out related party disclosures  pursuant to Ind AS.
Corporate Social  Responsibility (CSR) Over the past decade, the Company  has focused on several corporate  social responsibility programs.
The  CSR initiatives of the Company under  the leadership of Smt.
Nita M. Ambani,  Founder and Chairperson, Reliance  Foundation, have touched the lives of  more than 5.75 crore people covering  more than 50,600 villages and several  urban locations across India.
The Company continues its endeavor  to improve the lives of people and  provide opportunities for their holistic  development through its different  initiatives in the areas of Rural  Transformation, Health, Education,  Sports for Development, Disaster  Response, Arts, Culture, Heritage  and Urban Renewal.
The Company adopted a  multi-pronged approach to address  the COVID-19 pandemic.
The  Company supported initiatives on  healthcare, medical oxygen supply,  emergency meal distribution, supply  of free fuel, masks and awareness  creation.
Over 8.5 crore meals  provided under Mission Anna Sewa;  over 1.4 crore masks were distributed  under Mission COVID-19 Suraksha and  free fuel support was provided to over  70,000 emergency vehicles.
Medical  oxygen production was ramped up  from zero to 11% of India’s treatment  needs for meeting the requirement  of over one lakh patients every day.
This was supplied free to several  State Governments.
The Company supported national  initiatives like Gram Uday Se Bharat  Uday Abhiyan, Unnat Bharat Abhiyan,  Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, Poshan  Abhiyan, Jal Shakti Abhiyan, Sabki  Yojana Sabka Vikas, Skill India  Mission, Digital India and Doubling  Farmers’ Income.
The CSR initiatives of the Company  have won several awards including  Golden Peacock Award for Corporate  Social Responsibility 2021, CII DX  Award 2021 under ‘Innovation in CSR  through Digital Transformation,’  Award  for Corporate Leadership in ESG  (Environmental, Social & Governance)  from The CSR Journal- Excellence  Awards 2021, World Summit Awards  2021 for providing digital solutions  through its Machli App and the Best  Vaccine Programme by a Private  Hospital at the India Today Healthgiri  awards among others.
The CSR policy, formulated by the  Corporate Social Responsibility  and Governance (“CSR&G”)  Committee and approved by the  Board, continues unchanged.
The  policy can be accessed at https:// www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/ IRStatutory/CSR-Policy.pdf The three core commitments of  Scale, Impact and Sustainability  form the bed-rock of the Company’s  philosophy on CSR initiatives.
As per  the CSR policy of the Company, Rural  Transformation, Health, Education,  Environment, Arts, Heritage & Culture  and Disaster Response, are the focus  areas for CSR engagement.
During the year under review, the  Company spent ` 813 crore (around  2.21% of the average net profits of last  three financial years) on CSR activities.
The Annual Report on CSR activities  including summary of Impact  Assessment Report is annexed  herewith and marked as Annexure II   to this Report.
Risk Management The Company has a structured  Group Risk Management Framework,  designed to identify, assess and  mitigate risks appropriately.
The Risk  Management Committee has been  entrusted with the responsibility to  assist the Board in: a)  overseeing and approving the  Company’s enterprise wide risk  management framework; and b)  ensuring that all material  Strategic and Commercial  including Cybersecurity, Safety  and Operations, Compliance,  Control and Financial risks have  been identified and assessed  and ensuring that all adequate  risk mitigations are in place, to  address these risks.
Further details on the Risk  Management activities including the  implementation of risk management  policy, key risks identified and  their mitigations are covered in  Management Discussion and  Analysis section, which forms part of  the Annual Report.
Internal Financial  Controls Internal Financial Controls are  an integral part of the Group Risk  Management framework and  processes that address financial as  well as financial reporting risks.
The key  internal financial controls have been  documented, automated wherever  possible and embedded in the  respective business processes.
Assurance to the Board on the  effectiveness of internal financial  controls is obtained through 3 Lines of  Defence which include: a)  Management reviews and  self-assessment; b)  Continuous controls monitoring by  functional experts; and c)  Independent design and  operational testing by the Group  Internal Audit function.
The Company believes that these  systems provide reasonable  assurance that the Company’s  internal financial controls are  adequate and are operating  effectively as intended.
Directors and Key  Managerial Personnel In accordance with the provisions of  the Act and the Articles of Association  of the Company, Shri Hital R. Meswani  and Smt.
Nita M. Ambani, Directors  of the Company, retire by rotation  at the ensuing Annual General  Meeting.
The Board of Directors,  on the recommendation of the  Human Resources, Nomination and  Remuneration (“HRNR”) Committee,  has recommended their  re-appointment.
Shri Yogendra P. Trivedi joined the  Board of the Company in 1992 and  the Board has benefitted from his  sage counsel for nearly 30 years.
He  demitted office as a Director of the  Company from the conclusion of the  44th Annual General Meeting held on  June 24, 2021, due to health reasons.
He was the Chairman of three  Board  committees viz.
Audit Committee,  Corporate Social Responsibility  and Governance Committee  and Stakeholders’ Relationship  Committee and was also a member  of Human Resources, Nomination and  Remuneration Committee.
The Board  places on record its deepest gratitude  and appreciation towards valuable  contribution made by Shri Yogendra P.  Trivedi to the growth and governance  of the Company during his tenure as a  Director of the Company.
The Board of Directors on the  recommendation of the HRNR  Committee has appointed His  Excellency Yasir Othman H. Al  Rumayyan as an Independent Director  w.e.f.
July 19, 2021 and the shareholders  have approved the appointment for a  period upto July 18, 2024.
In the opinion  of the Board, he possesses requisite  expertise, integrity and experience  (including proficiency).
Shri K. Sethuraman is associated  with the Company since 1979 and  was appointed as  Group Company  Secretary and Chief Compliance  Officer of the Company in 2011.
Shri K. Sethuraman has demitted his  office as Group Company Secretary  and Chief Compliance Officer of the  Company with effect from close of  business hours of October 22, 2021.
He  is presently designated as President  - Group Corporate Secretarial and  Governance.
The Board places  on record it’s appreciation to  the contribution made by Shri K.  Sethuraman for laying a strong  foundation of compliance during  his association of more than four  decades.
In his new role he will act  as a mentor for developing next  generation leaders and will oversee  the group corporate secretarial and  governance matters of the Company  and it’s subsidiary companies.
Smt.
Savithri Parekh was appointed  as Joint Company Secretary and  Compliance Officer on March 29,  2019 and on the recommendation  of the HRNR Committee, the Board  has designated her as the Company  Secretary and Compliance Officer of  the Company w.e.f.
October 22, 2021.
Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar and  Prof. Dipak C. Jain will be completing  their second term of office, as  Independent Directors of the  Company, on July 20, 2022.
The Company has received  declarations from all the Independent  Directors of the Company  confirming that: a)  they meet the criteria of  independence prescribed  under the Act and the Listing  Regulations; and b)  they have registered their  names in the Independent  Directors’ Databank.
The Company has devised, inter alia,  the following policies viz.
: a)  Policy for selection of Directors  and determining Directors’  independence; and b)  Remuneration Policy for Directors,  Key Managerial Personnel and  other employees.
The aforesaid policies are available  on the Company’s website and can  be accessed at https://www.ril.com/ DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/Policy- for-Selection-of-Directors.pdf and  https://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/ IRStatutory/Remuneration-Policy- for-Directors.pdf The Policy for selection of Directors and  determining Directors’ independence  sets out the guiding principles for  the HRNR Committee for identifying  persons who are qualified to become  Directors and to determine the  independence of Directors, while  considering their appointment  as Independent Directors of the  Company.
The Policy also provides for  the factors in evaluating the suitability  of individual board members with  diverse background and experience  that are relevant for the Company’s  operations.
There has been no change  in the policy during the current year.
The Company’s remuneration  policy is directed towards rewarding  performance based on review of  achievements.
The remuneration  policy is in consonance with existing  industry practice.
There has been  no change in the policy during  the current year.
Performance Evaluation The Company has a policy for  performance evaluation of the Board,  Committees and other individual  Directors (including Independent  Directors) which includes criteria  for performance evaluation of  Non-Executive Directors and  Executive Directors.
In accordance with the manner of  evaluation specified by the HRNR  Committee, the Board carried out  annual performance evaluation of the  Board, its Committees and Individual  Directors.
The Independent Directors  carried out annual performance  evaluation of the Chairman, the  non-independent directors and the  Board as a whole.
The Chairman of  the respective Committees shared  the report on evaluation with the  respective Committee members.
The  performance of each Committee  was evaluated by the Board based  on the report of evaluation received  from the respective Committees.
Board’s Report 272 273 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  A consolidated report was shared  with the Chairman of the Board  for his review and giving feedback  to each Director.
Employees’ Stock Option  Schemes The Employee Stock Option  Scheme–2006 (“ESOS–2006”)  was withdrawn during FY 2017-18.
However, options granted under  ESOS–2006, but pending to be  exercised, continued to be governed  by ESOS-2006.
As on March 31, 2022,  there were no outstanding options  under ESOS - 2006.
The HRNR Committee, through RIL ESOS  2017 Trust inter alia administers and  monitors Reliance Industries Limited  Employees’ Stock Option Scheme  2017 (“ESOS-2017”).
The above Schemes are in line with the  SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits  and Sweat Equity) Regulations,  2021 (“SBEB Regulations”).
The  details as required to be disclosed  under the SBEB Regulations can  be accessed at https://www.ril.
com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/ ESOS-2006-Disclosure-2021-22.
pdf and https://www.ril.com/ DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/ESOS-2017- Disclosure-2021-22.pdf Auditors and Auditors’  Report Auditors S R B C & CO LLP, Chartered  Accountants and D T S & Associates  LLP, Chartered Accountants will  complete their present term on  conclusion of the ensuing Annual  General Meeting.
The Auditors’ Report does not contain  any qualification, reservation, adverse  remark or disclaimer.
The Notes  on financial statement referred  to in the Auditors’ Report are self- explanatory and do not call for any  further comments.
The Board has recommended the  appointment of Deloitte Haskins &  Sells LLP, Chartered Accountants and  Chaturvedi & Shah LLP, Chartered  Accountants, as Auditors of the  Company, for a period from the  conclusion of forty-fifth Annual  General Meeting till the conclusion  of fiftieth Annual General Meeting  of the Company.
Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP and  Chaturvedi & Shah LLP have confirmed  their eligibility and qualification  required under the Act for holding the  office as Auditors of the Company.
Cost Auditors The Board has appointed the following  Cost Accountants as Cost Auditors  for conducting the audit of cost  records of products and services of  the Company for various segments  for the FY 2022-23 under Section 148 of  the Act read with the Companies (Cost  Records and Audit) Rules, 2014: i.
Textiles Business –  Kiran J. Mehta & Co; ii.
Chemicals Business – Diwanji  & Co., K.G.
Goyal & Associates,  V.J.
Talati & Co., Suresh D. Shenoy,  Shome & Banerjee and Dilip  M. Malkar & Co.; iii.
Polyester Business – V.J.
Talati  & Co., Suresh D. Shenoy,  V. Kumar & Associates and  K.G.
Goyal & Associates; iv.
Electricity Generation – Diwanji &  Co. and Kiran J. Mehta & Co.; v.  Petroleum Business –  Suresh D. Shenoy; vi.
Oil & Gas Business – V.J.
Talati &  Co. and Shome & Banerjee; and vii.
Composite Solution –  Kiran J. Mehta & Co. Shome & Banerjee, Cost Accountants,  have been nominated as the  Company’s Lead Cost Auditors.
In accordance with the provisions  of Section 148(1) of the Act, read with  the Companies (Cost Records and  Audit) Rules, 2014, the Company has  maintained cost records.
Secretarial Auditor The Board had appointed Dr. K.R.
Chandratre, Practising Company  Secretary, to conduct Secretarial Audit.
The Secretarial Audit Report for the  financial year ended March 31, 2022  is annexed herewith and marked  as Annexure III to this Report.
The  Secretarial Audit Report does not  contain any qualification, reservation,  adverse remark or disclaimer.
Disclosures Meetings of the Board Five Meetings of the Board of  Directors were held during the year.
The particulars of the meetings held  and attendance of each Director  are detailed in the Corporate  Governance Report.
Audit Committee During the year under review,  Shri Yogendra P. Trivedi demitted  office as a Director of the Company  and consequently ceased to be  the chairman and member of  the Audit Committee.
The Audit  Committee presently comprises  Shri Raminder Singh Gujral (Chairman),  Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar, Shri Adil  Zainulbhai and Shri K. V. Chowdary.
All the recommendations made  by the Audit Committee were  accepted by the Board.
Human Resources,  Nomination and  Remuneration (HRNR)  Committee During the year under review,  Shri Yogendra P. Trivedi demitted  office as a Director of the Company  and consequently ceased to be a  member of the HRNR Committee.
The HRNR Committee presently  comprises Shri Adil Zainulbhai  (Chairman), Dr. Raghunath A.  Mashelkar, Shri Raminder Singh  Gujral, Dr. Shumeet Banerji and  Shri K. V. Chowdary.
Corporate Social  Responsibility and  Governance (CSR&G)  Committee During the year under review,  Shri Yogendra P. Trivedi demitted  office as a Director of the Company  and consequently ceased to be the  chairman and member of the CSR&G  Committee.
The CSR&G Committee  presently comprises  Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar  (Chairman), Shri Nikhil R. Meswani and  Dr. Shumeet Banerji.
Stakeholders’ Relationship  (SR) Committee During the year under review,  Shri Yogendra P. Trivedi demitted  office as a Director of the Company  and consequently ceased to be  the chairman and member of the  SR Committee.
The SR Committee  presently comprises Shri K. V.  Chowdary (Chairman), Smt.
Arundhati  Bhattacharya, Shri Nikhil R. Meswani  and Shri Hital R. Meswani.
Details of composition of other  committees are given in the Corporate  Governance Report.
Vigil Mechanism and  Whistle-blower Policy The Company has established  a robust Vigil Mechanism and a  Whistle-blower policy in accordance  with the provisions of the Act and  the Listing Regulations.
Ethics &  Compliance Task Force (ECTF)  comprising an Executive Director,  General Counsel, Group Controller  and Group Corporate Secretarial and  Governance has been established  which oversees and monitors the  implementation of ethical business  practices in the Company.
The task  force evaluates incidents of suspected  or actual violations of the Code of  Conduct and reports them to the Audit  Committee every quarter.
Employees and other stakeholders  are required to report actual or  suspected violations of applicable  laws and regulations and the Code  of Conduct.
Such genuine concerns  (termed Reportable Matter) disclosed  as per Policy are called “Protected  Disclosures” and can be raised by a  Whistle-blower through an e-mail or  dedicated telephone line or a letter  to the ECTF or to the Chairman of the  Audit Committee.
The Vigil Mechanism  and Whistle-blower policy is available  on the Company’s website and  can be accessed at https:/ /www.
ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/ Vigil-Mechanism-and-Whistle- Blower-Policy.pdf Prevention of Sexual  Harassment at Workplace In accordance with the requirements  of the Sexual Harassment of Women  at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition  & Redressal) Act, 2013 (“POSH Act”) and  Rules made thereunder, the Company  has in place a policy which mandates  no tolerance against any conduct  amounting to sexual harassment of  women at workplace.
The Company  has constituted Internal Committee(s)  (ICs) to redress and resolve any  complaints arising under the POSH  Act.
Training / awareness programs  are conducted throughout the year  to create sensitivity towards ensuring  respectable workplace.
Particulars of loans  given, investments made,  guarantees given and  securities provided Particulars of loans given, investments  made, guarantees given and  securities provided along with  the purpose for which the loan or  guarantee or security provided is  proposed to be utilised by the recipient  are provided in the Standalone  Financial Statement (Please refer Note  2, 3, 7, 10, 34 and 40 to the Standalone  Financial Statement).
Conservation of Energy,  Technology Absorption and  Foreign Exchange Earnings  and Outgo The particulars relating to  conservation of energy, technology  absorption, foreign exchange earnings  and outgo, as required to be disclosed  under the Act, are provided in  Annexure IV  to this Report.
Annual Return The Annual Return of the Company  as on March 31, 2022 is available on  the Company’s website and can be  accessed at https://www.ril.com/ DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/Annual- Return-2021-22.pdf Particulars of Employees and  Related Disclosures In terms of the provisions of Section  197(12) of the Act read with Rules  5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies  (Appointment and Remuneration of  Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014,  a statement showing the names of  the top ten employees in terms of  remuneration drawn and names and  other particulars of the employees  drawing remuneration in excess of the  limits set out in the said rules forms  part of this Report.
Disclosures relating to remuneration  and other details as required under  Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule  5(1) of the Companies (Appointment  and Remuneration of Managerial  Personnel) Rules, 2014 forms part  of this Report.
Having regard to the provisions of the  second proviso to Section 136(1) of the  Act and as advised, the Annual Report  excluding the aforesaid information  is being sent to the members of the  Company.
Any member interested  in obtaining such information may  address their email to rilagm@ril.com Board’s Report 274 275 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  Companies / Bodies Corporate which became / ceased to be Company’s Subsidiaries,  Joint Ventures or Associate Companies as per the provisions of the Companies Act,  2013: 1.
Companies / Bodies Corporate which became subsidiaries during the financial year   2021-22: Sr. No.
Name of the Company / Bodies Corporate 1.
7-India Convenience Retail Limited 2.
Stoke Park Limited 3.
Reliance New Energy Limited (Formerly known as Reliance New Energy Solar Limited) 4.
Reliance New Solar Energy Limited 5.
Kutch New Energy Projects Limited (Formerly known as Reliance Solar Projects Limited) 6.
Reliance Storage Limited 7.
Reliance New Energy Storage Limited 8.
Reliance New Energy Carbon Fibre Cylinder Limited 9.
Reliance International Limited 10.
Reliance New Energy Hydrogen Electrolysis Limited 11.
Reliance New Energy Power Electronics Limited 12.
Reliance Carbon Fibre Cylinder Limited 13.
Reliance Power Electronics Limited 14.
Addverb Technologies Private Limited 15.
Addverb Technologies Pty Limited 16.
Addverb Technologies B.V. 17.
Addverb Technologies PTE Limited 18.
Aaidea Solutions Limited (Formerly known as Aaidea Solutions Private Limited) 19.
Vasyerp Solutions Private Limited 20.
Reliance New Energy Hydrogen Fuel Cell Limited 21.
Strand Life Sciences Private Limited 22.
Reliance Hydrogen Fuel Cell Limited 23.
Reliance Hydrogen Electrolysis Limited 24.
Just Dial Limited 25.
JD International Pte.
Ltd. 26.
Just Dial Inc. 27.
MYJD Private Limited 28.
Reliance Ritu Kumar Private Limited (Formerly known as Ritika Private Limited) 29.
Ritu Kumar ME (FZE) [Formerly known as Ritu Kumar ME (FZC)] 30.
Jio Space Technology Limited 31.
Jio Satellite Communications Limited 32.
Reliance Syngas Limited 33.
Jaisuryas Retail Ventures Private Limited 34.
Amante India Private Limited (Formerly known as MAS Brands India Private Limited) 35.
Intimi India Private Limited 36.
MAS Brands Exports (Private) Limited 37.
MAS Brands Lanka (Private) Limited 38.
Enercent Technologies Private Limited 39.
Kalanikethan Silks Private Limited 40.
Kalanikethan Fashions Private Limited 41.
Addverb Technologies USA Inc. 42.
Tira Beauty Limited 43.
REC Solar Holdings AS 44.
REC Solar Pte.
Ltd 45.
REC Scanmodule Sweden AB Annexure IGeneral Your Directors state that no disclosure  or reporting is required in respect of  the following matters as there were no  transactions on these matters during  the year under review: •  Details relating to deposits covered  under Chapter V of the Act.
• Issue of equity shares with  differential rights as to dividend,  voting or otherwise.
• Issue of shares (including sweat  equity shares) to employees of  the Company under any scheme  save and except Employees’ Stock  Options Schemes referred to  in this Report.
• Neither the Managing Director nor  the Whole-time Directors of the  Company receive any remuneration  or commission from any of  its subsidiaries.
• No significant or material orders  were passed by the Regulators or  Courts or Tribunals which impact  the going concern status and  Company’s operations in future.
• No fraud has been reported  by the Auditors to the Audit  Committee or the Board.
• There has been no change in the  nature of business of the Company.
• There is no proceeding pending  under the Insolvency and  Bankruptcy Code, 2016.
• There was no instance of one- time settlement with any Bank or  Financial Institution.
Acknowledgement The Board of Directors wish to place on  record its deep sense of appreciation  for the committed services by all  the employees of the Company.
The  Board of Directors would also like to  express their sincere appreciation  for the assistance and co-operation  received from the financial institutions,  banks, government and regulatory  authorities, stock exchanges,  customers, vendors, members,  debenture holders and debenture  trustee during the year under review.
For and on behalf of the  Board of Directors Mukesh D. Ambani Chairman and Managing Director May 06, 2022 Board’s Report 276 277 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  Sr. No.
Name of the Company / Bodies Corporate 46.
REC Solar (Japan) Co., Ltd 47.
REC Solar EMEA GmbH 48.
REC US Holdings, Inc. 49.
REC Solar Norway AS 50.
REC Systems (Thailand) Co., Ltd 51.
REC Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd 52.
REC Solar France 53.
REC Americas LLC 54.
Nilgiris Stores Limited 55.
Foodhall Franchises Limited 56.
Faradion Limited 57.
Faradion UG 58.
Future Lifestyles Franchisee Limited 59.
Abraham and Thakore Exports Private Limited 2.
Companies / Bodies Corporate which ceased to be subsidiaries during the financial year   2021-22: Sr. No.
Name of the Company / Bodies Corporate 1 eDreams Edusoft Private Limited * 2 Hamleys Global Holdings Limited # 3 The Hamleys Group Limited # 4 Scrumpalicious Limited # 5 Luvley Limited # 6 Radisys Poland sp.
Z.o.o.
#  * Merged with Indiavidual Learning Limited  # Dissolved / Liquidated 3.
There are no Companies/ Bodies Corporate which became / ceased to be Joint Venture or Associate during the  FY 2021-22.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors Mukesh D. Ambani Chairman and Managing Director May 06, 2022 Annexure II Annual Report on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities for the financial  year 2021-22 1.
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company Refer Section: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in the Board’s Report  2.
Composition of CSR Committee SI.
No.
Name of Director Designation/ Nature of Directorship Number of  meetings of CSR  Committee held  during the year Number of  meetings of  CSR Committee  attended during  the year 1 Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar * Chairman (Non-Executive Director) 4 4 2 Shri Nikhil R. Meswani Member (Executive Director) 4 4 3 Dr. Shumeet Banerji Member (Non-Executive Director) 4 4 *  During the year, Shri Yogendra P. Trivedi demitted office as a Director of the Company (effective from the conclusion of the 44th Annual General  Meeting (Post IPO) held on June 24, 2021), and accordingly, ceased to be the Chairman and member of the Committee.
With effect from  June 30, 2021, Dr Raghunath A. Mashelkar was appointed as the Chairman of the Committee.
Shri Yogendra P. Trivedi has attended all the  Committee meetings held till June 24, 2021.
3.
Provide the weblink where Composition  of CSR Committee, CSR Policy and CSR  projects approved by the Board are  disclosed on the website of the company Composition of CSR Committee https://www.ril.com/OurCompany/ Leadership/Board Committees.aspx CSR Policy https://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/ IRStatutory/CSR-Policy.pdf CSR projects approved by the Board https://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/ IRStatutory/CSR-Proje cts-2021-22.pdf 4.
Provide the details of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance  of sub-rule(3) of rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy)  Rules, 2014, if applicable (attach the report) The Company has carried out Impact  Assessment through an Independent  third party and the summary of the  reports are attached.
5.
Details of the amount available for set off in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 7 of the Companies (Corporate Social  Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and amount required for set off for the financial year, if any (` in crore) Sl.
No Financial Year Amount available  for set-off from  preceding  financial years  Amount required  to be set-off for  the financial year,  if any 1 2020-21 38 Not applicable * 2 2019-20 34 Not applicable * 3 2018-19 38 Not applicable * Total 110 Not applicable * * The Company has spent in excess of the mandatory requirement under the Companies Act, 2013 but the same is not proposed to be set off.
6.
Average net profit of the company as per Section 135 (5) 36,827 crore 7.
(a) Two percent of average net profit of the company as per Section 135 (5) 737 crore  (b) Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years Nil  (c) Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any Nil  (d) Total CSR obligation for the financial year (7a+7b-7c) 737 crore 8.
(a) CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year: Total Amount  spent for the  Financial Year Amount Unspent ( ` in crore) Total Amount transferred to Unspent CSR  Account as per Section 135(6) Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII  as per second proviso to Section 135(5) Amount Date of transfer Name of the fund Amount Date of transfer ` 813 crore Not Applicable Not Applicable Board’s Report 278 279 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  8.
(b) Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year: (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) SI.
No.
Name of the  Project Item from  the list of  activities in  Schedule VII  to the Act Local  area  (Yes/ No) Location of the Project Project  duration* Amount  allocated  for the  project (` in  crore)** Amount  spent in  the current  financial  year (` in crore) Amount  transferred to  Unspent CSR  Account for the  project as per  Section 135(6) (` in crore) Mode of  Implementation  - Direct (Yes/ No) Mode of Implementation -   Through Implementing Agency State District Name CSR Registration  number Education 1 Promoting  Institution  of Eminence  - Jio Institute Clause (ii)   Promoting   education Yes Maharashtra Raigad 15 Years 142 142 - No Reliance Foundation  Institution of  Education and Research CSR00000624 Total 142 142 * Project duration is from the year of commencement of the project.
** Represents budget for the financial year 2021-22 8.
(c) Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year: (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) SI.
No.
Name of the Project Item from the list  of activities in  Schedule VII to  the Act Local  area  (Yes/ No) Location of the Project Amount  spent for  the project   (` in crore) Mode of  Implementation  - Direct (Yes/No) Mode of Implementation -   Through Implementing Agency State District Name CSR Registration  number Education 1 Scholarship and  Education Support Clause (ii)  Promoting  education Yes Note 1 9 No Reliance Foundation   CSR00000623 2 Reliance Foundation Schools Yes Note 2 13 No Reliance Foundation   CSR00000623 Yes Maharashtra Raigad 12 Yes Direct 3 Infrastructure development for  primary schools, aanganwadi  and other initiatives at  manufacturing sites Yes Note 3 6 No Reliance Foundation   CSR00000623 Yes Gujarat Jamnagar, Hazira,   Vadodara 5 Yes Direct 4 Other Initiatives  including Programme   Partnerships Yes Note 4 14 No Reliance Foundation   CSR00000623 Yes Note 5 1 Yes Direct Health 5 Preventive and Public  Healthcare Initiatives Clause (i)  Promoting health  care including   preventive  health care Yes Maharashtra Mumbai 114 No Reliance Foundation CSR00000623 6 Drishti Corneal transplant  and other initiatives for  visually impaired Yes Maharashtra   Tamil Nadu Mumbai  Madurai 2 No Reliance Foundation CSR00000623 7 Medical Relief and  Assistance Programme Yes Note 6 3 No Reliance Foundation CSR00000623 Yes Note 7 4 Yes Direct 8 COVID-19 -  Mission Covid Suraksha Yes Gujarat   Maharashtra Jamnagar  Mumbai 109 Yes Direct Yes Note 8 222 No Reliance Foundation CSR00000623 9 Other Initiatives  including Programme   Partnerships Yes Note 9 5 Yes Direct Yes Note 10 16 No Reliance Foundation CSR00000623 (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) SI.
No.
Name of the Project Item from the list  of activities in  Schedule VII to  the Act Local  area  (Yes/ No) Location of the Project Amount  spent for  the project   (` in crore) Mode of  Implementation  - Direct (Yes/No) Mode of Implementation -   Through Implementing Agency State District Name CSR Registration  number Rural Transformation 10 Sustainable  Livelihoods Programme Clause (i)  Eradicating  hunger, poverty  and malnutrition,  drinking  water; Clause  (iv) ensuring  environmental  sustainability,  ecological  balance,  protection  of flora and  fauna, animal  welfare; (x) rural  development  projects Yes Note 11 40 No Reliance Foundation CSR00000623 11 Development of Rural  Infrastructure and other Rural  Development initiatives Yes Gujarat Delhi Maharashtra Jamnagar New Delhi Mumbai 13 No Reliance Foundation CSR00000623 12 Drinking Water Supply and  other Rural Development  Programmes at  manufacturing sites Yes Gujarat Maharashtra Andhra  Pradesh Jamnagar,  Surat, Vadodara, Raigad East Godavari 7 Yes Direct Yes Note 12 9 No Reliance Foundation CSR00000623 13 Other Initiatives including  Programme Partnerships Yes Note 13 21 No Reliance Foundation CSR00000623 Yes Gujarat Maharashtra Delhi Ahmedabad, Rajkot Mumbai New Delhi 11 Yes Direct Disaster Response 14 COVID-19 Relief -  Mission Anna Sewa Clause (xii)  disaster  management,  including relief,  rehabilitation and  reconstruction  activities Yes Gujarat Maharashtra Jamnagar Mumbai * Yes Direct Yes Note 14 2 No Reliance Foundation CSR00000623 15 COVID-19 - Relief Support Yes Note 15 2 No Reliance Foundation CSR00000623 Sports for Development 16 Promoting Grassroot Sports Clause (vii)  training to  promote rural  sports, nationally  recognised  sports,  paralympic  sports and  olympic sports Yes Maharashtra Mumbai, Thane 3 No Reliance Foundation CSR00000623 Yes Maharashtra Odisha Mumbai Khordha 22 No Reliance Foundation Youth  Sports CSR00000365 17 Other Initiatives including  Programme Partnerships Yes Gujarat Ahmedabad,  Narmada 2 Yes Direct Other Initiatives 18 Promoting Sustainable  Environment, Arts and Culture (iv) ensuring  environmental  sustainability,  ecological  balance,  protection of  flora and fauna,  animal welfare,  (v) protection of  national heritage,  art and culture,  (iii) promoting  gender equality,  empowering  women, setting  up homes and  hostels for women  and orphans; Yes Maharashtra Mumbai 4 No Reliance Foundation CSR00000623 Yes Punjab Maharashtra Hoshiarpur Mumbai * Yes Direct Total 671 * denotes amount less than ` 50 lakhs Note 1:  Andaman & Nicobar : Port Blair, Andhra Pradesh : Chittoor, East Godavari, Kadapa, Krishna, Vizianagaram, West Godavari, Assam :  Kamrup, Nagaon, Sonitpur, Bihar : Bhagalpur, Bhojpur, Gaya, Gopalganj, Munger, Nalanda, Patna, Chandigarh : Chandigarh,  Chhattisgarh : Durg, Korba, Mungeli, Delhi : East Delhi, New Delhi, South Delhi, South West Delhi, West Delhi, Goa : North Goa, South  Goa, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu : Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman, Gujarat : Ahmedabad, Amreli, Anand, Aravali,  Banaskantha, Bharuch, Bhavnagar, Botad, Chhota Udepur, Dahod, Devbhumi Dwarka, Gandhinagar, Gir Somnath, Jamnagar,  Junagadh, Kachchh, Kheda, Mahisagar, Mehsana, Morbi, Narmada, Navsari, Panchmahal, Patan, Porbandar, Rajkot, Sabarkantha,  Surat, Surendranagar, Tapi, Vadodara, Valsad, Haryana : Ambala, Bhiwani, Fatehabad, Gurugram, Hisar, Jind, Kaithal, Mahendragarh,  Palwal, Panchkula, Himachal Pradesh : Hamirpur, Kangra, Kullu, Shimla, Solan, Una, Jammu & Kashmir : Anantnag, Baramulla,  Budgam, Jammu, Srinagar, Jharkhand : Bokaro, Hazaribagh, Pakur, Ramgarh, Ranchi, Karnataka : Bagalkot, Bengaluru, Dakshina  Board’s Report 280 281 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  Kannada, Dharwad, Hassan, Tumakuru, Kerala : Kollam, Kottayam, Kozhikode, Malappuram, Palakkad, Thrissur, Madhya Pradesh :  Bhopal, Dhar, Indore, Seoni, Sheopur, Shivpuri, Maharashtra : Mumbai, Ahmednagar, Akola, Amravati, Aurangabad, Beed, Bhandara,  Buldhana, Chandrapur, Dhule, Gadchiroli, Gondia, Hingoli, Jalgaon, Jalna, Kolhapur, Latur, Nagpur, Nanded, Nandurbar, Nashik,  Osmanabad, Palghar, Parbhani, Pune, Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sangli, Satara, Sindhudurg, Solapur, Thane, Wardha, Washim, Yavatmal,  Manipur : Churachandpur, Meghalaya : East Jaintia Hills, Mizoram : Aizawl, Kolasib, Nagaland : Dimapur, Kohima, Odisha : Bhadrak,  Dhenkanal, Jajpur, Kalahandi, Keonjhar, Khordha, Sundargarh, Puducherry : Puducherry, Punjab : Amritsar, Bathinda, Gurdaspur,  Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Mansa, Rupnagar, Rajashthan : Dungarpur, Jodhpur, Alwar, Bharatpur, Bhilwara, Jaipur, Karauli, Pali, Rajsamand,  Sikkim : Gangtok, Gyalshing, Tamil Nadu : Chennai, Tiruvallur, Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Erode, Madurai, Namakkal, Thanjavur, Tiruppur,  Telangana : Hyderabad, Medak, Nizamabad, Rangareddy, Warangal, Tripura : North Tripura, West Tripura, Uttar Pradesh : Amroha,  Barabanki, Gautam Budhha Nagar, Hardoi, Lucknow, Maharajganj, Mathura, Mirzapur, Pratapgarh, Raebareli, Saharanpur, Shamli,  Uttarakhand : Dehradun, Nainital, Pauri Garhwal, West Bengal : Bankura, Bardhaman, Hooghly, Howrah, Kalimpong, Kolkata, Malda,  North 24 Parganas, Purba Medinipur, Uttar Dinajpur Note 2:  Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu: Silvassa, Gujarat : Surat, Bharuch, Jamnagar, Vadodara, Maharashtra : Nagpur, Mumbai Note 3:  Gujarat : Ahmedabad, Karnataka : Bengaluru, Madhya Pradesh : Bhopal, Odisha : Bhadrak, Tamil Nadu : Chennai, Delhi : New Delhi,  Kerala : Ernakulam, Haryana : Gurugram, Telangana : Hyderabad, West Bengal : Kolkata, Uttar Pradesh : Lucknow, Maharashtra :  Mumbai, Pune Note 4:  Karnataka : Bengaluru, Gujarat : Gandhinagar, Uttar Pradesh : Mathura, Varanasi, Maharashtra : Mumbai Note 5:  Gujarat : Rajkot, Bhuj, Jamnagar, Tamil Nadu : Chennai, Rajasthan : Banasbara, Haryana : Sonipat Note 6:   Gujarat : Surat, Haryana : Jhajjar, Madhya Pradesh : Anuppur, Maharashtra : Mumbai, Raigad, Punjab : Hoshiarpur, Uttar Pradesh :  Ghazipur Note 7:  Gujarat : Jamnagar, Vadodara, Surat, Maharashtra : Patalganga, Nagothane, Punjab : Hoshiarpur, Andhra Pradesh : East Godavari Note 8:   Andhra Pradesh : Amaravati, Assam : Dispur, Chattisgarh : Raipur, Delhi : New Delhi, Goa : Panaji, Gujarat : Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar,  Jamnagar, Chandigarh : Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh : Shimla, Jammu and Kashmir : Jammu, Jharkhand : Ranchi, Karnataka :  Mysore, Kerala : Thiruvananthapuram, Madhya Pradesh : Bhopal, Gwalior, Maharashtra : Ahmednagar, Mumbai, Nagpur, Pune, Raigad,  Thane, Mizoram : Aizawl, Odisha : Bhubaneshwar, Rajasthan : Jaipur, Tamil Nadu : Chennai, Telangana : Hyderabad, Tripura : Agartala,  Uttar Pradesh : Lucknow, Uttarakhand : Dehradun, West Bengal : Kolkata Note 9:  Rajasthan : Jaipur, Gujarat : Bharuch, Ahmedabad, Surat, Delhi : New Delhi Note 10:   Delhi : New Delhi, Gujarat : Ahmedabad, Jamnagar, Surat, Madhya Pradesh : Betul, Annupur, Maharashtra : Thane, Mumbai, Uttar  Pradesh : Bareilly, Lucknow, Tamil Nadu : Chennai, Haryana : Faridabad, Rajasthan : Jaipur Note 11:   Andhra Pradesh : Kurnool, East Godavari, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, Nellore, Guntur, West Godavari, Anantapur, Bihar : Purnia,  Patna, Bhagalpur, Chhattisgarh : Rajnandgaon, Raipur, Narayanpur, Durg, Balod, Goa : North Goa, Gujarat : Rajkot, Aravalli, Patan,  Bharuch, Ahmedabad, Junagadh, Gir Somnath, Sabarkantha, Kutch, Anand, Jharkhand : Deoghar, Ranchi, Palamu, Sahibganj,  Karnataka : Bidar, Gadag, Udupi, Raichur, Kerala : Ernakulam, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Madhya Pradesh : Chhindwara, Mandla,  Bhopal, Panna, Seoni, Barwani, Hoshangabad, Rewa, Indore, Jabalpur, Maharashtra : Mumbai, Parbhani, Aurangabad, Yavatmal,  Nagpur, Amravati, Kolhapur, Ratnagiri, Washim, Akola, Buldhana, Palghar, Solapur, Odisha : Balangir, Bhadrak, Angul, Ganjam,  Khordha, Dhenkanal, Puducherry : Puducherry, Punjab : Mohali, Bathinda, Ludhiana, Rajasthan : Sawai Madhopur, Banswara, Udaipur,  Kota, Jhalawar, Tamil Nadu : Chennai, Pudukkottai, Madurai, Nagapattinam, Dindigul, Kanyakumari, Thanjavur, Ramanathapuram,  Telangana : Nizamabad, Khammam, Warangal, Asifabad, Kamareddy, Nalgonda, Tripura : West Tripura, Gomati, Uttar Pradesh :  Lucknow, Varanasi, Balrampur, Uttarakhand : Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag, Deharadun, Nainital, Haridwar, West Bengal : Kolkata, Nadia,  Birbhum, Purba Bardhaman, North 24 Parganas Note 12:   Gujarat : Bharuch, Surat, Haryana : Jhajjar, Jharkhand : East Singhbhum, Madhya Pradesh : Anuppur, Bhopal, Maharashtra : Palghar,  Raigad Note 13:   Andhra Pradesh : Chittoor, Maharashtra : Mumbai, Uttar Pradesh : Ghazipur, Delhi : New Delhi, Madhya Pradesh : Hoshangabad,  Puducherry : Puducherry Note 14:   Maharashtra : Mumbai, Nashik, Thane, Osmanabad, Rajasthan : Banswara, Bundi, Sawai Madhopur, Tamil Nadu : Thanjavur, Theni,  Tiruvallur, Tiruvarur, Tiruchirappalli, Thoothukudi, Vellore, Virudhunagar, Telengana : Nizamabad, Warangal, Tripura : South Tripura,  Uttarakhand : Chamoli, Dehradun, Rudraprayag, Uttarkashi, West Bengal : Bankura, Birbhum, Darjeeling, East Midnapore, Hooghly,  Howrah, Jalpaiguri, Malda, Nadia, North 24 Parganas, Purulia, South 24 Parganas, South Dinajpur Note 15:   Gujarat : Gandhinagar, Karnataka : Bengaluru, Kerala : Wayanad, Thiruvanantapuram, Maharashtra : Raigad, Mumbai, Odisha : Puri,  Bhadrak, Uttarakhand : Chamoli 8.
(d) Amount spent on Administrative Overheads -  (e) Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable *  (f) Total amount spent for the Financial Year (8b+8c+8d+8e) ` 813 crore * Amount claimed towards Impact Assessment is ` 50 lakhs 8.
(g) Excess amount for set off, if any (` in crore) SI.
No.
Particulars Amount (i) Two percent of average net profit of the company as per Section 135(5)  737  (ii) Total amount spent for the financial year  813  (iii) Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]  76  (iv) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years, if any  -  (v) Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]  76  9.
(a) Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceeding three financial years: (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) SI.
No.
Preceding  Financial Year Amount  transferred to  Unspent CSR  Account under  Section 135(6)  (` in crore) Amount spent  in the reporting  Financial Year   (` in crore) Amount transferred to any fund specified  under Schedule VII as per Section 135(6), if any Amount remaining to  be spent in succeeding  financial years (` in crore)Name of the Fund Amount (` in crore) Date of  transfer Not Applicable 9.
(b) Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceeding financial year(s): (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) SI.
No.
Project ID Name of the project Financial  year in  which the  project was  commenced Project  duration Total Amount  allocated for  the project   (` in crore)  Amount  spent on the  project in  the reporting  Financial year   (` in crore) Cumulative  amount spent  at the end  of reporting  Financial Year  (` in crore) Status of  the project-  Completed/ Ongoing Not Applicable 10.
In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating to the asset so created or acquired through CSR  spent in the financial year  (a) Date of creation or acquisition of the capital asset (s) Not applicable  (b) Amount of CSR spent for creation or acquisition of capital asset Not applicable  (c)  Details of the entity or public authority or beneficiary under whose name such capital asset is  registered, their address etc Not applicable  (d)  Provide details of the capital asset(s) created or acquired (including complete address and location  of the capital asset) Not applicable 11  Specify the reasons(s), if the company has failed to spend two percent of the average net profit as  per section 135(5) Not applicable   For and on behalf of the Board of Directors Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar Nikhil R. Meswani Mukesh D. Ambani (Chairman, CSR&G Committee) (Executive Director) (Chairman and Managing Director) Date : May 06, 2022 Board’s Report 282 283 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  Summary of independent  Impact Assessment  studies conducted Year 2021-22 I.
Role of Farmer Producers  Organisation (FPO) in  Rural Transformation  under Reliance  Foundation Bharat India  Jodo RF BIJ 1.
Impact Assessment Agency  - Global Agri System  Private Limited 2.
About the Project   Farmer Producer Organisations  (FPO) are emerging fast as one  of the most effective means  to cater to the needs of small  and marginal farmers and in  bringing rural transformation.
Over the last decade, Reliance  Foundation (RF) has made  pioneering efforts in mentoring,  nurturing and incubating  25 FPOs across the country  reaching over 45,000 farmers.
These FPOs were mentored with  the intent of bringing holistic  development of the farmers’  livelihoods facilitating them to  come together as a collective,  aggregate their produce for  economies of scale and bargain  for better market prices.
3.
Objective   To evaluate the impact of FPOs on  members’ lives and ecosystem.
4.
Key Findings a.
Overall:  i.
The study reveals that the  FPOs have performed well  to address the triple bottom  line of higher trajectory  in economic, social, and  environmental aspects.
ii.
72% respondents affirmed  that the FPOs have brought  positive transformative  changes in their lives  and livelihoods.
iii.
97% respondents have  reported incremental income  with 63% of respondents  reporting an increase of  about ` 40,000 per annum.
b.
Improved access and savings  in input costs:  i.
93% of respondents reported  better access to agricultural  inputs and farm machinery.
54% of respondents reported  to have saved ` 12,000  or more per annum on  Agricultural inputs and  farm machinery.
ii.
65% of the farmers  reported reduction in  transportation costs with  the FPO procurement  centres being closer to  their homes, transparent  weighing and grading.
iii.
65% of the respondents  reported that the frequency  of visiting banks to access  loans has reduced due to  better transaction records.
c.   Access to Markets - 71%  reported that due to RF’s  mentorship, their access to  markets was better which  resulted in  i.
Better price discovery, with  access to information and  market linkages.
ii.
Convenience of procurement  of better quality inputs at  village level & saving in  time to access.
iii.
Improved access to  Minimum Support Price (MSP)  procurement centres near  their villages.
iv.
Transparent weighing &  grading; digital payments.
v.  Prompt payments; benefit  in credit from banks  and reduced monopoly  of local traders.
II.
Impact Assessment of  Community Development  programme in Madhya  Pradesh 1.
Impact Assessment Agency  – Samhita Social Ventures  Private Limited 2.
About the Project   Reliance Foundation (RF) initiated  a comprehensive community  development programme at  Shahdol and Kotma in Madhya  Pradesh based on the principle  of ‘growing together’ to help  support communities through  access to sustainable water  resources, healthcare and  education, and creation of better  livelihood opportunities.
3.
Objective   To evaluate the impact of the  Community Development  Programme on beneficiaries’  members’ lives and ecosystem.
4.
Key findings a.
Overall  i.
The study found that RF  has played a catalytic role  in addressing the district’s  development challenges  through innovative and  sustainable solutions,  facilitating transformative  changes to ensure wellbeing  and higher quality of life.
b.
Water  i.
85% respondents reported  increased potable water  availability, while 81%  reported increased irrigation  water availability.
ii.
Reduced time and distance  to fetch drinking water.
c. Healthcare  i.
92% reported access  to free health services  at their doorstep  resulting in reduction in  health expenditure.
ii.
Increased uptake  of nutritional food  due to Reliance  Nutrition Gardens (RNG).
iii.
39% respondents reported  access to and availability  of diverse vegetables  through the RNG.
d.  Education and Skill  Development  i.
Better access to  school for children;  increase in awareness  and encouragement  to venture into less- explored opportunities;  increased access to digital  learning and improved  infrastructure of schools.
ii.
95% respondents received  educational assistance that  helped continued education  (esp.
for the girl child).
iii.
Increased opportunities  through vocational trainings.
iv.
Enhanced skills among the  farmers due to access to  improved knowledge of  modern farming techniques.
e. Livelihoods  i.
83% of the respondents  reported an increase in the  number of crops grown as a  result of crop diversification  and productivity  improvement programmes.
ii.
Measures such as Systemic  Rice Intensification (SRI) and  RNGs helped to ensure food  and nutritional security.
Paddy  productivity increased from  6 quintals/acre to 10 quintals/ acre, helping farmers double  their income in intervention  villages.
Annual agriculture  income increased to ` 40,000.  iii.
Livelihood Diversification  – Promotion of off farm  livelihood options through  poultry, goat rearing and  pisciculture helped in  increasing income by an  average of 65%.
It also helped  in ensuring alternate income  sources and risk mitigation.
iv.
94% respondents reported  receiving off farm livelihood  support from government  schemes through  assistance of RF.
III.
Empowering Rural  Communities through  Knowledge-Based  Livelihood Support – An  Impact Assessment of  Reliance Foundation’s  Information Services  Programme 1.
Impact Assessment  Agency – N R Management  Consultants India Private  Limited 2.
Project Background   Reliance Foundation Information  Services (RFIS) programme  delivers knowledge based  livelihood information in regional  languages to farmers, fisher folk  and livestock owners using various  digital platforms and mass media  tools.
The programme facilitates  productivity and income  enhancement with the objective  of reducing the cost of cultivation  and lowering the yield loss due to  climatic stress, pest infestations  and disease etc.
3.
Objective   Assess the impact of the RFIS  programme on the economic  status, knowledge and capacity of  the communities.
4.
Key Findings: a.
Overall  i.
The programme serves  as a platform to improve  livelihoods through  increased awareness in  the target communities  about accessing  knowledge resources,  government welfare  schemes and benefits.
ii.
Evidence of improved health  practices among mothers  and their children.
iii.
Evidence of improved linkages  of youth to employment and  skilling opportunities available  in their vicinity.
b.
Increased access to  knowledge resources and  adaption of sustainable  practices  i.
Reliance Foundation (RF)  was recognized as a trusted  source of information across  all target groups with close  to 90% respondents reported  willingness to adapt and take  action based on advisories.
ii.
88% of the respondents  adopted production practices  after listening to the RFIS  programme, out of which  71% farmers reported at least  one improved agricultural  production practice.
iii.
83% of the respondents  adopted production practices  after listening to RFIS  programme, out of which 72%  livestock owners reported at  least one improved livestock  production practice.
iv.
80% of the respondents  adopted production  practices after listening  to RFIS programme, out  of which 66% fisher folk  improved at least one fishery  production practice.
c.  Better Income and  Improvement in Socio  Economic Status  i.
Improvements in yield, loss  aversion and improved  input efficiency have led to  55% increase in net income  for the farmers.
ii.
Better production practices in  breeding, disease and fodder  management leading to  82% increase in net income  among livestock farmers.
Board’s Report 284 285 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance   iii.
Significant reduction in  operating costs and weather  related risks for the artisanal  fisher folks.
The beneficiaries  reported a 45% increase in  net income from fisheries.
iv.
About one-third of farmers,  one-fourth of livestock  owners, and 64% of fisher  folk moved up at least one  category among the socio  economic weaker sections  since they enrolled with the  RFIS programme.
IV.
Impact Evaluation of RF  Bharat India Jodo 2.0  Initiative 1.
Impact Assessment Agency  – Catalyst Management  Services Private Limited 2.
Project Background   Reliance Foundation’s Bharat- India-Jodo (RF BIJ), works to bridge  the development gap between  rural and urban India.
Committed  to rural transformation, the  programme works with small  and marginal farmers, and helps  farming households that have  limited livelihood options through  capacity building of institutions,  women empowerment, and  entrepreneurship initiatives, also  focusing on the commons and  natural resource management for  sustainable transformation.
3.
Objectives a.
To assess and validate the  programme approach in creating  desired changes in the lives and  livelihoods of the rural community.
b.
To assess the role and efficacy of  rural institutions in contributing to  the programme objectives.
c.   To assess maturity of institutions  and their capability to deliver a  sustainable level of impact after  completion of the programme.
4.
Key Findings: a. Programme Approach  i.  Sustainability of the  interventions ensured through  convenor and facilitator role  played by RF taking a multi- stakeholder approach.
ii.
Impact at scale achieved  through embedding  participatory governance,  capacity building and  leadership development  across the three institutions  – Farmer Producer  Organizations (FPO), Gram  Panchayat (GP) and Self  Help Groups (SHG).
iii.
The programme successfully  facilitated convergence  of various agencies such  as Govt.
Departments and  Financial Institutions for  improved access of the  services and flow of credit.
iv.
At an Individual level, the  beneficiary households  reported direct increase of  35% in their income through  farm based livelihoods.
Livelihood diversification  through alternate livelihood  sources helped double  the income among  the respondents.
b.
Role and Efficacy of  Institutions  i.
75% of the Farmer Producer  Organizations (FPOs)  reported increased market  access at their doorsteps  (a quarter of the FPOs have  set up Minimum Support  Price Centers), close to 80%  have started agriculture  equipment and technology  extension support to their  members; half of the FPOs  reported increased access to  credit by almost 3 times for  their working capital needs  as compared to situation  three years ago.
ii.
Economic empowerment  has been achieved through  Self Help Groups (SHG).
Almost three fourths of  the members are actively  contributing to their  households.
This confidence  is reflected in their savings  and credit activities.
90% of  the members save diligently.
68% of the SHG members  are engaged in inter loaning  among the members.
iii.
People’s participation,  governance, and improved  amenities through Gram  Panchayat has been  achieved through active  participation of all especially  women.
65% women actively  participated in Gram Sabha  and preparation of the Gram  Panchayat Development  Plan (GPDP).
They are able  to voice themselves at  public forums to ensure  greater transparency and  compliance (45% members).
Projects such as drinking  water have been taken  up that directly affects  women.
There has been 3X  increase in the number of  households with access to  clean drinking water over the  last three years.
c.  Delivering a sustainable  impact  i.
Strengthening of Gram  Panchayats (GP) as an  institution has contributed  to several outcomes.
At  the household level, there  is an active uptake on  Government schemes with  up to 3X increase in number  of households that reported  access to government  schemes (compared to pre- 2018 situation).
ii.
Increased access to rural  employment through  participation in government  schemes for the poor such  as Mahatma Gandhi National  Rural Employment Guarantee  Scheme (MGNREGS) with up  to 3 times increase in funds  allocated under MGNREGS in  the Gram Panchayat Budget.
iii.
The programme  strengthened FPOs to  lead improved livelihoods,  enhanced income as well as  benefits of collectivization.
V.  Promoting Employability  Skills among Youth –  An Impact Assessment  Study of Skilling and  Employment programme  by Reliance Foundation 1.
Impact Assessment Agency  – 4th Wheel Social Impact 2.
Project Background   Recognising the need to  tackle unemployment in the  country, Reliance Foundation  (RF) in 2016 initiated Skilling and  Employment Programme for  the under privileged youth and  school dropouts.
The Skilling  & Employment programme,  trains unemployed youth in  services sector and also links  them to employment.
3.
Objective   To measure the social  and economic impact of  skilling and employment  programme on youth.
4.
Key Findings a.
Overall  i.
93% respondents reported  improvements in their  employability and soft skills.
The programme had a high  placement ratio (75%).
The  largest percentage of those  employed were in their jobs  for more than a year, with no  gender difference.
For 45% of  the beneficiaries this was their  first formal employment.
ii.
Providing employment  in the retail sector led to  increased availability of  trained human resources  at local level especially in  tier II and tier III cities (83%  respondents reported that  they do not want to change  their job).
It also helped  reduce migration (88% of  the respondents reported to  have not migrated for their  job) as the trainees could find  viable local jobs.
b.
Household Level Impact  i.
46% of the respondents  reported an increase in  income post the training.
53%  of the respondents reported  improvements in their  standard of living owing to the  programme.
Close to a fifth  respondents are sole earners  in their family, with ` 10,000  average monthly salary.
52%  of the respondents reported  to be regularly saving, with  average annual saving of  about ` 20,000.
86% reported  to have received job benefits  such as PF, paid leaves and  medical insurance.
ii.
Employment in formal sector  helped the youth secure  their livelihoods through the  pandemic.
82% respondents  felt that the training helped  them secure employment in  formal institutions and that  they continued to receive  salaries during lockdown.
VI.
Solving for Rural India’s  Toughest Challenges – An  Impact Assessment Study  of Water Based Initiatives  undertaken by Reliance  Foundation 1.
Impact Assessment Agency  – Kantar Public 2.
Project Background   Reliance Foundation’s Bharat  India Jodo RF BIJ initiative,  flagship programme of Rural  Transformation (RT) has been  working on transforming the lives  and livelihoods of people in rural  areas through a holistic, self- reliant, and sustainable model.
RF  BIJ’s water focused initiatives are  broadly based on four aspects  which include organizing and  capacitating the community,  participatory water budgeting,  collaboration with Gram  Panchayats, and government  for synergies/capacitating  community in water resources,  management and critical  support for water harvesting and  water management.
3.
Objective   To assess the impact of RF BIJ  water initiatives in securing  lives and livelihoods of  rural communities.
4.
Key Findings a.
Overall Impact  i.
The study revealed that the  water initiatives not only  impacted the beneficiaries  with its intended outcomes,  but also had a trickle-down  effect that contributed to  holistic development in the  intervention villages.
ii.
Ensuring Water Security  - The water capacity  created through the project  resulted in improved water  availability for agriculture  and household needs.
This  increase in water capacity  for agriculture resulted in  de-risking of rainfed nature  of agriculture.
The increase in  water availability for domestic  purposes resulted in around  89% intervention village  residents having the primary  source of water within 200 M  from their homes.
84% of the  farmers reported not having  faced any water scarcity in  the recent years.
iii.
Augmenting Sustainable  Livelihoods - 79% of farmers  reported an increase in area  under assured irrigation.
85%  farmers in the intervention  villages reported cultivating  crops two or more times a  year.
In addition, more than  half of the farmers cultivated  three or more types of  crops annually resulting in  diversification of crops.
b.
Household Level Impact  i.
Increase in Income - The  income in the intervention  villages was higher  compared to control villages.
Average annual gross income  from agriculture was found  to be ` 1.08 lakhs; which was  three times the income of the  control group respondents.
Board’s Report 286 287 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance   ii.
Reduced Distress Migration  - With increased income,  outbound migration in  intervention villages was less  than half (12%) of what was  observed in control villages.
iii.
Reduced drudgery and  Improved Health Conditions  - 75% of the respondents  reported significant reduction  in drudgery of women  (spent less than 0.5 hour) in  fetching water.
c. Societal Level Impact  i.  People’s Participation  - Respondents in the  intervention villages  comparatively felt  more empowered in  participating within the  decision making process  of the community based  organizations compared  to respondents from the  control group villages.
81%  villages developed water  budgeting plans for efficient  management of water  resources with 86% farmers  respondents reported to  be part of the water user  groups for effective water  governance in their villages.
74% farmers reported to  be contributing towards  maintenance cost of  common property resources  within their villages.
ii.
Trickle Down Benefit - The  initiatives by RF BIJ not  just increased income,  but also helped cultural  transformation by changing  attitudes and aspirations  of the village residents.
As  income improved, the notion  of educating their children  became plausible for farmers  – thus resulting in higher  aspirations for their children’s  education, especially for  the girl child.
iii.
With the increase in money,  in the hands of women, an  increase in SHGs participation  was observed.
Women  started saving from the extra  earnings and joined SHGs  with a sense of independence  and empowerment.
d.  Climate Resilience,  Sustainability  i.
The programme has  integrated climate change  adaptation measures in  the intervention villages  like sustainable water  management practices,  effective water governance,  and improved agriculture  practices, that enhanced  the adaptive capacity  of the villagers.
ii.
81% intervention villagers were  self-reliant in planning their  water needs; only 16% of the  intervention villagers faced  water scarcity in recent years.
iii.
60% of the farmers reported  that the water tables  are not declining.
iv.
75% farmers now practice  crop rotation and 85% of the  farmers diversify the crops.
v.  54% farmers adopted efficient  irrigation techniques which  enabled the farmers to put  the available water into  better use and cultivate  more than one crop.
VII.
Promotion of Grassroots  Sports – Reliance  Foundation Young  Champs Programme 1.
Impact Assessment  Agency – ThinkThrough  Consulting Private Limited 2.
Project Background   Reliance Foundation Young  Champ (RFYC) Programme  aims to create transformational  football talent with the potential  to influence the larger ecosystem  and establish itself as the best  football academy for promoting  grassroots sports in India.
The  academy is fully residential and  provides professional football  training to boys aged between  12 to 18 years.
The academy has  received a five-star rating from  All India Football Association and  is currently rated as best football  academy in the country.
3.
Objectives: a.
To evaluate the impact of the  grass roots football training  programme in the areas of  players skill, education and  psycho social development.
b.
To evaluate the impact of the  programme on lives of children  and their families.
4.
Key Findings: a.
Overall  i.  RFYC has become an  aspirational academy for  the upcoming football  players.
The alignment of the  programme with National  Sports Policy (NSP) 2001 as  well as the strategies of the  All India Football Federation  (AIFF) has established the  programme as a channel for  driving ecosystem change.
ii.
RFYC programme focuses  on important aspect of  nurturing young talent  coming from very humble  backgrounds from remote  parts of India and provide a  career path way.
iii.
The overall positive impact  of the RFYC programme is  evident from the fact that nine  out of the ten young champs  who graduated from the first  cohort were able to pursue a  professional career in sports  with leading football clubs in  India.
Their performance on  the field during professional  matches demonstrates that  RFYC is on the right track  to create transformational  talent in Indian football.
The  trickle down effect of creating  a sporting culture across  the country is an important  outcome of the programme  along with promoting sports.
b. Programme Level Impact  i.
Sports and Education: The  young champs are given  the opportunity to study  at one of the best quality  schools in Navi Mumbai.
This has reassured parents  of the holistic development  of their children.
Average  score of young champs  was found to be nearly at  par with the average score  of regular students of RF  School.
Programme focus on  education is a determinant  for choosing RFYC by 40% of  the parents.
40% of young  champs felt their academic  performance has improved.
ii.
Coaching, Counselling and  other support helped the  young champs to cope up  with anxiety and stress.
67%  of young champs reported  that the sessions with the  counsellor/ psychologist  helped them positively deal  with their anxiety and stress  levels.
80% of the respondents  reported that feedback  received from coaches and  mentors is positive.
c.   Individual Level Impact– At an  individual level, young champs  stand out amongst peers and  have developed potential to  become role models.
They have  developed holistic skills to pursue  careers in or out of football with  RFYC focus on academics as a  big differentiator.
In economic  terms, access to academy and  education has helped save about  ` 5 Lakh per annum for a family.
The graduates from the academy  have secured starting contracts of  ` 7 Lakh per annum.
d.   Ecosystem Level Impact -  Increasingly, Football is being  seen as a career option (impact  currently restricted to regions  with a prevalent football culture).
Inclusion of children from weaker  socio-economic backgrounds  has empowered them to prove  their sporting skills at multiple  levels.
The Academy which is  ranked at number 2 by AIFF is  an aspirational benchmark for  other academies and clubs in  India.
Deep scouting of talent has  helped expand the geographical  scope of the sport and provide  opportunities for young talent.
VIII.
Impact Assessment of  Reliance Foundation’s  Comprehensive  COVID-19 Response  Initiative 1.
Impact Assessment Agency  – Kantar Public 2.
Project Background   As a Group, Reliance marshalled  all its human, financial, and  technical resources, leveraging  years of business expertise  and community development  experience and adopted a multi- pronged prevention, mitigation,  adaptation and ongoing support  strategy with the government and  civil society to beat the COVID-19  pandemic.
The measures ranged  from strengthening health  infrastructure, contribution to relief  funds, offering essential supplies  and food to the needy and  addressing the socio-economic  impacts of the pandemic.
Reliance launched multiple  missions to fight COVID-19  which included, Mission Oxygen,  Mission COVID-19 Infra, Mission  Anna Sewa, Mission COVID-19  Suraksha and Mission Vaccine  Suraksha.
In addition, several  other initiatives were taken up to  restore rural livelihoods as well as  build resilience and preparedness  among the communities through  awareness generation on various  aspects related to precaution and  prevention amidst the pandemic.
3.
Objectives   The objectives of the study were  to assess the effectiveness  of the outreach programme  by assessing knowledge  awareness and practice and  behavioural change at individual  and community levels; and,  understand the adoption  practices at individual and  community level.
4.
Key Findings a.
Mission COVID-19 Infra - Reliance  Foundation (RF) set up India’s  first dedicated 250 bed COVID-19  hospital in collaboration with  the Brihanmumbai Municipal  Corporation (BMC) in Mumbai,  which was ramped up further to  provide 2,000+ COVID-19 beds  across the country.
In addition,  testing capacities were ramped  up from virtually nothing to be  able to get 15 thousand people  tested per day in a matter of 3-4  months.
Moreover, 27 lakh+ litres of  free fuel was distributed to notified  ambulances and emergency  vehicles across 21 states and 3  UTs, for ensuring uninterrupted  movement for providing essential  services to the citizens during this  critical period.
b.
Mission Oxygen - To meet  the nation’s medical oxygen  requirements, Reliance Industries  repurposed its Jamnagar plant  in a matter of days to ramp up  production from zero to 1000  MT of liquid medical oxygen to  be distributed free across the  country, serving the needs of 1 lakh  patients per day.
c.   Mission Annasewa - To cushion  the economic fallout, emergency  meals were provided to the  most vulnerable communities.
Under Mission Annasewa, the  single largest meal distribution  programme ever undertaken  in the world by a corporate  foundation, 8.5 crore meals  including dry-ration-kits, food  coupons and cooked meals  were served to over 43 lakh  marginalized and underserved  persons including migrant  workers, daily wage earners,  slum dwellers across 19  states and 4 UTs.
d.   Mission Vaccine Suraksha - RF was  actively involved in awareness  campaigns regarding COVID-19  vaccinations.
Mass awareness  drives related to COVID-19  vaccinations were carried out  through physical as well as digital  platforms like Dial Out conference,  WhatsApp, VMS etc.
Support  Board’s Report 288 289 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  was provided to Government  Health Departments & workers  for mobilising the community for  vaccination by the on-field RF  teams.
Overall, 40 lakh+ doses  were provided free of cost by  Reliance to support the nation  in its vaccination mission.
In  addition, RF also supported  district administration to conduct  vaccination programmes for  the communities.
90% of the  respondents mentioned that the  messages shared encouraged  to get themselves or family  members vaccinated.
e.   Restoring Rural Livelihoods  - To enable communities to  continue and sustain their  livelihoods, RF mentored FPOs  helped re-establish market  linkages, disrupted by the  pandemic.
Multiple technology  platforms were used to bridge  the information gap and ensure  large number of the affected  population get access to  opportunities available through  government schemes, makeshift  markets / procurement centers,  e-NAM trading platform and  many more.
Capacity building  support was provided to help  returning migrants gain access  to new livelihood opportunities  in farming, horticulture, animal  husbandry and fisheries.
As  a result, 48,706 farmers were  supported in transacting farm  and non-farm produce worth ` 120  crores during the COVID-19 crisis  by RF mentored FPOs and through  digital linkages.
~20,000 labourers  were supported with wage  employment opportunities under  MGNREGA and 5,900 persons were  provided access to entitlement  for benefitting from government  schemes.
81% of the respondents  who received livelihood advisories,  mentioned that these helped in  realising benefits during the crisis  times, 62% of the respondents  could carry out livelihood  activities efficiently.
f.   Collaborations & partnerships  with NGOs and Govt.
agencies,  pan-India network of Reliance,  technical expertise in disaster  management, digital technology  solutions, strengthened local  governance and leadership in  rural areas built over the last  decade facilitated and acted as  a catalyst for an effective and  prompt implementation of Covid  response initiatives on ground.
g.   Behaviour Change through  Mission COVID Suraksha - A  multi-lingual booklet, distributed  with the mask, informed users  about proper ways to wear it  along with mask hygiene.
87%  of the respondents reported  having adopted COVID-19  appropriate preventive behaviour  such as wearing face mask  etc.
after receiving advisory  related to prevention.
77% of the  respondents mentioned being  able to manage post COVID-19  care situation more effectively.
70% of the respondents further  disseminated the information  among their family & peers.
h.   The response towards the Mission  COVID-19 Suraksha was equally  positive, beneficiary highly  appreciated the quality of the  supplies provided by RF.
Annexure III Secretarial Audit Report For the Financial Year ended 31 March 2022 [Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies   (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014] To:  The Members Reliance Industries Limited 3rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV 222, Nariman Point Mumbai – 400 021.
I have conducted the Secretarial  Audit of the compliance of  applicable statutory provisions and  the adherence to good corporate  practices by Reliance Industries  Limited (hereinafter called “the  Company”).
Secretarial Audit was  conducted in a manner that provided  me a reasonable basis for evaluating  the corporate conducts/statutory  compliances and expressing my  opinion thereon.
Based on my verification of the  Company’s books, papers, minute  books, forms and returns filed and  other records maintained by the  Company and also the information  provided by the Company, its officers,  agents and authorized representatives  during the conduct of Secretarial Audit,  I hereby report that in my opinion, the  Company has, during the audit period  covering the financial year ended on  31 March 2022 (‘Audit Period’) complied  with the statutory provisions listed  hereunder and also that the Company  has proper Board-processes and  compliance-mechanism in place to  the extent, in the manner and subject  to the reporting made hereinafter: I have examined the books, papers,  minute books, forms and returns filed  and other records maintained by  the Company for the financial year  ended on 31 March 2022 according to  the provisions of: (i)  The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act)  and the rules made thereunder; (ii)  The Securities Contracts  (Regulation) Act, 1956 and the  rules made thereunder; (iii)  The Depositories Act, 1996 and  the Regulations and Bye-laws  framed thereunder; (iv)  The Foreign Exchange  Management Act, 1999 and the  rules and regulations made  thereunder to the extent of Foreign  Direct Investment, Overseas  Direct Investment and External  Commercial Borrowings; (v)  The following Regulations  prescribed under the Securities  and Exchange Board of India Act,  1992 (‘SEBI Act’): —  (a)   The Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Substantial  Acquisition of Shares and  Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;  (b)  The Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Prohibition  of Insider Trading)  Regulations, 2015;  (c)  The Securities and  Exchange Board of India  (Issue of Capital and  Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2018;  (d)  The Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Share  Based Employee Benefits)  Regulations, 2014 and The  Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Share Based  Employee Benefits and Sweat  Equity) Regulations, 2021;   (e)  The Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Issue and  Listing of Debt Securities)  Regulations, 2008 and The  Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Issue and  Listing of Non-Convertible  Securities) Regulations, 2021;   (f)  The Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Registrars to  an Issue and Share Transfer  Agents) Regulations, 1993  regarding the Act and dealing  with client (Not applicable  to the Company during the  Audit Period);   (g)   The Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Delisting of  Equity Shares) Regulations,  2009 and The Securities and  Exchange Board of India  (Delisting of Equity Shares)  Regulations, 2021 (Not  applicable to the Company  during the Audit Period);  (h)  The Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Buyback  of Securities) Regulations,  2018 (Not applicable to  the Company during the  Audit Period); and  (i)  The Securities and  Exchange Board of India  (Listing Obligations and  Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015.
I have also examined compliance with  the applicable clauses of the following: (i)  Secretarial Standards (SS-1 and  SS-2) issued by The Institute of  Company Secretaries of India; and (ii)  Listing Agreements entered into  by the Company with BSE Limited  and the National Stock Exchange  of India Limited.
During the Audit Period the Company  has complied with the provisions of  the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines,  Standards, etc.
mentioned above.
I further report that,  having regard to  the compliance system prevailing in  the Company and on examination of  the relevant documents and records  in pursuance thereof on test-check  basis, the Company has complied  with the following laws applicable  specifically to the Company:  Board’s Report 290 291 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  (i)  The Merchant Shipping Act, 1958  and Rules made thereunder; (ii)  The Petroleum Act, 1934 and Rules  made thereunder; (iii)  The Oilfields (Regulation and  Development) Act, 1948 and Rules  made thereunder; (iv)  The Mines Act, 1952 and Rules  made thereunder; and (v)  The Petroleum and Natural Gas  Regulatory Board Act, 2006 and  the Rules made thereunder.
I further report that The Board of Directors of the Company  is duly constituted with proper balance  of Executive Directors, Non-Executive  Directors and Independent Directors.
The changes in the composition  of the Board of Directors that took  place during the Audit Period were  carried out in compliance with the  provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all  directors to schedule the meetings  of the Board and Committee.
Except  where consent of directors was  received for scheduling meeting at a  shorter notice, agenda and detailed  notes on agenda were sent at least  seven days in advance, and a system  exists for seeking and obtaining further  information and clarifications on the  agenda items before the meeting  and for meaningful participation  at the meeting.
All decisions at Board Meetings and  Committee Meetings were carried  out unanimously as recorded in the  minutes of the meetings of the Board  of Directors or Committees of the  Board, as the case may be.
I further report that  there are  adequate systems and processes in  the Company commensurate with the  size and operations of the Company  to monitor and ensure compliance  with applicable laws, rules, regulations  and guidelines.
I further report that during  the Audit Period: (i)  During the financial year 2020- 21, the Company had issued  and allotted 42,26,26,894 partly  paid-up equity shares of `10/-  each, on rights basis, at an issue  price of `1,257/- per fully paid- up equity share (including a  premium of `1,247/- per equity  share).
An amount equivalent to  25% of the issue price viz.
`314.25  per equity share was received  on application.
The First Call of  `314.25 per share was payable  from 17 May 2021 to 31 May 2021.
The Second and Final call of  `628.50 per share was payable  from 15 November 2021 to 29  November 2021.
An amount of  `81 crore is yet to be received as  on 31 March 2022.
(ii)  Reliance Industrial Infrastructure  Limited was reclassified from the  category of “Promoter Group” of  the Company to “Public”.
(iii)  The resolution for appointment  of His Excellency Yasir Othman H.  Al Rumayyan, as an Independent  Director, was passed through  Postal Ballot on 19 October 2021.
(iv)  The Company and Saudi Aramco  mutually determined that it would  be beneficial for both parties  to re-evaluate the proposed  investment in O2C business in  light of the changed context,  due to evolving nature of the  Company’s business portfolio.
The Board of Directors of the  Company had on 19 November  2021, approved withdrawal of the  Scheme of Arrangement between  the Company and Reliance O2C  Limited (“O2C Scheme”) from  Hon’ble National Company Law  Tribunal (‘NCLT’).
NCLT, Mumbai  Bench has vide its order dated  3 December 2021 approved the  withdrawal of the O2C Scheme.
(v)  The Company received payment  of 4th tranche, aggregating  `250 crore, from the holders of  partly-paid listed unsecured  redeemable non-convertible  debentures (PPD Series IA).
Further,  the Company has redeemed  NCDs of PPD Series 11, 15, 16 and J)  and cancelled 81,680 NCDs (of  PPD Series IA, 3, L, 5, M2, M3, M1,  12,13, H) which were bought by the  Company from the open market.
(vi)  The Company has issued fixed  rate senior unsecured notes for an  aggregate amount of US$ 4 billion  across three tranches.
(vii)  The Board of Directors of the  Company approved the Scheme  of Arrangement between (i) the  Company & its shareholders  and creditors, and (ii) Reliance  Syngas Limited & its shareholders  and creditors (the Gasification  Scheme).
The Gasification  Scheme, inter alia, provides  for transfer of the Gasification  undertaking (as defined in the  Gasification Scheme) from the  Company to Reliance Syngas  Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary  of the Company, as a going  concern on slump sale basis for a  lump sum consideration on terms  and conditions as detailed in the  Gasification Scheme.
The Gasification Scheme  was approved by:  (a)  the Shareholders and  Creditors of the Company on  9 March 2022; and  (b)  the Hon’ble National  Company Law Tribunal,  Mumbai Bench and  Ahmedabad Bench  on 30 March 2022.
The Appointed Date of the  Gasification Scheme is 31 March  2022 and the Gasification  Scheme became effective  from 4 April 2022.
(viii)  The Company has granted  90,000 options to the eligible  employees under Employees  Stock Option Scheme 2017.
Dr. K. R. Chandratre   FCS No.
: 1370, C. P.
No.
: 5144 Peer Review Certificate No.
: 1206/2021 Place: Pune Date: 6 May 2022 UDIN: F001370D000282882 This report is to be read with my letter  of even date which is annexed as  Annexure and forms an integral part  of this report.
To:  The Members Reliance Industries Limited 3rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV 222, Nariman Point Mumbai – 400 021.
My report of even date is to be read  along with this letter: 1.
Maintenance of secretarial  records is the responsibility of the  management of the Company.
My responsibility is to express  an opinion on these secretarial  records based on my audit.
2.
I have followed the audit  practices and processes as were  appropriate to obtain reasonable  assurance about the correctness  of the contents of the secretarial  records.
The verification was done  on test-check basis to ensure  that correct facts are reflected  Annexure to the Secretarial Audit Report in secretarial records.
I believe  that the process and practices  I followed provide a reasonable  basis for my opinion.
3.
I have not verified the correctness  and appropriateness of financial  records and books of accounts  of the Company.
4.
Wherever required, I have  obtained Management  Representation about the  compliance of laws, rules and  regulations and happening  of events, etc.
5.
The compliance of the provisions  of corporate and other  applicable laws, rules, regulations,  standards is the responsibility of  management.
My examination  was limited to the verification of  procedures on test-check basis.
6.
The Secretarial Audit report is  neither an assurance as to future  viability of the Company nor  of the efficacy or effectiveness  with which the management  has conducted the affairs  of the Company.
Dr. K. R. Chandratre FCS No.
: 1370, C. P.
No.
: 5144 Peer Review Certificate No.
: 1206/2021 Place: Pune Date: 6 May 2022 UDIN: F001370D000282882 Board’s Report 292 293 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  Particulars of Energy  Conservation, Technology  Absorption and Foreign  Exchange Earnings and  Outgo required under the  Companies (Accounts)   Rules, 2014 A.
Conservation of Energy (i)  Steps taken to conserve  energy   The Company considers  energy management as one  of the key components of its  responsible business strategy  and the objective has always  been to continually improve  energy performance of the  organisation, consolidate these  improvements, and move on to  the next higher level.
Relentless monitoring of energy  performance is pursued by  dedicated Energy Teams at  site and group level using a  well-structured mechanism  having features that make  energy information, including  those on regulatory and  compliance matters, available  in real time across the Company.
Strengthened with decision tools  and tools for simulation and  visualization of energy efficiency,  the monitoring system is also  integrated with production  control systems, making energy  management agile, flexible and  effective.
Energy audits and  benchmarking studies are also  conducted periodically to identify  performance gaps.
The Company adopts a strategy  to manage energy based on the 5  tenets of energy management: • Eliminate unnecessary energy  use through process and heat  integration, quick restoration  of equipment performance,  consumption optimization using  simulation models, and reduce- recover-reuse programmes.
• Improve the usage efficiency  of needed energy using  simulation tools, deploying best  practices, and technology and  equipment upgrades.
• Adjust operations to enable  reduced energy consumption  by redesigning the product  basket and optimum use of  installed capacity.
• Optimize the cost of  energy consumed wherein  an enterprise-wide fuel  planning and scheduling  mechanism is employed.
• Reduce carbon intensity of  energy used by judicious  selection of energy source and  ramping up use of renewable  energy to offset emissions  from fossil fuels.
Despite the challenges faced  during the pandemic, all  personnel were deployed ensuring  COVID-19 safety measures  and pursued excellence in  energy management.
Major energy conservation  initiatives taken during the  financial year 2021-22   Jamnagar Manufacturing  Division: Domestic Tariff Area  (DTA) • Liquid phase isomerisation  (LPI) in Parex train-2 instead  of vapour phase reaction  resulting in Fuel gas and  HP Steam saving.
• Installation of new MP steam  header to increase MP Steam  generation by 16 TPH from  process waste heat.
• Recovery of hydrocarbon from  HP Flare using flare gas recovery  system (FGRS-2).
• Routing of Mercaptan Guard  Bed Nitrogen to LLP flare instead  of Main flare to reduce dilution  and thereby freeing up capacity  of FGRS compressor resulting in  higher recovery of hydrocarbon  going to main flare.
• Direct blending of Crude  Naphtha Hydro Treater (CNHT)  treated naphtha to ultra  low Sulphur diesel (ULSD)  header thus avoiding energy  consumed in reprocessing.
• Recovery of waste heat in LLDPE  Plant in C2 Complex replacing  steam from Captive Power Plant.
• Satgas de-ethaniser overhead  re-routed to fuel gas resulting in  reduction of flared hydrocarbon  during Refinery Off Gas Cracker  (ROGC) start-up.
• Insulation of Unsat Gas Cooler  pipeline to reduce heat ingress.
• Stoppage of additional running  of nitrogen compressor in Air  Separation Unit and utilizing  Liquid Nitrogen from storage for  adsorbent bed regeneration  in LLDPE plant.
Jamnagar Manufacturing  Division: Special Economic  Zone (SEZ) • Low pressure flash steam  recovery from Medium Pressure  condensate in Alkylation unit.
• Replacement of Medium  Pressure Steam (MPS) usage  with Low Pressure Steam (LPS) in  DIP-2 column reboiler.
• Eliminating flaring from Xylene  Recovery Column in PX4  (Para Xylene) unit by installing  new trim cooler.
• Advanced Process Control (APC)  implementation in ASU resulting  in 10.5TPH of High Pressure  steam reduction.
• Routing of Recycle Flash Gas  (RFG) directly to SRU (Sulphur  Recovery Unit) incinerator,  resulting in stoppage  of RFG compressors (1.7  MW) in AGR plant.
Annexure IV   Hazira Manufacturing Division • Upgraded carbon dioxide stripper trays from moving valve to fixed valve  type in Mono Ethylene Glycol plants.
• CP-10 and PTA-1 CT Cooling tower fans replaced with energy efficient fans.
Vadodara Manufacturing Division • Replacement of refractory insulation of flue gas duct in HRSG 2  (Heat Recovery Steam Generator) to reduce heat loss and improve  waste heat recovery.
• Reduction in steam venting by converting Boiler Feed Water pump from  steam turbine to motor drive.
Dahej Manufacturing Division • Optimized frequency for Reverse Osmosis High Pressure pumps to reduce  electrical energy consumption.
Silvassa Manufacturing Division • New LLP to Old HP inter connection line resulting in saving of LLP air  compressor power.
• PTY and PFY AHU upgraded with energy efficient equipment.
Hoshiarpur Manufacturing Division  Installation of energy efficient pump and motor in soft water service.
(ii)  Steps taken to utilize alternate sources of energy • Co-firing of biomass and Bagasse with coal at Dahej and Hazira  Manufacturing Divisions.
• Generated 5101.8 MWh power from 3.56 MW solar power generation  project at Silvassa Manufacturing Division (iii)  Capital investment on energy conservation equipments Sr.  No Manufacturing Division Capital  investments on  energy efficient  equipment   (` in crore) Energy savings (Gcal/hr)  1 Jamnagar manufacturing division (DTA) 18.8 53.3 2 Jamnagar manufacturing division (SEZ) 9.7 41.8 3 Other manufacturing divisions 1.5 2.9 Total 30.1 98.0 B.
Technology Absorption   Research and technology development of the Company helps create  superior value by harnessing internal Research and Development skills and  competencies and creates innovations in emerging technology domains  related to the Company’s various businesses.
Research and technology  development focuses on:  (i)  New products, processes and catalyst development to support existing  business and create breakthrough technologies for new businesses,  (ii)  Advanced troubleshooting and Support to capital projects, and profit  and reliability improvements in manufacturing plants.
1.
Major efforts made towards technology absorption  Oil to Chemicals (O2C) Business • Crude to Chemicals by Multi zone Catalytic Cracking technology (MCC) • Conversion of waste plastics  to stable oil for reconversion to  plastics (circular economy) • CO2 capture process  from dilute refinery/ power  plant flue gases • Catalyst development for  improvement of cycle length of  Diesel HydroTreating (DHT) units • Sustainable production  of needle coke using  existing coker unit • Development of Hi-Active  Fluid Catalytic Cracking (FCC)  catalyst for FCCUs • Advanced Support  to Gasification • Low cost process development  for valuable metals (Vanadium  (Va), Nickel (Ni)) extraction from  gasification slag • Green process and catalyst  for direct synthesis of DiMethyl  Carbonate (DMC) from  CO2 and methanol • FCC Catalyst switchover support • F clean process development  for reuse of Porvair and PALL  char filter fuses for sustainable  operation of gasifiers • Value creation from refinery  waste by- product using  sodium free Di-Sulphide Oils  (DSO) to replace DiMethyl  Di-Sulphide (DMDS) in  gas and naphtha cracker  and hydrotreaters • Light coker naphtha  processing in SEZ FCC to  enable higher propylene and  ethylene production • DTA (Domestic Tariff Area)  coker feed window widening  with respect to metals and  asphaltenes by using clarified  slurry oil (CSO) with feed • Online corrosion monitoring  system under Integrity  Operating Windows (IOW)  initiative for monitoring  crude corrosivity • Development of in-house  composition-based RX models  for Aromatic loop optimization  and trouble shooting.
• Development of in-house  extractive distillation  technology for recovering BTX  from MCC naphtha.
Board’s Report 294 295 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Financial   Statements Management   Review Corporate  Overview Governance  • NIR (Near InfraRed) based fast  crude characterization for assay  update support  • Naphtha Molecular  Assay including detailed  composition up to C11 for crude  assay update in PIMS • Computational fluid Dynamics  (CFD) based support to Jio  Datacenters across the  country for optimizing cooling  performance of various Out- Door Unit (ODU).
• Development of in-house  reaction engineering  models for debottlenecking  Dahej Manufacturing  Division (DMD) fixed bed  oxychlorination reactor.
• Capturing of complex physics  in Third Stage Separator  (TSS) cyclone separator  and model validation with  experimental data  • Effluent treatment by  Cavitation process  • Development for Impact Co  Polymer (ICP) and Homo Grades  PP (Polypropylene) with the  Company’s proprietary Diester  Catalyst System • Chemical recycling of multilayer  packaging material • PP Products for various  applications using both  Phthalate and Non Phthalate  based Catalysts • Development of ethylene- based elastomers and  thermoplastics in solution  process for PV cell application  • Gas phase Linear Low-Density  Polyethylene (LLDPE)/ High  Density Polyethylene (HDPE)  production with in-house silica  supported catalysts  • Development of Functional ESBR  (Emulsion Styrene Butadiene  Rubber) grades for silica based  composite for Green Tire  • Biodegradable /Bio- compostable polymers for  packaging and agriculture  mulch film applications • Development of internally  plasticized PVC for  plasticizer migration for  ecofriendly applications • High Performance Elastomeric  Ionomer Products and  Applications – Self-sealing  sealant developed on butyl  rubber based backbone for tire  inner liner applications • Development of advanced PE  (Polyethylene) Products and  Catalyst Technology for slurry  and solution process • Metallocene based LLDPE/HDPE  grades using in-house silica  supported metallocene catalyst  for gas phase process  • Development of antipolymerant  for naphtha cracker plant to  reduce fouling of reactor • Improved process development  for halo butyl rubber  grade production • Improvement in PVC (Polyvinyl  Chloride) products for better  thermal stability and color.
• Development of high strength  fiber and film for ballistic  armour.
DPE (Disentangled  Polyethylene) based weaved  and stab resistant fabric from  HS/HM DPE tape.
• Chloride free CCR (Continuous  Catalytic Reforming) catalyst  with higher aromatics  yield development • R&D developed Reliance Olefins  Removal Catalyst (REL-ORCAT)  for Bromine Index (BI) reduction  of BTX (Benzene Toluene Xylene).
• Molecular Sieve 3A developed  for Cracked (Charged) Gas Drier • Successfully commissioned the  novel adsorbent and process  for N-Methyl-2-Pyrrolidone  (NMP) purification  • Developed a purification  process for sulfolane  • Developed process for PBR  (polybutadiene Rubber) based  self-healing elastomer (Relnext)  for enhanced (40%) tyre life • Commissioned Dowtherm  Purification System at various  manufacturing locations • Advanced technical support  provided for characterization of  fresh and spent catalyst of VCM  (Vinyl Chloride Monomer).
• Advanced technical support  provided for evaluation of  hydrogenation catalysts  to JMD, HMD and VMD  manufacturing sites.
• Established standard method  for estimation of palladium in  PTA hydrogenation catalyst.
• Evaluation of spare activated  alumina and activated carbon  for improved shelf life.
• Residual life analysis of  Ion Exchange Resins for DI  Plant and NMD Plant  • Chloride analysis of DMD_ EOEG_ CO2 regenerator stream • Breakthrough achieved at pilot  scale for TEG & LABRS color  removal and CI removal form  IL-LAB hydrocarbon mixture.
• In-house facility created  for the development and  characterization of adsorbents  for O2 production (O2PSA).
• Adsorptive purification process  developed and implemented  for MEG (Mono Ethylene  Glycol) purification.
• Evaluation of an activated  carbon for the activated  carbon filter deployed at the  condensate polishing unit  (CPU-A) of DM water plant.
• Adsorptive and distillation  Process developed for  TEG (Triethylene Glycol)  purification for Ethylene Oxide  Ethylene Glycol EOEG.
• Development of in-house spin  finish oil formulation.
• Coke less Naphtha/ Gas steam cracking • Adsorptive Paraxylene  pilot scale purification  process developed.
• Non HF (Hydrofluoric Acid)  route to LAB (Linear Alkyl  Benzene) using the Company’s  proprietary Ionic Liquid catalyst • PTA/PIA (Purified Iso-Phthalic  Acid) Process Optimization • Development of Technology  information package (TIP) for  DOTP (Dioctyl Terephthalate)  process modification • Kero-Merox effluent treatment  by hydrodynamic cavitation • Carbon and mineral association  by electron microscopic and  elemental mapping in the CRP  to enhance the carbon recycle  in petcoke gasification.
• An alternate method developed  for Ti/Al metal analysis in prepoly  samples of LLDPE using ICP-OES.
Advanced Materials and Other  R&D Activities • Development of indigenous  polymer electrolyte membrane  (PEM) fuel cell technology • Development of Poly Acrylo  Nitrile (PAN) precursor  for Carbon Fibers • Advance process control (APC)/ Real time optimization (RTO)  implementation in all major  manufacturing facilities.
• Modelling and simulation  scale up support and advance  trouble shooting • Polymeric materials  for 3D printing • Graphene polymer and  elastomer composites • Development of anode grade  battery materials • Developed  (Polyhydroxyalkanoates)  PHA-bioplastics production  (potential substitute for  PE/PP) in an engineered  microbial platform • Developed sustainable and  advanced material in the  form of Nanocellulose which is  suitable for various applications  in biomedical, biomaterial and  personal care products.
• Harness synthetic biology  tools to produce high strength  silk protein as an ingredient  for personal care and  other products  • Software program developed  for estimation of Short chain  branching and deconvolution  of molecular weight distribution  graphs in polyolefin material  Biofuels and Bio-Chemicals • Development of ‘Green Bio  crude’ and high value products  from algae, using sea water,  sunlight, and low-cost nutrients.
• Application of biotechnology  to enhance the productivity of  algae species for biofuel • Deployment of RCAT  (Hydrothermal Liquefaction  HTL technology) to achieve  the Company’s Net  Carbon Zero goal.
• Technology development for commercial production of specialty  products viz.
super proteins, nanocellulose, aqua and animal feed • Harness advanced synthetic biology tools to develop technologies for PHA  Bioplastic, Iron fortified protein and High strength silk production.
2.
Information regarding imported technology (imported  during last three years) Details of technology imported  Technology  imported  from  Year of  import  Status  implementation  / absorption  1.
JMD DTA Aromatics - Liquid  Phase Isomerization Process:  This process converts Xylenes  in the liquid phase to a near- equilibrium mixture at low  temperature, thus incurring  energy benefits w.r.t Vapor  Phase Isomerization.
UOP FY 2021-22 Implemented   in Oct 2021.
2.
Effluent-to-Revenue (E2R)  technology (for retrofitting in  DMD PTA-5 plant) Koch   Technology   Solutions,  UK FY 2021-22 Licensor Process  Design Package  received.
Detail  engineering  to be initiated.
3.
The benefits derived from R&D and Technology absorption, adoption and  innovation:   Enabled transition from smart buyer of technology to a flagship developer  of technology, future ready for next generation businesses and mitigating  disruption in existing business 4.
Expenditure incurred on Research and Development: Sr. No.
Particulars (` in crore) a) Capital 1,487 b) Revenue 1,121 Total 2,608 C. Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo (i)  Activities relating to export, initiatives to increase exports,  developments of new export markets for products and  services and export plan   The Company has continued to maintain focus and avail of export  opportunities based on economic considerations.
During the year, the  Company has exports (FOB value) worth ` 2,44,365 crore (US$ 32.2 billion).
(ii) Total Foreign Exchange Earned and Used (` in crore) a) Foreign Exchange earned in terms of actual inflows 2,45,752 b) Total savings in foreign exchange through products manufactured  by the Company and deemed exports (US$ 22.9 billion) 1,73,379 Sub-total (a+b) 4,19,131 c) Foreign Exchange outgo in terms of actual outflows 3,21,119 For and on behalf of the Board of Directors Mukesh D. Ambani May 06, 2022 Chairman and Managing Director Financial Statements Standalone Consolidated Independent Auditors’ Report 297 Balance Sheet 308 Statement of Profit and Loss 309 Statement of Changes in Equity 310 Cash Flow Statement 312 Notes to the Financial Statements 314 1 Property, Plant & Equipment, Capital Work-in- Progress, Intangible Assets and Intangible Assets  Under Development 323 2 Investments – Non-Current 325 3 Loans – Non-Current 329 4 Other Financial Assets - Non-Current 332 5 Other Non-Current Assets 332 6 Inventories 333 7 Investments – Current 333 8 Trade Receivables 334 9 Cash and Cash Equivalents 334 10 Loans – Current 335 11 Other Financial Assets – Current 335 12 Taxation 335 13 Other Current Assets 336 14 Equity Share Capital 336 15 Other Equity 338 16 Borrowings 339 17 Other Financial Liabilities – Non-Current 340 18 Provisions – Non-Current 340 19 Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net) 341 20 Other Non-Current Liabilities 341 Independent Auditors’ Report 380 Balance Sheet 392 Statement of Profit and Loss 393 Statement of Changes in Equity 394 Cash Flow Statement 396 Notes to the Financial Statements 398 1  Property, Plant and Equipment, Other Intangible  Assets, Capital Work-in-Progress and Intangible Assets  under Development 409 2 Investments – Non-Current 410 3 Loans – Non-Current 416 4 Other Financial Assets - Non-Current 416 5 Deferred Tax 416 6 Other Non-Current Assets 417 7 Inventories 417 8 Investments – Current 418 9 Trade Receivables 418 10 Cash and Cash Equivalents 419 11 Other Financial Assets – Current 419 12 Other Current Assets 419 13 Taxation 419 14 Share Capital 421 15 Other Equity 422 16 Borrowings – Non-Current 424 17 Deferred Payment Liabilities 426 18 Other Financial Liabilities - Non-Current 426 19 Provisions – Non-Current 426 20 Borrowings – Current 426 21 Trade Payables 427 21 Borrowings – Current 341 22 Trade Payables 342 23 Other Financial Liabilities – Current 342 24 Other Current Liabilities 342 25 Provisions – Current 343 26 Revenue from Operations 343 27 Other Income 343 28 Changes in Inventories of Finished Goods, Work-in- Progress and Stock-in-Trade 344 29 Employee Benefits Expense 344 30 Finance Costs 348 31 Other Expenses 348 32 Exceptional Items (Net of Tax) 349 33 Earnings Per Share (EPS) 350 34 Related Parties Disclosures 351 35 Oil and Gas Disclosures 367 36 Contingent Liabilities and Commitments 369 37 Capital Management 370 38 Financial Instruments 370 39 Segment Information 376 40 Details of Loans given, Investments made and  guarantee given covered U/S 186 (4) of the  Companies Act, 2013.
377 41 Ratio Analysis 377 42 Details of Research and Development Expenditure 378 43 Significant Arrangements 378 44 Other Statutory Information 379 45 Events after the Reporting Period 379 22 Other Financial Liabilities – Current 427 23 Other Current Liabilities 428 24 Provisions – Current 428 25 Revenue from Operations 428 26 Other Income 428 27 Changes in Inventories of Finished Goods, Work-in- Progress and Stock-in-Trade 429 28 Employee Benefits Expense 429 29 Finance Costs 434 30 Other Expenses 434 31 Exceptional Items (Net of Tax) 435 32 Earnings Per Share (EPS) 436 33 Related Parties Disclosures 436 34 Oil and Gas Disclosures 448 35 Details of Contingent Liabilities & Commitments 450 36 Capital Management 451 37 Financial Instruments 451 38 Segment Information 457 39 Enterprises Consolidated as Subsidiary in Accordance  with Indian Accounting Standard 110 – Consolidated  Financial Statements 460 40 Significant Enterprises Consolidated as Associates  and Joint Ventures in accordance with Indian  Accounting Standard 28 – Investments in Associates  and Joint Ventures 467 41 Additional Information, as required under Schedule  III to the Companies Act, 2013, of Enterprises  Consolidated as Subsidiary / Associates  / Joint Ventures 470 42 Other Statutory Information 477 43 Events after the Reporting Period 477 297Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 To the Members of Reliance Industries Limited Report on the Audit of the Standalone  Financial Statements Opinion We have audited the accompanying Standalone Financial  Statements of Reliance Industries Limited (“the Company”)  which includes joint operations, which comprise the  Balance sheet as at March 31, 2022, the Statement of Profit  and Loss, including the statement of Other Comprehensive  Income, the Cash Flow Statement and the Statement of  Changes in Equity for the year then ended, and notes  to the Standalone Financial Statements, including a  summary of significant accounting policies and other  explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and  according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid  Standalone Financial Statements give the information  required by the Companies Act, 2013, as amended (“the  Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and fair  view in conformity with the accounting principles generally  accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company as  at March 31, 2022, its profit including other comprehensive  income, its cash flows and the changes in equity for the  year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit of the Standalone Financial  Statements in accordance with the Standards on  Auditing (SAs), as specified under section 143(10) of the  Act.
Our responsibilities under those Standards are further  described in the ‘Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of  the Standalone Financial Statements’ section of our report.
We are independent of the Company in accordance with  the ‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the Institute of Chartered  Accountants of India together with the ethical requirements  that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements  under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder,  and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in  accordance with these requirements and the Code of  Independent Auditor’s Report   Ethics.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained  is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit  opinion on the Standalone Financial Statements.
Emphasis of Matter We draw attention to Note 32(a) of the Standalone Financial  Statements, wherein, the Company has withdrawn from  General Reserves, an amount of ` 36,143 crore equal to  the loss recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss  on measurement of the gasification undertaking as held  for sale and credited the same to the Statement of Profit  and Loss.
This is in accordance with Scheme approved by  National Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai, overriding the  Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS).
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional  judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the  Standalone Financial Statements for the financial year  ended March 31, 2022.
These matters were addressed in the  context of our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements  as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do  not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
For each  matter below, our description of how our audit addressed  the matter is provided in that context.
We have determined the matters described below to be  the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the  Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the Standalone  Financial Statements section of our report, including in  relation to these matters.
Accordingly, our audit included  the performance of procedures designed to respond to  our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of  the Standalone Financial Statements.
The results of our  audit procedures, including the procedures performed  to address the matters below, provide the basis for  our audit opinion on the accompanying Standalone  Financial Statements.
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter A. Capitalisation and useful life of tangible and intangible assets Significant judgment and estimates are involved with respect  to the following matters of tangible and intangibles assets:- a)  During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Company  has incurred capital expenditure on various projects  included in capital work in progress and intangible assets  under development.
Further, items of property, plant  and equipment that are ready for its intended use as  determined by the management have been capitalised.
Judgement is involved to determine that the aforesaid  capitalisation meet the recognition requirement under  Ind AS including determination of whether the criteria for  intended use of the management has been met.
Refer  Note B.2(b) and B.2(d) of the financial statements.
Our audit procedures included and were not limited to  the following:- •  Assessed the design and operating effectiveness of the  controls with respect to capital expenditure incurred on various  projects included in capital work in progress, intangible assets  under development.
•  Assessed the nature of the additions made to property, plant  and equipment, intangible assets, capital work-in-progress  and intangible asset under development on a test check  basis to test whether they meet the recognition criteria as set  out Ind AS 16 – Property, Plant and Equipment and Ind AS 38 –  Intangible Assets, including intended use of management.
Independent Auditor’s Report 298 299 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Standalone Financial   Statements Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter b)  Re-assessment of estimated useful lives used for  determination of depreciation of tangible assets,  amortisation of intangible assets and recoverability  of their carrying values involves assumptions used for  such technical assessment, consideration of historical  experience and anticipated future risks.
Refer Note B.2(b)  and B.2(d) of financial statements.
c)  Estimates of oil and gas reserves are used to calculate  depletion charges for the Company’s oil and gas assets  and also have a direct impact on the assessment of  the recoverability of their carrying values.
Factors such  as the availability of geological and engineering data,  reservoir performance data, acquisition and divestment  activity, drilling of new wells and commodity prices  impacts the determination of the Company’s estimates  of oil and natural gas reserves.
Refer Note C(A) of the  financial statements.
Accordingly, the above matters relating to tangible  and intangible assets have been considered as a  key audit matter.
• Reviewed the management re-assessment of estimated useful  lives of tangible assets, intangible assets and recoverability of  their carrying values with respect to anticipated future risks.
• Performed walk-through of the estimation process associated  with the oil and gas reserves.
Further, assessed the valuation  methodology, including assumptions around the key drivers  of the cash flow forecasts including future oil and gas prices,  estimated reserves, discount rates used, etc.
by engaging  valuation experts.
• Assessed the objectivity and competence of the Company’s  specialists involved in estimating oil & gas reserves and  valuation specialists engaged by us.
• Assessed whether the updated oil and gas reserve estimates  were included in the Company’s, accounting for amortisation /  depletion and disclosures of proved reserves and proved  developed reserves in the financial statements.
• Reviewed the disclosures made by the Company in the  financial statements.
B.
Litigation matters The Company has certain significant ongoing legal  proceedings for various complex matters with the  Government of India and other parties, continuing from  earlier years, which are as under: 1.
Matters in relation to Oil and Gas:  (a)  Disallowance of certain costs under the production  sharing contract, relating to Block KG-DWN-98/3  and consequent deposit of differential revenue on  gas sales from D1D3 field to the gas pool account  maintained by Gail (India) Limited (Refer Note 35.3).
(b)  Claim against the Company in respect of gas said  to have migrated from neighbouring blocks (KGD6)  (Refer Note 35.4(a)).
(c)  Claims relating to limits of cost recovery, profit  sharing and audit and accounting provisions of the  public sector corporations etc., arising under two  production sharing contracts entered into in 1994  (Refer Note 35.4(b)).
(d)  Suit for specific performance of a contract for supply  of natural gas before the Hon’ble Bombay High Court  (Refer Note 35.4(c)).
2.
Matter relating to trading in shares of Reliance  Petroleum Limited (‘RPL’):   Special Appellate Tribunal judgement dated November  5, 2020, dismissing the Company’s appeal made in  relation to order passed by the Securities and Exchange  Board of India (‘SEBI’) under Section 11B of the SEBI  Act, 1992 in connection with trades by Company in  the stock exchanges in 2007 in the shares of Reliance  Petroleum Limited, then subsidiary of the Company  (Refer Note 36(iv)).
Due to complexity involved in these litigation matters,  management’s judgement regarding recognition,  measurement and disclosure of provisions for these  legal proceedings is inherently uncertain and might  change over time as the outcomes of the legal cases  are determined.
Accordingly, it has been considered as a key audit matter.
Our audit procedures included and were not limited  to the following: • Assessed the management’s position through discussions  with the in-house legal expert and external legal opinions  obtained by the Company (where considered necessary) on  both, the probability of success in the aforesaid cases, and the  /magnitude of any potential loss.
• Discussed with the management on the development in these  litigations during the year ended March 31, 2022.
• Rolled out of enquiry letters to the Company’s legal counsel  and assessed the responses received by engaging our  internal legal experts.
• Assessed the objectivity and competence of the  Company’s legal counsel involved in the process and legal  experts engaged by us.
• Reviewed the disclosures made by the Company in the  financial statements.
• Obtained representation letter from the management on the  assessment of these matters.
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter C. Fair Valuation of Investments  As at March 31, 2022, the Company has investments of  ` 78,144 crore in the Equity and Preference Shares of Jio Digital  Fiber Private Limited (JDFPL) which are measured at fair value  as per Ind AS 109 read with Ind AS 113.
These investments are Level 3 investments as per the fair  value hierarchy in Ind AS 113 and accordingly determination  of fair value is based on a high degree of judgement and  input from data that is not directly observable in the market.
Further, the fair value is significantly influenced by the  expected pattern of future benefits of the tangible assets  of JDFPL (fiber assets).
Refer Note 2 and Note 38A in the  financial statements.
Accordingly, the same has been considered as a  key audit matter.
Our audit procedures included and were not limited  to the following: • Reviewed the fair valuation reports provided by the  management by involvement of internal specialist / external  valuation experts.
• We assessed the assumptions around the cash flow forecasts  including discount rates, expected growth rates and its  effect on business and terminal growth rates used through  involvement of the internal experts.
• We also involved internal experts to assess the Company’s  valuation methodology and assumptions, applied in  determining the fair value.
• We discussed potential changes in key drivers as compared  to previous year / actual performance with management  to evaluate the inputs and assumptions used in the cash  flow forecasts.
• Assessed the objectivity and competence of our internal  expert and Company’s internal/external specialists involved  in the process.
• Reviewed the disclosures made by the Company in the  financial statements.
D. IT systems and controls over financial reporting We identified IT systems and controls over financial reporting  as a key audit matter for the Company because its financial  accounting and reporting systems are fundamentally  reliant on IT systems and IT controls to process significant  transaction volumes, specifically with respect to revenue  and raw material consumption.
Also, due to such large  transaction volumes and the increasing challenge to protect  the integrity of the Company’s systems and data, cyber  security has become more significant.
Automated accounting procedures and IT environment  controls, which include IT governance, IT general controls  over program development and changes, access to  program and data and IT operations, IT application controls  and interfaces between IT applications are required to be  designed and to operate effectively to ensure accurate  financial reporting.
Our procedures included and were not limited to the following: • Assessed the complexity of the IT environment by engaging  IT specialists and through discussion with the head of IT  and internal audit and identified IT applications that are  relevant to our audit.
• Assessed the design and evaluation of the operating  effectiveness of IT general controls over program development  and changes, access to program and data and IT operations  by engaging IT specialists.
• Performed inquiry procedures with the head of cybersecurity at  the Company in respect of the overall security architecture and  any key threats addressed by the Company in the current year.
• Assessed the design and evaluation of the operating  effectiveness of IT application controls in the key processes  impacting financial reporting of the Company by engaging  IT specialists.
• Assessed the operating effectiveness of controls relating  to data transmission through the different IT systems to the  financial reporting systems by engaging IT specialists.
We have determined that there are no other key audit matters to communicate in our report.
Information Other than the Financial  Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other  information.
The other information comprises the information  included in the Annual report, but does not include the  Standalone Financial Statements and our auditor’s  report thereon.
Our opinion on the Standalone Financial Statements does  not cover the other information and we do not express any  form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Standalone Financial  Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information  and, in doing so, consider whether such other information  is materially inconsistent with the financial statements  or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise  appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work  we have performed, we conclude that there is a material  misstatement of this other information, we are required to  report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management for the  Standalone Financial Statements The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the  matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the  preparation of these Standalone Financial Statements that  give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial  performance including other comprehensive income, cash  flows and changes in equity of the Company in accordance  with the accounting principles generally accepted in India,  including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified  under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies  (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended.
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate  accounting records in accordance with the provisions of  the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and  for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities;  selection and application of appropriate accounting  policies; making judgments and estimates that are  reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation  Independent Auditor’s Report 300 301 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Standalone Financial   Statements and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls,  that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy  and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the  preparation and presentation of the Standalone Financial  Statements that give a true and fair view and are free from  material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Standalone Financial Statements,  management is responsible for assessing the Company’s  ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as  applicable, matters related to going concern and using the  going concern basis of accounting unless management  either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease  operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing  the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of  the Standalone Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about  whether the Standalone Financial Statements as a whole  are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud  or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes  our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of  assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted  in accordance with SAs will always detect a material  misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from  fraud or error and are considered material if, individually  or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to  influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis  of these Standalone Financial Statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise  professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism  throughout the audit.
We also: •  Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of  the Standalone Financial Statements, whether due to fraud  or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive  to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient  and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
The  risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting  from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as  fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,  misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
•  Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to  the audit in order to design audit procedures that are  appropriate in the circumstances.
Under section 143(3)(i) of  the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion  on whether the Company has adequate internal financial  controls with reference to financial statements in place  and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
•  Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used  and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and  related disclosures made by management.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of  the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the  audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty  exists related to events or conditions that may cast  Income, the Cash Flow Statement and Statement  of Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in  agreement with the books of account;  (d)  In our opinion, the aforesaid financial statements  comply with the Accounting Standards  specified under Section 133 of the Act, read with  Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules,  2015, as amended;  (e)  On the basis of the written representations received  from the directors as on March 31, 2022 taken  on record by the Board of Directors, none of the  directors is disqualified as on March 31, 2022 from  being appointed as a director in terms of Section  164 (2) of the Act;  (f)  With respect to the adequacy of the internal  financial controls with reference to Standalone  Financial Statements and the operating  effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate  Report in “Annexure 2” to this report;  (g)  In our opinion, the managerial remuneration for  the year ended March 31, 2022 has been paid  / provided by the Company to its directors in  accordance with the provisions of section 197 read  with Schedule V to the Act;  (h)  With respect to the other matters to be included  in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11  of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules,  2014, as amended in our opinion and to the  best of our information and according to the  explanations given to us:   i.
The Company has disclosed the impact of  pending litigations on its financial position in its  Standalone Financial Statements – Refer Note  36 to the Standalone Financial Statements;   ii.
The Company has made provision, as required  under the applicable law or accounting  standards, for material foreseeable losses,  if any, on long-term contracts including  derivative contracts; and   iii.
There has been no delay in transferring  amounts, required to be transferred, to the  Investor Education and Protection Fund  by the Company except for an amount of  ` 2 crore which are held in abeyance due to  pending legal cases.
iv.
a)  The management has represented that,  to the best of its knowledge and belief,  no funds have been advanced or loaned  or invested (either from borrowed funds  or share premium or any other sources  or kind of funds) by the company to or in  any other persons or entities, including  foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the  understanding, whether recorded in writing  or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall,  whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest  in other persons or entities identified in  any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of  the company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or  provide any guarantee, security or the like  on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;    b)  The management has represented that,  to the best of its knowledge and belief, no  funds have been received by the company  from any persons or entities, including  foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the  understanding, whether recorded in writing  or otherwise, that the company shall,  whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest  in other persons or entities identified in any  manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the  Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or  provide any guarantee, security or the like  on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and    c)  Based on the audit procedures that were  considered reasonable and appropriate  in the circumstances, nothing has come  to our notice that has caused us to  believe that the representations under  sub-clause (a) and (b) contain any  material misstatement.
v.  The final dividend paid by the Company during  the year in respect of the same declared  for the previous year is in accordance with  section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to  payment of dividend.
significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a  going concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty  exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s  report to the related disclosures in the financial statements  or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our  opinion.
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence  obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report.
However,  future events or conditions may cause the Company to  cease to continue as a going concern.
•  Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content  of the Standalone Financial Statements, including the  disclosures, and whether the Standalone Financial  Statements represent the underlying transactions and  events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance  regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and  timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including  any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify  during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with  a statement that we have complied with relevant  ethical requirements regarding independence, and  to communicate with them all relationships and other  matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our  independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with  governance, we determine those matters that were of  most significance in the audit of the Standalone Financial  Statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2022  and are therefore the key audit matters.
We describe these  matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation  precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in  extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter  should not be communicated in our report because the  adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably  be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of  such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory  Requirements 1.
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order,  2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government of  India in terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of the Act,  we give in the “Annexure 1” a statement on the matters  specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.
2.
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:  (a)  We have sought and obtained all the information  and explanations which to the best of our  knowledge and belief were necessary for the  purposes of our audit;  (b)  In our opinion, proper books of account as required  by law have been kept by the Company so far as it  appears from our examination of those books;  (c)  The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss  including the Statement of Other Comprehensive  For D T S & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration Number: 142412W/W100595 per T P Ostwal Partner Membership Number: 030848 UDIN: 22030848AIMPYR9342 Place of Signature: Mumbai Date: May 06, 2022 For S R B C & CO LLP Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003 per Vikas Kumar Pansari Partner Membership Number: 093649 UDIN: 22093649AIMNPC6387 Place of Signature: Mumbai Date: May 06, 2022 Independent Auditor’s Report 302 303 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Standalone Financial   Statements (Referred to in paragraph 1, under ‘Report on Other  Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our  Report of even date) In terms of the information and explanations sought by us  and given by the Company and the books of account and  records examined by us in the normal course of audit and  to the best of our knowledge and belief, we state that: (i) (a)(A)  The Company has maintained proper  records showing full particulars, including  quantitative details and situation of Property,  Plant and Equipment.
(a)(B)  The Company has maintained proper records  showing full particulars of Intangible assets.
(b)  Property, Plant and Equipment were physically  verified by the management in accordance  with a planned programme of verifying them  once in three years which is reasonable having  regard to the size of the Company and the  nature of its assets.
(c)  The title deeds of all the immovable properties  (other than properties where the Company is  the lessee and the lease agreements are duly  executed in favour of the lessee) are held in the  name of the Company except for leasehold  land as disclosed in Note 1.7 to the standalone  financial statement in respect of which the  allotment letters are received and supplementary  agreements entered; however, lease deeds are  pending execution.
(d)  The Company has not revalued its Property, Plant  and Equipment (including Right of use assets)  or intangible assets during the year ended  March 31, 2022.
(e)  There are no proceedings initiated or are pending  against the Company for holding any benami  property under the Prohibition of Benami Property  Transactions Act, 1988 and rules made thereunder.
(ii) (a)  The management has conducted physical  verification of inventory at reasonable intervals  during the year.
In our opinion the coverage  and the procedure of such verification by the  management is appropriate.
Discrepancies of 10%  or more in aggregate for each class of inventory  were not noticed on such physical verification.
(b)  As disclosed in Note 21.4 to the standalone financial  statements, the Company has been sanctioned  working capital limits in excess of ` 5 crore in  aggregate from banks during the year on the basis  of security of current assets of the Company.
The  quarterly returns/statements filed by the Company  with such banks are in agreement with the books  of accounts of the Company.
(iii) (a)  During the year the Company has provided  loans, advances in the nature of loans, provided  guarantee and security to companies as follows: (` in crore) Loans Aggregate amount granted/ provided  during the year - Subsidiaries 38,109 Balance outstanding as at balance sheet  date in respect of above case  - Subsidiaries 42,112  (b)   During the year the investments made and  the terms and conditions of the grant of all  loans to companies are not prejudicial to the  Company's interest.
(c)   The Company has granted loans during the  year to companies where the schedule of  repayment of principal and payment of interest  has been stipulated and the repayment or  receipts are regular.
(d)   There are no amounts of loans granted to  companies which are overdue for more  than ninety days.
(e)   There were no loans which had fallen due during  the year, that have been renewed or extended  or fresh loans granted to settle the overdues of  existing loans given to the same parties.
(f)   The Company has not granted any loans or  advances in the nature of loans, either repayable  on demand or without specifying any terms  or period of repayment to companies, firms,  Limited Liability Partnerships or any other  parties.
Accordingly, the requirement to report  on clause 3(iii)(f) of the Order is not applicable  to the Company.
(iv)  The Company has not granted any loans or provide  any guarantees or securities to parties covered under  Section 185 of the Act.
Further, provisions of sections  186 of the Companies Act, 2013 in respect of loans,  investments, guarantees and security have been  complied with by the Company.
(v)  The Company has neither accepted any deposits  from the public nor accepted any amounts which are  deemed to be deposits within the meaning of sections  73 to 76 of the Companies Act and the rules made  Annexure 1 To the Independent Auditors’ Report of even date on the Standalone Financial Statements of Reliance Industries Limited thereunder, to the extent applicable.
Accordingly, the  requirement to report on clause 3(v) of the Order is not  applicable to the Company.
(vi)  We have broadly reviewed the books of account  maintained by the Company pursuant to the rules  made by the Central Government for the maintenance  of cost records under section 148(1) of the Companies  Act, 2013, related to the manufacturing activities and  are of the opinion that prima facie, the specified  accounts and records have been made and  maintained.
We have not, however, made a detailed  examination of the same.
(vii) (a)  The Company is regular in depositing with  appropriate authorities undisputed statutory dues  including goods and services tax, provident fund,  employees’ state insurance, income-tax, sales- tax, service tax, duty of customs, duty of excise,  value added tax, cess and other statutory dues  applicable to it.
According to the information and  explanations given to us and based on audit  procedures performed by us, no undisputed  amounts payable in respect of these statutory  dues were outstanding, at the year end, for a  period of more than six months from the date they  became payable.
(b)  The dues of goods and services tax, provident  fund, employees’ state insurance, income-tax,  sales-tax, service tax, duty of custom, duty of  excise, value added tax, cess, and other statutory  dues have not been deposited on account of any  dispute, are as follows: Name of the statute Nature of the dues Amount   (` in crore) Period to which the  amount relates Forum where the dispute is pending Central Excise Act, 1944 Excise Duty  and Service Tax 0.36 Various Years from  1990-91 to 2008-09 Commissioner of Central  Excise (Appeals) 249 Various Years from  1991-92 to 2017-18 The Customs Excise and Service Tax  Appellate Tribunal 215 Various Years from  1996-97 to 2017-18 Supreme Court Central Sales Tax Act,  1956 and Sales Tax Act  of various States Sales Tax/  VAT and Entry Tax 510 Various Years from  2001-02 to 2017-18 Joint Commissioner/ Commissioner  (Appeal) of Sales Tax 291 Various Years from  1999-20 to 2016-17 Sales Tax Apellate Tribunal 101 Various Years from  2000-01 to 2013-14 High Court Customs Act, 1962 Customs Duty 20 2017-18 The Customs Excise and Service Tax  Appellate Tribunal Goods and  Services Tax Act, 2017 Goods  and Services Tax 3 2017-18 to 2021-22 Joint/Additional Commissioner of  CGST and Central Tax 0.31 2021-22 Tribunal Income Tax Act, 1961 Income Tax 1,128 AY 2013-14,  AY 2014-15,AY  2016-17 & AY 2018-19 Commissioner of  Income-Tax (Appeals) (viii)  The Company has not surrendered or disclosed any  transaction, previously unrecorded in the books of  account, in the tax assessments under the Income Tax  Act, 1961 as income during the year.
Accordingly, the  requirement to report on clause 3(viii) of the Order is  not applicable to the Company.
(ix) (a)  The Company has not defaulted in repayment  of loans or other borrowings or in the payment of  interest thereon to any lender.
(b)  The Company has not been declared wilful  defaulter by any bank or financial institution or  government or any government authority.
(c)  Term loans were applied for the purpose for which  the loans were obtained.
(d)  On an overall examination of the standalone  financial statements of the Company, no funds  raised on short-term basis have been used for  long-term purposes by the Company.
(e)  On an overall examination of the standalone  financial statements of the Company, the  Company has not taken any funds from any entity  or person on account of or to meet the obligations  of its subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures.
(f)  The Company has not raised loans during the year  on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries,  joint ventures or associate companies.
Hence, the  requirement to report on clause 3(ix)(f) of the Order  is not applicable to the Company.
(x) (a)  The Company has utilized the monies raised on  right issue of equity shares and on issuance of  debt instruments during the year for the purposes  for which they were raised.
(b)  The Company has not made any preferential  allotment or private placement of shares /fully  or partially or optionally convertible debentures  during the year under audit and hence, the  requirement to report on clause 3(x)(b) of the  Order is not applicable to the Company.
Independent Auditor’s Report 304 305 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Standalone Financial   Statements (xi) (a)  Based upon the audit procedures performed  for the purpose of reporting the true and fair  view of the standalone financial statements and  according to the information and explanations  given by the management, no fraud by the  Company or no material fraud on the Company  has been noticed or reported during the year.
(b)  During the year, no report under sub-section (12)  of section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 has been  filed by cost auditor/ secretarial auditor or by us  in Form ADT – 4 as prescribed under Rule 13 of  Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 with  the Central Government.
(c)  We have taken into consideration the whistle  blower complaints received by the Company  during the year while determining the nature,  timing and extent of audit procedures.
(xii)  The Company is not a nidhi Company as per the  provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
Therefore, the  requirement to report on clause 3(xii)(a),(b) and (c) of  the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xiii)  Transactions with the related parties are in compliance  with sections 177 and 188 of Companies Act, 2013 where  applicable and the details have been disclosed in  the notes to the standalone financial statements, as  required by the applicable accounting standards.
(xiv) (a)  The Company has an internal audit system  commensurate with the size and nature  of its business.
(b)  The internal audit reports of the Company issued  till the date of the audit report, for the period under  audit have been considered by us.
(xv)  The Company has not entered into any non-cash  transactions with its directors or persons connected  with its directors and hence requirement to report  on clause 3(xv) of the Order is not applicable  to the Company.
(xvi) (a)  The provisions of section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank  of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934) are not applicable  to the Company.
Accordingly, the requirement  to report on clause 3(xvi)(a) of the Order is not  applicable to the Company.
(b)  The Company has not conducted any Non- Banking Financial or Housing Finance activities  without obtaining a valid Certificate of Registration  (CoR) from the Reserve Bank of India as per the  Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
(c)  The Company is not a Core Investment Company  as defined in the regulations made by Reserve  Bank of India.
Accordingly, the requirement to  report on clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not  applicable to the Company.
(d)  As represented by the management, the  Group does not have more than one Core  Investment Company (CIC) as part of the Group  as per the definition of Group contained in the  Core Investment Companies (Reserve Bank)  Directions, 2016.
(xvii)  The Company has not incurred cash losses in the  current year and in the immediately preceding  financial year.
(xviii)  There has been no resignation of the statutory  auditors during the year and accordingly requirement  to report on Clause 3(xviii) of the Order is not  applicable to the Company.
(xix)  On the basis of the financial ratios disclosed in Note  41 to the standalone financial statements, ageing  and expected dates of realization of financial assets  and payment of financial liabilities, other information  accompanying the standalone financial statements,  our knowledge of the Board of Directors and  management plans and based on our examination  of the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing  has come to our attention, which causes us to believe  that any material uncertainty exists as on the date  of the audit report that Company is not capable of  meeting its liabilities existing at the date of balance  sheet as and when they fall due within a period of one  year from the balance sheet date.
We, however, state  that this is not an assurance as to the future viability  of the Company.
We further state that our reporting is  based on the facts up to the date of the audit report  and we neither give any guarantee nor any assurance  that all liabilities falling due within a period of one year  from the balance sheet date, will get discharged by the  Company as and when they fall due.
(xx) (a)  In respect of other than ongoing projects, there are no unspent amounts that are required to be transferred to a  fund specified in Schedule VII of the Companies Act (the Act), in compliance with second proviso to sub section 5  of section 135 of the Act.
(b)  There are no unspent amounts in respect of ongoing projects, that are required to be transferred to a special  account in compliance of provision of sub section (6) of section 135 of Companies Act.
For D T S & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration Number: 142412W/W100595 per T P Ostwal Partner Membership Number: 030848 UDIN: 22030848AIMPYR9342 Place of Signature: Mumbai Date: May 06, 2022 For S R B C & CO LLP Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003 per Vikas Kumar Pansari Partner Membership Number: 093649 UDIN: 22093649AIMNPC6387 Place of Signature: Mumbai Date: May 06, 2022 Independent Auditor’s Report 306 307 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Standalone Financial   Statements Report on the Internal Financial Controls  under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of  Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013  (“the Act”) We have audited the internal financial controls with  reference to Standalone Financial Statements of Reliance  Industries Limited (“the Company”) which includes joint  operations as of March 31, 2022 in conjunction with our audit  of the Standalone Financial Statements of the Company for  the year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for  Internal Financial Controls The Company’s Management is responsible for establishing  and maintaining internal financial controls based on the  internal control over financial reporting criteria established  by the Company considering the essential components  of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of  Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued  by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”).
These responsibilities include the design, implementation  and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls  that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and  efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to  the Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the  prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy  and completeness of the accounting records, and the  timely preparation of reliable financial information, as  required under the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's  internal financial controls with reference to these  Standalone Financial Statements based on our audit.
We  conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance  Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial  Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and the Standards on  Auditing, as specified under section 143(10) of the Act, to the  extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls,  both issued by ICAI.
Those Standards and the Guidance  Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and  plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance  about whether adequate internal financial controls with  reference to these standalone financial statements was  established and maintained and if such controls operated  effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit  evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial  controls with reference to these standalone financial  statements and their operating effectiveness.
Our audit  of internal financial controls with reference to standalone  financial statements included obtaining an understanding  of internal financial controls with reference to these  standalone financial statements, assessing the risk that  a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating  the design and operating effectiveness of internal control  based on the assessed risk.
The procedures selected  depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the  assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the  financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is  sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit  opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with  reference to these standalone financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls  with reference to these Standalone  Financial Statements A company's internal financial controls with reference to  standalone financial statements is a process designed  to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability  of financial reporting and the preparation of financial  statements for external purposes in accordance with  generally accepted accounting principles.
A company's  internal financial controls with reference to standalone  financial statements includes those policies and  procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records  that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the  transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;  (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are  recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial  statements in accordance with generally accepted  accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures  of the company are being made only in accordance  with authorisations of management and directors of the  company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding  prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition,  use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have  a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal  Financial Controls With Reference to  Standalone Financial Statements Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial  controls with reference to standalone financial statements,  including the possibility of collusion or improper  management override of controls, material misstatements  due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial  controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements  Annexure 2 To the Independent Auditors’ Report of even date on the Standalone Financial Statements of Reliance Industries Limited to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal  financial control with reference to standalone financial  statements may become inadequate because of changes  in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the  policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects,  adequate internal financial controls with reference to  standalone financial statements and such internal financial  controls with reference to standalone financial statements  were operating effectively as at March 31, 2022, based  on the internal control over financial reporting criteria  established by the Company considering the essential  components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note  issued by the ICAI.
For D T S & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration Number: 142412W/W100595 per T P Ostwal Partner Membership Number: 030848 UDIN: 22030848AIMPYR9342 Place of Signature: Mumbai Date: May 06, 2022 For S R B C & CO LLP Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003 per Vikas Kumar Pansari Partner Membership Number: 093649 UDIN: 22093649AIMNPC6387 Place of Signature: Mumbai Date: May 06, 2022 Balance Sheet As at 31st March, 2022 308 309Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited (` in crore) Notes As at 31st March 2022 As at 31st March 2021 Assets Non-Current Assets Property, Plant and Equipment 1 2,23,824 2,92,092  Capital Work-in-Progress 1 19,267 20,765  Intangible Assets 1 15,802 14,741  Intangible Assets Under Development 1 15,395 12,070  Financial Assets  Investments 2 3,30,493 2,52,620   Loans 3 41,951 64,073   Other Financial Assets 4 2,247 1,625  Other Non-Current Assets 5 7,297 4,968  Total Non-Current Assets 6,56,276 6,62,954  Current Assets Inventories 6 45,923 37,437  Financial Assets  Investments 7 78,304 94,665   Trade Receivables 8 14,394 4,159   Cash and Cash Equivalents 9 21,714 5,573   Loans 10 161 993   Other Financial Assets 11 54,901 59,560  Other Current Assets 13 7,001 8,332  Total Current Assets 2,22,398 2,10,719  Total Assets 8,78,674 8,73,673  Equity and Liabilities Equity Equity Share capital 14 6,765 6,445  Other Equity 15 4,64,762 4,68,038  Total Equity 4,71,527 4,74,483  Liabilities Non-Current Liabilities Financial Liabilities  Borrowings 16 1,67,231 1,60,598   Lease Liabilities 2,790 2,869   Other Financial Liabilities 17 3,210 1,145  Provisions 18 1,598 1,499  Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net) 19 30,832 30,788  Other Non-Current Liabilities 20 504 504  Total Non-Current Liabilities 2,06,165 1,97,403  Current Liabilities Financial Liabilities  Borrowings 21 27,332 61,100   Lease Liabilities 86 116   Trade Payables Due to: 22    Micro and Small Enterprises 138 90    Other than Micro and Small Enterprises 1,33,867 86,909   Other Financial Liabilities 23 33,225 33,108  Other Current Liabilities 24 5,438 19,563  Provisions 25 896 901  Total Current Liabilities 2,00,982 2,01,787  Total Liabilities 4,07,147 3,99,190  Total Equity and Liabilities 8,78,674 8,73,673  Significant Accounting Policies See accompanying Notes to the Financial Statements 1 to 47 (` in crore) Notes 2021-22 2020-21 Income Value of Sales 4,63,067 2,76,181 Income from Services 3,358 2,759 Value of Sales & Services (Revenue) 4,66,425 2,78,940 Less: GST Recovered 21,050 13,871 Revenue from Operations 26 4,45,375 2,65,069 Other Income 27 13,872 14,818 Total Income 4,59,247 2,79,887 Expenses Cost of Material Consumed 3,20,852 1,68,262 Purchase of Stock-in-Trade 10,691 7,301 Changes in Inventories of Finished Goods, Work-in-Progress and Stock-in-Trade 28 (7,962) 610 Excise Duty 21,672 19,402 Employee Benefits Expense 29 5,426 5,024 Finance Costs 30 9,123 16,211 Depreciation / Amortisation and Depletion Expense 1 10,276 9,199 Other Expenses 31 42,383 30,970 Total Expenses 4,12,461 2,56,979 Profit Before Exceptional Item and Tax 46,786 22,908 Exceptional Item (Net of Tax) 32 - 4,304 Profit Before Tax * 46,786 27,212 Tax Expenses * Current Tax 12  787 - Deferred Tax 19  6,915 (4,732) Profit for the Year 39,084 31,944 Other Comprehensive Income i.
Items that will not be reclassified to Profit or Loss 27.1 241 350 ii.
Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to Profit or Loss  (58) (79) iii.
Items that will be reclassified to Profit or Loss 27.2 (2,705) 2,755 iv.
Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified to Profit or Loss  543 (456) Total Other Comprehensive Income/ (Loss) for the Year (Net of Tax)  (1,979) 2,570 Total Comprehensive Income for the Year 37,105 34,514 Earnings per Equity Share of Face Value of ` 10 Each Basic (in `) - After Exceptional Item 33 59.24 49.66 Basic (in `) - Before Exceptional Item 33 59.24 42.97 Diluted (in `) - After Exceptional Item 33 58.49 48.90 Diluted (in `) - Before Exceptional Item 33 58.49 42.31 Significant Accounting Policies   See accompanying Notes to the Financial Statements 1 to 47 * Profit before tax is after Exceptional Item and tax thereon.
Tax expenses are excluding the Current Tax and Deferred Tax on Exceptional Item.
Statement of Profit and Loss For the year ended 31st March, 2022 For and on behalf of the Board M.D.
Ambani Chairman and   Managing Director N.R.
Meswani Executive DirectorsH.R.
Meswani P.M.S.
Prasad P. K. Kapil Nita M. Ambani Non-Executive   Directors Prof. Dipak C. Jain Dr. R.A. Mashelkar Adil Zainulbhai Raminder Singh Gujral Dr. Shumeet Banerji Arundhati Bhattacharya His Excellency Yasir Othman H. Al Rumayyan K.V.
Chowdary As per our Report of even date For D T S & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
142412W/ W100595) For S R B C & CO LLP Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
324982E/E300003) T P Ostwal Partner   Membership No.
030848 Vikas Kumar Pansari Partner   Membership No.
093649 Date: May 06, 2022 Alok Agarwal Chief Financial Officer Srikanth Venkatachari Joint Chief Financial Officer Savithri Parekh Company Secretary For and on behalf of the Board M.D.
Ambani Chairman and   Managing Director N.R.
Meswani Executive DirectorsH.R.
Meswani P.M.S.
Prasad P. K. Kapil Nita M. Ambani Non-Executive   Directors Prof. Dipak C. Jain Dr. R.A. Mashelkar Adil Zainulbhai Raminder Singh Gujral Dr. Shumeet Banerji Arundhati Bhattacharya His Excellency Yasir Othman H. Al Rumayyan K.V.
Chowdary As per our Report of even date For D T S & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
142412W/ W100595) For S R B C & CO LLP Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
324982E/E300003) T P Ostwal Partner   Membership No.
030848 Vikas Kumar Pansari Partner   Membership No.
093649 Date: May 06, 2022 Alok Agarwal Chief Financial Officer Srikanth Venkatachari Joint Chief Financial Officer Savithri Parekh Company Secretary Statement of Changes in Equity For the year ended 31st March, 2022 A.
Equity Share Capital (` in crore) Balance as at  1st April, 2020 Change during the  year 2020-21 Balance as at   31st March, 2021 Change during  the year 2021-22 Balance as at   31st March, 2022 6,339 106 6,445 320 6,765 B.
Other Equity (` in crore) Balance  as at 1st  April,  2021 Total  Comprehensive Income for the  Year Dividends Transfer  (to)/ from  Retained  Earnings Transfer  (to)/from  General  Reserve On  Rights  Issue # On  Employee Stock  Options Others Balance  as at 31st  March,  2022 As at 31st March, 2022 Share Call Money Account 39,843 - - - - (39,843) - - - Reserves and Surplus Capital Reserve 403 - - - - - - - 403 Securities Premium 59,442 - - - - 39,447 841 - 99,730  Debenture  Redemption Reserve 5,965 - - - (1,795) - - - 4,170  Share Based  Payments Reserve 419 - - - - - (386) - 33 General Reserve 2,58,410 - - - (34,348) $ - - - 2,24,062 Retained Earnings 41,893 39,084 (4,297) (4,135) - - - - 72,545   Special Economic Zone  Reinvestment Reserve 4,975 - - 4,135 * - - - - 9,110 Other Comprehensive Income 56,688  (1,979) - - - - - - 54,709  Total 4,68,038 37,105 (4, 297) - (36,143) (396) 455 - 4,64,762   # Refer Note 14.9  $ Includes transfer of ` 36,143 crore to statement of profit and loss (Refer Note 32(a) & 43.1).
* Considers Special Economic Zone Reinvestment Reserve created during the year of ` 5,040 crore.
(` in crore) Balance  as at 1st  April,  2020 Total  Comprehensive  Income for the  Year Dividends Transfer  (to)/from  Retained  Earnings Transfer  (to)/ from  General  Reserve On  Rights  Issue # On  Employee  Stock  Options Others * Balance  as at 31st  March,  2021 As at 31st March, 2021 Share Application Money  Pending Allotment 1  -  -  -  -  -  (1)  -  -  Share Call Money Account  -  -  -  -  -  39,843  -  -  39,843  Reserves and Surplus Capital Reserve 403  -  -  -  -  -  -  - 403  Securities Premium 46,329  -  -  -  -  13,104 9  - 59,442   Debenture Redemption Reserve 9,375  -  -  -  (3,410)  -  -  - 5,965   Share Based Payments Reserve 4  -  -  -  -  -  415  - 419  General Reserve 2,55,000  -  -  -  3,410  -  -  - 2,58,410  Retained Earnings 14,146 31,944  (3,921) (32,692)*  -  -  -  32,416 41,893   Special Economic Zone  Reinvestment Reserve  5,500  -  -  (525) $  -  -  -  - 4,975  Other Comprehensive Income 54,118  2,570  -  -  -  -  -  - 56,688  Total 3,84,876 34,514  (3,921)  (33,217)  -  52,947 423  32,416 4,68,038  # Refer Note 14.9 * Refer Note 32 (c) $ Net of Special Economic Zone Reinvestment Reserve created during the year of ` 3,303 crore.
310 311 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Standalone Financial   Statements For and on behalf of the Board M.D.
Ambani Chairman and   Managing Director N.R.
Meswani Executive DirectorsH.R.
Meswani P.M.S.
Prasad P. K. Kapil Nita M. Ambani Non-Executive   Directors Prof. Dipak C. Jain Dr. R.A. Mashelkar Adil Zainulbhai Raminder Singh Gujral Dr. Shumeet Banerji Arundhati Bhattacharya His Excellency Yasir Othman H. Al Rumayyan K.V.
Chowdary As per our Report of even date For D T S & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
142412W/ W100595) For S R B C & CO LLP Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
324982E/E300003) T P Ostwal Partner   Membership No.
030848 Vikas Kumar Pansari Partner   Membership No.
093649 Date: May 06, 2022 Alok Agarwal Chief Financial Officer Srikanth Venkatachari Joint Chief Financial Officer Savithri Parekh Company Secretary Statement of Cash Flow For the year ended 31st March, 2022 312 313 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Standalone Financial   Statements (` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 A.
Cash Flow from Operating Activities Net Profit Before Tax as per Statement of Profit and Loss (After Exceptional item  and Tax thereon)  46,786 27,212 Adjusted for:  Premium on buy back of debentures 380 194  Provision for Impairment in value of investment (Net) - (16)  (Profit) / Loss on Sale / Discard of Property, Plant and Equipment (Net) 80 -  Depreciation / Amortisation and Depletion Expense 10,276 9,199  Effect of Exchange Rate Change 1,920 (1,238)  Net Gain on Financial Assets # (765) (2,866)  Exceptional Item (Net of taxes) - (4,304)  Dividend Income (276) (141)  Interest Income # (12,390) (11,065)  Finance costs 9,123 16,211 Operating Profit before Working Capital Changes  55,134 33,186 Adjusted for:  Trade and Other Receivables  (12,639) 2,781  Inventories (9,337) 1,365  Trade and Other Payables  35,796 (36,154) Cash Generated from Operations  68,954 1,178 Taxes Paid (Net)  (1,463) (1,690) Net Cash Flow from / (Used in) Operating Activities *  67,491 (512) B.
Cash Flow from Investing Activities Expenditure on Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets (18,149) (21,755) Repayment of Capex Liabilities transferred from RJIL (5) (27,743) Proceeds from disposal of Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets 30 1,147 Investments in Subsidiaries (37,574) (16,147) Disposal of Investments in Subsidiaries 956 1,33,647 Purchase of Other Investments (5,21,980) (4,32,492) Proceeds from Sale of Financial Assets 5,02,224 4,34,074 Loans (given) / repaid  (net) – Subsidiaries, Associates, Joint Ventures and Others 22,952 (7,321) Interest Income 5,955 10,706 Dividend Income from Subsidiaries / Associates 275 141 Dividend Income from Others 1 - Net Cash Flow (Used in) / from Investing Activities  (45,315) 74,257 C. Cash Flow from Financing Activities Proceeds from Issue of Equity Share Capital 5 5 Net Proceeds from Rights Issue 39,762 13,210 Payment of Lease Liabilities (109) (53) Proceeds from Borrowings - Non-Current (including current maturities) 29,916 32,765 Repayment of Borrowings - Non-Current (including current maturities) (36,539) (86,291) Borrowings - Current (Net) (23,754) (18,078) Dividends Paid (4,297) (3,921) Interest Paid (11,019) (14,294) Net Cash Flow (Used in) Financing Activities  (6,035) (76,657) Net Increase/(Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents  16,141 (2,912) Opening Balance of Cash and Cash Equivalents 5,573 8,485 Closing Balance of Cash and Cash Equivalents (Refer Note No.
9) 21,714 5,573 # Other than Financial Services Segment.
* Includes amount spent in cash towards Corporate Social Responsibility of ` 813 crore (Previous Year ` 922 crore).
Change in Liability Arising from Financing Activities (` in crore) 1st April, 2021 Cash flow Foreign exchange  movement / Others 31st March, 2022 Borrowing - Non-Current (including current  maturities) (Refer Note 16) 1,88,546  (6,623)  3,242 1,85,165  Borrowing - Current (Refer Note 21) 33,152  (23,754)  - 9,398  2,21,698  (30,377)  3,242 1,94,563  (` in crore) 1st April, 2020 Cash flow Foreign exchange  movement/ Others ^     31st March, 2021 Borrowing - Non-Current (including current  maturities) (Refer Note 16) 2,38,700  (53,526) 3,372 1,88,546  Borrowing - Current (Refer Note 21) 59,899 (18,078)  (8,669) 33,152  2,98,599  (71,604)  (5,297) 2,21,698  ^ Others includes short-term loans of ` 10,707 crore, refinanced into Long Term Loan.
For and on behalf of the Board M.D.
Ambani Chairman and   Managing Director N.R.
Meswani Executive DirectorsH.R.
Meswani P.M.S.
Prasad P. K. Kapil Nita M. Ambani Non-Executive   Directors Prof. Dipak C. Jain Dr. R.A. Mashelkar Adil Zainulbhai Raminder Singh Gujral Dr. Shumeet Banerji Arundhati Bhattacharya His Excellency Yasir Othman H. Al Rumayyan K.V.
Chowdary As per our Report of even date For D T S & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
142412W/ W100595) For S R B C & CO LLP Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
324982E/E300003) T P Ostwal Partner   Membership No.
030848 Vikas Kumar Pansari Partner   Membership No.
093649 Date: May 06, 2022 Alok Agarwal Chief Financial Officer Srikanth Venkatachari Joint Chief Financial Officer Savithri Parekh Company Secretary Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 314 315 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements A.
Corporate Information   Reliance Industries Limited (“the Company”) is a listed  entity incorporated in India.
The registered office of the  Company is located at 3rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV, 222,  Nariman Point, Mumbai - 400 021, India.
The Company is engaged in activities spanning  across hydrocarbon exploration and production, Oil to  chemicals, retail, digital services and financial services.
B.
Significant Accounting Policies: B.1 Basis of Preparation and Presentation   The Financial Statements have been prepared  on the historical cost basis except for following  assets and liabilities which have been measured at  fair value amount:  i)  Certain Financial Assets and Liabilities (including  derivative instruments),  ii) Defined Benefit Plans – Plan Assets and  iii) Equity settled Share Based Payments   The Financial Statements of the Company have  been prepared to comply with the Indian Accounting  standards (‘Ind AS’), including the rules notified under  the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, (as  amended from time to time) and Presentation and  disclosure requirements of Division II of Schedule III to the  Companies Act, 2013, (Ind AS Compliant Schedule III) as  amended from time to time.
The Company’s Financial Statements are presented in  Indian Rupees (`), which is also its functional currency and  all values are rounded to the nearest crore (`00,00,000),  except when otherwise indicated.
B.2  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  (a) Current and Non-Current Classification    The Company presents assets and liabilities in the  Balance Sheet based on Current/ Non-Current  classification.
An asset is treated as Current when it is –   -  Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or  consumed in normal operating cycle;   -  Held primarily for the purpose of trading;   -  Expected to be realised within twelve months  after the reporting period, or   -  Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from  being exchanged or used to settle a liability for  at least twelve months after the reporting period.
All other assets are classified as non-current.
A liability is current when:   -  It is expected to be settled in normal  operating cycle;   - It is held primarily for the purpose of trading;   -  It is due to be settled within twelve months after  the reporting period, or   -  There is no unconditional right to defer the  settlement of the liability for at least twelve  months after the reporting period.
The Company classifies all other liabilities  as non-current.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as  non-current assets and liabilities.
(b) Property, Plant and Equipment    Property, Plant and Equipment are stated at cost, net  of recoverable taxes, trade discount and rebates less  accumulated depreciation and impairment losses,  if any.
Such cost includes purchase price, borrowing  cost and any cost directly attributable to bringing  the assets to its working condition for its intended  use, net charges on foreign exchange contracts and  adjustments arising from exchange rate variations  attributable to the assets.
In case of land the  Company has availed fair value as deemed cost on  the date of transition to Ind AS.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying  amount or recognised as a separate asset, as  appropriate, only when it is probable that future  economic benefits associated with the item will flow  to the entity and the cost can be measured reliably.
Property, Plant and Equipment which are significant  to the total cost of that item of Property, Plant and  Equipment and having different useful life are  accounted separately.
Other Indirect Expenses incurred relating to  project, net of income earned during the project  development stage prior to its intended use, are  considered as pre-operative expenses and disclosed  under Capital Work-in-Progress.
Depreciation on Property, Plant and Equipment  is provided using written down value method on  depreciable amount except in case of certain assets  of Oil to Chemicals segment which are depreciated  using straight line method.
Depreciation is provided  based on useful life of the assets as prescribed in  Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013 except in  respect of the following assets, where useful life is  different than those prescribed in Schedule II; Particular Depreciation Fixed Bed Catalyst (useful  life: 2 years or more) Over its useful life as  technically assessed Fixed Bed Catalyst (useful  life: up to 2 years) 100% depreciated in the  year of addition Plant and Machinery  (useful life: 25 to 50 years) Over its useful life as  technically assessed    The residual values, useful lives and methods of  depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment are  reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted  prospectively, if appropriate.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of a  Property, Plant and Equipment are measured as  the difference between the net disposal proceeds  and the carrying amount of the asset and are  recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss when  the asset is derecognised.
(c) Leases    The Company, as a lessee, recognises a right- of-use asset and a lease liability for its leasing  arrangements, if the contract conveys the right to  control the use of an identified asset.
The contract conveys the right to control the use  of an identified asset, if it involves the use of an  identified asset and the Company has substantially  all of the economic benefits from use of the asset  and has right to direct the use of the identified asset.
The cost of the right-of-use asset shall comprise  of the amount of the initial measurement of the  lease liability adjusted for any lease payments  made at or before the commencement date plus  any initial direct costs incurred.
The right-of-use  assets is subsequently measured at cost less  any accumulated depreciation, accumulated  impairment losses, if any and adjusted for any  remeasurement of the lease liability.
The right-of-use  assets is depreciated using the straight-line method  from the commencement date over the shorter of  lease term or useful life of right-of-use asset.
The Company measures the lease liability at the  present value of the lease payments that are not  paid at the commencement date of the lease.
The lease payments are discounted using the  interest rate implicit in the lease, if that rate can be  readily determined.
If that rate cannot be readily  determined, the Company uses incremental  borrowing rate.
For short-term and low value leases, the Company  recognises the lease payments as an operating  expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
(d) Intangible Assets    Intangible Assets are stated at cost of acquisition  net of recoverable taxes, trade discount and  rebates less accumulated amortisation/depletion  and impairment losses, if any.
Such cost includes  purchase price, borrowing costs, and any cost  directly attributable to bringing the asset to its  working condition for the intended use, net charges  on foreign exchange contracts and adjustments  arising from exchange rate variations attributable  to the Intangible Assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s  carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset,  as appropriate, only when it is probable that future  economic benefits associated with the item will flow  to the entity and the cost can be measured reliably.
Other Indirect Expenses incurred relating to  project, net of income earned during the project  development stage prior to its intended use,  are considered as pre-operative expenses  and disclosed under Intangible Assets  Under Development.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an  Intangible Asset are measured as the difference  between the net disposal proceeds and the  carrying amount of the asset and are recognised  in the Statement of Profit and Loss when the asset  is derecognised.
The Company’s intangible assets  comprises assets with finite useful life which are  amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of  their expected useful life.
A summary of amortisation/depletion policies  applied to the Company’s Intangible Assets to the  extent of depreciable amount is as follows: Particular Amortisation / Depletion Technical   Know-How Over the useful life of the  underlying assets ranging from 5  years to 35 years.
Computer   Software Over a period of 5 years.
Development   Rights Depleted using the unit of production  method.
The cost of producing  wells along with its related facilities  including decommissioning costs  are depleted in proportion of oil and  gas production achieved vis-à-vis  Proved Developed Reserves.
The cost  for common facilities including its  decommissioning costs are depleted  using Proved Reserves.
Others In case of Jetty, the aggregate  amount amortised to date is not less  than the aggregate rebate availed  by the Company.
The amortisation period and the amortisation  method for Intangible Assets with a finite useful life  are reviewed at each reporting date.
(e) Research and Development Expenditure    Revenue expenditure pertaining to research is  charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss as  and when incurred.
Development costs are capitalised as an intangible  asset if it can be demonstrated that the project is  expected to generate future economic benefits,  it is probable that those future economic benefits  will flow to the entity and the costs of the asset  can be measured reliably, else it is charged to the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 316 317 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements  (f) Cash and Cash Equivalents    Cash and cash equivalents comprise of cash on  hand, cash at banks, short-term deposits and  short-term highly liquid investments that are readily  convertible to known amounts of cash and which are  subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
(g) Finance Costs    Borrowing costs include exchange differences arising  from foreign currency borrowings to the extent  they are regarded as an adjustment to the interest  cost.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable  to the acquisition or construction of qualifying  assets are capitalised as part of the cost of such  assets.
A qualifying asset is one that necessarily  takes substantial period of time to get ready for  its intended use.
Interest income earned on the temporary investment  of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on  qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing  costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are charged to the  Statement of Profit and Loss for the period for which  they are incurred.
(h) Inventories    Items of inventories are measured at lower of  cost and net realisable value after providing for  obsolescence, if any, except in case of by-products  which are valued at net realisable value.
Cost  of inventories comprises of cost of purchase,  cost of conversion and other costs including  manufacturing overheads net of recoverable taxes  incurred in bringing them to their respective present  location and condition.
Cost of finished goods, work-in-progress, raw  materials, chemicals, stores and spares, packing  materials, trading and other products are  determined on weighted average basis.
(i)  Impairment of Non-Financial Assets  - Property, Plant and Equipment and  Intangible Assets     The Company assesses at each reporting date as  to whether there is any indication that any Property,  Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets or  group of Assets, called Cash Generating Units (CGU)  may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, the  recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated  to determine the extent of impairment, if any.
When  it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount  of an individual asset, the Company estimates  the recoverable amount of the CGU to which  the asset belongs.
An impairment loss is recognised in the Statement of  Profit and Loss to the extent, asset’s carrying amount  exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable  amount is higher of an asset’s fair value less cost of  disposal and value in use.
Value in use is based on  the estimated future cash flows, discounted to their  present value using pre-tax discount rate that reflects  current market assessments of the time value of  money and risk specific to the assets.
The impairment loss recognised in prior accounting  period is reversed if there has been a change in the  estimate of recoverable amount.
(j) Provisions    Provisions are recognised when the Company has  a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a  result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow  of resources embodying economic benefits will  be required to settle the obligation and a reliable  estimate can be made of the amount of the  obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is  material, provisions are discounted using a current  pre-tax rate that reflects, when appropriate, the risks  specific to the liability.
When discounting is used, the  increase in the provision due to the passage of time  is recognised as a finance cost.
Provision for Decommissioning Liability    The Company records a provision for  decommissioning costs towards site restoration  activity.
Decommissioning costs are provided at  the present value of future expenditure using a  current pre-tax rate expected to be incurred to fulfil  decommissioning obligations and are recognised as  part of the cost of the underlying assets.
Any change  in the present value of the expenditure, other than  unwinding of discount on the provision, is reflected as  adjustment to the provision and the corresponding  asset.
The change in the provision due to the  unwinding of discount is recognised in the Statement  of Profit and Loss.
(k) Contingent Liabilities    Disclosure of contingent liability is made when there  is a possible obligation arising from past events,  the existence of which will be confirmed only by  the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more  uncertain future events not wholly within the control  of the Company or a present obligation that arises  from past events where it is either not probable  that an outflow of resources embodying economic  benefits will be required to settle or a reliable  estimate of amount cannot be made.
(l) Employee Benefits Expense   Short-Term Employee Benefits    The undiscounted amount of short-term employee  benefits expected to be paid in exchange for the  services rendered by employees are recognised as  an expense during the period when the employees  render the services.
Post-Employment Benefits   Defined Contribution Plans    The Company recognises contribution payable to  the provident fund scheme as an expense, when  an employee renders the related service.
If the  contribution payable to the scheme for service  received before the balance sheet date exceeds  the contribution already paid, the deficit payable  to the scheme is recognised as a liability.
If the  contribution already paid exceeds the contribution  due for services received before the balance sheet  date, then excess is recognised as an asset to the  extent that the pre-payment will lead to a reduction  in future payment or a cash refund.
Defined Benefit Plans    The Company pays gratuity to the employees  who have completed five years of service with the  Company at the time of resignation/superannuation.
The gratuity is paid @15 days basic salary for every  completed year of service as per the Payment of  Gratuity Act, 1972.
The gratuity liability amount is  contributed to the approved gratuity fund formed  exclusively for gratuity payment to the employees.
The gratuity fund has been approved by respective  Income Tax authorities.
The liability in respect of  gratuity and other post-employment benefits is  calculated using the Projected Unit Credit Method  and spread over the period during which the benefit  is expected to be derived from employees’ services.
Remeasurement gains and losses arising from  adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions  are recognised in the period in which they occur in  Other Comprehensive Income.
Employee Separation Costs: The Company  recognises the employee separation cost when  the scheme is announced, and the Company is  demonstrably committed to it.
(m) Tax Expenses    The tax expenses for the period comprises of current  tax and deferred income tax.
Tax is recognised in  Statement of Profit and Loss, except to the extent  that it relates to items recognised in the Other  Comprehensive Income.
In which case, the tax is  also recognised in Other Comprehensive Income.
i.
Current Tax     Current tax assets and liabilities are measured  at the amount expected to be recovered from  or paid to the Income Tax authorities, based  on tax rates and laws that are enacted at the  Balance sheet date.
ii.
Deferred Tax     Deferred tax is recognised on temporary  differences between the carrying amounts of  assets and liabilities in the Financial Statements  and the corresponding tax bases used in the  computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent  it is probable that taxable profit will be available  against which the deductible temporary  differences, and the carry forward of unused  tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities  and assets are measured at the tax rates that  are expected to apply in the period in which the  liability is settled or the asset realised, based  on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been  enacted or substantively enacted by the end  of the reporting period.
The carrying amount of  Deferred tax liabilities and assets are reviewed at  the end of each reporting period.
(n) Share Based Payments    Equity-settled share based payments to employees  and others providing similar services are measured  at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant  date.
Details regarding the determination of the  fair value of equity-settled share based payments  transactions are set out in Note 29.2.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the  equity-settled share based payments is expensed on  a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on  the Company’s estimate of equity instruments that  will eventually vest, with a corresponding increase  in equity.
At the end of each reporting period, the  Company revises its estimate of the number of equity  instruments expected to vest.
The impact of the  revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised  in Statement of Profit and Loss such that the  cumulative expenses reflects the revised estimate,  with a corresponding adjustment to the Share Based  Payments Reserve.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected  as additional share dilution in the computation of  diluted earnings per share.
In case of Group equity-settled share-based  payment transactions, where the Company grants  stock options to the employees of its subsidiaries, the  transactions are accounted by increasing the cost  of investment in subsidiary with a corresponding  credit in the equity.
(o)  Foreign Currencies Transactions and  Translation    Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the  exchange rate prevailing on the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in  foreign currencies are translated at the functional  currency closing rates of exchange at the reporting  date.
Exchange differences arising on settlement  or translation of monetary items are recognised in  Statement of Profit and Loss except to the extent  of exchange differences which are regarded  Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 318 319 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements as an adjustment to interest costs on foreign  currency borrowings that are directly attributable  to the acquisition or construction of qualifying  assets which are capitalised as cost of assets.
Additionally, exchange gains or losses on foreign  currency borrowings taken prior to April 1, 2016 which  are related to the acquisition or construction of  qualifying assets are adjusted in the carrying cost  of such assets.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms  of historical cost in a foreign currency are recorded  using the exchange rates at the date of the  transaction.
Non-monetary items measured at fair  value in a foreign currency are translated using the  exchange rates at the date when the fair value was  measured.
The gain or loss arising on translation  of non-monetary items measured at fair value is  treated in line with the recognition of the gain or loss  on the change in fair value of the item (i.e.
translation  differences on items whose fair value gain or loss  is recognised in Other Comprehensive Income or  Statement of Profit and Loss are also recognised in  Other Comprehensive Income or Statement of Profit  and Loss, respectively).
In case of an asset, expense or income where a  non-monetary advance is paid/received, the date  of transaction is the date on which the advance was  initially recognised.
If there were multiple payments  or receipts in advance, multiple dates of transactions  are determined for each payment or receipt of  advance consideration.
(p) Revenue Recognition    Revenue from contracts with customers is recognised  when control of the goods or services are transferred  to the customer at an amount that reflects the  consideration entitled in exchange for those goods  or services.
The Company is generally the principal  as it typically controls the goods or services before  transferring them to the customer.
Generally, control is transferred upon shipment of  goods to the customer or when the goods is made  available to the customer, provided transfer of title  to the customer occurs and the Company has not  retained any significant risks of ownership or future  obligations with respect to the goods shipped.
Revenue from rendering of services is recognised  over time by measuring the progress towards  complete satisfaction of performance obligations at  the reporting period.
Revenue is measured at the amount of consideration  which the Company expects to be entitled to in  exchange for transferring distinct goods or services  to a customer as specified in the contract, excluding  amounts collected on behalf of third parties (for  example taxes and duties collected on behalf of  the government).
Consideration is generally due  upon satisfaction of performance obligations  and a receivable is recognised when it becomes  unconditional.
Generally, the credit period varies  between 0-60 days from the shipment or delivery of  goods or services as the case may be.
The Company  provides volume rebates to certain customers once  the quantity of products purchased during the period  exceeds a threshold specified and also accrues  discounts to certain customers based on customary  business practices which is derived on the basis of  crude price volatility and various market demand  – supply situations.
Consideration are determined  based on its most likely amount.
Generally, sales  of petroleum products contain provisional pricing  features where revenue is initially recognised based  on provisional price.
Difference between final settlement price and  provisional price is recognised subsequently.
The  Company does not adjust short-term advances  received from the customer for the effects of  significant financing component if it is expected at  the contract inception that the promised good or  service will be transferred to the customer within a  period of one year.
Contract Balances   Trade Receivables    A receivable represents the Company’s right to an  amount of consideration that is unconditional.
Contract Liabilities    A contract liability is the obligation to transfer goods  or services to a customer for which the Company has  received consideration or is due from the customer.
If  a customer pays consideration before the Company  transfers goods or services to the customer, a  contract liability is recognised when the payment is  made or the payment is due (whichever is earlier).
Contract liabilities are recognised as revenue when  the Company performs under the contract.
Interest Income    Interest Income from a Financial Assets is recognised  using effective interest rate method.
Dividend Income    Dividend Income is recognised when the Company’s  right to receive the amount has been established.
(q) Financial Instruments   i.
Financial Assets   A.
Initial Recognition and Measurement     All Financial Assets are initially recognised at  fair value.
Transaction costs that are directly  attributable to the acquisition or issue of  Financial Assets, which are not at Fair Value  Through Profit or Loss, are adjusted to the fair  value on initial recognition.
Purchase and sale  of Financial Assets are recognised using trade  date accounting.
B.
Subsequent Measurement   a)  Financial Assets measured at  Amortised Cost (AC)     A Financial Asset is measured at Amortised  Cost if it is held within a business model whose  objective is to hold the asset in order to collect  contractual cash flows and the contractual  terms of the Financial Asset give rise to cash  flows on specified dates that represent solely  payments of principal and interest on the  principal amount outstanding.
b)  Financial Assets measured at Fair  Value Through Other Comprehensive  Income (FVTOCI)     A Financial Asset is measured at FVTOCI if it is  held within a business model whose objective  is achieved by both collecting contractual  cash flows and selling Financial Assets and  the contractual terms of the Financial Asset  give rise on specified dates to cash flows that  represents solely payments of principal and  interest on the principal amount outstanding.
c)  Financial Assets measured at Fair Value  Through Profit or Loss (FVTPL)     A Financial Asset which is not classified in any  of the above categories are measured at FVTPL.
Financial assets are reclassified subsequent  to their recognition, if the Company changes  its business model for managing those  financial assets.
Changes in business model  are made and applied prospectively from the  reclassification date which is the first day of  immediately next reporting period following  the changes in business model in accordance  with principles laid down under Ind AS 109 –  Financial Instruments.
C.  Investment in Subsidiaries, Associates  and Joint Ventures     The Company has accounted for its  investments in Subsidiaries, associates and  joint venture at cost less impairment loss (if  any).
The investments in preference shares with  the right of surplus assets which are in nature of  equity in accordance with Ind AS 32 are treated  as separate category of investment and  measured at FVTOCI.
D. Other Equity Investments     All other equity investments are measured at  fair value, with value changes recognised in  Statement of Profit and Loss, except for those  equity investments for which the Company  has elected to present the value changes  in ‘Other Comprehensive Income’.
However,  dividend on such equity investments are  recognised in Statement of Profit and loss  when the Company’s right to receive payment  is established.
E. Impairment of Financial Assets     In accordance with Ind AS 109, the Company  uses ‘Expected Credit Loss’ (ECL) model, for  evaluating impairment of Financial Assets other  than those measured at Fair Value Through  Profit and Loss (FVTPL).
Expected Credit Losses are measured through a  loss allowance at an amount equal to: •  The 12-months expected credit losses  (expected credit losses that result from those  default events on the financial instrument  that are possible within 12 months after the  reporting date); or • Full lifetime expected credit losses  (expected credit losses that result from all  possible default events over the life of the  financial instrument).
For Trade Receivables the Company applies  ‘simplified approach’ which requires expected  lifetime losses to be recognised from initial  recognition of the receivables.
The Company uses historical default rates to  determine impairment loss on the portfolio  of trade receivables.
At every reporting date  these historical default rates are reviewed  and changes in the forward-looking  estimates are analysed.
For other assets, the Company uses 12 month  ECL to provide for impairment loss where  there is no significant increase in credit risk.
If there is significant increase in credit risk full  lifetime ECL is used.
ii.
Financial Liabilities   A.
Initial Recognition and Measurement     All Financial Liabilities are recognised at fair  value and in case of borrowings, net of directly  attributable cost.
Fees of recurring nature are  directly recognised in the Statement of Profit  and Loss as finance cost.
B.
Subsequent Measurement     Financial Liabilities are carried at amortised  cost using the effective interest method.
For  trade and other payables maturing within one  year from the balance sheet date, the carrying  amounts approximate fair value due to the  short maturity of these instruments.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 320 321 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements   iii.
Derivative Financial Instruments and  Hedge Accounting     The Company uses various derivative financial  instruments such as interest rate swaps,  currency swaps, forwards & options and  commodity contracts to mitigate the risk of  changes in interest rates, exchange rates and  commodity prices.
At the inception of a hedge  relationship, the Company formally designates  and documents the hedge relationship to  which the Company wishes to apply hedge  accounting and the risk management objective  and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
Such  derivative financial instruments are initially  recognised at fair value on the date on which a  derivative contract is entered into and are also  subsequently measured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as Financial Assets  when the fair value is positive and as Financial  Liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Any  gains or losses arising from changes in the  fair value of derivatives are taken directly to  Statement of Profit and Loss, except for the  effective portion of cash flow hedge which is  recognised in Other Comprehensive Income  and later to Statement of Profit and Loss  when the hedged item affects profit or loss  or is treated as basis adjustment if a hedged  forecast transaction subsequently results in the  recognition of a Non-Financial Assets or Non- Financial liability.
Hedges that meet the criteria for hedge  accounting are accounted for as follows:   A.
Cash Flow Hedge     The Company designates derivative contracts  or non-derivative Financial Assets/ Liabilities  as hedging instruments to mitigate the risk  of movement in interest rates and foreign  exchange rates for foreign exchange  exposure on highly probable future cash flows  attributable to a recognised asset or liability or  forecast cash transactions.
When a derivative is designated as a cash  flow hedging instrument, the effective portion  of changes in the fair value of the derivative  is recognised in the cash flow hedging  reserve being part of Other Comprehensive  Income.
Any ineffective portion of changes in  the fair value of the derivative is recognised  immediately in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
If the hedging relationship no longer meets  the criteria for hedge accounting, then hedge  accounting is discontinued prospectively.
If  the hedging instrument expires or is sold or  terminated or exercised, the cumulative gain  or loss on the hedging instrument recognised  in cash flow hedging reserve till the period  the hedge was effective remains in cash  flow hedging reserve until the underlying  transaction occurs.
The cumulative gain or loss  previously recognised in the cash flow hedging  reserve is transferred to the Statement of Profit  and Loss upon the occurrence of the underlying  transaction.
If the forecasted transaction is no  longer expected to occur, then the amount  accumulated in cash flow hedging reserve is  reclassified in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
B.
Fair Value Hedge     The Company designates derivative contracts  or non-derivative Financial Assets/Liabilities  as hedging instruments to mitigate the risk  of change in fair value of hedged item due to  movement in interest rates, foreign exchange  rates and commodity prices.
Changes in the fair value of hedging  instruments and hedged items that are  designated and qualify as fair value hedges  are recorded in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
If the hedging relationship no longer meets the  criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment  to the carrying amount of a hedged item for  which the effective interest method is used is  amortised to Statement of Profit and Loss over  the period of maturity.
iv.
Derecognition of Financial Instruments     The Company derecognises a Financial Asset  when the contractual rights to the cash flows  from the Financial Asset expire or it transfers  the Financial Asset and the transfer qualifies  for derecognition under Ind AS 109.
A Financial  liability (or a part of a Financial liability) is  derecognised from the Company’s Balance  Sheet when the obligation specified in the  contract is discharged or cancelled or expires.
v.  Offsetting     Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities are  offset and the net amount is presented in  the balance sheet when, and only when, the  Company has a legally enforceable right to set  off the amount and it intends, either to settle  them on a net basis or to realise the asset and  settle the liability simultaneously.
(r) Non-current Assets Held for Sale    Non-current assets are classified as held for  sale if their carrying amount will be recovered  principally through a sale transaction rather than  through continuing use and sale is considered  highly probable.
A sale is considered as highly probable when  decision has been made to sell, assets are available  for immediate sale in its present condition, assets  are being actively marketed and sale has been  agreed or is expected to be concluded within 12  months of the date of classification.
Non-current assets held for sale are neither  depreciated nor amortised.
Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale are  measured at the lower of their carrying amount and  fair value less cost of disposal and are presented  separately in the Balance Sheet.
(s) Accounting for Oil and Gas Activity    The Company has adopted Successful Efforts  Method (SEM) of accounting for its Oil and Gas  activities.
The policy of recognition of exploration  and evaluation expenditure is considered in line  with the principle of SEM.
Seismic costs, geological  and geophysical studies, petroleum exploration  license fees and general and administration costs  directly attributable to exploration and evaluation  activities are expensed off.
The costs incurred on  acquisition of interest in oil and gas blocks and on  exploration and evaluation other than those which  are expensed off are accounted for as Intangible  Assets Under Development.
All development  costs incurred in respect of proved reserves are  also capitalised under Intangible Assets Under  Development.
Once a well is ready to commence  commercial production, the costs accumulated in  Intangible Assets Under Development are classified  as Intangible Assets corresponding to proved  developed oil and gas reserves.
The exploration  and evaluation expenditure which does not result  in discovery of proved oil and gas reserves and all  cost pertaining to production are charged to the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
The Company uses technical estimation of reserves  as per the Petroleum Resources Management  System guidelines 2011 and standard geological and  reservoir engineering methods.
The reserve review  and evaluation is carried out annually.
Oil and Gas Joint Ventures are in the nature of joint  operations.
Accordingly, assets and liabilities as  well as income and expenditure are accounted on  the basis of available information on a line-by-line  basis with similar items in the Company’s Financial  Statements, according to the participating interest  of the Company.
(t) Earnings Per Share    Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing  the net profit after tax by the weighted average  number of equity shares outstanding during the  year adjusted for bonus element in equity share.
Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures used  in determination of basic earnings per share to take  into account the conversion of all dilutive potential  equity shares.
Dilutive potential equity shares are  deemed converted as at the beginning of the  period unless issued at a later date.
C.  Critical Accounting Judgements and  Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty   The preparation of the Company’s Financial Statements  requires management to make judgement, estimates  and assumptions that affect the reported amount  of revenue, expenses, assets and liabilities and  the accompanying disclosures.
Uncertainty about  these assumptions and estimates could result in  outcomes that require a material adjustment to the  carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in next  financial years.
(A) Estimation of Oil and Gas Reserves   The determination of the Company’s estimated oil and  natural gas reserves requires significant judgements  and estimates to be applied and these are regularly  reviewed and updated.
Factors such as the availability  of geological and engineering data, reservoir  performance data, acquisition and divestment activity,  drilling of new wells, and commodity prices all impact  on the determination of the Company’s estimates of  its oil and natural gas reserves.
The Company bases  it’s proved reserves estimates on the requirement  of reasonable certainty with rigorous technical and  commercial assessments based on conventional  industry practice and regulatory requirements.
Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are used to  calculate depletion charges for the Company’s oil and  gas properties.
The impact of changes in estimated  proved reserves is dealt with prospectively by amortising  the remaining carrying value of the asset over the  expected future production.
Oil and natural gas reserves  also have a direct impact on the assessment of the  recoverability of asset carrying values reported in the  Financial Statements.
Details on proved reserves and production  both on product and geographical basis are  provided in Note 35.1.
(B) Decommissioning Liabilities   The liability for decommissioning costs is recognised  when the Company has an obligation to perform site  restoration activity.
The recognition and measurement  of decommissioning provisions involves the use of  estimates and assumptions.
These include; the timing  of abandonment of well and related facilities which  would depend upon the ultimate life of the field,  expected utilisation of assets by other fields, the scope  of abandonment activity and pre-tax rate applied  for discounting.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 322 323 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements (C)  Property Plant and Equipment/ Intangible  Assets   Estimates are involved in determining the cost  attributable to bringing the assets to the location and  condition necessary for it to be capable of operating  in the manner intended by the management.
Property,  Plant and Equipment/Intangible Assets are depreciated/ amortised over their estimated useful life, after taking  into account estimated residual value.
Management  reviews the estimated useful life and residual values of  the assets annually in order to determine the amount  of depreciation/ amortisation to be recorded during  any reporting period.
The useful life and residual values  are based on the Company’s historical experience  with similar assets and take into account anticipated  technological and future risks.
The depreciation/ amortisation for future periods is revised if there are  significant changes from previous estimates.
(D) Recoverability of Trade Receivables   Judgments are required in assessing the recoverability  of overdue trade receivables and determining whether  a provision against those receivables is required.
Factors  considered include the credit rating of the counterparty,  the amount and timing of anticipated future payments  and any possible actions that can be taken to mitigate  the risk of non-payment.
(E) Provisions   The timing of recognition and quantification of the  liability (including litigations) requires the application  of judgement to existing facts and circumstances,  which can be subject to change.
The carrying amounts  of provisions and liabilities are reviewed regularly  and revised to take account of changing facts  and circumstances.
(F)  Impairment of Financial and Non- Financial Assets   The impairment provisions for Financial Assets are  based on assumptions about risk of default and  expected cash loss rates.
The Company uses judgement  in making these assumptions and selecting the inputs to  the impairment calculation, based on Company’s past  history, existing market conditions as well as forward- looking estimates at the end of each reporting period.
In case of non-financial assets, assessment of  impairment indicators involves consideration of  future risks.
Further, the company estimates asset’s  recoverable amount, which is higher of an asset’s or  Cash Generating Units (CGU’s) fair value less costs of  disposal and its value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash  flows are discounted to their present value using pre-tax  discount rate that reflects current market assessments  of the time value of money and the risks specific to the  asset.
In determining fair value less costs of disposal,  recent market transactions are taken into account, if  no such transactions can be identified, an appropriate  valuation model is used.
(G)  Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets and  Liabilities   Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for  deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses  for which there is probability of utilisation against the  future taxable profit.
The Company uses judgement  to determine the amount of deferred tax that can be  recognised, based upon the likely timing and the level of  future taxable profits and business developments.
(H) Fair Value Measurement   For estimates relating to fair value of financial  instruments refer note 38 of financial statements.
(I) Global Health Pandemic on Covid-19   The continuance of corona virus (COVID-19) pandemic  globally and in India is causing significant disturbance  and slowdown of economic activity.
The Company’s  operations and revenue during the period were  impacted due to COVID-19.
The Company has taken into  account the possible impact of COVID-19 in preparation  of financial statements, including its assessment of  recoverable value of its assets based on internal and  external information upto the date of approval of these  financial statements and current indicators of future  economic conditions.
D.  Standards Issued but not Effective   On March 23, 2022, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs  (MCA) has notified Companies (Indian Accounting  Standards) Amendment Rules, 2022.
This notification  has resulted into amendments in the following existing  accounting standards which are applicable to  company from April 1, 2022.  i. Ind AS 101 – First time adoption of Ind AS  ii.
Ind AS 103 – Business Combination  iii.
Ind AS 109 – Financial Instrument  iv.
Ind AS 16 – Property, Plant and Equipment  v.  Ind AS 37 –Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and  Contingent Assets  vi.
Ind AS 41 – Agriculture   Application of above standards are not expected  to have any significant impact on the company’s  financial statements 1 .
Property, Plant & Equipment, Capital Work-In-Progress, Intangible Assets and Intangible Assets under Development ( ` in crore) Description Gross Block Depreciation / Amortisation and Depletion Net Block As at 01-04-2021 Additions /  Adjustments Deductions / Adjustments^ As at 31-03-2022 As at 01-04-2021 For the  Year # Deductions / Adjustments^ As at 31-03-2022 As at 31-03-2022 As at 31-03-2021 Property, Plant   and Equipment Own Assets: Land 38,968 38 45 38,961 - - - - 38,961 38,968 Buildings 19,600 1,198 4 20,794 7,756 751 1 8,506 12,288 11,844 Plant & Machinery 3,26,321 8,546 72,630 2,62,237 1,13,275 5,164 3,413 1,15,026 1,47,211 2,13,046 Electrical   Installations 10,186 439 3,102 7,523 4,336 695 624 4,407 3,116 5,850 Equipments $ 5,246 907 103 6,050 3,358 580 40 3,898 2,152 1,888 Furniture & Fixtures 623 42 6 659 446 33 3 476 183 177 Vehicles 693 102 17 778 490 78 13 555 223 203 Ships 505 3 - 508 345 16 - 361 147 160 Aircrafts &   Helicopters 46 - - 46 40 1 - 41 5 6 Sub-Total 4,02,188 11,275 75,907 3,37,556 1,30,046 7,318 4,094 1,33,270 2,04,286 2,72,142 Right-of-Use Assets: Land 17,693 1 5 17,689 1,704 170 - * 1,874 15,815 15,989 Plant & Machinery 4,630 - - 4,630 669 238 - 907 3,723 3,961 Ships 10 - - 10 10 - - 10 - - Sub-Total 22,333 1 5 22,329 2,383 408 - 2,791 19,538 19,950 Total (A) 4,24,521 11,276 75,912 3,59,885 1,32,429 7,726 4,094 1,36,061 2,23,824 2,92,092 Intangible Assets ** Technical   Knowhow Fees 5,119 34 477 4,676 3,324 139 27 3,436 1,240 1,795 Software 976 39 1 1,014 869 45 - * 914 100 107 Development Rights 43,014 3,868 - 46,882 30,208 2,278 - 32,486 14,396 12,806 Others 1,084 192 - 1,276 1,051 159 - 1,210 66 33 Total (B) 50,193 4,133 478 53,848 35,452 2,621 27 38,046 15,802 14,741 Total (A + B) 4,74,714 15,409 76,390 4,13,733 1,67,881 10,347 4,121 1,74,1072,39,626 3,06,833 Previous Year 4,68,723 11,053 5,062 4,74,714 1,62,245 9,270 3,634 1,67,881 3,06,833 3,06,478 Capital  Work-in-Progress 19,267 20,765 Intangible Assets  under Development 15,395 12,070 ^  Includes transfer of assets of gasification undertaking (Refer Note 43.1).
#   Depreciation / Amortisation and Depletion Expense for the year includes depreciation of ` 71 crore (Previous Year ` 71 crore) capitalised during  the year.
Thus, the net amount ` 10,276 crore has been considered in Statement of Profit and Loss.
$  Includes office equipments.
* Land - ` 40,81,486 and Software - ` 28,40,231 ** Other than internally generated.
1.1 Right-of-Use (Land) includes:  i)   ` 6,923 crore (Previous Year ` 6,923 crore) towards investment in preference shares representing right to hold and use all the  immovable properties of the investee entity.
1.2 Buildings includes:  i) Cost of shares in Co-operative Societies of ` 2,03,700 (Previous Year ` 2,03,700).
ii)  ` 135 crore (Previous Year ` 135 crore) in shares of Companies / Societies with right to hold and use certain area of Buildings.
1.3   Intangible Assets - Others include: Jetties amounting to ` 812 crore (Previous Year ` 812 crore), the Ownership of which vests with  Gujarat Maritime Board.
1.4   Capital work-in-Progress and Intangible Assets Under Development includes:  i)  ` 3,522 crore (Previous Year ` 4,377 crore) on account of Project Development Expenditure.
ii)  ` 1,591 crore (Previous Year ` 1,894 crore) on account of cost of construction materials at site.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 324 325 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements 1.5   Additions in Property, Plant & Equipment, Capital work-in-progress, Intangible Assets  and Intangible assets under Development  includes ` 635 crore (net loss) [Previous Year ` 204 crore (net gain)] on account of exchange difference during the year.
1.6  For Assets given as security -Refer Note 16.1.
1.7  Details of title deeds of immovable properties not held in name of the Company: Relevant line item in the Balance sheet Description of item of property Gross carrying value (` in crore) Title deeds held in the name of Whether title deed holder is a  promoter, director or relative of  promoter /director or employee  of promoter /director  Property  held since  which date Reason for not  being held in  the name of the  company Property, Plant   and Equipment Land 83 Gujarat Industrial   Development   Corporation  No 01/02/2015 Lease deed  execution  is under process.
1.8 Capital-Work-in Progress (CWIP)  Ageing as at 31st March,2022: ( `  in crore)  Amount in CWIP for a period of Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3 years Total Projects in progress 8,236 2,553 2,830 5,648 19,267 Projects temporarily   suspended  -    -    -    -    -    Total 8,236 2,553 2,830 5,648 19,267  Ageing as at 31st March, 2021: ( `  in crore)  Amount in CWIP for a period of Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3 years Total Projects in progress 8,356 5,186 2,094 5,129 20,765  Projects temporarily   suspended  -    -    -    -    -    Total 8,356 5,186 2,094 5,129 20,765  1.9 Intangible Assets Under Development (IAUD):  Ageing as at 31st March, 2022: ( `  in crore)  Amount in IAUD for a period of Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3 years Total Projects in progress 6,565 3,971 851 4,008 15,395  Projects temporarily   suspended  -    -    -    -    -    Total 6,565 3,971 851 4,008 15,395   Ageing as at 31st March,2021: ( `  in crore)  Amount in IAUD for a period of Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3 years Total Projects in progress 5,404 1,425 1,280 3,961 12,070  Projects temporarily   suspended  -    -    -    -    -    Total 5,404 1,425 1,280 3,961 12,070    The Company does not have any Capital-work-in progress or intangible assets under development, whose completion is  overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan.
( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 Units Amount Units Amount 2.
Investments - Non-Current  Investments Measured at Amortised Cost  In Debentures of Other Companies  Quoted, fully paid up   Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures - Series 5 of   Summit Digitel Infrastructure Private Limited of ` 10 Lakh each 53,360 5,372 1,18,360 11,880 5,372 11,880  Unquoted, fully paid up   Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures - Series PPD1  of Jio Digital Fibre Private Limited of ` 10 lakh each 60,000 6,035 60,000 6,000   Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures - Series  PPD2 of Jio Digital Fibre Private Limited of ` 10 lakh each 1,00,000 10,057 1,00,000 10,000   Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures - Series  PPD3 of Jio Digital Fibre Private Limited of ` 10 lakh each 93,420 9,396 93,420 9,342 25,488 25,342  In Preference Shares of Other Company  Unquoted, fully paid up   0% Redeemable, Non-Participating, Non-Cumulative and Non- Convertible Preference Shares of Summit Digitel Infrastructure  Private Limited of ` 10 each 5,00,00,000 14 - - 14 -  In Government Securities  Unquoted   6 Years National Savings Certificates (Deposited with Sales  Tax Department and Other Government Authorities) [ ` 39,087  (Previous Year ` 39,087)] - - - -  Total of Investments measured at Amortised Cost 30,874 37,222  Investments Measured at Cost  In Equity Shares of Associate Companies  Quoted, fully paid up  Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited of ` 10 each 68,60,064 16 68,60,064 16 16 16  In Equity Shares of Joint Ventures  Quoted, fully paid up  Alok Industries Limited of ` 1 each 1,98,65,33,333 269 1,98,65,33,333 269 269 269  In Equity Shares of Associate Companies  Unquoted, fully paid up  Gujarat Chemical Port Limited of ` 1 each 64,29,20,000 64 64,29,20,000 64  Indian Vaccines Corporation Limited of ` 10 each $ 62,63,125 1 62,63,125 1  Reliance Europe Limited of Sterling Pound 1 each 11,08,500 4 11,08,500 4   Jamnagar Utilities & Power Private Limited Class 'A' shares of ` 1  each [ ` 40,40,000; (Previous Year ` 40,40,000)] 52,00,000 - 52,00,000 -   Vadodara Enviro Channel Limited of ` 10 each [ ` 143,020;  (Previous Year ` 143,020)] 14,302 - 14,302 - 69 69  In Preference Shares of Joint Venture Companies  Unquoted, fully paid up   9% Optionally Convertible Preference Shares of Alok Industries  Limited of ` 1 each 2,50,00,00,000 250 2,50,00,00,000 250 250 250  $  Net of provision for impairment.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 326 327 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements ( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 Units Amount Units Amount  In Equity Shares of Joint Venture Companies  Unquoted, fully paid up  Jio Payments Bank Limited of ` 10 each 18,45,20,000 185 16,24,00,000 162   Pipeline Management Services Private Limited of ` 10 each  [ ` 50,00,000; (Previous Year ` 50,00,000)] 5,00,000 1 5,00,000 1  India Gas Solution Private Limited of ` 10 each 2,25,00,000 23 2,25,00,000 23  Football Sports Development Limited of ` 10 each 10,80,141 134 10,80,141 134 343 320  In Equity Shares of Subsidiary Companies  Unquoted, fully paid up   Reliance BP Mobility Limited of `10 each [ ` 4,95,790; (Previous  Year ` 4,95,790)] 49,579 - 49,579 -   Reliance Content Distribution Limited of ` 10 each [ ` 5,00,000;  (Previous Year ` 5,00,000)] 50,000 - 50,000 -  Reliance Ethane Holding Pte Limited of USD 1 each 15,56,72,113 992 15,56,72,113 992  Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited of ` 7 each 37,30,00,000 257 37,30,00,000 257   Reliance Global Energy Services (Singapore) Pte.
Limited of SGD 1 each 15,00,000 65 15,00,000 65  Reliance Global Energy Services Limited of GBP 1 each 30,00,000 54 30,00,000 54   Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited of `10 each 21,98,93,170 475 21,98,93,170 475  Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC of AED 1000 each 7,62,235 1,366 1,05,886 161   Reliance O2C Limited of ` 10 each [ ` 5,00,000; (Previous  Year ` 5,00,000)] 50,000 - 50,000 -  Reliance Retail Ventures Limited of ` 10 each 5,83,77,58,520 17,317 5,83,77,58,520 17,317  Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited of `10 each 1,76,35,43,119 1,764 1,76,35,43,119 1,764  Reliance Strategic Investments Limited of ` 10 each 20,20,200 2 20,20,200 2  Reliance Ventures Limited of ` 10 each 26,91,150 2,351 26,91,150 2,351   Reliance New Energy Limited (Formerly known as Reliance New  Energy Solar Limited) of ` 10 each 5,54,90,00,000 5,549 - -   Reliance Syngas Limited of ` 10 each [ ` 10,00,000;  (Previous Year ` Nil)] 1,00,000 - - -  Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited of ` 10 each 1,50,00,000 25 1,50,00,000 25  Indiawin Sports Private Limited of ` 10 each 26,50,000 3 26,50,000 3   Reliance Projects & Property Management Services  Limited of ` 10 each 10,00,00,000 32 10,00,00,000 32  Reliance 4IR Realty Development Limited of ` 10 each 10,00,00,000 17,614 10,00,00,000 17,614  Reliance Strategic Business Ventures Limited of ` 10 each 10,00,00,000 10,035 10,00,00,000 10,035  Jio Platforms Limited of ` 10 each 5,93,78,41,645 54,685 5,93,78,41,645 53,610  Jio Limited of ` 10 each [ ` 1,00,000; (Previous Year ` 1,00,000)] 10,000 - 10,000 -   Reliance Digital Health Limited (Formerly known as Kanhatech  Solutions Limited) of ` 10 each 7,50,00,000 86 - -  Reliance International Limited of USD 1 each 2,50,00,000 189 - -  Reliance Ethane Pipeline Limited of ` 10 each 5,00,00,000 49 5,00,00,000 49   Rise Worldwide Limited of ` 10 each 10,67,20,148 253 10,67,20,148 253 1,13,163 1,05,059 ( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 Units Amount Units Amount  In Preference Shares of Subsidiary Companies  Unquoted, fully paid up   5% Non-Cumulative Compulsorily Convertible Preference  Shares of Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC  of AED 1000 each - - 5,51,469 994   9% Non-Cumulative Compulsorily Convertible Preference  Shares of Reliance Strategic Investments Limited of ` 1 each 4,02,800 113 4,02,800 113   6% Non-Cumulative Optionally Convertible Preference Shares of  Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited of ` 7 each 36,76,50,000 253 36,76,50,000 253   0.6% Non-Cumulative Optionally Convertible Preference  Shares of Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings  Limited of ` 10 each 4,72,41,72,954 11,628 - -   6% Non-Cumulative Optionally Convertible Preference  Shares of Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings  Limited of ` 10 each - - 4,72,41,72,954 11,628   9% Non-Cumulative Optionally Convertible Preference Shares of  Reliance Universal Traders Private Limited of ` 10 each 1,71,64,000 103 1,71,64,000 103   9% Non-Cumulative Optionally Convertible Preference Shares of  Reliance Prolific Traders Private Limited of ` 10 each 14,39,92,000 1,296 14,39,92,000 1,296   6% Non-Cumulative Optionally Convertible Preference Shares of  Reliance Content Distribution Limited of `10 each 5,34,00,60,000 5,340 5,34,00,60,000 5,340   9% Non-Cumulative Optionally Convertible Preference Shares of  Indiawin Sports Private Limited of ` 10 each 24,99,96,000 250 27,49,96,000 275   6% Non-Cumulative Optionally Convertible Preference Shares of  Reliance Strategic Business Ventures Limited of ` 10 each 27,75,000 288 27,75,000 288   6% Non-Cumulative Optionally Convertible Preference Shares of  Reliance Ethane Pipeline Limited of ` 10 each 18,55,00,000 182 18,55,00,000 182   0.01% Non-Cumulative Optionally Convertible Preference Shares  of Reliance 4IR Realty Development Limited of ` 10 each 4,88,29,270 10,010 - -   0.01% Non-Cumulative Optionally Convertible Preference  Shares of Reliance Projects & Property Management Services  Limited of ` 10 each 4,44,44,40,000 20,000 - - 49,463 20,472  Members Contribution in Subsidiary Companies, Unquoted  Reliance Marcellus LLC @$ - -  Reliance Eagleford Upstream LLC @$ - -  Reliance Marcellus II LLC @$ - -  Aurora Algae LLC @  $ - -  Affinity USA LLC @ - - - -  In Debentures of Subsidiary Companies  Unquoted, fully paid up   Zero Coupon Unsecured Optionally Fully Convertible Debentures  of Reliance Ambit Trade Private Limited of ` 10 each 3,11,10,000 31 3,11,10,000 31   Zero Coupon Unsecured Optionally Fully Convertible Debentures  of Reliance Prolific Commercial Private Limited of ` 10 each 3,75,70,000 38 3,75,70,000 38   Zero Coupon Unsecured Optionally Fully Convertible Debentures  of Reliance Comtrade Private Limited of ` 10 each [ ` 20,00,000;  (Previous Year ` 20,00,000)] 2,00,000 - 2,00,000 -   Zero Coupon Unsecured Optionally Fully Convertible  Debentures of Reliance Eminent Trading & Commercial Private  Limited of ` 10 each 2,12,00,000 21 2,12,00,000 21   Zero Coupon Unsecured Optionally Fully Convertible Debentures  of Reliance Content Distribution Limited of ` 10 each 57,10,52,700 571 1,04,15,52,700 1,041   Zero Coupon Unsecured Optionally Fully Convertible Debentures  of Reliance Strategic Business Ventures Limited of ` 10 each 1,43,36,715 1,570 74,25,454 817 2,231 1,948  $  Net of provision for impairment.
@  Refer Note 32(c) Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 328 329 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements ( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 Units Amount Units Amount  In Corpus of Trust  Unquoted  Investment in Corpus of Independent Media Trust 3,366 3,366 3,366 3,366  Total of Investments measured at Cost 1,69,170 1,31,769   Investments Measured at Fair Value Through Other  Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI)  In Equity Shares of Other Companies  Unquoted, fully paid up   Petronet India Limited of ` 0.10 each [ ` 10,00,000; (Previous  Year ` 10,00,000)] 1,00,00,000 - 1,00,00,000 -   Petronet VK Limited of ` 10 each [ ` 20,000; (Previous  Year ` 20,000)] $ 1,49,99,990 - 1,49,99,990 -   Ahmedabad Mega Clean Association of ` 10 each [ ` 1,00,000;  (Previous Year ` 1,00,000)] 10,000 - 10,000 -  VAKT Holdings Limited of USD 0.001 each 58,009 58 39,894 39 58 39  Quoted, fully paid up  Balaji Telefilms Limited of ` 2 each 2,52,00,000 179 2,52,00,000 144   Eros STX Global Corporation of GBP 0.30 each 31,11,088 4 31,11,088 41 183 185  In Preference Shares of Other Companies  Unquoted, fully paid up   10% Optionally Convertible Preference Shares of Jio Digital Fibre  Private Limited of ` 10 each 77,70,11,98,375 77,893 77,70,11,98,375 77,889   0% Redeemable, Non-Participating, Non-Cumulative and Non- Convertible Preference Shares of Summit Digitel Infrastructure  Private Limited of ` 10 each - - 5,00,00,000 94   10% Cumulative Redeemable Preference Shares of Jio Digital  Fibre Private Limited of ` 10 each 12,50,000 1 12,50,000 1 77,894 77,984  Other Investments  In Membership Share in LLP, Unquoted  Labs 02 Limited Partnership 47 29  Breakthrough Energy Ventures II L.P. 129 21  In Membership Interest in LLC, Unquoted  BreakThrough Energy Ventures LLC 612 199  In Debentures or Bonds - Quoted fully paid up 28,507 3,550  In Fixed Maturity Plan - Quoted fully paid up - 1,372  In Government Securities - Quoted fully paid up 22,769 - 52,064 5,171   Total of Investments measured at Fair Value Through Other  Comprehensive Income 1,30,199 83,379   Investments Measured at Fair Value Through Profit  and Loss ( FVTPL )  In Equity Shares of Other Companies - Unquoted, fully paid up 250 250   Total of Investments measured at Fair Value Through  Profit and Loss 250 250  Total Investments Non-Current 3,30,493 2,52,620  Aggregate amount of Quoted Investments 57,116 17,272  Market Value of Quoted Investments 62,401 21,240  Aggregate amount of Unquoted Investments 2,73,377 2,35,348  $  Net of provision for impairment.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 2.1 Category-Wise Investments-Non-Current   Financial assets measured at Amortised Cost 30,874 37,222   Financial assets measured at Cost 1,69,170 1,31,769   Financial assets measured at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income 1,30,199 83,379   Financial assets measured at Fair Value through Profit and Loss 250 250   Total Investments-Non-Current 3,30,493 2,52,620   2.2   The list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates along with proportion of ownership interest held and country of  incorporation are disclosed in Note 39 and Note 40 of Consolidated Financial Statement.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 3.
Loans- Non-Current  Secured and Considered Good  Loans and advances to Related parties (Refer Note 34 (IV))  - 9,923   - 9,923   Unsecured and Considered Good  Loans and advances to Related parties (Refer Note 34 (IV)) 41,951 54,150  41,951 54,150   Total 41,951 64,073  A.
Loans and Advances in the Nature of Loans given to Subsidiaries: ( ` in crore) Sr.  No.
Name of the Company As at  31st March,  2022 Maximum  Balance during  the year As at  31st March, 2021 Maximum  Balance during  the year Loans - Non-Current ^ 1 Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited 7,148 17,249 12,277 12,536 2 Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited 3,293 12,291 12,291 13,761 3 Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited 395 420 420 1,440 4 Reliance Ethane Pipeline Limited 623 838 838 1,020 5 Reliance 4IR Realty Development Limited 2,867 2,911 2,305 2,305 6 Reliance Projects & Property Management Services Limited 20,576 33,061 30,611 32,886 7 Reliance Strategic Business Ventures Limited 7,049 7,049 5,331 7,996 41,951 64,073 Loans - Current 1 Reliance Strategic Investments Limited - - - 2,420 2 Reliance Retail Limited - - - 7,850 3 Reliance Retail Ventures Limited 2,360 4 Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited - - - 238 5 Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited 161 990 990 990 6 Jio Platforms Limited - - - 11,150 7 Reliance New Energy Limited (Formerly known as Reliance  New Energy Solar Limited) - 1,849 - - 161 990   Total  42,112 65,063 All the above loans and advances have been given for business purposes.
^  Loans and Advances that fall under the category of ‘Loans - Non-Current ‘ and are re-payable after more than 1 year.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 330 331 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements Note 1 Investment by Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited in Subsidiaries   In Equity Shares: Sr. No.
Name of the Company No.
of Shares 1 Jio Information Aggregator Services Limited 50,000  2 Jio Infrastructure Management Services Limited 60,000  3 Reliance Payment Solutions Limited 11,50,00,000  4 Reliance Petroleum Retail Limited 10,000  5 Reliance Retail Finance Limited 6,81,20,000  6 Reliance Retail Insurance Broking Limited 40,00,000  7 Stoke Park Limited 1,000  8 Vasyerp Solutions Private Limited 5,33,333  Note 2  Investment by Reliance Projects & Property Management Services Limited in Subsidiaries:   In Equity Shares: Sr. No.
Name of the Company No.
of Shares 1 Reliance Carbon Fibre Cylinder Limited 10,000 2 Reliance Hydrogen Electrolysis Limited 10,000 3 Reliance Hydrogen Fuel Cell Limited 10,000 4 Reliance New Energy Carbon Fibre Cylinder Limited 10,000 5 Reliance New Energy Hydrogen Electrolysis Limited 10,000 6 Reliance New Energy Hydrogen Fuel Cell Limited 10,000 7 Reliance New Energy Power Electronics Limited 10,000 8 Reliance New Energy Storage Limited 10,000 9 Reliance Power Electronics Limited 10,000 10 Reliance SMSL Limited 50,000 11 Kutch New Energy Projects Limited (Formerly known as Reliance Solar Projects Limited) 10,000 12 Reliance Storage Limited 10,000 Note 3  Investment by Reliance 4IR Realty Development Limited in Subsidiaries:   In Equity Shares: Sr. No.
Name of the Company No.
of Shares 1 Dronagiri Bokadvira East Infra Limited 50,000  2 Dronagiri Bokadvira North Infra Limited 50,000  3 Dronagiri Bokadvira South Infra Limited 50,000  4 Dronagiri Bokadvira West Infra Limited 50,000  5 Dronagiri Dongri East Infra Limited 50,000  6 Dronagiri Dongri North Infra Limited 50,000  7 Dronagiri Dongri South Infra Limited 50,000  8 Dronagiri Dongri West Infra Limited 50,000  9 Dronagiri Funde East Infra Limited 50,000  10 Dronagiri Funde North Infra Limited 50,000  11 Dronagiri Funde South Infra Limited 50,000  12 Dronagiri Funde West Infra Limited 50,000  13 Dronagiri Navghar East Infra Limited 50,000  14 Dronagiri Navghar North First Infra Limited 50,000  15 Dronagiri Navghar North Infra Limited 50,000  16 Dronagiri Navghar North Second Infra Limited 50,000  17 Dronagiri Navghar South First Infra Limited 50,000  18 Dronagiri Navghar South Infra Limited 50,000  19 Dronagiri Navghar South Second Infra Limited 50,000  20 Dronagiri Navghar West Infra Limited 50,000  21 Dronagiri Pagote East Infra Limited 50,000  22 Dronagiri Pagote North First Infra Limited 50,000  23 Dronagiri Pagote North Infra Limited 50,000  Sr. No.
Name of the Company No.
of Shares 24 Dronagiri Pagote North Second Infra Limited 50,000  25 Dronagiri Pagote South First Infra Limited 50,000  26 Dronagiri Pagote South Infra Limited 50,000  27 Dronagiri Pagote West Infra Limited 50,000  28 Dronagiri Panje East Infra Limited 50,000  29 Dronagiri Panje North Infra Limited 50,000  30 Dronagiri Panje South Infra Limited 50,000  31 Dronagiri Panje West Infra Limited 50,000  32 Kalamboli East Infra Limited 50,000  33 Kalamboli North First Infra Limited 50,000  34 Kalamboli North Infra Limited 50,000  35 Kalamboli North Second Infra Limited 50,000  36 Kalamboli North Third Infra Limited 50,000  37 Kalamboli South First Infra Limited 50,000  38 Kalamboli South Infra Limited 50,000  39 Kalamboli West Infra Limited 50,000  40 Reliance Ambit Trade Private Limited 10,00,000  41 Reliance Comtrade Private Limited 10,00,000  42 Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited 2,37,99,94,480  43 Reliance Eminent Trading & Commercial Private Limited 1,00,00,000  44 Reliance Progressive Traders Private Limited 1,00,00,000  45 Reliance Prolific Commercial Private Limited 10,00,000  46 Reliance Prolific Traders Private Limited 1,00,00,000  47 Reliance Universal Traders Private Limited 1,00,00,000  48 Reliance Vantage Retail Limited 5,60,000  49 Surela Investment and Trading Private Limited 5,000  50 The Indian Film Combine Private Limited 5,73,751  51 Ulwe East Infra Limited 50,000  52 Ulwe North Infra Limited 50,000  53 Ulwe South Infra Limited 50,000  54 Ulwe Waterfront East Infra Limited 50,000  55 Ulwe Waterfront North Infra Limited 50,000  56 Ulwe Waterfront South Infra Limited 50,000  57 Ulwe Waterfront West Infra Limited 50,000  58 Ulwe West Infra Limited 50,000    In Preference Shares of Subsidiaries:  Sr. No.
Name of the Company No.
of Shares 1 Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited 3,98,09,43,246  2 Reliance Eminent Trading & Commercial Private Limited 17,37,000  3 Reliance Progressive Traders Private Limited 2,03,06,000  4 Reliance Universal Traders Private Limited 7,20,00,000  Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 332 333 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements Note 4  Investment by Reliance Strategic Business Ventures Limited in Subsidiaries :   In Equity Shares: Sr. No.
Name of the Company No.
of Shares 1 Enercent Technologies Private Limited 95,667  2 Reliance Exploration & Production DMCC 1,76,200  3 Reliance Innovative Building Solutions Private Limited 6,46,93,950  4 Reliance Jio Messaging Services Private Limited 9,73,28,000  5 Strand life Sciences Private Limited 1,97,08,554    In Preference Shares: Sr. No.
Name of the Company No.
of Shares 1 Reliance Exploration & Production DMCC 14,90,700    In Preferred Shares: Sr. No.
Name of the Company No.
of Shares 1 skyTran Inc. 3,16,27,738  ( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 4.
Other Financials Assets - Non-Current  Deposits with Related Parties (Refer Note 34 (IV)) 601 699   Others * 1,646 926  2,247 1,625  * Includes fair valuation of interest free deposits.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 5.
Other Non-Current Assets (Unsecured and Considered Good)  Capital Advances 4,028 2,398  Advance Income Tax (Net of Provision) 2,906 2,230  Others * 363 340  Total 7,297 4,968 * Includes ` 295 crore  (Previous Year ` 295 crore) deposited in Gas pool account (Refer Note 35.3).
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 Advance Income Tax (Net of Provision) At start of year 2,230 2,048 Charge for the year - Current Tax  (787)  -  Others #  -  (1,508) Tax paid (Net) during the year  1,463 1,690 At end of year  2,906 2,230 #  Pertain to provision for tax on exceptional item.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 6.
Inventories  Raw Materials (Including Material in Transit) 16,325 15,023  Work-in-Progress * 9,479 7,712  Finished Goods 15,356 9,314  Stock-in-Trade 63 49  Stores and Spares 4,700 5,339  Total 45,923 37,437 * Includes land, development cost and inventory on completion of projects.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 7.
Investments - Current  Investments Measured at Amortised Cost  In Collateral Borrowing & Lending Obligation-Unquoted -    1,000   Total of Investments measured at Amortised Cost  -   1,000  Investments Measured at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income ( FVTOCI )  In Fixed Maturity Plan - Quoted, fully paid up 1,431  10,446   In Mutual Fund - Quoted 4,685 2,768  In Mutual Fund - Unquoted 44,340 48,891  Total of Investments measured at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 50,456 62,105  Investments Measured at Fair Value through Profit and Loss ( FVTPL )  In Government Securities - Quoted fully paid up 2,540 4,767   In Debentures or Bonds Quoted, fully paid up 75 1,946   In Treasury Bills - Quoted 10,819 13,161   In Mutual Fund- Unquoted 12,493  8,471   In Mutual Fund- Quoted -  3,215   In Certificate of Deposit- Quoted 1,921  -   Total of Investments measured at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss 27,848 31,560  Total Investments - Current 78,304 94,665  Aggregate amount of Quoted Investments 21,471 36,303  Market Value of Quoted Investments 21,471 36,303  Aggregate amount of Unquoted Investments 56,833 58,362 ( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 7.1 Category-Wise Investments - Current  Financial assets measured at Amortised Cost  -   1,000   Financial assets measured at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income 50,456 62,105   Financial Assets measured at Fair value through Profit and Loss 27,848 31,560   Total Investments - Current 78,304 94,665 Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 334 335 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements ( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 8.
Trade Receivables (Unsecured and Considered Good)  Trade Receivables 14,394 4,159  Total 14,394 4,159  8.1 Trade Receivables ageing: ( ` in crore) Particulars Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment * TotalLess than   6 months 6 months -   1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than   3 years As at 31st March, 2022: (i)  Undisputed Trade Receivables -  considered good 1,068 55 14 1 5 1,143 (ii)  Undisputed Trade Receivables - which have  significant increase in credit risk  -    -    -    -    -    -    (iii)  Undisputed Trade Receivables -  credit impaired  -    -    -    -    -    -    (iv)  Disputed Trade Receivables - considered good  -    -    -    -    -    -    (v)  Disputed Trade Receivables - which have  significant increase in credit risk  -    -    -    -    -    -    (vi) Disputed Trade Receivables - credit impaired  -    -    -    -    -    -    Total 1,068  55 14 1 5 1,143 * Net of provision.
( ` in crore) Particulars Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment * TotalLess than   6 months 6 months -   1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than   3 years As at 31st March, 2021: (i)  Undisputed Trade Receivables -  considered good 501 38  30  23  25 617 (ii)  Undisputed Trade Receivables - which have  significant increase in credit risk  -    -    -    -    -    -    (iii)  Undisputed Trade Receivables -  credit impaired  -    -    -    -    -    -    (iv)  Disputed Trade Receivables - considered good  -    -    -    -    -    -    (v)  Disputed Trade Receivables - which have  significant increase in credit risk  -    -    -    -    -    -    (vi) Disputed Trade Receivables - credit impaired  -    -    -    -    -    -    Total 501 38 30 23 25 617 * Net of provision.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 9.
Cash and Cash Equivalents  Cash on Hand 17 18  Balances with Banks * 21,697 5,555  Cash and Cash Equivalents as per Balance Sheet 21,714 5,573  Cash and Cash Equivalent as per Cash Flows Statement 21,714 5,573 *  Includes Unclaimed Dividend of ` 202 crore (Previous Year ` 208 crore), Fixed Deposits of ` 14,620 crore (Previous Year ` 5 crore) with maturity  of more than 12 months and Fixed Deposits of ` 2,186 crore (Previous Year ` 2,468 crore) given as collateral security.
Principal amount of these  Fixed Deposits can be withdrawn or an equivalent amount can be availed against such deposits by the Company at any point of time without  prior notice or penalty.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 10.
Loans - Current  Secured and Considered Good  Loans and Advances to Related Parties (Refer Note 34 (IV)) #  161   990 161 990   Unsecured and Considered Good  Other Loans  -      3   -     3  Total 161 993 #  Refer Note 3.A for details of Loans.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 11.
Other Financial Assets - Current  Deposits to Related Parties (Refer Note 34 (IV)) 12,000  12,000   Other Deposits 1,310 904   Receivables from Related Parties (Refer Note 34(IV))  34,454    1,124   Call Money Receivable (Refer Note 14.9)  -      39,843   Others * 7,137 5,689   Total 54,901 59,560  * Includes fair valuation of derivatives.
( ` in crore) Year ended 31st March, 2022 Year ended 31st March, 2021 12.
Taxation  Tax Expenses Recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss  Current tax  787  -   Deferred tax  6,915  (4,732)  Tax expenses recognised in the current year  7,702  (4,732) ( ` in crore) Year ended 31st March, 2022 Year ended 31st March, 2021 Tax expenses for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows: Profit Before Tax and Exceptional Items 46,786 22,908  Applicable Tax Rate 34.944% 34.944% Computed Tax Expense 16,349 8,005  Tax Effect of: Exempted income  (1,574)  (133) Expenses disallowed 5,716 4,910  Additional allowances net of MAT Credit  (19,704)  (12,782) Current Tax Provision (A)  787  -      Incremental Deferred tax Liability/(Asset) on account of Property, Plant and Equipment  and Intangible Assets  771 2,354    Incremental Deferred tax Liability / (Asset) on account of Financial Assets  and Other items  6,144  (7,086) Deferred Tax Provision (B)  6,915  (4,732) Tax Expenses Recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss (A+B)  7,702  (4,732) Effective Tax Rate 16.46% - Tax on Exceptional Item *  (6,386)  (14,062)  * Refer Note 32 Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 336 337 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements ( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 13.
Other Current Assets (Unsecured and Considered Good)  Balance with Customs, Central Excise, GST and state authorities 3,461 4,536  Others # 3,540 3,796  Total 7,001 8,332 #  Includes prepaid expenses and claims receivable.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 14.
Share Capital  Authorised Share Capital: 14,00,00,00,000 Equity Shares of ` 10 each 14,000 14,000 (14,00,00,00,000) 1,00,00,00,000 Preference Shares of ` 10 each 1,000 1,000 (1,00,00,00,000) 15,000 15,000  Issued and Subscribed Capital: 6,76,59,94,014 Equity Shares of ` 10 each 6,766 6,339 (6,33,94,41,920)      - Equity Shares of ` 10 each (Refer Note 14.9) - 423 (42,26,26,894)  Total 6,766 6,762  Paid Up Capital: 6,76,59,94,014 Equity Shares of ` 10 each fully paid up 6,766 6,339 (6,33,94,41,920)      - Equity Shares of ` 10 each, ` 2.5 paid up (Refer Note 14.9) - 106 (42,26,26,894) Less: Calls Unpaid (Refer Note 14.9) (1) -  Total 6,765 6,445 14.1 3,08,03,34,238 (3,08,03,34,238) Equity shares were allotted as fully paid Bonus Shares in the last five years by capitalisation of  Securities premium and Capital Redemption Reserve.
14.2      - (42,26,26,894) Issued as partly paid shares under Right Issue (Refer Note 14.9).
14.3 41,31,91,759 (41,31,91,759) Shares held by Associates.
Figures in bracket represents Previous year’s figure.
Name of the Shareholder As at  31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 No.
of Shares % held No.
of Shares % held 14.4  The Details of Shareholders Holding more  than 5% Shares:  Srichakra Commercials LLP 73,95,99,829 10.93 73,95,99,829 10.94  Devarshi Commercials LLP 54,55,69,460 8.06 54,55,69,460 8.07  Karuna Commercials LLP 54,55,69,460 8.06 54,55,69,460 8.07  Tattvam Enterprises LLP 54,55,69,460 8.06 54,55,69,460 8.07  Life Insurance Corporation of India 41,35,42,219 6.11 37,16,09,077 5.50  14.5 Shareholding of Promoter Sr.  no Class of Equity Share Promoter’s Name No.
of shares  at the  beginning of  the year change  during the  year No.
of  shares at  the end of  the year % of total  shares % change  during the  year As at 31st March, 2022 1 Fully paid-up equity shares of ` 10 each Mukesh D. Ambani 75,00,000 5,52,020 80,52,020 0.12  -    2 Partly paid-up equity shares of ` 10  each, ` 2.5 paid-up Mukesh D. Ambani 5,52,020 (5,52,020)  -    -    -    Total 80,52,020  -   80,52,020 0.12  Sr.  no Class of Equity Share Promoter’s Name No.
of shares  at the  beginning of  the year change  during the  year No.
of  shares at  the end of  the year % of total  shares % change  during the  year As at 31st March, 2021 1 Fully paid-up equity shares of ` 10 each Mukesh D. Ambani 75,00,000  -   75,00,000 0.11 - 2 Partly paid-up equity shares of ` 10  each, ` 2.5 paid-up Mukesh D. Ambani  -   5,52,020 5,52,020 0.01 0.01 Total  75,00,000  5,52,020  80,52,020 0.12 Particulars As at  31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 No.
of Shares No.
of Shares 14.6 The Reconciliation of the number of Shares Outstanding is set out below:  Equity Shares at the beginning of the year 6,76,20,68,814 6,33,92,67,510  Add: Shares issued on exercise of employee stock options 39,25,200 1,74,410  Add: Shares Issued on Rights basis (Refer Note 14.9)  -  42,26,26,894   Equity Shares at the end of the year 6,76,59,94,014 6,76,20,68,814 14.7   Options granted under ESOS-2006 prior to withdrawal of scheme, continue to be governed by ESOS-2006.
There are no  options pending for vesting under ESOS - 2006.
Pursuant to ‘Reliance Industries Limited Employees’ Stock Option Scheme  2017’ (ESOS-2017), 90,000 options have been granted to eligible employees during the year.
Options granted and remaining  to be vested as at the end of the year under ESOS-2017 is 3,90,000.
14.8  Rights, Preferences and Restrictions Attached to Shares:        The Company has only one class of equity shares having face value of ` 10 each.
The holder of the equity share is entitled  to dividend right and voting right in the same proportion as the capital paid-up on such equity share bears to the total  paid-up equity share capital of the Company.
The dividend proposed by Board of Directors is subject to approval of the  shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting, except in case of interim dividend.
In the event of liquidation of  the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive the remaining assets of the Company in the same  proportion as the capital paid-up on the equity shares held by them bears to the total paid-up equity share capital  of the Company.
14.9  Issue of Shares under Rights Issue:      The Company had, issued 42,26,26,894 equity shares of face value of ` 10/- each on right basis (‘Rights Equity Shares’).
In accordance with the terms of issue, ` 314.25 i.e.
25% of the Issue Price per Rights Equity Share, was received from the  concerned allottees on application and shares were allotted.
The Board has made First call of ` 314.25 per Rights Equity  Share (including a premium of ` 311.75 per share) in May, 2021 and  Second and Final call of ` 628.50 per Rights Equity  Share (including a premium of ` 623.50 per share) in November, 2021.
As on March 31, 2022, an aggregate amount of  ` 81 crore is unpaid.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 338 339 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements ( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 15.
Other Equity  Share Application Money Pending Allotment  As per last Balance Sheet - 1  Issue of Share/Application money received (Refer Note 15.1) - (1) - -  Share Call Money Account  As per last Balance Sheet 39,843 -  Addition/ (Reduction) during the year (Refer Note 14.9) (39,843) 39,843 - 39,843  Capital Reserve  As per last Balance Sheet 403 403  Securities Premium  As per last Balance Sheet 59,442 46,329  On Employee stock option 841 9  Premium on Shares issued under Rights Issue (Refer Note 14.9) 39,527 13,104  Calls Unpaid - Right Issue (Refer Note 14.9) (80) - 99,730 59,442  Debentures Redemption Reserve  As per last Balance Sheet 5,965 9,375  Transferred to General Reserves (1,795) (3,410) 4,170 5,965  Share Based Payments Reserve  As per last Balance Sheet 419 4  On Employee Stock Option (386) 415 33 419  Special Economic Zone Reinvestment Reserve  As per last Balance Sheet 4,975 5,500  Transferred from / (to) Retained Earnings * 4,135 (525) 9,110 4,975  General Reserve  As per last Balance Sheet 2,58,410 2,55,000  Transferred from Debenture Redemption Reserve 1,795 3,410   Transferred to Statement of Profit and Loss (Refer Note 32(a) & 43.1) (36,143) - 2,24,062 2,58,410  Retained Earnings  As per last Balance Sheet 41,893 14,146  Profit for the year  39,084 31,944  Others (Refer Note 32(c))  - 32,416 80,977 78,506  Appropriations   Dividend on Equity Shares     [Dividend per Share ` 7 (Previous Year ` 6.5)] (4,297) (3,921)     Transferred from/(to) Special Economic Zone  Reinvestment Reserve (4,135) 525   Transferred to Statement of Profit and Loss (Refer Note 32(c)) - (33,217) 72,545 41,893  Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)  As per last Balance Sheet 56,688 54,118  Movement in OCI (Net) during the year  (1,979) 2,570 54,709 56,688  Total 4,64,762 4,68,038 * Considers Special Economic Zone Reinvestment Reserve created during the year of ` 5,040 crore (Previous Year ` 3,303 crore).
15.1   Share Application Money Pending Allotment represents application money received on account of Employees  Stock Option Scheme.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 Non-Current Current Non-Current Current 16.
Borrowings  Secured - At Amortised Cost  Non-Convertible Debentures  6,626  1,000  7,851  5,500   6,626  1,000  7,851  5,500   Unsecured - At Amortised Cost  Non-Convertible Debentures  26,902  12,114  46,279  6,985   Bonds  55,549  605  25,256  11,560   Term Loans- from Banks  77,752  3,675  80,270  3,182   Term loans - from Others  402  540  942  721   1,60,605  16,934  1,52,747  22,448   Total  1,67,231  17,934  1,60,598  27,948   16.1  Secured Non-Convertible Debentures Referred Above to the Extent of:     ` 7,626 crore (Previous Year ` 13,351 crore) are secured by hypothecation of all the movable plant and machinery, both  present and future, located at Hazira and Dahej Manufacturing Divisions of the Company.
16.2 Maturity Profile and Interest Rate of Non-Convertible Debentures are as set out below:   a)  Secured: ( ` in crore) Rate of Interest Non-Current Current 2025-26 2024-25 2023-24 Total 2022-23 7.97% - - - - 1,000  8.00% - - 3,626 3,626 - 8.25% 1,000 1,000 1,000 3,000 - Total 1,000 1,000 4,626 6,626 1,000    b)  Unsecured: ( ` in crore) Rate of Interest Non-Current * Current * 2028-29 2025-26 2024-25 2023-24 Total 2022-23 MIBOR+2.90% - - - 3,600 3,600 - REPO+2.80% - - - 4,500 4,500 - 6.95% - - - 600 600 2,225  7.00% - - - - - 5,000  7.05% - - - 2,800 2,800 - 7.17% - - - - - 4,900  7.20% - - - 3,455 3,455 - 7.40% - 1,990 - - 1,990 - 8.65% 2,190 - - - 2,190 - 8.70% 800 - - - 800 - 8.95% 1,990 - - - 1,990 - 9.00% - - 850 - 850 - 9.05% 2,409 - - - 2,409 - 9.25% - - 1,742 - 1,742 - Total 7,389 1,990 2,592 14,955 26,926 12,125  * Includes ` 35 crore (Non-Current ` 24 crore and Current ` 11 crore) as prepaid finance charges.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 340 341 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements  16.3 Maturity Profile and Interest Rate of Bonds are as set out below: ( ` in crore) Rate of  Interest Non-Current * Current * 2096-97 2061-62 2051-52 2046-47 2044-45 2040-41 2031-32 2027-28 2026-27 2025-26 2024-25 2023-24 Total 2022-23 1.87% - - - - - - - - - 147 147 147 441 147 2.06% - - - - - - - - - 145 145 145 435 145 2.44% - - - - - - - - - 163 163 163 489 163 2.51% - - - - - - - - - 171 171 171 513 171 2.88% - - - - - - 11,369 - - 11,369 3.63% - - 13,264 - - - - - - - - - 13,264 3.67% - - - - - - - 6,063 - - - - 6,063 - 3.75% - 5,684 - - - - - - - - - - 5,684 4.13% - - - - - - - - - - 7,579 - 7,579 - 4.88% - - - - 5,684 - - - - - - - 5,684 - 6.25% - - - - - 3,790 - - - - - - 3,790 - 7.63% - - - - - - - 38 - - - - 38 - 8.25% - - - - - - - - 257 - - - 257 - 9.38% - - - - - - - - 168 - - - 168 - 10.25% 94 - - - - - - - - - - - 94 - 10.50% - - - 73 - - - - - - - - 73 - Total 94 5,684 13,264 73 5,684 3,790 11,369 6,101 425 626 8,205 626 55,941 626 * Includes ` 413 crore (Non-Current ` 392 crore and Current ` 21 crore) as prepaid finance charges.
16.4 Maturity Profile of Unsecured Term Loans are as set out below: ( ` in crore) Non-Current Current Above 5 years 1-5 years Total 2022-23 Term Loans- from Banks * 6,949 71,248 78,197 3,811 Term Loans- from Others - 402 402 540  6,949 71,650 78,599 4,351  * Includes ` 581 crore (Non-Current ` 445 crore and Current ` 136 crore) as prepaid finance charges.
Interest rates on term loans are in range of  0.31% to 8.34%  16.5 The Company has satisfied all the covenants prescribed in terms of borrowings.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 17.
Other Financial Liabilities - Non-Current  Other Payables * 3,210 1,145  Total 3,210 1,145 * Includes Creditors for Capital Expenditure ( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 18.
Provisions - Non-Current  Provision for decommissioning of Assets # 1,598 1,499   Total 1,598 1,499 #   The movement in the provision is towards (i) Utilisation for Tapti facilities and MA well decommissioning (ii) changes in the exchange rates (iii)  Unwinding of discount (iv) change in estimate.
Provision for Decommissioning of Assets is for Tapti, KGD6 and CBM Block.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 19.
Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net)  The movement on the deferred tax account is as follows:  At the start of the year 30,788 50,556    Charge/ (Credit) to Statement of Profit and Loss [Net of Deferred Tax on exceptional item  of ( ` 6,386 crore); (Previous year ` 15,570 crore)] ^  529  (20,303)  Charge to Other Comprehensive Income  (485) 535   At the end of year 30,832 30,788 ^  Refer Note 12 and 32 ( `  in crore)  Charge / (Credit) to As at  31st March, 2022As at  31st March, 2021 Statement of   Profit and Loss Other   Comprehensive   Income Component of Deferred Tax Liabilities / (Asset) Deferred tax liabilities / (asset) in relation to: Property, Plant and Equipment and  Intangible Asset 36,926  (5,614)  - 31,312 Financial Assets and Others (Net)  (5,692)  6,169  (485)  (8) Loan and Advances  (30)  (1)  -  (31) Provisions  (416)  (25)  -  (441) 30,788  529  (485) 30,832  ( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 20.
Other Non-Current Liabilities  Advance from Related Parties (Refer Note 34 (II)) 504 504  Total 504 504 ( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 21.
Borrowings - Current  Secured - at Amortised Cost  Working Capital Loans   From Banks    Rupee Loans 3,579 2,981  3,579 2,981   Unsecured - at Amortised Cost  Other Loans and Advances   From Banks    Rupee Loans  2,999  5,250   From Others    Commercial paper * 2,820 24,921  5,819 30,171   Current maturities of Non-Current Borrowings (Refer Note 16) 17,934 27,948   Total 27,332 61,100  * Maximum amount outstanding at any time during the year was ` 31,596 crore (Previous Year  ` 33,718 crore).
21.1  Working Capital Loans from Banks of ` 3,579 crore (Previous Year ` 2,981 crore) are secured by hypothecation of present and  future stock of raw materials, work-in-progress, finished goods, stores and spares (not relating to plant and machinery),  book debts, outstanding monies, receivables, claims, bills, materials in transit, etc.
save and except receivables of  Oil & Gas segment.
21.2 Refer note 38 B (iv) for maturity profile.
21.3 The Company has satisfied all the covenants prescribed in terms of borrowings.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 342 343 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements  21.4  In respect of working capital loans, quarterly returns or statements of current assets filed by the company with banks are in  agreement with the books of accounts.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 22.
Trade Payables Due to  Micro and Small Enterprises 138 90   Other than Micro and Small Enterprises 1,33,867 86,909   Total 1,34,005 86,999   22.1  There are no overdue amounts to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises as at 31 st March, 2022.
22.2 Trade Payables Ageing  ( ` in crore) Particulars Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment Total Less than   1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than   3 years As at 31st March, 2022: (i) MSME  -  -  -  -  -  (ii) Others  -  1,338  76  -  1,414  (iii) Disputed dues- MSME  -  -  -  -  -  (iv) Disputed dues- Others  -  -  -  -  -  Total  -  1,338  76  -  1,414  ( ` in crore) Particulars Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment Total Less than   1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than   3 years As at 31st March, 2021: (i) MSME  -  -  -  -  -  (ii) Others  1,519  77  -  -  1,596  (iii) Disputed dues- MSME  -  -  -  -  -  (iv) Disputed dues- Others  -  -  -  -  -  Total  1,519  77  -  -  1,596  ( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 23.
Other Financial Liabilities - Current  Interest accrued but not due on Borrowings 2,689 3,217  Unclaimed Dividends # 202 208  Advance/ Deposit from Related Parties (Refer Note 34 (II))  24  202   Other Payables *  30,310 29,481  Total 33,225 33,108 #   Does not include any amount due and outstanding, to be credited to Investor Education and Protection Fund except ` 2 crore   (Previous Year ` 2 crore) which is held in abeyance due to legal cases pending.
* Includes Creditors for Capital Expenditure, Security Deposit and Financial Liability at Fair Value.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 24.
Other Current Liabilities  Contract Liabilities 615 15,163  Other Payables ^ 4,823 4,400  Total 5,438 19,563 ^  Includes statutory dues.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 25.
Provisions - Current  Provisions for Employee Benefits (Refer Note 29.1)** 289 293  Other Provisions # 607 608  Total 896 901 ** The provision for employee benefit includes annual leave and vested long service leave entitlement accrued.
#   The Company had recognised liability for excise duty payable on clearance of goods lying in stock as on 31st March, 2021 of ` 343 crore as per  the estimated pattern of dispatches.
During the year, ` 343 crore was utilised for clearance of goods.
Provision recognised under this class  for the year is ` 243 crore which is outstanding as on 31st March, 2022.
Actual outflow is expected in the next financial year.
The Company had  recognised customs duty liability on goods imported under various export incentive schemes of ` 187 crore as at 31st March, 2021.
During the  year, further provision of ` 668 crore was made and sum of ` 707 crore were reversed on fulfilment of export obligation.
Closing balance on this  account as at 31st March, 2022 is ` 148 crore.
( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 26.
Revenue from Operations  Disaggregated Revenue  Oil to Chemicals 4,35,657 2,61,866  Oil & Gas 6,319 470  Retail 26 29  Others 650 389  Value of Sales 4,42,652 2,62,754  Income from Financial Services 1,380 1,190   Income from Other Services 1,343 1,125   Value of Services 2,723 2,315  Total ^^ 4,45,375 2,65,069 ^^  Net of GST Revenue from contract with customers differ from the revenue as per contracted price due to factors such as taxes recovered,  volume rebate, discounts, hedge etc.
( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 27.
Other Income  Interest   Bank deposits 54 83    Debt instruments 12,247 10,806      Other Financial Assets measured  At Amortised Cost 89 83    Others  - 93  12,390 11,065   Dividend Income 276 141   Other Non-Operating Income 441 746   Gain on Financial Assets   Realised Gain 647 3,560    Unrealised Gain / (Loss) 118  (694) 765 2,866   Total 13,872 14,818  Above includes income from assets measured at Cost/ Amortised Cost of ` 7,055 crore (Previous Year ` 7,413 crore), income from  assets measured at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss of ` 619 crore (Previous Year ` 1,866 crore) and income from assets measured  at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income of ` 5,757 crore (Previous Year ` 4,793 crore).
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 344 345 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements ( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 27.1  Other Comprehensive Income - Items that will not be  Reclassified to Profit and Loss  Remeasurement gain / (loss) of Defined Benefit Plan  (42) 21   Equity instruments through OCI 283 329   Total  241  350  ( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 27.2  Other Comprehensive Income - Items that will be  reclassified to Profit and Loss  Government Securities (121)  (152)  Debenture or Bonds (146) 83   Debt Income Fund (686)  (491)  Fixed Maturity Plan (344) 84   Commodity Hedge 91 504   Cash flow Hedge (1,499) 2,727   Total (2,705)  2,755  ( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 28.
Changes in Inventories of Finished Goods, Work-In-Progress and Stock-in-Trade  Inventories (At Close)  Finished Goods / Stock-in-Trade 15,419 9,364  Work-in-Progress * 5,883 4,009 21,302 13,373  Inventories (At Commencement)  Finished Goods / Stock-in-Trade 9,364 10,918  Work-in-Progress 4,009 3,115 13,373 14,033  Capitalised during the year (33) (50) 13,340 13,983  Total (7,962) 610 * Excludes inventory on completion of projects.
( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 29.
Employee Benefits Expense  Salaries and Wages 4,094 4,002  Contribution to Provident Fund and Other Funds 246 251  Staff Welfare Expenses 1,086 771  Total 5,426 5,024  29.1  As per Indian Accounting Standard 19 “Employee Benefits”, the disclosures as defined are given below:   Defined Contribution Plans   I) Contribution to Defined Contribution Plans, recognised as expense for the year is as under: ( ` in crore) Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 Employer’s Contribution to Provident Fund 124 122 Employer’s Contribution to Superannuation Fund 19 19 Employer’s Contribution to Pension Scheme 55 55 The Company’s Provident Fund is exempted under Section 17 of Employees’ Provident Fund and Miscellaneous  Provisions Act, 1952.
Defined Benefit Plan   I)  Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of Defined Benefit Obligation  ( ` in crore) Particulars  Gratuity (Funded) 2021-22 2020-21 Defined Benefit Obligation at beginning of the year 954 970 Current Service Cost 45 48  Interest Cost 66 66  Actuarial (Gain) / Loss 39  (17) Benefits Paid *  (100)  (90) Liability Transferred In / (Out) (Net)  (3)  (23) Defined Benefit Obligation at end of the year 1,001 954 * Includes benefits of ` 94 crore (Previous Year ` 86 crore) paid by the Company   II)  Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of fair value of Plan Assets ( ` in crore) Particulars  Gratuity (Funded) 2021-22 2020-21 Fair value of Plan Assets at beginning of the year 1,013 970 Return on Plan Assets 67 70 Benefits Paid  (6)  (4) Assets Transferred In / (Out) (Net)  (3)  (23) Fair value of Plan Assets at end of the year 1,071 1,013   III)  Reconciliation of fair value of Assets and Obligations  ( ` in crore) Particulars  Gratuity (Funded) As at   31st March,2022 As at   31st March,2021 Fair value of Plan Assets 1,071 1,013 Present value of Obligation 1,001 954 Amount recognised in Balance Sheet [Surplus/(Deficit)] 70 59   IV) Expenses recognised during the year ( ` in crore) Particulars  Gratuity (Funded) 2021-22 2020-21 In Income Statement Current Service Cost 45 48  Interest Cost 66 66  Return on Plan Assets  (70)  (66) Net Cost 41 48  In Other Comprehensive Income Actuarial (Gain) / Loss  39  (17) Return on Plan Assets  3  (4) Net (Income)/ Expense for the year recognised in OCI  42  (21)   V) Investment Details: ( ` in crore) Particulars As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 ` in crore % Invested ` in crore % Invested GOI Securities 1 0.09 7 0.69 Insurance Policies 1,070 99.91 1,006 99.31 1,071 100.00 1,013 100.00 Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 346 347 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements   VI)  Actuarial assumptions ( ` in crore) Mortality Table (IALM) Gratuity (Funded) 2021-22 2012-14 (Ultimate) 2020-21 2006-08 (Ultimate) Discount Rate (per annum) 7.09% 6.95% Expected rate of return on Plan Assets (per annum) 7.09% 6.95% Rate of escalation in Salary (per annum) 6.00% p.a.
4.00% p.a.
for the  next 1 years, 6.00%  p.a.
thereafter Rate of employee turnover (per annum) 2% 2%     The estimates of rate of escalation in salary considered in actuarial valuation, take into account inflation, seniority,  promotion and other relevant factors including supply and demand in the employment market.
The above information is  certified by the actuary.
The Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets is determined considering several applicable factors, mainly the composition  of Plan Assets held, assessed risks, historical results of return on Plan Assets and the Company’s policy for Plan  Assets Management.
VII) The expected contributions for Defined Benefit Plan for the next financial year will be in line with FY 2021-22.
VIII) Sensitivity Analysis     Significant Actuarial Assumptions for the determination of the defined benefit obligation are discount rate, expected  salary increase and employee turnover.
The sensitivity analysis below, have been determined based on reasonably  possible changes of the assumptions occurring at end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions  constant.
The result of Sensitivity analysis is given below: ( ` in crore) Particulars  As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Change in rate of discounting (delta  effect of +/- 0.5%)  24  26  24  25  Change in rate of salary increase (delta  effect of -/+ 0.5%)  25  26  24  26  Change in rate of employee turnover  (delta effect of -/+ 0.5%)  2  2  2  2      These plans typically expose the Company to actuarial risks such as: Investment Risk, Interest Risk, Longevity Risk  and Salary Risk.
Investment Risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated using a discount rate which is  determined by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting period on government bonds.
Interest Risk A decrease in the bond interest rate will increase the plan liability; however, this will be partially offset  by an increase in the return on the plan’s debt investments.
Longevity Risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the best estimate  of the mortality of plan participants both during and after their employment.
An increase in the life  expectancy of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability.
Salary Risk The present value of the defined plan liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of plan  participants.
As such, an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability.
29.2 Share Based Payments   a) Scheme details     The Company has Employee Stock Option Schemes i.e.
ESOS-2006 and ESOS-2017 under which options have been  granted at the various exercise prices to be vested from time to time on the basis of performance and other eligibility  criteria.
Details of number of options outstanding have been tabulated below: Financial Year  (Year of Grant) Number of Options Outstanding Financial Year   of Vesting Range of  Exercise price ( `) Range of Fair  value at Grant  Date (`) As at   31st March, 2022 As at   31st March, 2021 1) ESOS - 2006  i)  Details of Employee Stock Options granted upto 31 st March, 2015 but not vested as on 1 st April, 2015   2008-09  - 1,200 2015-16 & 2016-17 322.30 156.20 - 164.90   Sub total  - 1,200   ii) Details of Employee Stock Options granted from 1 st April, 2015 to 31 st March, 2021   2016-17                                  - 24,000 2017-18 to 2020-21 548.00 149.80 - 204.50   Sub total                                  - 24,000  2) ESOS - 2017   Details of Employee Stock Options granted from 1 st April, 2020 to 31 st March, 2022  2020-21 3,00,000 42,00,000 2021-22 to 2024-25 10.00 2,133.40 -2,151.90  2021-22 90,000  - 2022-23 to 2025-26 10.00 2,595.20-2,613.30  Sub total 3,90,000 42,00,000   Total (1(i)+1(ii)+2) 3,90,000 42,25,200      Exercise Period would commence from the date of Vesting and would expire not later than seven years from the  Grant Date or such other period as may be decided by the Human Resources, Nomination and Remuneration  Committee of the Board.
b) Compensation expenses arising on account of the Share Based Payments ( `  in crore)  Particulars Year ended  31st March, 2022 Year ended  31st March, 2021 Expenses arising from equity – settled share-based payment transactions                                         - 0.02    c) Fair Value on the grant date     The fair value at grant date is determined using “Black Scholes Model” which takes into account the exercise price, term  of the option, share price at grant date and expected price volatility of the underlying shares, expected dividend yield  and the risk free interest rate for the term of the option.
During the year, 90,000 options were granted under ESOS-2017.
The model inputs for options granted during the year  ended 31st March, 2017, 31 st March, 2021 and 31 st March, 2022 included as mentioned below.
ESOS - 2006   ESOS - 2017 a)  Weighted average exercise price ` 1,096 ` 10 `10 b) Grant date: 05.10.2016 & 10.10.2016 05.10.2020 30.03.2022 c) Vesting year: 2017-18 to 2020-21 2021-22 to 2024-25 2022-23 to 2025-26 d) Share Price at grant date: ` 1,089 at 05.10.2016   ` 1,096 at 10.10.2016 ` 2,212 ` 2,673 e) Expected price volatility of Company’s share: 25.1% to 26.5% 30.2% to 31.9% 30.7% to 33% f) Expected dividend yield: 1.07% 0.60% 0.49% g) Risk free interest rate: 7.00% 5.1% to 5.6% 5.86% to 6.34%    The expected price volatility is based on the historic volatility (based on remaining life of the options).
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 348 349 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements   d) Movement in share options during the year: Particulars As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 Number of   share options Weighted average  exercise price Number of   share options Weighted average  exercise price Balance at the beginning of the year 42,25,200 13.14 2,29,540 380.59 Granted during the year  90,000  10.00 42,00,000 10.00 Exercised during the year  (39,25,200) 13.38  (1,74,410) 368.18 Expired / Lapsed during the year  -    -    (29,930) 321.00 Balance at the end of the year 3,90,000 10.00 42,25,200 13.14      Weighted average remaining contractual life of the share option outstanding at the end of year is 2,138 days (Previous  Year 2,370 days).
( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 30.
Finance Costs  Interest Expenses * 8,807 12,755  Interest on Lease Liabilities 234 239  Applicable loss on foreign currency transactions and translation 82 3,217  Total 9,123 16,211 * Net of Interest Capitalised of ` 1,316 crore (Previous Year ` 2,333 crore).
( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 31.
Other Expenses  Manufacturing Expenses   Stores, Chemicals and Packing Materials 7,158 5,034  Electric Power, Fuel and Water 17,117 12,424  Labour Processing, Production Royalty and Machinery Hire Charges 1,125 431  Repairs to Building 91 59  Repairs to Machinery 1,307 667  Exchange Difference (Net) 354  (514)  Excise Duty #  (40) 241  Lease Rent 43 33 27,155 18,375   Selling and Distribution Expenses   Warehousing and Distribution Expenses 7,553 7,169  Sales Tax / VAT 1,290 617  Other Selling and Distribution Expenses 599 621 9,442 8,407  Establishment Expenses   Professional Fees 447 576  General Expenses 2,699 1,997  Rent 113 145  Insurance 639 384  Rates & Taxes 811 477  Other Repairs 357 312  Travelling Expenses 92 58  Payment to Auditors 41 32  Loss on Sale /Discard of Property, Plant and Equipments 93 8  Charity and Donations 1,217 1,169 6,509 5,158   Less: Transferred to Project Development Expenditure 723 970  Total 42,383 30,970  #   Excise Duty shown under manufacturing expenditure represents the aggregate of Excise Duty borne by the Company and difference between  Excise Duty on opening and closing stock of finished goods.
( ` in crore) Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 31.1  Payment to Auditors As:  (a) Fees as Auditors * 34 29   (b) Tax Audit Fees 1 1   (c) Fees for Other Services 5 3   (d) Cost Audit Fees 1 1  Total 41 34  * Includes Nil (Previous Year ` 2 crore), in the nature of rights issues expenses accounted in Securities Premium Account.
Fees for other services includes certification fees paid to auditors.
Statute and other regulations require auditors to certify export  / import documentation and transfer pricing among others.
31.2 Corporate Social Responsibility ( CSR )   (a)  CSR amount required to be spent as per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Schedule VII thereof by the  Company during the year is ` 737 crore (Previous Year ` 884 crore).
(b) Expenditure related to Corporate Social Responsibility is ` 813 crore (Previous Year ` 922 crore).
( ` in crore) Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 Rural Transformation 101 110 Health (including COVID-19) 475 256 Education 202 452 Sports for Development 27 49 Disaster Response (including COVID-19) 4 53 Arts, Culture, Heritage and Urban Renewal 4 2 Total 813 922   (c)  Out of note (b) above, ` 494 crore (Previous Year ` 335 crore) contributed to Reliance Foundation, ` 22 crore (Previous  Year ` 20 crore) to Reliance Foundation Youth Sports and ` 142 crore (Previous Year ` 375 crore) to Reliance Foundation  Institution of Education and Research which are related parties.
( ` in crore) Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 32.
Exceptional Items (Net of Tax)  a)  (i)   Loss on measurement of gasification undertaking   as held for sale  42,529  -      (ii) Deferred Tax reversal  (6,386)  -      (iii)  Net Loss on measurement of gasification undertaking as  held for sale (i) – (ii)  36,143  -      (iv)  Withdrawal from General Reserve  (36,143)  -       Subtotal (a) - [(iii)-(iv)]  -    -   b) Net gain on sale of investments (net of tax) - 4,420  c) Loss on acquisition of RHUSA loan  -    33,217    Withdrawal from Retained Earnings  -    (33,217)   Subtotal (c) - -  d)  Impairment of Investments in Shale Gas Entities - (15,686)    Recognition of Deferred Tax Asset relating to Shale  Gas Investments - 15,570   Subtotal (d)  -    (116)  Total (a+b+c+d)  -    4,304  Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 350 351 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements  For the year ended 31 st March, 2022  a)  i.
The Company has recognised loss of ` 36,143 crore (net of deferred tax) in the Statement of Profit and Loss as Exceptional  Item on measurement of gasification undertaking as held for sale pursuant to Ind AS 105, which requires assets to be  measured at lower of its carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
ii.
Further, the Company has withdrawn from General Reserves, an amount of ` 36,143 crore equal to the loss recognised  in the Statement of profit and loss, and credited the same to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
This is in accordance with  Scheme approved by Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai bench and Ahmedabad bench, overriding the  Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS), (Refer Note 43.1).
For the year ended 31 st March, 2021  b)  Net gain on sale of investments and transfer of Petro Retail assets with respect to Reliance BP Mobility Limited of ` 4,420 crore  (net of taxes of ` 1,508 crore).
c)   Recognition of Reliance Holding USA, Inc.’s (RHUSA) loan and Merger pursuant to Scheme of Amalgamation:    The Company has recognised loss of ` 33,217 crore in the Statement of Profit and Loss due to take over of Reliance Holding  USA, Inc. (RHUSA) loan, which was supported / guaranteed by the Company.
Further, these loans were taken over by the  Company subsequent to approval received from lenders of Reliance Holding USA Inc. and Reserve Bank of India.
Pursuant to the Composite Scheme of Amalgamation and Plan of Merger (the “Scheme”) approved by the Hon’ble National  Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai bench, vide order dated July 27, 2020, Reliance Holding USA Inc. (RHUSA) has merged with  Reliance Energy Generation and Distribution Limited (REGDL) and REGDL has merged with the Company.
In accordance with  the provisions of the Scheme, the Company has withdrawn consequential amount of ` 33,217 crore from retained earnings to  the Statement of Profit and Loss.
d)   Due to the adverse changes in market environment, reduction in activity by operator and recent operational performance  of the Shale Gas subsidiaries, the Company has impaired its investment in Shale Gas Subsidiaries to the extent of  ` 15,686 crore.
This is in accordance with the requirements of Ind AS 36 –Impairment of Assets, as the carrying amount of  investments exceed its recoverable amount.
Further, the Company has also recognised Deferred Tax Assets of ` 15,570 crore  in respect of the difference between the book base and tax base of the Shale Gas Operations, in accordance with Ind AS 12  – Income Taxes.
( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 33.
Earnings Per Share ( EPS )  Face Value per Equity Share ( `) 10 10  Basic Earnings per Share ( `) - After Exceptional Item 59.24 49.66  Basic Earnings per Share ( `) - Before Exceptional Item 59.24 42.97   Net Profit after Tax as per Statement of Profit and Loss attributable to Equity  Shareholders ( ` in crore) - After Exceptional Item 39,084 31,944   Net Profit after Tax as per Statement of Profit and Loss attributable to Equity  Shareholders ( ` in crore) - Before Exceptional Item 39,084 27,640   Weighted Average number of Equity Shares used as denominator for  calculating Basic EPS 6,59,81,11,978 6,43,28,74,848  Diluted Earnings per Share ( `) - After Exceptional Item 58.49 48.90  Diluted Earnings per Share ( `) - Before Exceptional Item 58.49 42.31   Net Profit after Tax as per Statement of Profit and Loss attributable to Equity  Shareholders ( ` in crore) - After Exceptional Item 39,084 31,944   Net Profit after Tax as per Statement of Profit and Loss attributable to Equity  Shareholders ( ` in crore) - Before Exceptional Item 39,084 27,640   Weighted Average number of Equity Shares used as denominator for  calculating Diluted EPS 6,68,16,52,444 6,53,21,38,901  Reconciliation of Weighted Average Number of Shares Outstanding   Weighted Average number of Equity Shares used as denominator for  calculating Basic EPS ^ 6,59,81,11,978 6,43,28,74,848  Total Weighted Average Potential Equity Shares * 8,35,40,466 9,92,64,053   Weighted Average number of Equity Shares used as denominator for  calculating Diluted EPS 6,68,16,52,444 6,53,21,38,901 * Dilutive impact of Employee Stock Option Scheme and Partly paid Rights Issue Shares ^  Refer Note 14.9 34.
Related Parties Disclosures    As per Ind AS 24, the disclosures of transactions with the related parties are given below:     (I) List of Related Parties where Control exists and Relationships:  Sr.  No.
Name of the Related Party Relationship 1 7-India Convenience Retail Limited ^ Subsidiary 2 Aaidea Solutions Limited (formerly known as Aaidea Solutions Private Limited) ^ 3 ABC Cable Network Private Limited 4 Abraham and Thakore Exports Private Limited ^ 5 Actoserba Active Wholesale Limited (formerly known as Actoserba Active Wholesale  Private Limited) 6 Addverb Technologies BV ^ 7 Addverb Technologies Private Limited ^ 8 Addverb Technologies Pte Limited ^ 9 Addverb Technologies Pty Limited ^ 10 Addverb Technologies USA Inc. ^ 11 Adhunik Cable Network Limited @ 12 Adventure Marketing Private Limited # 13 AETN18 Media Private Limited # 14 Affinity USA LLC 15 Amante India Private Limited (Formerly known as MAS Brands India Private Limited) ^ 16 Ambika DEN Cable Network Private Limited @ 17 Amogh Broad Band Services Private Limited @ 18 Angel Cable Network Private Limited 19 Antique Communications Private Limited @ 20 Asteria Aerospace Limited (formerly known as Asteria Aerospace Private Limited) 21 Augment Cable Network Private Limited @ 22 Aurora Algae LLC 23 Bali Den Cable Network Limited 24 Bee Network and Communication Limited @ 25 Bhadohi DEN Entertainment Private Limited 26 Big Den Entertainment Limited @ 27 Binary Technology Transfers Limited @ 28 Blossom Entertainment Private Limited @ 29 Cab-i-Net Communications Private Limited 30 Channels India Network Private Limited 31 Chennai Cable Vision Network Private Limited 32 Colorful Media Private Limited # 33 Colosceum Media Private Limited # 34 Crystal Vision Media Private Limited @ 35 C-Square Info-Solutions Private Limited 36 Dadha Pharma Distribution Private Limited 37 Den A.F.
Communication Private Limited @ 38 Den Aman Entertainment Private Limited @ 39 DEN Ambey Cable Networks Private Limited 40 Den Ashu Cable Limited @ 41 DEN BCN Suncity Network Limited 42 Den Bindra Network Private Limited @ 43 Den Broadband Limited 44 Den Budaun Cable Network Private Limited 45 Den Citi Channel Limited @ 46 Den Classic Cable TV Services Limited @ #  Control by Independent Media Trust of which the company is the sole beneficiary.
^   Relationships established during the year.
@  Ceased to be related party during the year.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 352 353 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements Sr.  No.
Name of the Related Party Relationship 47 DEN Crystal Vision Network Limited @ Subsidiary 48 Den Digital Cable Network Limited 49 Den Discovery Digital Networks Private Limited 50 Den Elgee Cable Vision Private Limited @ 51 Den Enjoy Cable Networks Private Limited 52 Den Enjoy Navaratan Network Private Limited 53 DEN Enjoy SBNM Cable Network Private Limited 54 Den F K Cable TV Network Private Limited 55 DEN Faction Communication System Limited @ 56 Den Fateh Marketing Private Limited 57 DEN Harsh Mann Cable Network Limited @ 58 Den Jai Ambey Vision Cable Private Limited @ 59 Den Kashi Cable Network Limited 60 Den Kattakada Telecasting And Cable Services Limited @ 61 DEN Krishna Cable TV Network Limited @ 62 Den Maa Sharda Vision Cable Networks Limited 63 Den Mahendra Satellite Private Limited 64 Den Malabar Cable Vision Limited 65 DEN Malayalam Telenet Private Limited 66 Den MCN Cable Network Limited @ 67 Den Mod Max Cable Network Private Limited 68 Den Nashik City Cable Network Private Limited 69 Den Networks Limited 70 DEN Patel Entertainment Network Private Limited @ 71 DEN Pawan Cable Network Limited 72 Den Pradeep Cable Network Limited @ 73 DEN Prayag Cable Networks Limited @ 74 Den Premium Multilink Cable Network Private Limited 75 Den Prince Network Limited @ 76 Den Radiant Satellite Cable Network Private Limited @ 77 Den Rajkot City Communication Private Limited 78 Den Sahyog Cable Network Limited @ 79 Den Sariga Communications Limited @ 80 Den Satellite Cable TV Network Limited 81 Den Saya Channel Network Limited 82 Den Steel City Cable Network Limited @ 83 DEN STN Television Network Private Limited 84 Den Supreme Satellite Vision Private Limited 85 Den Varun Cable Network Limited 86 Den VM Magic Entertainment Limited @ 87 Den-Manoranjan Satellite Private Limited 88 Desire Cable Network Limited @ 89 Devine Cable Network Private Limited @ 90 Digital18 Media Limited # 91 Disk Cable Network Private Limited @ 92 Divya Drishti Den Cable Network Private Limited 93 Drashti Cable Network Limited 94 Dronagiri Bokadvira East Infra Limited 95 Dronagiri Bokadvira North Infra Limited 96 Dronagiri Bokadvira South Infra Limited 97 Dronagiri Bokadvira West Infra Limited #  Control by Independent Media Trust of which the company is the sole beneficiary.
@  Ceased to be related party during the year.
Sr.  No.
Name of the Related Party Relationship 98 Dronagiri Dongri East Infra Limited Subsidiary 99 Dronagiri Dongri North Infra Limited 100 Dronagiri Dongri South Infra Limited 101 Dronagiri Dongri West Infra Limited 102 Dronagiri Funde East Infra Limited 103 Dronagiri Funde North Infra Limited 104 Dronagiri Funde South Infra Limited 105 Dronagiri Funde West Infra Limited 106 Dronagiri Navghar East Infra Limited 107 Dronagiri Navghar North First Infra Limited 108 Dronagiri Navghar North Infra Limited 109 Dronagiri Navghar North Second Infra Limited 110 Dronagiri Navghar South First Infra Limited 111 Dronagiri Navghar South Infra Limited 112 Dronagiri Navghar South Second Infra Limited 113 Dronagiri Navghar West Infra Limited 114 Dronagiri Pagote East Infra Limited 115 Dronagiri Pagote North First Infra Limited 116 Dronagiri Pagote North Infra Limited 117 Dronagiri Pagote North Second Infra Limited 118 Dronagiri Pagote South First Infra Limited 119 Dronagiri Pagote South Infra Limited 120 Dronagiri Pagote West Infra Limited 121 Dronagiri Panje East Infra Limited 122 Dronagiri Panje North Infra Limited 123 Dronagiri Panje South Infra Limited 124 Dronagiri Panje West Infra Limited 125 eDreams Edusoft Private Limited @ 126 e-Eighteen.com Limited # 127 Ekta Entertainment Network Limited @ 128 Elite Cable Network Private Limited 129 Eminent Cable Network Private Limited 130 Enercent Technologies Private Limited ^ 131 Fab Den Network Limited @ 132 Faradion Limited ^ 133 Faradion UG ^ 134 Foodhall Franchises Limited ^ 135 Fortune (Baroda) Network Private Limited @ 136 Fun Cable Network Private Limited @ 137 Future Lifestyles Franchisee Limited ^ 138 Futuristic Media and Entertainment Limited 139 Galaxy Den Media & Entertainment Private Limited 140 Gemini Cable Network Limited @ 141 Genesis Colors Limited 142 Genesis La Mode Private Limited 143 GLB Body Care Private Limited 144 GLF Lifestyle Brands Private Limited 145 Glimpse Communications Private Limited @ 146 GML India Fashion Private Limited 147 Grab A Grub Services Private Limited #  Control by Independent Media Trust of which the company is the sole beneficiary.
^   Relationships established during the year.
@  Ceased to be related party during the year.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 354 355 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements Sr.  No.
Name of the Related Party Relationship 148 Greycells18 Media Limited # Subsidiary 149 Hamleys (Franchising) Limited 150 Hamleys Asia Limited 151 Hamleys Global Holdings Limited @ 152 Hamleys of London Limited 153 Hamleys Toys (Ireland) Limited 154 Hathway Bhawani Cabletel and Datacom Limited 155 Hathway Broadband Limited @ 156 Hathway Cable and Datacom Limited 157 Hathway Cnet Limited @ 158 Hathway Digital Limited 159 Hathway Digital Saharanpur Cable & Datacom Limited @ 160 Hathway Enjoy Cable Network Limited @ 161 Hathway Gwalior Cable & Datacom Limited @ 162 Hathway Internet Satellite Limited @ 163 Hathway JMD Farukhabad Cable Network Limited @ 164 Hathway Kokan Crystal Cable Network Limited 165 Hathway Krishna Cable Limited @ 166 Hathway Mantra Cable & Datacom Limited 167 Hathway Media Vision Limited @ 168 Hathway Mysore Cable Network Limited @ 169 Hathway Nashik Cable Network Private Limited 170 Hathway New Concept Cable & Datacom Limited @ 171 Hathway Software Developers Limited @ 172 Hathway Space Vision Cabletel Limited @ 173 Hathway United Cables Limited @ 174 Ideal Cables Limited @ 175 IndiaCast Media Distribution Private Limited # 176 IndiaCast UK Limited # 177 IndiaCast US Limited # 178 Indiavidual Learning Limited 179 Indiawin Sports Private Limited 180 Indradhanush Cable Network Limited @ 181 Infomedia Press Limited # 182 Intelligent Supply Chain Infrastructure Management Private Limited (Formerly Known as Jio  Digital Cableco Private Limited) $ 183 Intimi India Private Limited ^ 184 ITV Interactive Media Limited @ 185 Jaisuryas Retail Ventures Private Limited ^ 186 JD International Pte.
Ltd. ^ 187 Jhankar Cable Network Limited @ 188 Jio Cable and Broadband Holdings Private Limited $ 189 Jio Content Distribution Holdings Private Limited $ 190 Jio Digital Distribution Holdings Private Limited $ 191 Jio Estonia OÜ 192 Jio Futuristic Digital Holdings Private Limited $ 193 Jio Haptik Technologies Limited 194 Jio Information Aggregator Services Limited 195 Jio Infrastructure Management Services Limited 196 Jio Internet Distribution Holdings Private Limited $ 197 Jio Limited #  Control by Independent Media Trust of which the company is the sole beneficiary.
^   Relationships established during the year.
$   Control by Digital Media Distribution Trust of which Reliance Content Distribution Limited is the sole beneficiary, which is a wholly- owned subsidiary of the Company.
@  Ceased to be related party during the year.
Sr.  No.
Name of the Related Party Relationship 198 Jio Media Limited Subsidiary 199 Jio Platforms Limited 200 Jio Satellite Communications Limited ^ 201 Jio Space Technology Limited ^ 202 Jio Television Distribution Holdings Private Limited $ 203 Jio Things Limited 204 Just Dial Inc. ^ 205 Just Dial Limited ^ 206 Kalamboli East Infra Limited 207 Kalamboli North First Infra Limited 208 Kalamboli North Infra Limited 209 Kalamboli North Second Infra Limited 210 Kalamboli North Third Infra Limited 211 Kalamboli South First Infra Limited 212 Kalamboli South Infra Limited 213 Kalamboli West Infra Limited 214 Kalanikethan Fashions Private Limited ^ 215 Kalanikethan Silks Private Limited ^ 216 Kishna DEN Cable Networks Private Limited 217 Kutch New Energy Projects Limited (Formerly known as Reliance Solar Projects Limited) ^ 218 Liberty Media Vision Limited @ 219 Libra Cable Network Limited 220 Luvley Limited @ 221 M Entertainments Private Limited 222 Mahadev Den Cable Network Limited 223 Mahavir Den Entertainment Private Limited 224 Maitri Cable Network Private Limited 225 Mansion Cable Network Private Limited 226 Marble Cable Network Private Limited @ 227 MAS Brands Exports (Private) Limited ^ 228 MAS Brands Lanka (Private) Limited ^ 229 Media18 Distribution Services Limited # 230 Meerut Cable Network Private Limited 231 Mesindus Ventures Limited (formerly known as Mesindus Ventures Private Limited) 232 Mindex 1 Limited 233 Model Economic Township Limited 234 Moneycontrol.Dot Com India Limited # 235 Mountain Cable Network Limited @ 236 Multi Channel Cable Network Limited @ 237 Multi Star Cable Network Limited @ 238 Multitrack Cable Network Private Limited 239 MYJD Private Limited ^ 240 Nectar Entertainment Limited @ 241 Netmeds Marketplace Limited 242 Network18 Media & Investments Limited # 243 New Emerging World Of Journalism Limited 244 Nilgiris Stores Limited ^ 245 NowFloats Technologies Private Limited 246 Radiant Satellite (India) Private Limited #  Control by Independent Media Trust of which the company is the sole beneficiary.
^   Relationships established during the year.
@  Ceased to be related party during the year.
$   Control by Digital Media Distribution Trust of which Reliance Content Distribution Limited is the sole beneficiary, which is a wholly- owned subsidiary of the Company.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 356 357 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements Sr.  No.
Name of the Related Party Relationship 247 Radisys B.V. Subsidiary 248 Radisys Canada Inc. 249 Radisys Cayman Limited 250 Radisys Convedia (Ireland) Limited 251 Radisys Corporation 252 Radisys GmbH 253 Radisys India Limited (formerly known as Radisys India Private Limited) 254 Radisys International LLC 255 Radisys International Singapore Pte.
Ltd. 256 Radisys Poland sp.
z o.o @ 257 Radisys Spain S.L.U.
258 Radisys Systems Equipment Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 259 Radisys Technologies (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd. 260 Radisys UK Limited 261 RB Holdings Private Limited # 262 RB Media Holdings Private Limited # 263 RB Mediasoft Private Limited # 264 RBML Solutions India Limited 265 REC Americas LLC ^ 266 REC ScanModule Sweden AB ^ 267 REC Solar (Japan) Co., Ltd. ^ 268 REC Solar EMEA GmbH ^ 269 REC Solar France SAS ^ 270 REC Solar Holdings AS ^ 271 REC Solar Norway AS ^ 272 REC Solar Pte.
Ltd. ^ 273 REC Systems (Thailand) Co., Ltd. ^ 274 REC Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. ^ 275 REC US Holdings, Inc. ^ 276 Recron (Malaysia) Sdn.
Bhd.
277 Reliance 4IR Realty Development Limited 278 Reliance Ambit Trade Private Limited 279 Reliance BP Mobility Limited 280 Reliance Brands Holding UK Limited 281 Reliance Brands Limited 282 Reliance Brands Luxury Fashion Private Limited 283 Reliance Carbon Fibre Cylinder Limited ^ 284 Reliance Clothing India Private Limited 285 Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited 286 Reliance Comtrade Private Limited 287 Reliance Content Distribution Limited 288 Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited 289 Reliance Digital Health Limited (Formerly known as Kanhatech Solutions Limited) 290 Reliance Digital Health USA Inc. 291 Reliance Eagleford Upstream GP LLC 292 Reliance Eagleford Upstream Holding LP 293 Reliance Eagleford Upstream LLC 294 Reliance Eminent Trading & Commercial Private Limited 295 Reliance Ethane Holding Pte Limited 296 Reliance Ethane Pipeline Limited #  Control by Independent Media Trust of which the company is the sole beneficiary.
^   Relationships established during the year.
@  Ceased to be related party during the year.
Sr.  No.
Name of the Related Party Relationship 297 Reliance Exploration & Production DMCC Subsidiary 298 Reliance GAS Lifestyle India Private Limited 299 Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited 300 Reliance Global Energy Services (Singapore) Pte.
Limited 301 Reliance Global Energy Services Limited 302 Reliance Hydrogen Electrolysis Limited ^ 303 Reliance Hydrogen Fuel Cell Limited ^ 304 Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited 305 Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC 306 Reliance Innovative Building Solutions Private Limited 307 Reliance International Limited ^ 308 Reliance Jio Global Resources LLC 309 Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited 310 Reliance Jio Infocomm Pte.
Ltd. 311 Reliance Jio Infocomm UK Limited 312 Reliance Jio Infocomm USA Inc. 313 Reliance Jio Media Limited 314 Reliance Jio Messaging Services Limited 315 Reliance Lifestyle Products Private Limited 316 Reliance Marcellus II LLC 317 Reliance Marcellus LLC 318 Reliance New Energy Carbon Fibre Cylinder Limited ^ 319 Reliance New Energy Hydrogen Electrolysis Limited ^ 320 Reliance New Energy Hydrogen Fuel Cell Limited ^ 321 Reliance New Energy Limited (Formerly known as Reliance New Energy Solar Limited) ^ 322 Reliance New Energy Power Electronics Limited ^ 323 Reliance New Energy Storage Limited ^ 324 Reliance New Solar Energy Limited ^ 325 Reliance O2C Limited 326 Reliance Payment Solutions Limited 327 Reliance Petro Marketing Limited 328 Reliance Petroleum Retail Limited 329 Reliance Power Electronics Limited ^ 330 Reliance Progressive Traders Private Limited 331 Reliance Projects & Property Management Services Limited 332 Reliance Prolific Commercial Private Limited 333 Reliance Prolific Traders Private Limited 334 Reliance Retail and Fashion Lifestyle Limited 335 Reliance Retail Finance Limited 336 Reliance Retail Insurance Broking Limited 337 Reliance Retail Limited 338 Reliance Retail Ventures Limited 339 Reliance Ritu Kumar Private Limited (Formerly known as Ritika Private Limited) ^ 340 Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited 341 Reliance SMSL Limited 342 Reliance Storage Limited ^ 343 Reliance Strategic Business Ventures Limited 344 Reliance Strategic Investments Limited 345 Reliance Syngas Limited ^ 346 Reliance Universal Traders Private Limited 347 Reliance Vantage Retail Limited 348 Reliance Ventures Limited 349 Reliance-GrandOptical Private Limited ^   Relationships established during the year.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 358 359 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements Sr.  No.
Name of the Related Party Relationship 350 Reverie Language Technologies Limited Subsidiary 351 RIL USA, Inc. 352 Rise Worldwide Limited 353 Ritu Kumar ME (FZE) (Formerly known as Ritu Kumar ME (FZC)) ^ 354 Roptonal Limited # 355 Rose Entertainment Private Limited 356 RP Chemicals (Malaysia) Sdn.
Bhd.
357 RRB Mediasoft Private Limited # 358 Saavn Inc. 359 Saavn LLC 360 Saavn Media Limited 361 SankhyaSutra Labs Limited 362 Sanmati DEN Cable TV Network Private Limited @ 363 Sanmati Entertainment Limited @ 364 Scrumpalicious Limited @ 365 Shopsense Retail Technologies Limited (Formerly known as Shopsense Retail Technologies  Private Limited) 366 Shree Sidhivinayak Cable Network Limited @ 367 Shri Kannan Departmental Store Limited (Formerly known as Shri Kannan Departmental Store  Private Limited) 368 Silverline Television Network Limited 369 skyTran Inc. 370 skyTran Israel Ltd. 371 Sree Gokulam Starnet Communication Limited @ 372 Srishti Den Networks Limited 373 Stoke Park Limited ^ 374 Strand Life Sciences Private Limited ^ 375 Surajya Services Limited (Formerly known as Surajya Services Private Limited) 376 Surela Investment and Trading Limited 377 Tesseract Imaging Limited 378 The Hamleys Group Limited @ 379 The Indian Film Combine Private Limited 380 Tira Beauty Limited ^ 381 Tresara Health Limited (formerly known as Tresara Health Private Limited) 382 Trident Entertainment Private Limited @ 383 TV18 Broadcast Limited # 384 Ulwe East Infra Limited 385 Ulwe North Infra Limited 386 Ulwe South Infra Limited 387 Ulwe Waterfront East Infra Limited 388 Ulwe Waterfront North Infra Limited 389 Ulwe Waterfront South Infra Limited 390 Ulwe Waterfront West Infra Limited 391 Ulwe West Infra Limited 392 United Cable Network (Digital) Limited @ 393 Urban Ladder Home Décor Solutions Limited (Formerly known as Urban Ladder Home Décor  Solutions Private Limited) 394 UTN Cable Communications Limited @ 395 VasyERP Solutions Private Limited ^ 396 VBS Digital Distribution Network Limited 397 Viacom 18 Media Private Limited # 398 Viacom 18 Media (UK) Limited # 399 Viacom 18 US Inc. # #  Control by Independent Media Trust of which the company is the sole beneficiary.
^  Relationships established during the year.
@  Ceased to be related party during the year.
Sr.  No.
Name of the Related Party Relationship 400 Victor Cable TV Network Limited @ Subsidiary 401 Vision India Network Limited @ 402 Vitalic Health Private Limited 403 Watermark Infratech Private Limited # 404 Web18 Digital Services Limited # 405 Win Cable and Datacom Limited @ 406 Digital Media Distribution Trust Company /  Subsidiary  is a beneficiary 407 Independent Media Trust 408 Network18 Media Trust 409 Alok Industries Limited Joint Venture 410 Football Sports Development Limited 411 India Gas Solutions Private Limited 412 Jio Payments Bank Limited 413 Pipeline Management Services Private Limited 414 Gujarat Chemical Port Limited Associates 415 Indian Vaccines Corporation Limited 416 Jamnagar Utilities & Power Private Limited 417 Reliance Europe Limited 418 Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited 419 Sikka Ports & Terminals Limited 420 Vadodara Enviro Channel Limited 421 Shri Mukesh D. Ambani Key  Managerial Personnel 422 Shri Nikhil R. Meswani 423 Shri Hital R. Meswani 424 Shri P. M. S. Prasad 425 Shri Pawan Kumar Kapil 426 Shri Alok Agarwal 427 Shri Srikanth Venkatachari 428 Shri K. Sethuraman ## 429 Smt.
Savithri Parekh 430 Smt.
Nita M. Ambani Relative of Key  Managerial Personnel 431 Dhirubhai Ambani Foundation Enterprises over  which Key Managerial  Personnel are  able to exercise  significant influence 432 Hirachand Govardhandas Ambani Public Charitable Trust 433 Jamnaben Hirachand Ambani Foundation 434 Reliance Foundation 435 Reliance Foundation Institution of Education and Research 436 Reliance Foundation Youth Sports 437 Sir HN Hospital Trust 438 Sir Hurkisondas Nurrotamdas Hospital and Research Centre 439 IPCL Employees Provident Fund Trust Post  Employment Benefit 440 Reliance Industries Limited Vadodara Units Employees Superannuation Fund 441 RIL Vadodara Unit Employees Gratuity Fund 442 Reliance Employees Provident Fund Bombay 443 Reliance Industries Limited Staff Superannuation Scheme 444 Reliance Industries Limited Employees Gratuity Fund 445 IPCL Employees Gratuity Fund - Baulpur Unit #  Control by Independent Media Trust of which the company is the sole beneficiary.
@  Ceased to be related party during the year.
##  Ceased to be related party during the year.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 360 361 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements  (II) Transactions during the year with Related Parties : ( ` in crore) Sr.  No.
Nature of Transactions (Excluding Reimbursements) Subsidiaries /  Beneficiary Associates /  Joint  Ventures Key  Managerial  Personnel /  Relative Others Total 1 Purchase of Property, Plant and Equipment and  Intangible Assets 3,537 2 - - 3,539 2,478 4 - - 2,482 2 Purchase / Subscription of Investments 38,254 22 - - 38,276 79,907 527 - - 80,434 3 Sale / Redemption of Investments 1,950 - - - 1,950 2,06,355 - - - 2,06,355 4 Loans and Advances, Deposits Given 38,119 1 - - 38,120 1,05,322 - - - 1,05,322 5 Loans and Advances, Deposits Returned 61,220 - - - 61,220 85,479 23 - - 85,502 6 Deposit Received / (Refund) 24 - - - 24 - - - - - 7 Transfer of Liabilities - - - - - 851 - - - 851 8 Revenue from Operations 1,22,358 4,134 - 6 1,26,498 50,792 1,580 - 1 52,373 9 Other Income 4,446 19 - 5 4,470 4,202 23 - 4 4,229 10 Purchases of Goods / Services 8,793 2,786 - 11,579 1,935 1,629 - 1 3,565 11 Electric Power, Fuel and Water 88 4,517 - - 4,605 11 4,782 - - 4,793 12 Hire Charges 316 113 - - 429 485 46 - - 531 13 Employee Benefit Expense 434 6 - 466 906 617 - - 451 1,068 14 Payment to Key Managerial Personnel/Relative - - 97 - 97 - - 99 - 99 15 Sales and Distribution Expenses 90 2,109 - - 2,199 6 2,023 - - 2,029 16 Rent - 15 - - 15 - 15 - - 15 17 Professional Fees 141 11 - - 152 202 27 - - 229 18 General Expenses # 649 11 - 5 665 615 9 - 6 630 19 Travelling Expenses 69 - - - 69 - - - - - 20 Donations - - - 766 766 - - - 803 803 21 Sale of Business (Through Slump Sale) 30,490 - - - 30,490 1,060 - - - 1,060 22 Payment of Call Money on Equity Shares - 2 160 - 162 - 1 54 - 55 Note: Figures in italic represents Previous Year’s amounts.
#  Does not include sitting fees of Non- Executive Directors.
( ` in crore) Sr.  No.
Nature of Balances Subsidiaries /  Beneficiary Associates /  Joint  Ventures Key  Managerial  Personnel /  Relative Others Total Balances as at 31 st March, 2022 1 Investments 1,68,223 947 - - 1,69,170 1,30,845 924 - - 1,31,769 2 Trade Receivables 8,517 705 - - 9,222 1,434 524 - - 1,958 3 Loans and Advances 42,112 - - - 42,112 65,063 - - - 65,063 4 Deposits 12,081 520 - - 12,601 12,180 519 - - 12,699 5 Other Financial Assets-Current 34,454 - - - 34,454 1,124 - - - 1,124 6 Trade and Other Payables 1,542 1,128 - - 2,670 389 933 - - 1,322 7 Other Non-Current Liabilities 504 - - - 504 504 - - - 504 8 Other Financial Liabilities - Current 24 - - - 24 202 - - - 202 9 Other Current Liabilities 4 - - - 4 - - - - - 10 Financial Guarantees 12,293 - - - 12,293 7,067 110 - - 7,177 11 Performance Guarantees 1,866 - - - 1,866 1,939 - - - 1,939 Figures in italic represents Previous Year’s amounts.
(III) Disclosure in Respect of Major Related Party Transactions during the year ( ` in crore) Particulars Relationship 2021-22 2020-21 1 Purchase of Property Plant & Equipment and  Intangible Assets  Jamnagar Utilities & Power Private Limited Associate 1 1  Jio Platforms Limited Subsidiary 945 615  Reliance Brands Limited Subsidiary - 4  Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited Subsidiary 2,454 1,766  Reliance Lifestyle Products Private Limited Subsidiary 2 -  Reliance Projects & Property Management Services Limited Subsidiary 93 83  Reliance Retail Limited Subsidiary 36 8  Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited Subsidiary 7 2  Sikka Ports & Terminals Limited Associate 1 3 2 Purchase / Subscription of Investments  Alok Industries Limited Joint Venture - 519  India Gas Solutions Private Limited Joint Venture - 8  Jio Payments Bank Limited Joint Venture 22 -  Jio Platforms Limited Subsidiary - 48,241  Reliance 4IR Realty Development Limited Subsidiary 10,010 -  Reliance Content Distribution Limited Subsidiary 460 6   Reliance Digital Health Limited (Formerly known as Kanhatech  Solutions Limited) Subsidiary 86 -  Reliance Eagleford Upstream LLC Subsidiary - 7,722  Reliance Ethane Pipeline Limited Subsidiary - 230 Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 362 363 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements ( ` in crore) Particulars Relationship 2021-22 2020-21  Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited Subsidiary - 442  Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC Subsidiary 1,207 114  Reliance International Limited ^ Subsidiary 189 -  Reliance Marcellus LLC Subsidiary - 7,964  Reliance New Energy Limited (Formerly known as Reliance New  Energy Solar Limited) ^ Subsidiary 5,549 -  Reliance Projects & Property Management Services Limited Subsidiary 20,000 -  Reliance Retail Ventures Limited Subsidiary - 14,000  Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited Subsidiary - 318  Reliance Strategic Business Ventures Limited Subsidiary 753 817  Rise Worldwide Limited Subsidiary - 52 3 Sale / Redemption of Investments  Indiavidual Learning Limited Subsidiary - 604  Indiawin Sports Private Limited Subsidiary 25 -  Jio Platforms Limited Subsidiary - 1,77,036  Radisys Corporation Subsidiary - 539  Reliance BP Mobility Limited Subsidiary - 300  Reliance Content Distribution Limited Subsidiary 931 577  Reliance Eagleford Upstream LLC (Refer Note 32 (d)) Subsidiary - 7,722  Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited Subsidiary - 230  Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited Subsidiary - 442  Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC Subsidiary 994 114  Reliance Marcellus LLC (Refer Note 32 (d)) Subsidiary - 7,964  Reliance Industries Uruguay Petroquímica S.A. @ Subsidiary - 1  Reliance Retail Ventures Limited Subsidiary - 4,000  Saavn Media Limited Subsidiary - 6,826 4 Loans and Advances, Deposits Given  Gujarat Chemical Port Limited Associates 1 -  Jio Platforms Limited Subsidiary - 150  Reliance 4IR Realty Development Limited Subsidiary 2,124 1,341  Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited Subsidiary 926 841  Reliance Ethane Pipeline Limited Subsidiary - 1,020  Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited Subsidiary - 770  Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited Subsidiary 6,292 29,063  Reliance New Energy Limited (Formerly known as Reliance New  Energy Solar Limited) ^ Subsidiary 1,849 -  Reliance O2C Limited Subsidiary 10 20  Reliance Projects & Property Management Services Limited Subsidiary 19,532 61,394  Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited Subsidiary - 128  Reliance Strategic Business Ventures Limited Subsidiary 7,386 8,957  Reliance Strategic Investments Limited Subsidiary - 1,638  Sikka Ports & Terminals Limited Associate - - 5 Loans and Advances, Deposits Returned  Gujarat Chemical Port Limited Associates - 23  Jio Platforms Limited Subsidiary - 11,150  Reliance 4IR Realty Development Limited Subsidiary 1,562 684  Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited Subsidiary 160 -  Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited Subsidiary 10,753 2,311  Reliance Ethane Pipeline Limited Subsidiary 215 182  Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited Subsidiary 25 1,020  Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited Subsidiary 11,421 27,283 ^  Relationships established during the year.
@  Ceased to be related party during the previous year.
( ` in crore) Particulars Relationship 2021-22 2020-21  Reliance New Energy Limited (Formerly known as Reliance New  Energy Solar Limited) ^ Subsidiary 1,849 -  Reliance Projects & Property Management Services Limited Subsidiary 29,567 29,576  Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited Subsidiary - 238  Reliance Strategic Business Ventures Limited Subsidiary 5,668 8,977  Reliance Strategic Investments Limited Subsidiary - 4,058 6 Deposit Received  Reliance New Energy Limited (Formerly known as Reliance New  Energy Solar Limited) ^ Subsidiary 24 - 7 Transfer of Liabilities  Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited Subsidiary - 851 8 Revenue from Operations  Alok Industries Limited Joint Venture 3,082 1,455  Genesis La Mode Private Limited Subsidiary - 2  Gujarat Chemical Port Limited Associate 11 4  India Gas Solutions Private Limited Joint Venture 779 6  Jamnaben Hirachand Ambani Foundation Other - 1  Jamnagar Utilities & Power Private Limited Associate 257 107  Jio Payments Bank Limited Joint Venture 1 3  Jio Platforms Limited Subsidiary 798 692  Model Economic Township Limited Subsidiary 1 -  Pipeline Management Services Private Limited Joint Venture - 4  RBML Solutions India Limited Subsidiary 259 -  Recron (Malaysia) Sdn.
Bhd.
Subsidiary 2,025 1,378  Reliance BP Mobility Limited Subsidiary 35,977 27,414  Reliance Brands Limited Subsidiary - 6  Reliance Brands Luxury Fashion Private Limited Subsidiary - 1  Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited Subsidiary 11 10  Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited Subsidiary 1 3  Reliance Ethane Pipeline Limited Subsidiary 312 188  Reliance Foundation Other 5 -  Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited Subsidiary 11 50  Reliance Global Energy Services (Singapore) Pte.
Limited Subsidiary 42,381 14,164  Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited Subsidiary 1,082 729  Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC Subsidiary 406 -  Reliance International Limited ^ Subsidiary 27,215 -  Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited Subsidiary 2 89  Reliance Marcellus LLC Subsidiary 3 3  Reliance O2C Limited Subsidiary 2,519 112  Reliance Petro Marketing Limited Subsidiary 514 3,092  Reliance Projects & Property Management Services Limited Subsidiary 430 273  Reliance Retail Finance Limited Subsidiary - 26  Reliance Retail Limited Subsidiary 26 62  Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited Subsidiary 787 619  Reliance Strategic Investments Limited Subsidiary - 120  RIL USA, Inc. Subsidiary 7,540 1,758  Sikka Ports & Terminals Limited Associate 3 1  Viacom 18 Media Private Limited Subsidiary 55 - 9 Other Income  e-Eighteen.com Limited Subsidiary 5 5  Gujarat Chemical Port Limited Associate 15 12  Jamnagar Utilities & Power Private Limited Associate 1 2 ^  Relationships established during the year.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 364 365 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements ( ` in crore) Particulars Relationship 2021-22 2020-21  Jamnaben Hirachand Ambani Foundation Other 4 3  Jio Platforms Limited Subsidiary - 280  Network18 Media & Investments Limited Subsidiary 1 1  Recron (Malaysia) Sdn.
Bhd.
Subsidiary 6 6  Reliance 4IR Realty Development Limited Subsidiary 197 149  Reliance BP Mobility Limited Subsidiary 257 199  Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited Subsidiary - 1  Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited Subsidiary 963 1,215  Reliance Ethane Pipeline Limited Subsidiary 53 70  Reliance Europe Limited Associate - 1  Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited Subsidiary 31 38  Reliance Global Energy Services (Singapore) Pte.
Limited Subsidiary 13 11  Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate 2 2  Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited Subsidiary 28 -  Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC Subsidiary 1 -  Reliance International Limited ^ Subsidiary 2 -  Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited Subsidiary 13 15  Reliance New Energy Limited (Formerly known as Reliance New  Energy Solar Limited) ^ Subsidiary 27 -  Reliance Projects & Property Management Services Limited Subsidiary 2,424 1,702  Reliance Retail Limited Subsidiary - 38  Reliance Retail Ventures Limited Subsidiary - 26  Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited Subsidiary 3 11  Reliance Strategic Business Ventures Limited Subsidiary 404 417  RIL USA, Inc. Subsidiary 4 -  Rise Worldwide Limited Subsidiary 4 6  Saavn Media Limited Subsidiary 3 6  Sikka Ports & Terminals Limited Associate - 1  Sir HN Hospital Trust Other 1 1  TV18 Broadcast Limited Subsidiary 6 8 10 Purchases Goods / Services  Alok Industries Limited Joint Venture 86 51  Gujarat Chemical Port Limited Associate 142 175  India Gas Solutions Private Limited Joint Venture 1,094 -  Jamnagar Utilities & Power Private Limited Associate 25 5  Reliance BP Mobility Limited Subsidiary 2 -  Reliance Brands Limited Subsidiary 4 -  Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited Subsidiary - 1  Reliance Ethane Pipeline Limited Subsidiary 336 151  Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited Subsidiary - 45  Reliance Global Energy Services (Singapore) Pte.
Limited Subsidiary 283 406  Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate 22 23  Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC Subsidiary 1,342 1,085  Reliance International Limited ^ Subsidiary 1,908 -  Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited Subsidiary - 1  Reliance O2C Limited Subsidiary 4,877 221  Reliance Retail Limited Subsidiary 12 9  Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited Subsidiary 18 12  RIL USA, Inc. Subsidiary 11 4  Sikka Ports & Terminals Limited Associate 1,417 1,375  Sir HN Hospital Trust Other - 1 ^  Relationships established during the year.
( ` in crore) Particulars Relationship 2021-22 2020-21 11 Electric Power, Fuel and Water  Jamnagar Utilities & Power Private Limited Associate 4,503 4,767  Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited Subsidiary 78 -  Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate 14 15  Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited Subsidiary 10 11 12 Hire Charges  Reliance Ethane Pipeline Limited Subsidiary 314 294  Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited Subsidiary 2 191  Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate 12 4  Sikka Ports & Terminals Limited Associate 101 42 13 Employee Benefits Expense   Alok Industries Limited Joint Venture  6  -    IPCL employees Provident fund Trust Other *  126  132    Jio Platforms Limited Subsidiary  73  47    Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited Subsidiary  177  394    Reliance Employees Provident Fund Bombay Other *  279  286    Reliance Industries Limited Staff superannuation scheme Other *  19  18    Reliance Industries Limited Vadodara Units Employees  superannuation Fund Other *  1  2    Reliance Projects & Property Management Services Limited Subsidiary  160  145    Reliance Retail Limited Subsidiary  19  31    Sir HN Hospital Trust Other  41  13    Tresara Health Limited (formerly known as Tresara Health  Private Limited) Subsidiary  5  -  14 Payment To Key Managerial Personnel / Relative  Shri Mukesh D. Ambani KMP - -  Shri Nikhil R. Meswani KMP 24 24  Shri Hital R. Meswani KMP 24 24  Shri P. M. S. Prasad KMP 12 12  Shri Pawan Kumar Kapil KMP 4 4  Shri Alok Agarwal KMP 12 11  Shri Srikanth Venkatachari KMP 15 17  Shri K. Sethuraman ## KMP 2 3  Smt.
Savithri Parekh KMP 2 2  Smt.
Nita M. Ambani Relative of KMP 2 2 15 Sales and Distribution Expenses  Gujarat Chemical Port Limited Associate 66 62  Reliance BP Mobility Limited Subsidiary 75 2  Reliance Global Energy Services (Singapore) Pte.
Limited Subsidiary 2 -  Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate 4 -  Reliance Projects & Property Management Services Limited Subsidiary 1 -  Reliance Retail Limited Subsidiary 11 3  Rise Worldwide Limited Subsidiary - 1  RIL USA, Inc. Subsidiary 1 -  Sikka Ports & Terminals Limited Associate 2,039 1,961 16 Rent  Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate 15 15 17 Professional Fees  Jio Platforms Limited Subsidiary 32 21  Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited Subsidiary 59 140  Reliance Digital Health USA Inc. Subsidiary 8 2 * Also include employee contribution.
##  Ceased to be related party during the year.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 366 367 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements ( ` in crore) Particulars Relationship 2021-22 2020-21  Reliance Europe Limited Associate 11 22  Reliance Global Energy Services (Singapore) Pte.
Limited Subsidiary 2 5  Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate - 4  Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC Subsidiary 1 3  Reliance Industries Uruguay Petroquímica S.A. @ Subsidiary - 1  Reliance Projects & Property Management Services Limited Subsidiary 35 28  RIL USA, Inc. Subsidiary 4 2 18 General Expenses  Alok Industries Limited Joint Venture 1 1  Jamnagar Utilities & Power Private Limited Associate - 1  Reliance BP Mobility Limited Subsidiary 11 4  Reliance Brands Limited Subsidiary 1 -  Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited Subsidiary 424 405  Reliance Digital Health Limited (Formerly known as Kanhatech  Solutions Limited) Subsidiary 1 -  Reliance Foundation Other 5 -  Reliance GAS Lifestyle India Private Limited Subsidiary 1 -  Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC Subsidiary 5 -  Reliance Industries Uruguay Petroquímica S.A. @ Subsidiary - 1  Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited Subsidiary 36 40  Reliance Projects & Property Management Services Limited Subsidiary - 1  Reliance Retail Limited Subsidiary 170 163  Sikka Ports & Terminals Limited Associate 8 5  Sir HN Hospital Trust Other - 6  Vadodara Enviro Channel Limited Associate 2 2 19 Travelling Expense  Stoke Park Limited ^ Subsidiary 69 - 20 Donations  Hirachand Govardhandas Ambani Public Charitable Trust Other 3 3  Jamnaben Hirachand Ambani Foundation Other 101 49  Reliance Foundation Other 498 349  Reliance Foundation Institution of Education and Research Other 142 382  Reliance Foundation Youth Sports Other 22 20 21 Sale of Business (Through Slump Sale)  Reliance BP Mobility Limited Subsidiary - 1,060  Reliance Syngas Limited ^  (Refer Note 43.1) Subsidiary 30,490 - 22 Payment of Call Money on Equity Shares  Shri Mukesh D. Ambani KMP 52 18  Shri Nikhil R. Meswani KMP 21 7  Shri Hital R. Meswani KMP 20 7  Shri P. M. S. Prasad KMP 4 1  Shri Pawan Kumar Kapil [ ` 33,30,735; (Previous Year ` 11,10,245)] KMP - -  Shri Alok Agarwal KMP 9 3  Shri Srikanth Venkatachari KMP 2 1  Shri K. Sethuraman [ ` 2,77,797; (Previous Year ` 2,77,797)] ## KMP - -  Smt.
Nita M. Ambani Relative of KMP 52 17  Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate 2 1 ^  Relationships established during the year.
##  Ceased to be related party during the year.
@  Ceased to be related party during the previous year.
(IV) Balances as at 31st March, 2022 ( ` in crore) Particulars Relationship As at   31st March, 2022 As at   31st March, 2021 1 Loans and Advances  Reliance 4IR Realty Development Limited Subsidiary 2,867 2,305  Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited Subsidiary 3,454 13,281  Reliance Ethane Pipeline Limited Subsidiary 623 838  Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited Subsidiary 395 420  Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited Subsidiary 7,148 12,277  Reliance Projects & Property Management Services Limited Subsidiary 20,576 30,611  Reliance Strategic Business Ventures Limited Subsidiary 7,049 5,331 2 Deposits  Gujarat Chemical Port Limited * Associate 49 48  Jamnagar Utilities & Power Private Limited * Associate 118 118  Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited * Subsidiary 51 160  Reliance O2C Limited Subsidiary 30 20  Reliance Projects & Property Management Services Limited Subsidiary 12,000 12,000  Sikka Ports & Terminals Limited * Associate 353 353 3 Other Financial Assets-Current  Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited Subsidiary 866 1,124  Reliance Syngas Limited ^  (Refer note 43.1) Subsidiary 30,490 -  Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited Subsidiary 971 -  Reliance Projects & Property Management Services Limited Subsidiary 2,127 - 4 Other Financial Liabilities  Reliance New Energy Limited (Formerly known as Reliance  New Energy Solar Limited) ^ Subsidiary 24 -  Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited Subsidiary - 202 5 Financial Guarantees  Recron (Malaysia) Sdn.
Bhd.
Subsidiary 568 683  Reliance Europe Limited Associate - 110  Reliance Global Energy Services Limited Subsidiary - 7  Reliance Global Energy Services (Singapore) Pte.
Limited Subsidiary 291 -  Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC Subsidiary 581 560  Reliance International Limited ^ Subsidiary 3,069 -  Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited Subsidiary 5,072 3,442  Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited Subsidiary 2,308 2,358  RIL USA, Inc. Subsidiary 404 17 ^  Relationships established during the year.
* Fair value of deposit as per Accounting Standard.
34.1 Compensation of Key Managerial Personnel    The compensation of directors and other member of Key Managerial Personnel during the year was as follows: ( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 i Short-term benefits 93 95 ii Post employment benefits 2 2 95 97  35.1  Disclosure of the Company’s Interest in Oil and Gas Joint Arrangements (Joint Operation): Sr.  No.
Name of the Fields in the  Joint Ventures Company’s % Interest Partners and their Participating Interest (PI) Country 2021-22 2020-21 1 Mid and South Tapti 30% 30% BG Exploration & Production India Limited - 30% India Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited - 40%  2 NEC - OSN - 97/2 66.67% 66.67% BP Exploration (Alpha) Limited - 33.33% India 3 KG - DWN - 98/3 66.67% 66.67% BP Exploration (Alpha) Limited - 33.33% India 4 KG-UDWHP-2018/1 60.00% 60.00% BP Exploration (Alpha) Limited - 40% India Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 368 369 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements  35.2 Quantities of Company’s Interest (on gross basis) in proved reserves and proved developed reserves: Particulars Proved Reserves in India   (Million MT *) Proved Developed Reserves in India  (Million MT *) 2021-22 2020-21 2021-22 2020-21 Oil:  Opening Balance 3.24 3.24  -    -    Revision of estimates 0.09  -    0.08  -    Production  (0.02)  -    (0.02)  -    Closing balance 3.31 3.24  0.06  -  Particulars Proved Reserves in India   (Million M3 *) Proved Developed Reserves in India  (Million M3 *)  2021-22 2020-21 2021-22 2020-21 Gas:  Opening Balance 57,739 58,526 24,277 9,225  Revision of estimates  (3) 1  7,643 15,840  Production  (4,525)  (788)  (4,525)  (788) Closing balance 53,211 57,739 27,395 24,277  * 1 cubic meter (M3) = 35.315 cubic feet, 1 cubic feet = 1000 BTU and 1 MT = 7.5 bbl    The reserve estimates for producing fields are revised based on the performance of producing fields and with respect to  discovered fields, the revision are based on the revised geological and reservoir simulation studies.
35.3   The Government of India (GOI), by its letters dated 2 nd May, 2012, 14 th November, 2013, 10 th July, 2014 and 3 rd June, 2016 has  disallowed certain costs which the Production Sharing Contract (PSC), relating to Block KGDWN-98/3 entitles the Company  to recover.
The Company continues to maintain that the Contractor is entitled to recover all of its costs under the terms of  the PSC and there are no provisions that entitle the GOI to disallow the recovery of any Contract Cost as defined in the PSC.
The Company referred the issue to arbitration with GOI for resolution of disputes.
The demand from the GOI of $ 165 million  ( ` 1,248 crore) being the Company’s share (total demand $ 247 million- ` 1,872 crore) towards additional Profit Petroleum has  been considered as contingent liability.
In supersession of Ministry’s Gazette Notification no.
22011/3/2012-ONG.D.V.
dated 10 th January, 2014, the GOI notified the  New Domestic natural Gas Pricing Guidelines 2014, the GOI has directed the Company to instruct customers to deposit  differential revenue on gas sales from D1D3 field on account of the prices determined under the above guidelines converted  to NCV basis and the prevailing price prior to 1 st November, 2014 ($ 4.205 per MMBTU) to be credited to the gas pool account  maintained by GAIL (India) Limited.
The amount so deposited by customer in Gas pool Account is ` 295 crore (net) as at  31st March, 2022 is disclosed under Other Non-Current Assets.
Revenue has been recognised at the GOI notified prices in  respect of gas quantities sold from D1D3 field from 1 st November, 2014.
This amount in the Gas Pool Account has also been  challenged under cost recovery arbitration and is pending adjudication.
Tribunal has scheduled further procedural hearing in the matter.
35.4  (a)  GOI sent a notice to the KG D6 Contractor on 4 th November, 2016 asking the Contractor to deposit approximately US $1.55  billion on account of alleged gas migration from ONGC’s blocks.
RIL, as Operator, for and on behalf of all constituents  of the Contractor, initiated arbitration proceedings against the GOI.
The Arbitral Tribunal vide its Final Award dated 24 th  July, 2018 upheld Contractor’s claims.
GOI filed an Appeal under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, against the Final Award  of the Arbitral Tribunal on 15 th November, 2018 before the Hon’ble Delhi High Court.
The Appeal is currently being heard  before the Hon’ble Delhi High Court.
(b)  Arbitration was initiated by BG Exploration and Production India Limited and RIL (together the Claimants) against GOI  on 16 th December, 2010 under the PSCs for Panna – Mukta and Tapti blocks due to difference in interpretation of certain  PSC provisions between Claimants and GOI.
The Arbitral Tribunal by majority issued a final partial award (‘2016 FPA’),  and separately, two dissenting opinions in the matter on 12 th October, 2016.
Claimants challenged certain parts of the  2016 FPA before the English Courts, which delivered its judgment on 16 th April, 2018 and remitted one of the challenged  issues back to the Arbitral Tribunal for reconsideration.
The Arbitral Tribunal decided in favour of the Claimants in large  part vide its final partial award dated 1 st October, 2018 (‘2018 FPA’).
GOI and Claimants filed an appeal before the English  Commercial Court against this 2018 FPA.
The English Commercial Court rejected GOI’s challenges to 2018 FPA and upheld  Claimants’ challenge in February 2020 and remitted the underlying issue in challenge back to the Arbitration Tribunal  for determination.
On 29 th January, 2021 the Tribunal issued a further final partial award on the remitted matter and GOI  has challenged the same before the English Commercial Court.
Claimants have filed an application before the Arbitral  Tribunal seeking increase in the PSC Cost Recovery Limits and the same is sub-judice.
Arbitral Tribunal is yet to schedule  the final re-computation of accounts phase of the arbitration, which will take place post determination of Claimants’  request for increase in cost recovery limit under the PSCs.
GOI has also filed an execution petition before the Hon’ble Delhi High Court under sections 47 and 49 of the Arbitration  and Conciliation Act, 1996 and Section 151 of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 seeking enforcement and execution of the  2016 FPA, ignoring the judgments of English High Court and the subsequent Tribunal Awards.
The Claimants contend that  GOI’s Execution Petition is not maintainable.
GOI’s Execution Petition is currently sub judice before Delhi High Court.
(c)  NTPC had filed a suit for specific performance of a contract for supply of natural gas by RIL before the Hon’ble Bombay  High Court.
The main issue in dispute is whether a valid, concluded and binding contract exists between the parties for  supply of Natural Gas of 132 Trillion BTU annually for a period of 17 years.
The matter is presently sub judice and RIL is of the  view that NTPC’s claim lacks merit and no binding contract for supply of gas was executed between NTPC and RIL.
Considering the complexity of above issues, the Company is of the view that any attempt for quantification of possible  exposure to the Company will have an effect of prejudicing Company’s legal position in the ongoing arbitration/ litigations.
Moreover, the Company considers above demand/disputes as remote.
35.5 Exploration for and Evaluation of Oil and Gas Resources    The following financial information represents the amounts included in Intangible Assets under Development relating to  activity associated with the exploration for and evaluation of oil and gas resources.
( `  in crore)  Particulars As at   31st March, 2022 As at   31st March, 2021 Exploration & Evaluation (E&E) Cost Exploration Expenditure written off 102 1  Other Exploration Cost 79  -    Exploration Cost for the year 181 1  ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2022 As at   31st March, 2021 36.
Contingent Liabilities and Commitments (I) Contingent Liabilities (A) Claims against the Company / disputed liabilities not acknowledged as debts * (i) In respect of Joint Ventures 1,458 2,066  (ii) In respect of Others 2,163 2,202  (B) Guarantees (i)  Guarantees to Banks and Financial Institutions against credit facilities  extended to third parties and other Guarantees   - In respect of Others 12,293 7,177  (ii)  Performance Guarantees   - In respect of Others 1,866 1,939  (iii)   Outstanding Guarantees furnished to Banks and Financial Institutions including  in respect of Letters of Credits   - In respect of Joint Ventures 1,580 1,391   - In respect of Others 4,397 3,501  (II) Commitments (A) Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and  not provided for: (i) In respect of Joint Ventures 4,395 6,244  (ii) In respect of Others 1,764 689  (B) Other Commitments (i)  Other Commitments - Investments 510 712  *  The Company has been advised that the demand is likely to be either deleted or substantially reduced and accordingly no provision is  considered necessary.
(III)   The Income -Tax Assessments of the Company have been completed up to Assessment Year 2018-19.
The total demand  upto AY 2018-19 is ` 1,128 crore as on date.
Based on the decisions of the Appellate authorities and the interpretations of other  relevant provisions of the Income tax Act, 1961, the company has been legally advised that the demand raised is likely to be  either deleted or substantially reduced and accordingly no provision is considered necessary.
(IV)    On December 16, 2010, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) issued a show cause notice (“SCN”) inter alia to  the Company (RIL) in connection with the trades by RIL in the stock exchanges in 2007 in the shares of Reliance Petroleum  Limited, then a subsidiary of RIL.
Hearings were held before the Whole Time Member (“WTM”) of SEBI in respect of the SCN.
By  an order dated March 24, 2017, the WTM passed the directions: (i) prohibiting inter alia RIL from dealing in equity derivatives  in the ‘Futures & Options’ segment of stock exchanges, directly or indirectly, for a period of one year from the date of the  order; and (ii) to RIL to disgorge an amount of  ` 447 crore along with interest at the rate of 12% per annum from November  29, 2007 till the date of payment.
In May 2017, RIL and the other noticees filed an appeal before the Securities Appellate  Tribunal (“SAT”) against this order.
SAT, by a majority order (2:1), dismissed the appeal on November 5, 2020 and directed RIL  to pay the disgorged amount within sixty days from the date of the order.
The appeal of RIL and other noticees has been  admitted by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India.
By its order dated December 17, 2020, the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India  directed RIL to deposit ` 250 crore in the Investors’ Protection Fund, subject to the final result of the appeal and stayed the  recovery of the balance, inclusive of interest, pending the appeal.
RIL has complied with the order dated December 17, 2020  of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 370 371 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements 37.
Capital Management   The Company adheres to a disciplined Capital Management framework in order to maintain a strong balance sheet.
The main objectives  are as follows:  a)  Maintain AAA rating domestically and investment grade rating internationally.
b) Manage foreign exchange, interest rates and commodity price risk, and minimise the impact of market volatility on earnings.
c) Diversify sources of financing and spread the maturity across tenure buckets in order to manage liquidity risk.
d)  Leverage optimally in order to maximise shareholder returns.
The Net Gearing Ratio at end of the reporting period was as follows: ( `  in crore) As at  31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 Gross Debt 1,94,563 2,21,698 Cash and Marketable Securities * 1,82,235 1,82,225 Net debt (A) 12,328 39,473 Total Equity (As per Balance Sheet) (B) 4,71,527 4,74,483 Net Gearing (A/B) 0.03 0.08  *  Cash & Marketable Securities include cash and equivalents of ` 21,714 crore (Previous Year ` 5,573 crore), current investments of ` 78,304  crore (Previous Year ` 94,665 crore), other marketable securities of ` 82,136 crore (Previous Year ` 42,144 crore) including investments in  Jio Digital Fibre Private Limited and Summit Digitel Infrastructure Private Limited (Formerly Reliance Jio Infratel Private Limited), Share Call  money receivable on rights issue ` 81 crore (Previous Year ` 39,843 crore).
38.
Financial Instruments   A.
Fair Value Measurement Hierarchy ( `  in crore)  Particulars As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 Carrying Amount Level of input used in Carrying Amount Level of input used in Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial Assets  At Amortised Cost  Investments * 30,874 - - - 38,222 - - - Trade Receivables 14,394 - - - 4,159 - - - Cash and Cash Equivalents 21,714 - - - 5,573 - - - Loans 42,112 - - - 65,066 - - - Other Financial Assets 55,428 - - - 58,933 - - - At FVTPL  Investments 28,098 24,825 3,023 250 31,810 27,235 4,325 250  Other Financial Assets 1,720 - 1,720 - 2,245 - 2,245 - At FVTOCI  Investments 1,80,655 68,724 33,191 78,740 1,45,484 64,944 2,268 78,272  Other Financial Assets  -  -  -  -  7  -  7  -  Financial Liabilities  At Amortised Cost  Borrowings 1,94,563 - - - 2,21,698 - - - Trade Payables 1,34,005 - - - 86,999 - - - Lease Liabilities 2,876 2,985 Other Financial Liabilities 31,034 - - - 30,790 - - - At FVTPL  Other Financial Liabilities 4,951 - 4,951 - 3,463 - 3,463 - At FVTOCI  Other Financial Liabilities  450 -  450 - - - - - * Exclude Group Company investments ` 1,69,170 crore (Previous Year `1,31,769 crore) measured at cost (Refer Note 2.1).
A.1 Reconciliation of fair value measurement of the investment categorised at level 3: ( ` in crore)  Particulars      As at 31st March, 2022      As at 31st March, 2021 At FVTPL At FVTOCI At FVTPL At FVTOCI Opening Balance 250 78,272 965 77,910  Addition during the year  -  232  -  84  Sale/Reduction during the year  -  94 715  -   Total Gain/(Loss)  -  330  -  278  Closing Balance 250 78,740 250 78,272  Line item in which gain/(loss) recognised Other  Comprehensive  Income- Items  that will not be  reclassified to  Profit or Loss  Other  Comprehensive  Income-Items  that will not be  reclassified to  Profit or Loss   A.2   Sensitivity of level 3 financial instrument’s fair value to changes in significant unobservable inputs used in their  fair valuation: ( ` in crore)  Particulars Valuation   Technique Significant Unobservable  Input Change in % Sensitivity of the fair value to   change in input 31st March, 2022 31st March, 2021 Investment  in OCPS (FVTOCI) Discounting   Cash Flow Discounting rate - 14.51%  (Previous Year -13.12%) +0.10%  (1,547)  (1,436) -0.10%  1,573  1,463   A.3  The below table summarises the fair value of borrowings which are carried at amortised cost: ( ` in crore) Particulars Level 31st March, 2022 31st March, 2021 Non-current borrowings (including current maturities) Level 1  1,03,546  1,11,025  Level 2  79,857  82,180  Level 3  3,137  3,796    For current borrowings, the carrying amounts approximates fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.
The financial instruments are categorised into three levels based on the inputs used to arrive at fair value measurements  as described below    Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;    Level 2:  Inputs other than the quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly  or indirectly; and   Level 3: Inputs based on unobservable market data.
Valuation Methodology   All financial instruments are initially recognised and subsequently re-measured at fair value as described below:   a)  The fair value of investment in quoted Equity Shares, Bonds, Government Securities, Treasury Bills, Certificate of Deposit  and Mutual Funds is measured at quoted price or NAV.
b)  The fair value of Interest Rate Swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on  observable yield curves.
c)  The fair value of Forward Foreign Exchange contracts and Currency Swaps is determined using observable forward  exchange rates and yield curves at the balance sheet date.
d)  The fair value of over-the-counter Foreign Currency Option contracts is determined using the Black Scholes  valuation model.
e)   Commodity derivative contracts are valued using available information in markets and quotations from exchange,  brokers and price index developers.
f)  The fair value for level 3 instruments is valued using inputs based on information about market participants assumptions  and other data that are available.
g)  The fair value of the remaining financial instruments is determined using discounted cash flow analysis.
h)  All foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rate at reporting date.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 372 373 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements  B.
Financial Risk Management    The company’s activities expose it to variety of financial risks: market risk, credit risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk.
Within  the boundaries of approved Risk Management Policy framework The Company uses derivative instruments to manage the  volatility of financial markets and minimize the adverse impact on its financial performance.
i) Market Risk     Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in  market prices.
Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and other price risk, such as equity  price risk and commodity risk.
a) Foreign Currency Risk      Foreign currency risk is the risk that the Fair Value or Future Cash Flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of  changes in foreign currency rates.
Exposures can arise on account of the various assets and liabilities which are  denominated in currencies other than Indian Rupee.
The following table shows foreign currency exposures in US Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen on financial instruments at  the end of the reporting period.
The exposure to all other foreign currencies are not material.
( ` in crore) Particulars Foreign Currency Exposure As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 USD EUR JPY USD EUR JPY Borrowings 1,15,850 11,993 10,731 96,823 12,634 11,555 Trade and Other Payables 1,30,415 1,154 - 81,227 2,528 - Trade and Other Receivables (13,639) (244) (13) (3,692) (110) (13) Derivatives - Forwards & Futures (54,958) (12,500) (10,927) (55,461) (13,970) (11,528) - Currency Swap - - - 2,655 - - - Options (2,877) 126 (319) (19,347) (472) 727 Exposure 1,74,791 529 (528) 1,02,205 610 741      Sensitivity analysis of 1% change in exchange rate at the end of reporting period net of hedges * ( ` in crore) Particulars Foreign Currency Sensitivity As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 USD EUR JPY USD EUR JPY 1% Depreciation in INR Impact on Equity (165) - - (260) (11) (28) Impact on P&L (114) (5) 5 (240) 11 28 Total (279) (5) 5 (500) - - 1% Appreciation in INR Impact on Equity 165 - - 260 11 28 Impact on P&L 114 5 (5) 240 (11) (28) Total 279 5 (5) 500 - - *  Includes natural hedges arising from foreign currency denominated earnings, for which hedge accounting may be  implemented.
b) Interest Rate Risk      The Company is also exposed to interest rate risk, changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair  values of its financial instruments, principally debt.
The Company issues debt in a variety of currencies based on  market opportunities and it uses derivatives to hedge interest rate exposures.
The exposure of the company’s borrowings and derivatives to interest rate changes at the end of the reporting period  are as follows: ( ` in crore) Interest Rate Exposure Particulars As at  31st March, 2022 As at   31st March, 2021 Borrowings Non-Current - Floating (includes Current Maturities)* 86,216 88,618 Non-Current - Fixed (includes Current Maturities)* 99,978 1,00,721 Current # 9,418 33,301 Total 1,95,612 2,22,640 Derivatives Foreign Currency Interest Rate Swaps - Receive Fix 5,647 2,924 - Pay Fix 1,516 29,606 Rupees Interest Rate Swaps - Receive Fix 32,495 7,975 - Pay Fix 14,525 11,475 Currency Swaps - INR to USD Swap ^  - 2,655 * Include ` 1,029 crore (Previous Year ` 793 crore) as Prepaid Finance Charges.
#  Include ` 20 crore (Previous Year ` 149 crore) as Commercial Paper Discount.
^  Receive fix in INR and pay floating in USD     Sensitivity analysis of 1% change in Interest rate ( `  in crore)  Particulars Interest rate Sensitivity As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 Up Move Down Move Up Move Down Move Impact on Equity (187) 182  (123)  123  Impact on P&L  (976) 920  (665) 665  Total Impact (1,163) 1,102  (788)  788    ii) Commodity Price Risk Commodity price risk arises due to fluctuation in prices of crude oil, other feed stock and products.
The company has  a risk management framework aimed at prudently managing the risk arising from the volatility in commodity prices  and freight costs.
The Company’s commodity risk is managed centrally through well-established trading operations and control  processes.
In accordance with the risk management policy, the Company enters into various transactions using  derivatives and uses over-the-counter as well as Exchange Traded Futures, Options and Swap contracts to hedge its  commodity and freight exposure.
iii)  Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk that a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to perform or pay the amounts due  causing financial loss to the company.
Credit risk arises from company’s activities in investments, dealing in derivatives  and receivables from customers.
The Company ensure that sales of products are made to customers with appropriate  creditworthiness.
Investment and other market exposures are managed against counterparty exposure limits.
Credit  information is regularly shared between businesses and finance function, with a framework in place to quickly identify  and respond to cases of credit deterioration.
The company has a prudent and conservative process for managing its credit risk arising in the course of its business  activities.
Credit risk is actively managed through Letters of Credit, Bank Guarantees, Parent Company Guarantees,  advance payments and factoring & forfaiting without recourse to the company to avoid concentration of risk.
The  company restricts its fixed income investments to liquid securities carrying high credit rating.
iv)  Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk arises from the Company’s inability to meet its cash flow commitments on the due date.
The company  maintains sufficient stock of cash, marketable securities and committed credit facilities.
The company accesses global  and local financial markets to meet its liquidity requirements.
It uses a range of products and a mix of currencies to  ensure efficient funding from across well-diversified markets and investor pools.
Treasury monitors rolling forecasts  of the company’s cash flow position and ensures that the company is able to meet its financial obligation at all times  including contingencies.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 374 375 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements The company’s liquidity is managed centrally with operating units forecasting their cash and liquidity requirements.
Treasury pools the cash surpluses from across the different operating units and then arranges to either fund the net  deficit or invest the net surplus in a range of short-dated, secure and liquid instruments including short-term bank  deposits, money market funds, reverse repos and similar instruments.
The portfolio of these investments is diversified to  avoid concentration risk in any one instrument or counterparty.
( ` in crore) Particulars ^ Maturity Profile as at 31st March, 2022 Below 3  Months 3-6 Months 6-12  Months 1-3 Years 3-5 Years Above 5  Years Total Borrowings Non-Current * @ 2,169 6,416 9,517 74,969 32,724 60,399 1,86,194 Current #$ 9,328 90  -  -  -  - 9,418 Total 11,497 6,506 9,517 74,969 32,724 60,399 1,95,612 Lease Liabilities (Gross) 85 79 148 552 552 4,577 5,993 Derivative Liabilities Forwards 3,033 601 677 390  -  - 4,701 Options 151 2 20  -  -  - 173 Interest Rate Swaps  -  - 4 43 30  - 77 Total 3,184 603 701 433 30  - 4,951 ^  Does not include Trade Payables (Current) ` 1,34,005 crore.
* Include ` 1,029 crore as Prepaid Financial Charges.
@  Does not include interest thereon (For Interest rate refer Note 16.2).
#  Include ` 20 crore of Commercial Paper Discount.
$  Interest rate on current borrowings ranges from 2.5% to 8.6%.
( ` in crore) Particulars ^ Maturity Profile as at 31st March, 2021 Below 3  Months 3-6 Months 6-12  Months 1-3 Years 3-5 Years Above 5  Years Total  Borrowings Non-Current * @ 3,048 4,606 20,447 65,641 61,593 34,004 1,89,339 Current #$ 30,638 2,663 - - - - 33,301 Total 33,686 7,269 20,447 65,641 61,593 34,004 2,22,640 Lease Liabilities (Gross) 88 88 175 587 552 4,853 6,343 Derivative Liabilities Forwards 1,476 349 176 1,097 - - 3,098 Options 178 - 33 - - - 211 Interest Rate Swaps 10 1 22 45 76 - 154 Total 1,664 350 231 1,142 76  -  3,463 ^  Does not include Trade Payables (Current) ` 86,999 crore.
* Include ` 793 crore as Prepaid Financial Charges.
@  Does not include interest thereon.
#  Include ` 149 crore as Commercial Paper Discount.
$  Interest rate on current borrowings ranges from 3.4% to 8.6%.
C. Hedge Accounting The Company’s business objective includes safe-guarding its earnings against adverse price movements of crude oil  and other feedstock, refined products, freight costs as well as foreign exchange and interest rates.
The Company has  adopted a structured risk management policy to hedge all these risks within an acceptable risk limit and an approved  hedge accounting framework which allows for Fair Value and Cash Flow hedges.
Hedging instruments include exchange  traded futures and options, over-the-counter swaps, forwards and options as well as non-derivative instruments to achieve  this objective.
There is an economic relationship between the hedged items and the hedging instruments.
The Company has established a  hedge ratio of 1:1 for the hedging relationships.
To test the hedge effectiveness, the Company uses the hypothetical derivative  method and Dollar offset method.
The hedge ineffectiveness can arise from: - Differences in the timing of the cash flows.
- Different indexes (and accordingly different curves).
- The counterparties’ credit risk differently impacting the fair value movements.
The table below shows the position of hedging instruments and hedged items as on the balance sheet date:   Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting   A.
Fair Value Hedge    Hedging Instrument ( ` in crore) Particulars Nominal  Value Quantity  (Kbbl) Carrying Amount Changes in  Fair Value Hedge Maturity Line Item in   Balance SheetAssets Liabilities As on 31st March, 2022 Foreign Currency Risk Derivative Contracts - - - - - - - Commodity Price Risk Derivative Contracts 33,663 1,58,884 1,274 2,114 (1,094) April 2022 to   December  2023 Other Financial  Assets / Liabilities As on 31st March, 2021 Foreign Currency Risk Derivative Contracts 2,557 - - 86  (72) April 2021 to   May 2021 Other Financial   Liabilities Commodity Price Risk Derivative Contracts 30,478 3,85,566 1,524 597  20 April 2021 to   December 2023 Other Financial  Assets / Liabilities    Hedged Items ( ` in crore) Particulars Carrying Amount Changes in   Fair Value Line Item in   Balance SheetAssets Liabilities As on 31st March, 2022 Foreign Currency Risk Import Firm Commitments - - - Commodity Price Risk Firm Commitments for purchase of feedstock and freight - 1,010  (943) Other Current  Assets / Liabilities  Firm Commitments for sale of products 2,114 - 2,301 Other Current Assets Inventories 3807 -  (264) Inventories  As on 31st March, 2021 Foreign Currency Risk Import Firm Commitments 86 - 72 Other  Financial Assets Commodity Price Risk Firm Commitments for purchase of feedstock and freight  -   306  (656) Other Current  Assets / Liabilities  Firm Commitments for sale of products  -   1,218  (446) Other Current Assets Inventories  2,136  -    1,082 Inventories  Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 376 377 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements   B.
Cash Flow Hedge     Hedging Instruments ( `  in crore)  Particulars Nominal  Value  Carrying amount Changes in  Fair Value Hedge Maturity Line Item in Balance  Sheet Assets Liabilities  As on 31st March, 2022 Foreign Currency Risk  Foreign Currency Risk  Component - Trade Payables 22,301 - 22,738  (437) 1st April, 2022 to  31st March, 2025 Trade Payables Foreign Currency Risk  Component-Borrowings 1,20,017 - 1,23,697  (3,685) 30th September,  2022 to  30th September,   2033 Non-Current  Liabilities-Financial  Liabilities-Borrowings Interest Rate Risk Interest Rate Swaps - - - - - - As on 31st March, 2021 Foreign Currency Risk  Foreign Currency Risk  Component - Trade Payables  -  -  -  -    -    -    Foreign Currency Risk  Component-Borrowings 7,218 - 7,311  256 June 2022 Non-Current  Liabilities-Financial  Liabilities-Borrowings Interest Rate Risk Interest Rate Swaps 33,590 82 -  141 April 2021 to   March 2025 Other  Financial Assets    Hedged Items ( ` in crore) Particulars Nominal Value Changes in Fair  Value Hedge Reserve Line Item in   Balance Sheet As on 31st March, 2022 Foreign Currency Risk Highly Probable Forecasted Exports 1,42,318 4,122  (4,810) Other Equity Interest Rate Risk Borrowings  -    -    -    -    As on 31st March, 2021 Foreign Currency Risk Highly Probable Forecasted Exports 7,218  (256)  (3,059) Other Equity Interest Rate Risk Borrowings 33,590  (141)  (97) Other Equity   C. Movement in Cash Flow Hedge ( ` in crore) Sr.  No.
Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 Line Item in Balance Sheet /  Statement of Profit and Loss 1 At the beginning of the year  (3,156)  (5,883) 2 Gain/ (loss) recognised in other comprehensive  income during the year.
(4,334)  914  Items that will  be reclassified  to Profit & Loss 3 Amount reclassified to Profit and Loss  during the year 2,835 1,813 Value of Sale 4 At the end of the year (4,655)  (3,156) Other  Comprehensive Income 39.
As per Ind AS 108- “Operating Segment”, segment information has been provided under the Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements.
40.
Details of loans given, investments made and guarantee given covered u/s 186 (4) of the Companies Act, 2013.
Loans given and Investments made are given under the respective heads.
Corporate Guarantees given by the Company in respect of loans as at 31 st March, 2022 ( `  in crore)  Sr.  No.
Particulars As at  31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 1 Reliance Global Energy Services Limited  7 7 2 Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC  1,222 1,199 3 Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited  2,365 2,418 4 RIL USA, Inc.  663 640  All the above Corporate Guarantees have been given for business purpose.
41.
Ratio Analysis: Sr. No.
Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 % Changes 1 Current Ratio  1.11  1.04 6.7 2 Debt-Equity Ratio  0.41  0.47 (12.8) 3 Debt Service Coverage Ratio a  1.22  0.38 221.1 4 Return on Equity Ratio 9.8% 8.9%  10.1  5 Inventory Turnover Ratio b  16.71  10.89 53.4 6 Trade Receivables Turnover Ratio  50.28  47.92  4.9  7 Trade Payables Turnover Ratio c  3.40  2.61 30.3 8 Net Capital Turnover Ratio d  21.78  31.23 (30.3) 9 Net Profit Margin e 8.4% 11.5% (27.0) 10 Return on Capital Employed f 14.9% 10.1% 47.5 11 Return on Investment 7.5% 9.0%  (16.7) a) Debt Service Coverage Ratio  increased due to lower finance cost and principal repayments of loans during the year.
b) Inventory Turnover Ratio  increased primarily due to higher feedstock price.
c) Trade Payables Turnover Ratio increased primarily due to increase in crude prices during the year.
d) Net Capital Turnover Ratio  decreased primarily due to increase in inventory & trade receivables and reduction of current liabilities.
e)  Net Profit Margin (after exceptional item)  decreased primarily due to higher tax expenses and base effect.
f)  Return on Capital Employed increased due to higher operating profit and transfer of gasification undertaking.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 378 379 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Standalone Financial   Statements  41.1 Formula for computation of ratios are as follows: Sr. No.
Particulars Formula 1 Current Ratio Current Assets Current Liabilities 2 Debt-Equity Ratio Total Debt Total Equity 3 Debt Service Coverage Ratio Earnings before Interest, Tax and Exceptional Items Interest Expense + Principal Repayments made during the year for  long term loans 4 Return on Equity Ratio Profit After Tax Average Net Worth 5 Inventory Turnover Ratio Cost of Goods Sold (Cost of Material Consumed + Purchases +  Changes in Inventory + Manufacturing Expenses) Average Inventories of Finished Goods, Stock-in-Process  and Stock-in-Trade 6 Trade Receivables Turnover Ratio Value of Sales & Services Average Trade Receivables 7 Trade Payables Turnover Ratio Cost of Materials Consumed (after adjustment of RM Inventory) +  Purchases of Stock-in-Trade + Other Expenses Average Trade Payables 8 Net Capital Turnover Ratio Value of Sales & Services Working Capital (Current Assets - Current Liabilities) 9 Net Profit Ratio Profit After Tax (after exceptional items) Value of Sales & Services 10 Return on Capital Employed Net Profit After Tax + Deferred Tax Expense/(Income) + Finance  Cost (-) Other Income Average Capital Employed ** 11 Return on Investment Other Income (Excluding Dividend) Average Cash, Cash Equivalents & Other Marketable Securities **  Capital employed includes Equity, Borrowings, Deferred Tax Liabilities, Creditor for Capital Expenditure and reduced by Investments,  Cash and Cash Equivalents, Capital Work-in-Progress and Intangible Assets under Development.
42.
Details of Research and Development Expenditure  ( ` in crore) Sr. No.
Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 a) Capital 1,487 1,412  b) Revenue 1,121 1,160  Total 2,608 2,572 43.
Significant Arrangements  43.1 Scheme of arrangement between the Company and Reliance Syngas Limited (wholly–owned subsidiary):    Pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement between the Company and its shareholders & creditors and Reliance Syngas  Limited (a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company) and its shareholders & creditors (the Scheme), approved by the  Hon’ble by National Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai bench and Ahmedabad bench, vide their orders dated March 30, 2022,  the Company has transferred its gasification undertaking (Part of Oil to Chemicals Segment) to Reliance Syngas Limited, as  a going concern on a slump sale basis, at carrying value as appearing in the books of the Company on the appointed date  i.e.
March 31, 2022, for a consideration of ` 30,490 crore.
43.2 Scheme of arrangement between the Company and Reliance O2C Limited (wholly–owned subsidiary) :    During the year, the Company has withdrawn the petition pending before the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) seeking  sanction of the scheme for transfer of O2C undertaking of the Company to Reliance O2C Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary  of the Company.
44.
Other Statutory Information  (i) Balances outstanding with Nature of transaction with struck off companies as per section 248 of the Companies Act, 2013 : Sr.  No.
Name of struck off Company Nature of transactions  with struck-off  Company Balance outstanding   (` in crore) Relationship with the Struck off  company 1 YSR Films Private Limited [ ` 43,92,000] Trade Payables * - NA * Outstanding balances is on account of non compliance by vendor as per contract.
(ii)  The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other persons or entities, including foreign entities  (Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:   (a)  Directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the  company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or   (b) Provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(iii)  The Company has not received any fund from any persons or entities, including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the  understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:   (a)  Directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the  Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or   (b) Provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(iv)  The Company does not have any transaction which is  not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered or  disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income-tax Act, 1961.
45.
Events after the Reporting Period    The Board of Directors have recommended dividend of ` 8 per fully paid up equity share of ` 10/- each for the  financial year 2021-22.
46.
The figures for the corresponding previous year have been regrouped / reclassified wherever necessary, to make  them comparable.
47.
Approval of Financial Statements  The financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on May 06, 2022.
For and on behalf of the Board M.D.
Ambani Chairman and   Managing Director N.R.
Meswani Executive DirectorsH.R.
Meswani P.M.S.
Prasad P. K. Kapil Nita M. Ambani Non-Executive   Directors Prof. Dipak C. Jain Dr. R.A. Mashelkar Adil Zainulbhai Raminder Singh Gujral Dr. Shumeet Banerji Arundhati Bhattacharya His Excellency Yasir Othman H. Al Rumayyan K.V.
Chowdary As per our Report of even date For D T S & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
142412W/ W100595) For S R B C & CO LLP Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
324982E/E300003) T P Ostwal Partner   Membership No.
030848 Vikas Kumar Pansari Partner   Membership No.
093649 Date: May 06, 2022 Alok Agarwal Chief Financial Officer Srikanth Venkatachari Joint Chief Financial Officer Savithri Parekh Company Secretary Consolidated Independent Auditor’s Report 380 381 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Financial   Statements To the Members of Reliance Industries Limited Report on the Audit of the Consolidated  Financial Statements Opinion We have audited the accompanying Consolidated  Financial Statements of Reliance Industries Limited which  includes the joint operations (hereinafter referred to as  “the Holding Company”), its subsidiaries (the Holding  Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as  “the Group”) its associates and joint ventures comprising  of the consolidated Balance sheet as at March 31 2022,  the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss, including  other comprehensive income, the consolidated Cash  Flow Statement and the consolidated Statement of  Changes in Equity for the year then ended, and notes to the  Consolidated Financial Statements, including a summary  of significant accounting policies and other explanatory  information (hereinafter referred to as “the Consolidated  Financial Statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and  according to the explanations given to us and based on  the consideration of reports of other auditors on separate  financial statements and on the other financial information  of the subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, the  aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements give the  information required by the Companies Act, 2013, as  amended (“the Act”) in the manner so required and give  a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting  principles generally accepted in India, of the consolidated  state of affairs of the Group, its associates and joint  ventures as at March 31, 2022, their consolidated profit  including other comprehensive income, their consolidated  cash flows and the consolidated statement of changes in  equity for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit of the Consolidated Financial  Statements in accordance with the Standards on  Auditing (SAs), as specified under section 143(10) of the  Act.
Our responsibilities under those Standards are further  described in the ‘Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit  of the Consolidated Financial Statements’ section of our  report.
We are independent of the Group, associates, joint  ventures in accordance with the ‘Code of Ethics’ issued by  the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with  the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of  the financial statements under the provisions of the Act and  the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical  responsibilities in accordance with these requirements  and the Code of Ethics.
We believe that the audit evidence  we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to  provide a basis for our audit opinion on the Consolidated  Financial Statements.
Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional  judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the  Consolidated Financial Statements for the financial year  ended March 31, 2022.
These matters were addressed  in the context of our audit of the Consolidated Financial  Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon,  and we do not provide a separate opinion on these  matters.
For each matter below, our description of how our  audit addressed the matter is provided in that context.
We have determined the matters described below to be  the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the  Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the Consolidated  Financial Statements section of our report, including in  relation to these matters.
Accordingly, our audit included  the performance of procedures designed to respond  to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement  of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The results of  audit procedures performed by us and by other auditors  of components not audited by us, as reported by them in  their audit reports furnished to us by the management,  including those procedures performed to address the  matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on  the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter Capitalisation and useful life of tangible and intangible assets Significant judgment and estimates are involved with respect  to the following matters of tangible and intangibles assets:- a)  During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Holding  Company has incurred capital expenditure on various  projects included in capital work in progress and intangible  assets under development.
Further, items of property,  plant and equipment that are ready for its intended use as  determined by the management have been capitalised.
Judgement is involved to determine that the aforesaid  capitalisation meet the recognition requirement under  Ind AS including determination of whether the criteria for  intended use of the management has been met.
a)  Our audit procedures included and were not limited to  the following:- • Assessed the design and operating effectiveness of the  controls with respect to capital expenditure incurred on  various projects included in capital work in progress,  intangible assets under development.
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter   Re-assessment of estimated useful lives by the Holding  Company used for determination of depreciation of  tangible assets, amortisation of intangible assets and  recoverability of their carrying values involves assumptions  used for such technical assessment, consideration of  historical experience and anticipated future risks.
Estimates of oil and gas reserves are used to calculate  depletion charges for the Holding Company's oil and gas  assets and also have a direct impact on the assessment  of the recoverability of their carrying values.
Factors such  as the availability of geological and engineering data,  reservoir performance data, acquisition and divestment  activity, drilling of new wells and commodity prices impacts  the determination of the Holding Company's estimates of  oil and natural gas reserves.
b)  The auditors in the Combined Financial Statements of Shale  Gas Entities (USA) of Reliance Industries Limited have also  reported a key audit matter on the estimates of oil and gas  reserves topic.
c)  The auditors of Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited ('RJIL'), a  subsidiary of the Holding Company, have reported a key  audit matter on amortization / depreciation of spectrum  costs and related tangible assets as it is a material  item on the balance sheet of the subsidiary in value  terms.
Spectrum costs and the related tangible assets  are amortised/depreciated to appropriately reflect the  expected pattern of consumption of expected future  economic benefits from continued use of the said assets.
Determination of rate of amortisation/ depreciation in  order to ensure compliance with the applicable Accounting  Standards involve significant estimates and judgement  and use of technology.
Accordingly, it has been considered  as a key audit matter.
d)  The auditors of Jio Platform Limited ('JPL'), a subsidiary of  the Holding Company have reported capitalization under  Intangible Assets under Development as key audit matter  as significant judgement is involved in identification of  expenses that are directly attributable and reasonably  allocable to development of intangible assets and timing  of capitalization.
Accordingly, it has been considered as a  key audit matter.
Accordingly, the above matters relating to tangible and  intangible assets have been considered as a key audit matter.
Refer Note B.3 (c), B.3 (e) and Note C (a) of the Consolidated  Financial Statements.
• Assessed the nature of the additions made to property,  plant and equipment, intangible assets, capital work-in- progress and intangible asset under development on a  test check basis to test whether they meet the recognition  criteria as set out in Ind AS 16 – Property, Plant and  Equipment and Ind AS 38 – Intangible Assets, including  intended use of management.
• Reviewed the management re-assessment of estimated  useful lives of tangible assets, intangible assets and  recoverability of their carrying values with respect to  anticipated future risks.
• Performed walk-through of the estimation process  associated with the oil and gas reserves.
Further,  assessed the valuation methodology, including  assumptions around the key drivers of the cash flow  forecasts including future oil and gas prices, estimated  reserves, discount rates used, etc.
by engaging  valuation experts.
• Assessed the objectivity and competence of the Holding  Company’s specialists involved in estimating oil & gas  reserves and valuation specialists engaged by us.
• Assessed whether the updated oil and gas reserve  estimates were included in the Holding Company’s,  accounting for amortisation / depletion and disclosures  of proved reserves and proved developed reserves in the  financial statements.
• Reviewed the disclosure made by the Holding Company  in the financial statements.
b)  In respect of the key audit matter reported by the auditors  in the Combined Financial Statements of Shale Gas Entities  (USA) of Reliance Industries Limited, we performed inquiry  of the audit procedures performed by them to address the  key audit matter.
As reported by the subsidiary auditor, the  following procedures have been performed by them: - • Performed procedures in relation to the approach used;  test of controls performed with regard to data input  into the system for calculation of oil and gas reserves  including the testing of IT controls and information  provided by the entity (IPE) on the IT application used  for reserve and well data management; competence  of the internal experts used by the management for  estimating the oil and gas reserve and future net  income as at the year end; calculation of the depletion  charge and future net income using audited oil and  gas reserves and assessed of the discount rate used by  the subsidiary for calculating the future net income for  impairment calculation.
c)  In respect of the key audit matter reported by the auditors  of RJIL, we performed inquiry of the audit procedures  performed by them to address the key audit matter.
As  reported by the subsidiary auditor, the following procedures  have been performed by them:- • Testing controls over determination of expected  economic benefits from the use of relevant assets  and monitoring actual consumption thereof to true- up the expected pattern of consumption during an  accounting period; • Involved internal telecom and information technology  specialists to validate the expected pattern of  consumption of the economic benefits emanating from  the use of the relevant assets and the IT environment over  the relevant application systems used in monitoring of  actual consumption thereof; • Substantive testing procedures including, verifying the  mathematical accuracy of computation of amortisation/ depreciation charge for the year.
382 383 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Financial   Statements Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter d)  In respect of the key audit matter reported by the auditors  of JPL, we performed inquiry of the audit procedures  performed by them to address the key audit matter.
As  informed by the subsidiary auditor, the following procedures  have been performed by them • Obtain understanding and evaluated the design and  operating effectiveness of controls over identification  of such costs and criterion for capitalisation of such  intangible asset in compliance with Ind AS 38.
• For the samples selected, verify the appropriateness of  expenses capitalised.
• Test the source documentation to determine whether  the expenditure is of capital nature and has been  appropriately approved and segregated into appropriate  categories.
Review operating expenses to determine  appropriateness of accounting and criterion for  capitalisation determined by the management including  monitoring thereof for timing of capitalization.
• Review the management’s assessment of the ability of  intangible asset to generate future economic benefits  with respect to expenses capitalised during the period.
Litigation matters The Holding Company has certain significant ongoing legal  proceedings for various complex matters with the Government  of India and other parties, continuing from earlier years,  which are as under: 1.
Matters in relation to Oil and Gas:  (a)  Disallowance of certain costs under the production  sharing contract, relating to Block KG-DWN-98/3 and  consequent deposit of differential revenue on gas sales  from D1D3 field to the gas pool account maintained by  Gail (India) Limited.
Refer Note 34.3 of the Consolidated  Financial Statements.
(b)  Claim against the Holding Company in respect of  gas said to have migrated from neighbouring blocks  (KGD6).
Refer Note 34.4 (a) of the Consolidated  Financial Statements.
(c)  Claims relating to limits of cost recovery, profit sharing  and audit and accounting provisions of the public  sector corporations etc., arising under two production  sharing contracts entered into in 1994.
Refer Note  34.4 (b) of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(d)  Suit for specific performance of a contract for  supply of natural gas before the Hon’ble Bombay  High Court.
Refer Note 34.4 (c) of the Consolidated  Financial Statements.
2.
Matter relating to trading in shares of Reliance Petroleum  Limited (‘RPL’):   Special Appellate Tribunal judgement dated November  5,2020, dismissing Company’s appeal made in relation to  order passed by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (‘SEBI’) under Section 11B of the SEBI Act, 1992 in connection  with trades by Company in the stock exchanges in 2007 in  the shares of Reliance Petroleum Limited, then subsidiary  of the Company.
Refer Note 35.III of the Consolidated  Financial Statements.
Due to complexity involved in these litigation matters,  management’s judgement regarding recognition,  measurement and disclosure of provisions for these legal  proceedings is inherently uncertain and might change over  time as the outcomes of the legal cases are determined.
Accordingly, it has been considered as a key audit matter.
Our audit procedures included and were not limited  to the following: • Assessed the management’s position through discussions  with the in-house legal expert and external legal opinions  obtained by the Holding Company (where considered  necessary) on both, the probability of success in the  aforesaid cases, and the magnitude of any potential loss.
• Discussed with the management on the development in  these litigations during the year ended March 31, 2022.
• Rolled out of enquiry letters to the Holding Company’s legal  counsel and assessed the responses received by engaging  our internal legal experts.
• Assessed the objectivity and competence of the Holding  Company’s legal counsel involved in the process and legal  experts engaged by us.
• Reviewed the disclosures made by the Holding Company in  the financial statements.
• Obtained representation letter from the management on the  assessment of these matters.
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter Fair Valuation of Investments As at March 31, 2022, the Holding Company has investments  of ` 78,144 crore in the Equity and Preference Shares of Jio  Digital Fiber Private Limited (‘JDFPL’) which are measured at fair  value as per Ind AS 109 read with Ind AS 113.
Refer Note 2 of the  Consolidated Financial Statements.
These investments are Level 3 investments as per the fair value  hierarchy in Ind AS 113 and accordingly determination of fair  value is based on a high degree of judgement and input from  data that is not directly observable in the market.
Further, the  fair value is significantly influenced by the expected pattern  of future benefits of the tangible assets of JDFPL (fiber assets).
Refer Note 37A of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Accordingly, the same has been considered as a  key audit matter.
Our audit procedures included and were not limited  to the following: • Reviewed the fair valuation reports provided by the  management by involvement of internal specialist / external  valuation experts.
• We assessed the assumptions around the cash flow forecasts  including discount rates, expected growth rates and its  effect on business and terminal growth rates used through  involvement of the internal experts.
• We also involved internal experts to assess the Holding  Company’s valuation methodology and assumptions,  applied in determining the fair value.
• We discussed potential changes in key drivers as compared  to previous year / actual performance with management  to evaluate the inputs and assumptions used in the cash  flow forecasts.
• Assessed the objectivity and competence of our internal  expert and Holding Company’s internal/external specialist  involved in the process.
• Reviewed the disclosures made by the Holding Company in  the financial statement.
Impairment of assets of subsidiaries of Reliance Industrial Investments and Holding Limited The auditor of Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings  Limited, (‘RIIHL’), subsidiary of the Holding Company, has  reported a key audit matter on impairment of investment and  loans given to subsidiaries as the recoverability assessment  involves significant management judgement and estimates.
Though these investments and loans are eliminated at the  consolidated level, the assets of the RIIHL subsidiaries are  included on a line-by-line basis in the Consolidated Financial  Statements.
Refer Note B.3 (j) of the Consolidated Financial  Statements for accounting policy regarding impairment of  financial assets.
Accordingly, the impairment of these assets is  considered to be a key audit matter.
Our audit procedures included and were not limited  to the following: • Obtained and read the financial statements of RIIHL and its  subsidiaries to identify whether any impairment has been  recorded in the current year.
• In respect of the key audit matter reported to us by the  auditor of RIIHL, we performed inquiry of the audit procedures  performed by them to address the key audit matter.
As  reported to us by the subsidiary auditor, the following  procedures have been performed by them for material  subsidiaries: -  - Assessment of the net worth of RIIHL subsidiaries/ associates on the basis of latest available  financial statements.
- Assessment of the methodologies applied to ascertain  the fair value or as the case may be, value in use of the  assets of the subsidiaries/associates, where the net  worth was negative.
- Assessment of the input data and key assumptions  used to determine the fair value of ‘subsidiaries’ assets,  cash flow estimates including sensitivity analysis of key  assumptions used.
Revenue Recognition a)  The auditors of Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited (‘RJIL’),  subsidiary of the Holding Company, have reported revenue  recognition as a key audit matter due to the high volume  of the transactions, high degree of IT systems involvement  and considering that accounting for certain revenue  streams and tariff schemes involve exercise of judgements  and estimates regarding application of the revenue  recognition accounting standards.
Our audit procedures included the following: • Obtained and read the financial statements of RJIL and  RRVL Group to identify whether the revenue recognition  policies are included in the Consolidated Financial  Statements of the Group.
• In respect of the key audit matter reported by the auditors of  RJIL, we performed inquiry of the audit procedures performed  by them to address the key audit matter.
As reported by  the subsidiary auditor, the following procedures have been  performed by them:-  - Involvement of internal IT specialists and testing of the  IT environment inter alia for access controls, change  management and application specific controls over  the subsidiary company’s billing and other relevant  support systems;  - Evaluation and testing of the design and operating  effectiveness of the relevant business process controls,  inter-alia controls over the capture, measurement and  authorisation of revenue transactions; Consolidated Independent Auditor’s Report 384 385 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Financial   Statements Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter b)  The auditors of Consolidated Financial Statements  of Reliance Retail Ventures Limited (‘RRVL Group’), a  subsidiary of the Holding Company, have reported revenue  recognition as a key audit matter.
RRVL Group trades in  various consumption baskets on a principal basis with  high volume of transactions and recognises full value of  consideration on transfer of control of traded goods to the  customers which most of the time coincides with collection  of cash or cash equivalent from customers.
Reconciliation  of mode of payments with revenue recognised is identified  as a key audit matter by their auditors.
Further, RRVL Group  renders various services on principal basis and recognises  revenue at a point in time when the customer consumes  the services rendered.
Testing of whether the performance  obligation is satisfied for such services is identified as a key  audit matter by their auditors.
c)  Further, Reliance BP Mobility Limited (‘RBML’), a subsidiary of  the Holding Company, engages in selling of transportation  fuels and lubricants from retail outlets.
The Company  recognises revenue on transfer of control of traded goods  to the customers and revenue transactions which most  of the times coincide with collection of cash or cash  equivalents from the customer.
Each retail outlets records  and recognises revenue through the use of technology  which involves multiple IT platforms, especially related  to cash sales.
Accordingly, this has been considered as  key audit matter.
Refer Note B.3 (q) of the Consolidated  Financial Statements.
- Testing collections and, the reconciliation between revenue  per the billing system and the financial records and testing  supporting documentation for manual journal entries  posted in revenue;  - Validation of significant judgements and estimates  exercised by the management regarding the application of  revenue recognition accounting standard with respect to  certain revenue streams and tariff schemes, in accordance  with Ind AS 115.
• In respect of the key audit matter reported to us by the  auditors of RRVL Group, we performed inquiry of the audit  procedure performed by them to address the key audit  matter.
As reported to us by the subsidiary auditor, the  following procedure have been performed by them: -  - Evaluation of the design and testing of the operating  effectiveness of internal controls (including test of details  on representative sampling basis) relating to reconciliation  of consideration with store sales by selection of samples  from different stores and dates throughout the period of  audit and reperformance of the reconciliation between  store sales and the mode of payment collection report.
- Evaluation of the design and testing of the operating  effectiveness of internal controls (including test of details  on representative sampling basis) relating to recognition  of revenue from rendering of services for ensuring  revenue recognition at a point in time by way of customer  acknowledgement of the consumption of such services  and receipt of consideration.
• In respect of the key audit matter reported to us by the  auditors of RBML, we performed inquiry of the audit procedure  performed by them to address the key audit matter.
As  reported to us by the subsidiary auditor, the following  procedure have been performed by them: -  - Evaluation of the design and operating effectiveness of  controls over the capture and measurement of revenue  transactions, including evaluating the relevant IT systems;  - Examination of the process and controls over the capture  and assessment of the timing of revenue recognition for the  products, as well as performed testing on a sample basis to  support evidence;  - Testing of a selection of Information Technology General  Controls (ITGCs) supporting the integrity of the billing and  cash collection systems’ operation, including access,  operations and change management controls;  - Reviewed that the control on reconciliation was operating  effectively by selecting samples from different retail outlets  and dates throughout the period of audit.
- Observation of physical cash count at retail outlets on a  sample basis and also tested the reconciliation with books.
- Examination of the reconciliation between retail outlet sales  and Mode of Payment collection report.
Sale of Eagleford Shale Assets The auditors in the Combined Financial Statements of Shale  Gas Entities (USA) of Reliance Industries Limited have reported  the following Key Audit Matter.
On November 05, 2021, Reliance Eagleford Upstream Holding  LLP, subsidiary of the Holding Company, signed a purchase  and sale agreement with Ensign Operating III, LLC for sale of its  entire working interest in the Eagleford shale assets, resulting in  a gain of ` 2,872 crore which has been disclosed as exceptional  item in the financial statements.
This gain has been computed  by adjusting the initial consideration with transaction costs,  receivables & payables, reversal of provision for future  commitment fees & provision for decommissioning expenses,  related accumulated depletion and impairment against the  cost of these assets.
Refer Note 31 (a) of the Consolidated  Financial Statements.
In respect of the key audit matter reported to us by the auditors  of Combined Financial Statements of Shale Gas Entities (USA),  we performed inquiry of the audit procedure performed by  them to address the key audit matter.
As reported to us by  the subsidiary auditor, the following procedure have been  performed by them:- • Obtained and read the purchase and sale agreement  between Reliance Eagleford Upstream Holding LLP and Ensign  Operating III, LLC.
• Examined the calculation of the gain recognized in the  financial statements in accordance with Ind AS.
In doing  so, evaluated and assessed the the reversal of obligation  towards onerous contracts.
• Reviewed the disclosures made in the Financial Statements.
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter IT systems and controls over financial reporting We identified IT systems and controls over financial reporting  as a key audit matter for the Holding Company because its  financial accounting and reporting systems are fundamentally  reliant on IT systems and IT controls to process significant  transaction volumes, specifically with respect to revenue and  raw material consumption.
Also, due to such large transaction  volumes and the increasing challenge to protect the integrity  of the Holding Company’s systems and data, cyber security  has become more significant.
Automated accounting procedures and IT environment  controls, which include IT governance, IT general controls over  program development and changes, access to program and  data and IT operations, IT application controls and interfaces  between IT applications are required to be designed and to  operate effectively to ensure accurate financial reporting.
Our procedures included and were not limited to the following: • Assessed the complexity of the IT environment by engaging  IT specialists and through discussion with the head of IT  and internal audit and identified IT applications that are  relevant to our audit.
• Assessed the design and evaluation of the operating  effectiveness of IT general controls over program  development and changes, access to program and data and  IT operations by engaging IT specialists.
• Performed inquiry procedures with the head of cybersecurity  at the Holding Company in respect of the overall security  architecture and any key threats addressed by the Company  in the current year.
• Assessed the design and evaluation of the operating  effectiveness of IT application controls in the key processes  impacting financial reporting of the Holding Company by  engaging IT specialists.
• Assessed the operating effectiveness of controls relating  to data transmission through the different IT systems to the  financial reporting systems by engaging IT specialists.
Information Other than the Financial  Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible  for the other information.
The other information comprises  the information included in the Annual report, but does not  include the Consolidated Financial Statements and our  auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements does  not cover the other information and we do not express any  form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Consolidated Financial  Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information  and, in doing so, consider whether such other information  is materially inconsistent with the Consolidated Financial  Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or  otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the  work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material  misstatement of this other information, we are required to  report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management for the  Consolidated Financial Statements The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible  for the preparation and presentation of these Consolidated  Financial Statements in terms of the requirements of the Act  that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial  position, consolidated financial performance including  other comprehensive income, consolidated cash flows and  consolidated statement of changes in equity of the Group  including its associates and joint ventures in accordance  with the accounting principles generally accepted in India,  including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified  under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies  (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended.
The  respective Board of Directors of the companies included  in the Group and of its associates and joint ventures are  responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records  in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding  of the assets of the Group and of its associates and joint  ventures and for preventing and detecting frauds and other  irregularities; selection and application of appropriate  accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that  are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation  and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls,  that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy  and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the  preparation and presentation of the Consolidated Financial  Statements that give a true and fair view and are free from  material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which  have been used for the purpose of preparation of the  Consolidated Financial Statements by the Directors of the  Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, the  respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the  Group and of its associates and joint ventures are responsible  for assessing the ability of the Group and of its associates  and joint ventures to continue as a going concern, disclosing,  as applicable, matters related to going concern and using  the going concern basis of accounting unless management  either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or  has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those respective Board of Directors of the companies  included in the Group and of its associates and joint ventures  are also responsible for overseeing the financial reporting  process of the Group and of its associates and joint ventures.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of  the Consolidated Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about  whether the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole  are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud  or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our  opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance,  but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance  Consolidated Independent Auditor’s Report 386 387 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Financial   Statements with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it  exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are  considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they  could reasonably be expected to influence the economic  decisions of users taken on the basis of these Consolidated  Financial Statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise  professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism  throughout the audit.
We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the  Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or  error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to  those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and  appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
The risk of not  detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is  higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve  collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations,  or the override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to  the audit in order to design audit procedures that are  appropriate in the circumstances.
Under section 143(3)(i) of  the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion  on whether the Holding Company has adequate internal  financial controls with reference to financial statements in  place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used  and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and  related disclosures made by management.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use  of the going concern basis of accounting and, based  on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material  uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that  may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group and  its associates and joint ventures to continue as a going  concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists,  we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report  to the related disclosures in the Consolidated Financial  Statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to  modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based on the audit  evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report.
However, future events or conditions may cause the Group  and its associates and joint ventures to cease to continue  as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content  of the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the  disclosures, and whether the Consolidated Financial  Statements represent the underlying transactions and  events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the  financial information of the entities or business activities  within the Group and its associates and joint ventures of  which we are the independent auditors, to express an  opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We are  responsible for the direction, supervision and performance  of the audit of the financial statements of such entities  included in the Consolidated Financial Statements of which  we are the independent auditors.
For the other entities  included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, which  have been audited by other auditors, such other auditors  remain responsible for the direction, supervision and  performance of the audits carried out by them.
We remain  solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance of  the Holding Company and such other entities included in  the Consolidated Financial Statements of which we are the  independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the  planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit  findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal  control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a  statement that we have complied with relevant ethical  requirements regarding independence, and to communicate  with them all relationships and other matters that may  reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and  where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with  governance, we determine those matters that were of  most significance in the audit of the Consolidated Financial  Statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2022 and  are therefore the key audit matters.
We describe these matters  in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes  public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely  rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should  not be communicated in our report because the adverse  consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to  outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matter (a)  The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements  include the financial statements and other financial  information in respect of 24 subsidiaries which reflect  total assets of ` 5,22,997 crore as at March 31, 2022, and  total revenues of ` 2,98,412 crore and net cash inflows  of ` 29 crore for the year ended on that date and the  financial statements and other financial information of  3 associates and 3 joint ventures which reflects Group’s  share of net loss after tax of ` 113 crore for the year ended  March 31, 2022, which have been audited by one of the  joint auditors, individually or together with another auditor.
(b)  We did not audit the financial statements and other  financial information, in respect of 299 subsidiaries,  whose financial statements include total assets of  ` 5,81,190 crore as at March 31, 2022, and total revenues of  ` 2,02,660 crore and net cash inflows of ` 2,018 crore for  the year ended on that date.
These financial statement  and other financial information have been audited by  other auditors, which financial statements, other financial  information and auditor’s reports have been furnished  to us by the management.
The Consolidated Financial  Statements also include the Group’s share of net profit  after tax of ` 275 crore for the year ended March 31, 2022,  as considered in the Consolidated Financial Statements,  in respect of 102 associates and 32 joint ventures, whose  financial statements, other financial information have  been audited by other auditors and whose reports have  been furnished to us by the Management.
Our opinion  on the Consolidated Financial Statements, in so far  as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included  in respect of these subsidiaries, joint ventures and  associates, and our report in terms of sub-sections (3) of  Section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid  subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, is based solely  on the report(s) of such other auditors.
(c)  The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements  include unaudited financial statements and other  unaudited financial information in respect of 6  subsidiaries, whose financial statements and other  financial information reflect total assets of ` 3,398 crore  as at March 31, 2022, and total revenues of ` 37 crore  and net cash inflows of ` 0.04 crore for the year ended  on that date.
These unaudited financial statements  and other unaudited financial information have been  furnished to us by the management.
The Consolidated  Financial Statements also include the Group’s share of  net profit of ` 118 crore for the year ended March 31, 2022,  as considered in the Consolidated Financial Statements,  in respect of 19 associates and 20 joint ventures, whose  financial statements, other financial information have not  been audited and whose unaudited financial statements,  other unaudited financial information have been  furnished to us by the Management.
Our opinion, in so far  as it relates amounts and disclosures included in respect  of these subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, and  our report in terms of sub-sections (3) of Section 143 of  the Act in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries,  joint ventures and associates, is based solely on such  unaudited financial statements and other unaudited  financial information.
In our opinion and according to  the information and explanations given to us by the  Management, these financial statements and other  financial information are not material to the Group.
Our opinion above on the Consolidated Financial Statements,  and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements  below, is not modified in respect of the above matters with  respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of  the other auditors and the financial statements and other  financial information certified by the Management.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory  Requirements 1.
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order,  2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government of  India in terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of the Act,  based on our audit and on the consideration of report  of the other auditors on separate financial statements  and the other financial information of the subsidiary  companies, associate companies and joint ventures,  incorporated in India, as noted in the ‘Other Matter’  paragraph we give in the “Annexure 1” a statement on the  matters specified in paragraph 3(xxi) of the Order.
2.
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our  audit and on the consideration of report of the other  auditors on separate financial statements and the other  financial information of subsidiaries, associates and joint  ventures, as noted in the ‘other matter’ paragraph we  report, to the extent applicable, that:  (a)  We/the other auditors whose report we have  relied upon have sought and obtained all the  information and explanations which to the best of  our knowledge and belief were necessary for the  purposes of our audit of the aforesaid Consolidated  Financial Statements;  (b)  In our opinion, proper books of account as required  by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid  consolidation of the financial statements have been  kept so far as it appears from our examination of  those books and reports of the other auditors;  (c)  The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated  Statement of Profit and Loss including the Statement  of Other Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated  Cash Flow Statement and Consolidated Statement  of Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in  agreement with the books of account maintained  for the purpose of preparation of the Consolidated  Financial Statements;  (d)  In our opinion, the aforesaid Consolidated Financial  Statements comply with the Accounting Standards  specified under Section 133 of the Act, read with  Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules,  2015, as amended;  (e)  On the basis of the written representations received  from the directors of the Holding Company as on  March 31, 2022 taken on record by the Board of  Directors of the Holding Company and the reports  of the statutory auditors who are appointed under  Section 139 of the Act, of its subsidiary companies,  associate companies and joint ventures, none  of the directors of the Group’s companies, its  associates and joint ventures, incorporated in India,  is disqualified as on March 31, 2022 from being  appointed as a director in terms of Section 164  (2) of the Act;  (f)  With respect to the adequacy of the internal  financial controls with reference to Consolidated  Financial Statements of the Holding Company and  its subsidiary companies, associate companies  and joint ventures, incorporated in India, and the  operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our  separate Report in “Annexure 2” to this report;  (g)  In our opinion and based on the consideration  of reports of other statutory auditors of the  subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures  incorporated in India, the managerial remuneration  for the year ended March 31, 2022 has been paid/ provided by the Holding Company, its subsidiaries,  associates and joint ventures incorporated in India  to their directors in accordance with the provisions  of section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act; Consolidated Independent Auditor’s Report 388 389 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Financial   Statements  (h)  With respect to the other matters to be included  in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11  of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014,  as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our  information and according to the explanations given  to us and based on the consideration of the report of  the other auditors on separate financial statements  as also the other financial information of the  subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, as noted  in the ‘Other matter’ paragraph:   i.
The Consolidated Financial Statements  disclose the impact of pending litigations on its  consolidated financial position of the Group, its  associates and joint ventures in its Consolidated  Financial Statements – Refer Note 35 to the  Consolidated Financial Statements;   ii.
Provision has been made in the Consolidated  Financial Statements, as required under the  applicable law or accounting standards, for  material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term  contracts including derivative contracts; and   iii.
There has been no delay in transferring amounts,  required to be transferred, to the Investor  Education and Protection Fund by the Holding  Company, its subsidiaries, associates and joint  ventures, incorporated in India during the year  ended March 31, 2022 except for an amount of  ` 2 crore which are held in abeyance due to  pending legal cases;   iv.
a)  The respective managements of the Holding  Company and its subsidiaries which are  companies incorporated in India whose  financial statements have been audited  under the Act have represented to us and  the other auditors of such subsidiaries  respectively that, to the best of its knowledge  and belief, no funds have been advanced  or loaned or invested (either from borrowed  funds or share premium or any other  sources or kind of funds) by the Holding  Company or any of such subsidiaries to or  in any other person(s) or entities, including  foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the  understanding, whether recorded in writing  or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall,  whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest  in other persons or entities identified in any  manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the  respective Holding Company or any of such  subsidiaries (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or  provide any guarantee, security or the like  on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;    b)    The respective managements of the  Holding Company and its subsidiaries  which are companies incorporated in India  whose financial statements have been  audited under the Act have represented  to us and the other auditors of such  subsidiaries respectively that, to the best of  its knowledge and belief, no funds (which  are material either individually or in the  aggregate) have been received by the  respective Holding Company or any of such  subsidiaries from any person(s) or entities,  including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”),  with the understanding, whether recorded  in writing or otherwise, that the Holding  Company or any of such subsidiaries shall,  whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest  in other persons or entities identified in any  manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the  Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or  provide any guarantee, security or the like  on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and    c)  Based on the audit procedures that  have been considered reasonable  and appropriate in the circumstances  performed by us and those performed by  the auditors of the subsidiaries, associate  and joint ventures which are companies  incorporated in India whose financial  statements have been audited under  the Act, nothing has come to our or other  auditor’s notice that has caused us or  the other auditors to believe that the  representations under sub-clause (a) and  (b) contain any material misstatement.
v.  The final dividend paid by the Holding Company,  its subsidiaries, associates and joint venture  companies incorporated in India during the year  in respect of the same declared for the previous  year is in accordance with section 123 of the Act  to the extent it applies to payment of dividend.
For D T S & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration Number: 142412W/W100595 per T P Ostwal Partner Membership Number: 030848 UDIN: 22030848AIMQEE7221 Place of Signature: Mumbai Date: May 06, 2022 For S R B C & CO LLP Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003 per Vikas Kumar Pansari Partner Membership Number: 093649 UDIN: 22093649AIMNSR5740 Place of Signature: Mumbai Date: May 06, 2022 Consolidated Independent Auditor’s Report (Referred to in paragraph 1, under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our Report of even date) In terms of the information and explanations sought by us and given by the company and the books of account and  records examined by us in the normal course of audit and to the best of our knowledge and belief, we state that: (xxi)  There are no qualifications or adverse remarks by the respective auditors in the Companies (Auditors Report) Order  (CARO) reports of the companies included in the consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, the requirement to  report on clause 3(xxi) of the Order is not applicable to the Holding Company.
For D T S & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration Number: 142412W/W100595 per T P Ostwal Partner Membership Number: 030848 UDIN: 22030848AIMQEE7221 Place of Signature: Mumbai Date: May 06, 2022 For S R B C & CO LLP Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003 per Vikas Kumar Pansari Partner Membership Number: 093649 UDIN: 22093649AIMNSR5740 Place of Signature: Mumbai Date: May 06, 2022 Annexure 1 To the Independent Auditors’ Report of even date on the Consolidated Financial Statements of Reliance Industries Limited 390 391 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Financial   Statements Report on the Internal Financial  Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-section  3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act,  2013 (“the Act”) In conjunction with our audit of the Consolidated Financial  Statements of Reliance Industries Limited which includes  joint operations (hereinafter referred to as the “Holding  Company”) as of and for the year ended March 31, 2022, we  have audited the internal financial controls with reference  to Consolidated Financial Statements of the Holding  Company and its subsidiaries (the Holding Company  and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”)  , its associates and joint ventures, which are companies  incorporated in India, as of that date.
Management’s Responsibility for  Internal Financial Controls The respective Board of Directors of the companies  included in the Group, its associates and joint ventures,  which are companies incorporated in India, are responsible  for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls  based on the internal control over financial reporting  criteria established by the Holding Company considering  the essential components of internal control stated in the  Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over  Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered  Accountants of India (ICAI).
These responsibilities include  the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate  internal financial controls that were operating effectively for  ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business,  including adherence to the respective company’s policies,  the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection  of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness  of the accounting records, and the timely preparation  of reliable financial information, as required under the  Companies Act, 2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Holding  Company's , its subsidiaries, its associates and joint  ventures, which are incorporated in India, internal  financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial  Statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit  in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal  Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance  Note”) and the Standards on Auditing, specified under  section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an  audit of internal financial controls, both, issued by ICAI.
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we  comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform  the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether  adequate internal financial controls with reference to  Consolidated Financial Statements was established and  maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all  material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain  audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal  financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial  Statements and their operating effectiveness.
Our audit of  internal financial controls with reference to consolidated  financial statements included obtaining an understanding  of internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated  Financial Statements, assessing the risk that a material  weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design  and operating effectiveness of internal control based on  the assessed risk.
The procedures selected depend on  the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the  risks of material misstatement of the financial statements,  whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and  the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms  of their reports referred to in the Other Matters paragraph  below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for  our audit opinion on the internal financial controls with  reference to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls  with reference to Consolidated  Financial Statements A company's internal financial control with reference to  Consolidated Financial Statements is a process designed  to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability  of financial reporting and the preparation of financial  statements for external purposes in accordance with  generally accepted accounting principles.
A company's  internal financial control with reference to Consolidated  Financial Statements includes those policies and  procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records  that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the  transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;  (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are  recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial  statements in accordance with generally accepted  accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures  of the company are being made only in accordance  with authorisations of management and directors of the  company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding  prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition,  use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have  a material effect on the financial statements.
Annexure 2 To the Independent Auditors’ Report of even date on the Consolidated Financial Statements of Reliance Industries Limited Inherent Limitations of Internal  Financial Controls With Reference to  Consolidated Financial Statements Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial  controls with reference to Consolidated Financial  Statements, including the possibility of collusion or  improper management override of controls, material  misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be  detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal  financial controls with reference to consolidated financial  statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the  internal financial controls with reference to consolidated  financial statements may become inadequate because  of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance  with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion In our opinion, the Group , its associates and joint  ventures, which are companies incorporated in India,  have, maintained in all material respects, adequate  internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated  Financial Statements and such internal financial controls  with reference to consolidated financial statements were  operating effectively as at March 31, 2022, based on the  internal control over financial reporting criteria established  by the Holding Company considering the essential  components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note  issued by the ICAI.
Other Matters Our report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the  adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal  financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial  Statements of the Holding Company, in so far as it relates to  these 197 subsidiaries, 52 associates and 16 joint ventures,  which are companies incorporated in India, is based on the  corresponding reports of the auditors of such subsidiaries,  associates and joint ventures incorporated in India.
For D T S & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration Number: 142412W/W100595 per T P Ostwal Partner Membership Number: 030848 UDIN: 22030848AIMQEE7221 Place of Signature: Mumbai Date: May 06, 2022 For S R B C & CO LLP Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003 per Vikas Kumar Pansari Partner Membership Number: 093649 UDIN: 22093649AIMNSR5740 Place of Signature: Mumbai Date: May 06, 2022 Consolidated Independent Auditor’s Report Consolidated Balance Sheet As at 31st March, 2022 392 393Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited (` in crore) Notes As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 Assets Non-Current Assets Property, Plant and Equipment 1 5,00,454 4,51,066 Capital Work-in-Progress 1 68,052 71,171 Goodwill 13,009 10,212 Other Intangible Assets 1 1,14,335 79,980 Intangible Assets Under Development 1 1,04,454 54,782 Financial Assets  Investments 2 2,86,146 2,12,382  Loans 3 1,588 1,117  Other Financial Assets 4 2,377 1,367 Deferred Tax Assets (Net) 5 1,043 1,147 Other Non-Current Assets 6 61,188 64,977 Total Non-Current Assets 11,52,646 9,48,201 Current Assets Inventories 7 1,07,778 81,672 Financial Assets  Investments 8 1,08,118 1,52,446  Trade Receivables 9 23,640 19,014  Cash and Cash Equivalents 10 36,178 17,397  Loans 130 65  Other Financial Assets 11 23,896 61,124 Other Current Assets 12 47,279 41,293 Total Current Assets 3,47,019 3,73,011 Total Assets 14,99,665 13,21,212 Equity and Liabilities Equity Equity Share Capital 14 6,765 6,445 Other Equity 15 7,72,720 6,93,727 Non-Controlling Interest 1,09,499 99,260 Liabilities Non-Current Liabilities Financial Liabilities  Borrowings 16 1,87,699 1,63,683  Lease Liabilities 13,007 6,948  Deferred Payment Liabilities 17 37,184 18,837  Other Financial Liabilities 18 12,024 14,616 Provisions 19 1,853 2,625 Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net) 5 49,644 37,001 Other Non-Current Liabilities 608 502 Total Non-Current Liabilities 3,02,019 2,44,212 Current Liabilities Financial Liabilities  Borrowings 20 78,606 88,128  Lease Liabilities 2,662 1,366  Trade Payables 21 1,59,330 1,08,897  Other Financial Liabilities 22 44,544 43,639 Other Current Liabilities 23 21,584 33,034 Provisions 24 1,936 2,504 Total Current Liabilities 3,08,662 2,77,568 Total Liabilities 6,10,681 5,21,780 Total Equity and Liabilities 14,99,665 13,21,212 Significant Accounting Policies See accompanying Notes to the Financial Statements 1 to 45 (` in crore) Notes 2021-22 2020-21 Income Value of Sales 6,96,972 4,67,669 Income from Services 95,784 71,569 Value of Sales & Services (Revenue) 7,92,756 5,39,238 Less: GST Recovered 71,122 52,912 Revenue from Operations 25 7,21,634 4,86,326 Other Income 26 14,947 16,327 Total Income 7,36,581 5,02,653 Expenses Cost of Materials Consumed 3,60,784 1,99,915 Purchase of Stock-in-Trade 1,35,585 1,01,850 Changes in Inventories of Finished Goods, Work-in-Progress and Stock-in-Trade 27 (21,457) (9,064) Excise Duty 21,672 19,402 Employee Benefits Expense 28 18,775 14,817 Finance Costs 29 14,584 21,189 Depreciation / Amortisation and Depletion Expense 1 29,797 26,572 Other Expenses 30 95,815 78,669 Total Expenses 6,55,555 4,53,350 Profit Before Share of Profit / (Loss) of Associates and Joint Ventures,  Exceptional Item and Tax 81,026 49,303 Share of Profit / (Loss) of Associates and Joint Ventures 280 516 Profit Before Exceptional Item and Tax 81,306 49,819 Exceptional Item (Net of Tax) 31 2,836 5,642 Profit Before Tax * 84,142 55,461 Tax Expenses * Current Tax 13 3,161 2,205 Deferred Tax 13 13,136 (483) Profit for the Year 67,845 53,739 Other Comprehensive Income: i.
Items that will not be reclassified to Profit or Loss 26.1 27,533 37,517 ii.
Income Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to Profit or Loss (3,215) (4,605) iii.
Items that will be reclassified to Profit or Loss 26.2 (2,584) 1,264 iv.
Income Tax relating to items that will be reclassified to Profit or Loss 526 (378) Total Other Comprehensive Income for the Year [Net of Tax] 22,260 33,798 Total Comprehensive Income for the Year 90,105 87,537 Net Profit Attributable to: a) Owners of the Company 60,705 49,128 b) Non Controlling Interest 7,140 4,611 Other Comprehensive Income Attributable to: a) Owners of the Company 22,185 33,849 b) Non Controlling Interest 75 (51) Total Comprehensive Income attributable to: a) Owners of the Company 82,890 82,977 b) Non Controlling Interest 7,215 4,560 Earnings Per Equity Share of Face Value of ` 10 each Basic (in `) - After Exceptional Items 32 92.00 76.37 Basic (in `) - Before Exceptional Items 32 87.71 67.60 Diluted (in `) - After Exceptional Items 32 90.85 75.21 Diluted (in `) - Before Exceptional Items 32 86.61 66.57 Significant Accounting Policies See accompanying Notes to the Financial Statements 1 to 45 * Profit before tax is after Exceptional Item and tax thereon.
Tax expenses are excluding the Current Tax and Deferred Tax on Exceptional Item.
For and on behalf of the Board M.D.
Ambani Chairman and   Managing Director N.R.
Meswani Executive DirectorsH.R.
Meswani P.M.S.
Prasad P. K. Kapil Nita M. Ambani Non-Executive   Directors Prof. Dipak C. Jain Dr. R.A. Mashelkar Adil Zainulbhai Raminder Singh Gujral Dr. Shumeet Banerji Arundhati Bhattacharya His Excellency Yasir Othman H. Al Rumayyan K.V.
Chowdary As per our Report of even date For D T S & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
142412W/ W100595) For S R B C & CO LLP Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
324982E/E300003) T P Ostwal Partner   Membership No.
030848 Vikas Kumar Pansari Partner   Membership No.
093649 Date: May 06, 2022 Alok Agarwal Chief Financial Officer Srikanth Venkatachari Joint Chief Financial Officer Savithri Parekh Company Secretary For and on behalf of the Board M.D.
Ambani Chairman and   Managing Director N.R.
Meswani Executive DirectorsH.R.
Meswani P.M.S.
Prasad P. K. Kapil Nita M. Ambani Non-Executive   Directors Prof. Dipak C. Jain Dr. R.A. Mashelkar Adil Zainulbhai Raminder Singh Gujral Dr. Shumeet Banerji Arundhati Bhattacharya His Excellency Yasir Othman H. Al Rumayyan K.V.
Chowdary As per our Report of even date For D T S & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
142412W/ W100595) For S R B C & CO LLP Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
324982E/E300003) T P Ostwal Partner   Membership No.
030848 Vikas Kumar Pansari Partner   Membership No.
093649 Date: May 06, 2022 Alok Agarwal Chief Financial Officer Srikanth Venkatachari Joint Chief Financial Officer Savithri Parekh Company Secretary Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss For the year ended 31st March, 2022 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity For the year ended 31st March, 2022 A.
Equity Share Capital (` in crore) Balance as at 1st April, 2020 Change during   the year 2020-21 Balance as at   31st March, 2021 Change during   the year 2021-22 Balance as at   31st March, 2022 6,339 106 6,445 320 6,765 B.
Other Equity  (` in crore) Balance  as at  1st April,   2021 Total  Comprehensive   Income for the   Year Dividend Transfer   (to) / from  Retained   Earnings Transfer   (to) / from  General   Reserve On  Rights  Issue * On  Employee  Stock  Options Others Balance  as at 31st  March,  2022 As at 31st March, 2022 Share Call Money Account 39,843 - - - - (39,843) - - - Reserves and Surplus  Capital Reserve 291 - - - - - - - 291  Capital Redemption Reserve 50 - - - - - - - 50   Debenture  Redemption Reserve 5,976 - - 524 (1,795) - - - 4,705   Share Based  Payments Reserve 737 - - - - - (303) - 434  Statutory Reserve 689 - - 115 - - - - 804   Special Economic Zone  Reinvestment Reserve 4,975 - - 4,135 $ - - - - 9,110  Securities Premium 74,508 - - - -  39,447 841 -  1,14,796   General Reserve 2,58,426 - - - 1,795 - - - 2,60,221  Retained Earnings 1,96,059 60,705 (4,297) (4,774) - - -  258  2,47,951    Other Comprehensive   Income 1,12,173 22,185 # - - - - - - 1,34,358 Total 6,93,727 82,890 (4, 297) - -  (396) 538  258 7,72,720 * Refer Note 14.9 $ Considers Special Economic Zone Reinvestment Reserve created during the year of ` 5,040 crore.
# Includes net movement in Foreign Currency Translation Reserve.
(` in crore) Balance  as at  1st April,  2020 Total  Comprehensive   Income for the   Year Dividend Transfer  (to) / from  Retained  Earnings Transfer  (to) / from  General   Reserve On  Rights  Issue * On  Employee  Stock  Options Others Balance  as at 31st  March,  2021 As at 31st March, 2021 Share Application Money  Pending Allotment 1 - - - - - - (1) - Share Call Money Account - - - - - 39,843 - - 39,843 Reserves and Surplus  Capital Reserve 291 - - - - - - - 291  Capital Redemption Reserve 50 - - - - - - - 50   Debenture  Redemption Reserve 9,427 - - (41) (3,410) - - 5,976   Share Based  Payments Reserve 18 - - - - - 719 - 737  Statutory Reserve 561 - - 128 - - - - 689   Special Economic Zone  Reinvestment Reserve 5,500 - - (525)  $ - - - - 4,975  Securities Premium 61,395 - - - - 13,104 9 - 74,508  General Reserve 2,55,016 - - - 3,410 - - - 2,58,426  Retained Earnings 32,972 49,128 (3,921) 438 - - - 1,17,442^ 1,96,059   Other Comprehensive   Income 77,596 33,849 # - - - - - 728 1,12,173 Total 4,42,827 82,977 (3,921) - - 52,947 728 1,18,169 6,93,727 * Refer Note 14.9 $ Net of Special Economic Zone Reinvestment Reserve created during the year of ` 3,303 crore.
^ Mainly pursuant to fresh issue of equity by subsidiaries.
# Includes net movement in Foreign Currency Translation Reserve.
394 395 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Financial   Statements For and on behalf of the Board M.D.
Ambani Chairman and   Managing Director N.R.
Meswani Executive DirectorsH.R.
Meswani P.M.S.
Prasad P. K. Kapil Nita M. Ambani Non-Executive   Directors Prof. Dipak C. Jain Dr. R.A. Mashelkar Adil Zainulbhai Raminder Singh Gujral Dr. Shumeet Banerji Arundhati Bhattacharya His Excellency Yasir Othman H. Al Rumayyan K.V.
Chowdary As per our Report of even date For D T S & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
142412W/ W100595) For S R B C & CO LLP Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
324982E/E300003) T P Ostwal Partner   Membership No.
030848 Vikas Kumar Pansari Partner   Membership No.
093649 Date: May 06, 2022 Alok Agarwal Chief Financial Officer Srikanth Venkatachari Joint Chief Financial Officer Savithri Parekh Company Secretary Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow For the year ended 31st March, 2022 396 397 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Financial   Statements Change in Liability arising from financing activities (` in crore) 1st April, 2021 Cash Flow Foreign exchange  movement / Others 31st March, 2022 Borrowings - Non-current (including Current  Maturities) (Refer Note 16) 1,91,730 18,696 4,293 2,14,719 Borrowings - Current (Net) (Refer Note 20) 60,081 (8,846) 351 51,586 Total 2,51,811 9,850 4,644 2,66,305 (` in crore) 1st April, 2020 Cash Flow Foreign exchange  movement / Others 31st March, 2021 Borrowings - Non-current (including Current  Maturities) (Refer Note 16) 2,42,508 (54,029) 3,251 1,91,730 Borrowings - Current (Net) (Refer Note 20) 93,786 (29,681) (4,024) 60,081 Total 3,36,294 (83,710) (773) 2,51,811 (` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 A.
Cash Flow From Operating Activities Net Profit Before Tax As Per Statement Of Profit And Loss (After exceptional item  and tax thereon) 84,142 55,461 Adjusted for: Share of (Profit) / Loss of Associates and Joint Ventures (280) (516) Premium on Buy back of Debentures 380 194 (Profit) / Loss on Sale / Discard of Property, Plant and Equipment and Other  Intangible Assets (Net) 40 47 Depreciation / Amortisation and Depletion Expense 29,797 26,572 Effect of Exchange Rate Change 1,821 (1,645) Net Gain on Financial Assets # (1,352) (4,964) Exceptional Item (Net of Tax) (2,836) (5,642) Dividend Income # (41) (39) Interest Income # (12,529) (10,366) Finance Costs # 14,584 21,027 Subtotal 29,584 24,668 Operating Profit before Working Capital Changes 1,13,726 80,129 Adjusted for: Trade and Other Receivables (14,180) 959 Inventories (24,983) (7,769) Trade and Other Payables 39,888 (43,148) Subtotal 725 (49,958) Cash Generated from Operations 1,14,451 30,171 Taxes Paid (Net) (3,797) (3,213) Net Cash Flow from Operating Activities * 1,10,654 26,958 B.
Cash Flow from Investing Activities Expenditure for Property, Plant and Equipment and Other Intangible Assets (1,00,145) (1,05,837) Proceeds from disposal of Property, Plant and Equipment and Other Intangible Assets 3,137 2,319 Purchase of Other Investments (6,67,878) (6,89,866) Proceeds from Sale of Financial Assets 6,68,137 6,42,551 Repayment of Deferred Payment Liabilities (19,306) (2) Interest Income 5,933 8,400 Dividend Income from Associates 18 26 Dividend Income from Others 1 - Net Cash Flow used in Investing Activities (1,10,103) (1,42,409) C. Cash Flow from Financing Activities Proceeds from Issue of Equity Share Capital 5 5 Proceeds from Issue of Share Capital to Non-Controlling Interest (Net of Dividend Paid) 450 2,00,382 Net Proceeds from Rights Issue 39,762 13,210 Payment of Lease Liabilities (2,132) (1,022) Proceeds from Borrowings - Non-current (including Current Maturities) 59,343 33,211 Repayment of Borrowings - Non-current (including Current Maturities) (40,647) (87,240) Borrowings - Current (Net) (8,846) (29,681) Movement in Deposits - (4,700) Dividend Paid (4,297) (3,921) Interest Paid (26,349) (18,340) Net Cash from Financing Activities 17,289 1,01,904 Net Increase / (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 17,840 (13,547) Opening Balance of Cash and Cash Equivalents 17,397 30,920 Add: Upon addition of Subsidiaries 941 24 Closing Balance of Cash and Cash Equivalents (Refer Note 10) 36,178 17,397 # Other than Financial Services Segment.
* Includes amount spent in cash towards Corporate Social Responsibility of ` 1,186  crore (Previous Year ` 1,140 crore).
For and on behalf of the Board M.D.
Ambani Chairman and   Managing Director N.R.
Meswani Executive DirectorsH.R.
Meswani P.M.S.
Prasad P. K. Kapil Nita M. Ambani Non-Executive   Directors Prof. Dipak C. Jain Dr. R.A. Mashelkar Adil Zainulbhai Raminder Singh Gujral Dr. Shumeet Banerji Arundhati Bhattacharya His Excellency Yasir Othman H. Al Rumayyan K.V.
Chowdary As per our Report of even date For D T S & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
142412W/ W100595) For S R B C & CO LLP Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
324982E/E300003) T P Ostwal Partner   Membership No.
030848 Vikas Kumar Pansari Partner   Membership No.
093649 Date: May 06, 2022 Alok Agarwal Chief Financial Officer Srikanth Venkatachari Joint Chief Financial Officer Savithri Parekh Company Secretary Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 398 399 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements A.
Corporate Information   The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise  financial statements of “Reliance Industries Limited”  (“the Holding Company” or “The Company”) and its  subsidiaries (collectively referred to as “the Group”) for  the year ended 31st March, 2022.
The Holding Company is a listed entity incorporated in  India.
The registered office of the Company is located  at 3rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV, 222, Nariman Point,  Mumbai - 400 021, India.
The principal activities of the Group, its joint ventures  and associates consist of activities spanning across   Oil to Chemicals (O2C), Oil and Gas, Retail, Digital  Services and Financial Services.
Further details about  the business operations of the Group are provided in  Note 38 – Segment Information.
B.
Significant Accounting Policies B.1  Basis of Preparation and Presentation   The Consolidated Financial Statements have been  prepared on the historical cost basis except for the  following assets and liabilities which have been  measured at fair value:  i.
Certain financial assets and liabilities (including  derivative instruments),  ii.
Defined Benefit Plan’s – Plan Assets and  iii.
Equity settled Share Based Payments   The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group  have been prepared in accordance with Indian  Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified under the  Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015  (as amended from time to time) and presentation  requirements of Division II of Schedule III to the  Companies Act, 2013, (Ind AS compliant Schedule III), as  applicable to the CFS.
The Consolidated Financial Statements comprises  of Reliance Industries Limited and all its subsidiaries,  being the entities that it controls.
Control is assessed  in accordance with the requirement of Ind AS 110 –  Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented  in Indian Rupees (`) and all values are rounded  to the nearest crore (` 00,00,000), except when  otherwise indicated.
B.2 Principles of Consolidation  (a)  The financial statements of the Holding Company  and its subsidiaries are combined on a line-by- line basis by adding together like items of assets,  liabilities, equity, incomes, expenses and cash  flows, after fully eliminating intra-group balances  and intragroup transactions.
(b)  Profits or losses resulting from intra-group  transactions that are recognised in assets, such as  Inventory and Property, Plant and Equipment, are  eliminated in full.
(c)  In case of foreign subsidiaries, revenue items are  consolidated at the average rate prevailing during  the year.
All assets and liabilities are converted  at rates prevailing at the end of the year.
Any  exchange difference arising on consolidation is  recognised in the Foreign Currency Translation  Reserve (FCTR).
(d)  The audited / unaudited financial statements of  foreign subsidiaries / joint ventures / associates  have been prepared in accordance with the  Generally Accepted Accounting Principle of its  Country of Incorporation or Ind AS.
(e)  The differences in accounting policies of the  Holding Company and its subsidiaries / joint  ventures / associates are not material and there  are no material transactions from 1st January, 2022  to 31st March, 2022 in respect of subsidiaries / joint  ventures / associates having financial year ended  31st December, 2021.
(f)  The Consolidated Financial Statements have  been prepared using uniform accounting  policies for like transactions and other events in  similar circumstances.
(g)  The carrying amount of the parent’s investment in  each subsidiary is offset (eliminated) against the  parent’s portion of equity in each subsidiary.
(h)  The difference between the proceeds from  disposal of investment in subsidiaries and the  carrying amount of its assets less liabilities  as on the date of disposal is recognised in  the Consolidated Statement of Profit and  Loss being the profit or loss on disposal of  investment in subsidiary.
(i)  Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures has  been accounted under the Equity Method as per  Ind AS 28 – Investments in Associates and Joint  Ventures.
Investments in joint operations are  accounted using the Proportionate Consolidation  Method as per Ind AS 111 – Joint Arrangements.
(j)  The Group accounts for its share of post- acquisition changes in net assets of associates  and joint ventures, after eliminating unrealised  profits and losses resulting from transactions  between the Group and its associates and  joint ventures.
(k)  Non-Controlling Interest’s share of profit / loss of  consolidated subsidiaries for the year is identified  and adjusted against the income of the Group in  order to arrive at the net income attributable to  shareholders of the Company.
(l)  Non-Controlling Interest’s share of net assets  of consolidated subsidiaries is identified and  presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheet B.3  Summary of Significant Accounting  Policies  (a) Current and Non-Current Classification    The Group presents assets and liabilities in the  Balance Sheet based on Current / Non-Current  classification.
An asset is treated as Current when it is –   -  Expected to be realised or intended to be sold  or consumed in normal operating cycle;   -  Held primarily for the purpose of trading;   -  Expected to be realised within twelve months  after the reporting period, or   -  Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted  from being exchanged or used to settle a  liability for at least twelve months after the  reporting period.
All other assets are classified as Non-Current.
A liability is treated as Current when –   -  It is expected to be settled in normal  operating cycle;   - It is held primarily for the purpose of trading;   -  It is due to be settled within twelve months  after the reporting period, or   -  There is no unconditional right to defer the  settlement of the liability for at least twelve  months after the reporting period.
The Group classifies all other liabilities  as Non-Current.
Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities are classified as  Non-Current Assets and Liabilities  (b) Business Combination    Business Combinations are accounted for using  the acquisition method of accounting, except  for common control transactions which are  accounted using the pooling of interest method  that is accounted at carrying values.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair  value of the assets transferred, equity instruments  issued and liabilities assumed at their acquisition  date i.e.
the date on which control is acquired.
Contingent consideration to be transferred  is recognised at fair value and included as  part of cost of acquisition.
Transaction related  costs are expensed in the period in which the  costs are incurred.
For each business combination, the Group elects  whether to measure the non-controlling interests  in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate  share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets.
Goodwill arising on business combination is  initially measured at cost, being the excess of  the aggregate of the consideration transferred  and the amount recognised for non-controlling  interests, and any previous interest held, over  the fair value of net identifiable assets acquired  and liabilities assumed.
After initial recognition,  Goodwill is tested for impairment annually  and measured at cost less any accumulated  impairment losses if any.
Common control business combination: Business  combinations involving entities or businesses that  are controlled by the group are accounted using  the pooling of interest method.
(c) Property, Plant and Equipment    Property, Plant and Equipment are stated at cost,  net of recoverable taxes, trade discount and  rebates less accumulated depreciation and  impairment losses, if any.
Such cost includes  purchase price, borrowing cost and any cost  directly attributable to bringing the assets to its  working condition for its intended use, net charges  on foreign exchange contracts and adjustments  arising from exchange rate variations attributable  to the assets.
In case of land the Group has  availed fair value as deemed cost on the date of  transition to Ind AS.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s  carrying amount or recognised as a separate  asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable  that future economic benefits associated with  the item will flow to the entity and the cost can be  measured reliably.
Property, Plant and Equipment  which are significant to the total cost of that item of  Property, Plant and Equipment and having different  useful life are accounted separately.
Other Indirect  Expenses incurred relating to project, net of income  earned during the project development stage  prior to its intended use, are considered as pre- operative expenses and disclosed under Capital  Work-in-Progress.
Depreciation on Property, Plant and Equipment  is provided using written down value method on  depreciable amount except in case of certain  assets of Oil to Chemicals segment which  are depreciated using straight line method.
Depreciation on wireless telecommunications  equipment and components is determined based  on the expected pattern of consumption of the  expected future economic benefits.
Depreciation  is provided based on useful life of the assets as  prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies Act,  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 400 401 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 2013 except in respect of the following assets,  where useful life is different than those prescribed  in Schedule II.
Particular Depreciation Fixed Bed Catalyst (useful  life: 2 years or more) Over its useful life as  technically assessed Fixed Bed Catalyst (useful  life: up to 2 years) 100% depreciated in the  year of addition Premium on Leasehold  Land (range upto 99 years) Over the  period of lease term Plant and Machinery  (useful life: 25 to 50 years) Over its useful life as  technically assessed    The residual values, useful lives and methods of  depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment are  reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted  prospectively, if appropriate.
Gains or losses  arising from derecognition of a Property, Plant  and Equipment are measured as the difference  between the net disposal proceeds and the  carrying amount of the asset and are recognised  in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss  when the asset is derecognised.
(d) Leases    The Group, as a lessee, recognises a right-of- use asset and a lease liability for its leasing  arrangements, if the contract conveys the right to  control the use of an identified asset.
The contract conveys the right to control the use  of an identified asset, if it involves the use of an  identified asset and the Group has substantially all  of the economic benefits from use of the asset and  has right to direct the use of the identified asset.
The cost of the right-of-use asset shall comprise  of the amount of the initial measurement of the  lease liability adjusted for any lease payments  made at or before the commencement date plus  any initial direct costs incurred.
The right-of-use  assets is subsequently measured at cost less  any accumulated depreciation, accumulated  impairment losses, if any and adjusted for any  remeasurement of the lease liability.
The right- of-use asset is depreciated using the straight- line method from the commencement date  over the shorter of lease term or useful life of  right-of-use asset.
The Group measures the lease liability at the  present value of the lease payments that are not  paid at the commencement date of the lease.
The lease payments are discounted using the  interest rate implicit in the lease, if that rate can  be readily determined.
If that rate cannot be  readily determined, the Group uses incremental  borrowing rate.
For short-term and low value leases, the  Group recognises the lease payments as an  operating expense on a straight-line basis over  the lease term.
The Group, as a lessor, classifies a lease either as  an operating lease or a finance lease.
Leases are  classified as finance lease whenever the terms  of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and  rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases  are classified as operating leases.
(e) Other Intangible Assets    Other Intangible Assets are stated at cost of  acquisition net of recoverable taxes, trade discount  and rebates less accumulated amortisation /  depletion and impairment loss, if any.
Such cost  includes purchase price, borrowing costs, and any  cost directly attributable for preparing the asset for  its intended use, net charges on foreign exchange  contracts and adjustments arising from exchange  rate variations attributable to the Other Intangible  Assets.
In case of certain Other Intangible Assets,  the Group has availed fair value as deemed cost  on the date of transition to Ind AS.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s  carrying amount or recognised as a separate  asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable  that future economic benefits associated with  the item will flow to the entity and the cost can be  measured reliably.
Other Indirect Expenses incurred relating to  project, net of income earned during the project  development stage prior to its intended use,  are considered as pre-operative expenses  and disclosed under Intangible Assets  under Development.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of  an Other Intangible Asset are measured as the  difference between the net disposal proceeds  and the carrying amount of the asset and are  recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit  and Loss when the asset is derecognised.
The Group’s Other Intangible Assets include assets  with finite and indefinite useful life.
Assets with  finite useful life are amortised on a straight-line  basis over their expected useful life and assets  with indefinite useful lives are not amortised but  are tested for impairment annually at the cash  generating unit level.
A summary of the amortisation / depletion policies  applied to the Group’s Other Intangible Assets to  the extent of depreciable amount is as follows.
Particulars Depreciation Technical   Know-How Over the useful life of the  underlying assets ranging from 5  years to 35 years Computer   Software Over a period of 5 to 10 years.
Development   Rights Depleted using the unit of production  method.
The cost of producing  wells along with its related facilities  including decommissioning costs  are depleted in proportion of oil and  gas production achieved vis-à-vis  Proved Developed Reserves.
The cost  for common facilities including its  decommissioning costs are depleted  using Proved Reserves.
License Fee Amortised over the remainder  of the License period from the  date of commencement of the  commercial operation.
Spectrum  Fees Amortised from the date of  commencement of commercial  operation over the balance validity  period, based on the expected  pattern of consumption of the  expected future economic benefits,  in accordance with the applicable  Accounting Standards.
Others In case of Jetty, the aggregate  amount amortised to date is not  less than the aggregate rebate  availed by the Group.
The amortisation period and the amortisation  method for Other Intangible Assets with a finite  useful life are reviewed at each reporting date.
(f) Research and Development Expenditure    Revenue expenditure pertaining to research is  charged to the Consolidated Statement of Profit  and Loss as and when incurred.
Development  costs are capitalised as an intangible asset if it can  be demonstrated that the project is expected to  generate future economic benefits, it is probable  that those future economic benefits will flow to the  entity and the costs of the asset can be measured  reliably, else it is charged to the Consolidated  Statement of Profit and Loss.
(g) Cash and Cash Equivalents    Cash and Cash Equivalents comprise of cash  on hand, cash at bank, short-term deposits and  short-term highly liquid investments that are  readily convertible to known amounts of cash  and which are subject to an insignificant risk of  changes in value.
(h) Finance Costs    Borrowing costs include exchange differences  arising from foreign currency borrowings to the  extent they are regarded as an adjustment to  the interest cost.
Borrowing costs that are directly  attributable to the acquisition or construction  of qualifying assets are capitalised as part of  the cost of such assets.
A qualifying asset is  one that necessarily takes substantial period of  time to get ready for its intended use.
Interest  income earned on the temporary investment of  specific borrowings pending their expenditure on  qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing  costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are charged to the  Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss for the  period for which they are incurred.
(i) Inventories    Items of inventories are measured at lower of  cost and net realisable value after providing  for obsolescence, if any, except in case of by- products which are valued at net realisable  value.
Cost of inventories comprises of cost of  purchase, cost of conversion and other costs  including manufacturing overheads net of  recoverable taxes incurred in bringing them to their  respective present location and condition.
Cost of  finished goods, work-in-progress, raw materials,  chemicals, stores and spares, packing materials,  trading and other products are determined on  weighted average basis.
(j)  Impairment of Non-Financial Assets  — Property, Plant and Equipment,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets    The Group assesses at each reporting date  as to whether there is any indication that any  Property, Plant and Equipment, Goodwill and Other  Intangible Assets or group of assets, called Cash  Generating Units (CGU) may be impaired.
If any  such indication exists, the recoverable amount  of an asset or CGU is estimated to determine  the extent of impairment, if any.
When it is not  possible to estimate the recoverable amount  of an individual asset, the Group estimates  the recoverable amount of the CGU to which  the asset belongs.
An impairment loss is recognised in the  Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss to  the extent, asset’s carrying amount exceeds its  recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is  higher of an asset’s fair value less cost of disposal  and value in use.
Value in use is based on the  estimated future cash flows, discounted to their  present value using pre-tax discount rate that  reflects current market assessments of the time  value of money and risk specific to the assets.
The  impairment loss recognised in prior accounting  period is reversed if there has been a change in  the estimate of recoverable amount.
(k) Provisions    Provisions are recognised when the Group has  a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 402 403 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow  of resources embodying economic benefits  will be required to settle the obligation and a  reliable estimate can be made of the amount  of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value  of money is material, provisions are discounted  using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when  appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
When  discounting is used, the increase in the provision  due to the passage of time is recognised as  a finance cost.
Provision for Decommissioning Liability    The Group records a provision for  decommissioning costs towards site restoration  activity.
Decommissioning costs are provided  at the present value of future expenditure using  a current pre-tax rate expected to be incurred  to fulfill decommissioning obligations and are  recognised as part of the cost of the underlying  assets.
Any change in the present value of the  expenditure, other than unwinding of discount  on the provision, is reflected as adjustment to  the provision and the corresponding asset.
The  change in the provision due to the unwinding  of discount is recognised in the Consolidated  Statement of Profit and Loss.
(l) Contingent Liability    Disclosure of contingent liability is made when  there is a possible obligation arising from past  events, the existence of which will be confirmed  only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one  or more uncertain future events not wholly within  the control of the Group or a present obligation  that arises from past events where it is either not  probable that an outflow of resources embodying  economic benefits will be required to settle or a  reliable estimate of amount cannot be made.
(m) Employee Benefits Expense   Short-Term Employee Benefits    The undiscounted amount of short-term employee  benefits expected to be paid in exchange for the  services rendered by employees are recognised  as an expense during the period when the  employees render the services.
Post-Employment Benefits   Defined Contribution Plans    The Group recognises contribution payable to  the provident fund scheme as an expense, when  an employee renders the related service.
If the  contribution payable to the scheme for service  received before the balance sheet date exceeds  the contribution already paid, the deficit payable  to the scheme is recognised as a liability.
If the  contribution already paid exceeds the contribution  due for services received before the balance sheet  date, then excess is recognised as an asset to  the extent that the pre-payment will lead to, for  example, a reduction in future payment or refund.
Defined Benefit Plans    The Group pays gratuity to the employees who  have completed five years of service at the time  of resignation / superannuation.
The gratuity is  paid @15 days basic salary for every completed  year of service as per the Payment of Gratuity Act,  1972.
The gratuity liability amount is contributed to  the approved gratuity fund formed exclusively for  gratuity payment to the employees.
The gratuity  fund has been approved by respective Income  Tax authorities.
The liability in respect of gratuity  and other post-employment benefits is calculated  using the Projected Unit Credit Method and  spread over the period during which the benefit is  expected to be derived from employees’ services.
Remeasurement gains and losses arising  from adjustments and changes in actuarial  assumptions are recognised in the period in which  they occur, in Other Comprehensive Income.
Employee Separation Costs    The Group recognises the employee separation  cost when the scheme is announced and the  Group is demonstrably committed to it.
(n) Tax Expenses    The tax expenses for the period comprises of  Current Tax and Deferred Income Tax.
Tax is  recognised in Consolidated Statement of Profit and  Loss, except to the extent that it relates to items  recognised in the Other Comprehensive Income.
In which case, the tax is also recognised in Other  Comprehensive Income.
i.
Current Tax     Current tax assets and liabilities are measured  at the amount expected to be recovered from  or paid to the taxation authorities, based on  tax rates and laws that are enacted at the  Balance sheet date.
ii.
Deferred Tax     Deferred Tax is recognised on temporary  differences between the carrying amounts  of assets and liabilities in the financial  statements and the corresponding tax bases  used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred Tax Assets are recognised to the  extent it is probable that taxable profit will  be available against which the deductible  temporary differences, and the carry forward  of unused tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred  Tax Liabilities and Assets are measured at the  tax rates that are expected to apply in the  period in which the liability is settled or the  asset realised, based on tax rates (and tax  laws) that have been enacted or substantively  enacted by the end of the reporting period.
The carrying amount of deferred tax liabilities  and assets are reviewed at the end of each  reporting period.
(o) Share Based Payments    Equity-settled share based payments to  employees and others providing similar services  are measured at the fair value of the equity  instruments at the grant date.
Details regarding  the determination of the fair value of equity- settled share based payments transactions are  set out in Note 28.2.
The fair value determined at  the grant date of the equity-settled share based  payments is expensed on a straight line basis over  the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate  of equity instruments that will eventually vest,  with a corresponding increase in equity.
At the  end of each reporting period, the Group revises  its estimate of the number of equity instruments  expected to vest.
The impact of the revision of  the original estimates, if any, is recognised in  Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss such  that the cumulative expenses reflects the revised  estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to the  Share Based Payments Reserve.
The dilutive effect  of outstanding options is reflected as additional  share dilution in the computation of diluted  earnings per share.
(p)  Foreign Currencies Transactions and  Translation    Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded  at the exchange rate prevailing on the date  of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities  denominated in foreign currencies are translated  at the functional currency’s closing rates of  exchange at the reporting date.
Exchange differences arising on settlement or  translation of monetary items are recognised in  Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss except  to the extent of exchange differences which are  regarded as an adjustment to interest costs on  foreign currency borrowings that are directly  attributable to the acquisition or construction of  qualifying assets, are capitalised as cost of assets.
Additionally, exchange gains or losses on foreign  currency borrowings taken prior to April 1, 2016,  which are related to the acquisition or construction  of qualifying assets are adjusted in the carrying  cost of such assets.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms  of historical cost in a foreign currency are recorded  using the exchange rates at the date of the  transaction.
Non-monetary items measured at fair  value in a foreign currency are translated using the  exchange rates at the date when the fair value was  measured.
The gain or loss arising on translation  of non-monetary items measured at fair value  is treated in line with the recognition of the gain  or loss on the change in fair value of the item (i.e.
translation differences on items whose fair value  gain or loss is recognised in Other Comprehensive  Income or Statement of Profit and Loss are also  recognised in Other Comprehensive Income or  Statement of Profit and Loss, respectively).
In case of an asset, expense or income where  a non-monetary advance is paid / received,  the date of transaction is the date on which the  advance was initially recognised.
If there were  multiple payments or receipts in advance, multiple  dates of transactions are determined for each  payment or receipt of advance consideration.
(q) Revenue Recognition    Revenue from contracts with customers is  recognised when control of the goods or services  are transferred to the customer at an amount that  reflects the consideration entitled in exchange for  those goods or services.
The Group is generally  the principal as it typically controls the goods or  services before transferring them to the customer.
Generally, control is transferred upon shipment of  goods to the customer or when the goods is made  available to the customer, provided transfer of title  to the customer occurs and the Group has not  retained any significant risks of ownership or future  obligations with respect to the goods shipped.
Revenue from rendering of services is recognised  over time by measuring the progress towards  complete satisfaction of performance obligations  at the reporting period.
Revenue is measured at the amount of  consideration which the group expects to be  entitled to in exchange for transferring distinct  goods or services to a customer as specified in the  contract, excluding amounts collected on behalf  of third parties (for example taxes and duties  collected on behalf of the government).
Consideration is generally due upon satisfaction  of performance obligations and a receivable  is recognised when it becomes unconditional.
Generally, the credit period varies between 0-60  days from the shipment or delivery of goods or  services as the case may be.
The Group provides volume rebates to certain  customers once the quantity of products  purchased during the period exceeds a threshold  specified and also accrues discounts to certain  customers based on customary business  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 404 405 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements practices which is derived on the basis of crude  price volatility and various market demand –  supply situations.
Consideration are determined  based on its most likely amount.
Generally, sales of petroleum products contain  provisional pricing features where revenue is  initially recognised based on provisional price.
Difference between final settlement price and  provisional price is recognised subsequently.
The Group does not adjust short-term advances  received from the customer for the effects of  significant financing component if it is expected at  the contract inception that the promised good or  service will be transferred to the customer within a  period of one year.
Contract Balances   Trade Receivables    A receivable represents the Group’s right to an  amount of consideration that is unconditional.
Contract Liabilities    A contract liability is the obligation to transfer  goods or services to a customer for which the  Group has received consideration or is due from  the customer.
If a customer pays consideration  before the Group transfers goods or services to  the customer, a contract liability is recognised  when the payment is made or the payment is  due (whichever is earlier).
Contract liabilities are  recognised as revenue when the Group performs  under the contract.
Interest Income    Interest Income from a financial asset is  recognised using Effective Interest Rate Method.
Dividend Income    Dividend Income is recognised when the Group’s  right to receive the amount has been established.
(r) Financial Instruments   i.
Financial Assets   A.
Initial Recognition and Measurement     All financial assets are initially recognised at  fair value.
Transaction costs that are directly  attributable to the acquisition or issue of  financial assets, which are not at Fair Value  Through Profit or Loss, are adjusted to the fair  value on initial recognition.
Purchase and sale  of financial assets are recognised using trade  date accounting.
B.
Subsequent Measurement   a)  Financial assets measured at  Amortised Cost (AC)     A financial asset is measured at Amortised  Cost if it is held within a business model whose  objective is to hold the asset in order to collect  contractual cash flows and the contractual  terms of the financial asset give rise to cash  flows on specified dates that represent solely  payments of principal and interest on the  principal amount outstanding.
b)  Financial Assets measured at Fair  Value Through Other Comprehensive  Income (FVTOCI)     A financial asset is measured at FVTOCI if it is  held within a business model whose objective  is achieved by both collecting contractual  cash flows and selling financial assets and  the contractual terms of the financial asset  give rise on specified dates to cash flows that  represent solely payments of principal and  interest on the principal amount outstanding.
c)  Financial Assets measured at Fair Value  Through Profit or Loss (FVTPL)     A financial asset which is not classified  in any of the above categories are  measured at FVTPL.
Financial assets are reclassified subsequent  to their recognition, if the Group changes its  business model for managing those financial  assets.
Changes in business model are  made and applied prospectively from the  reclassification date which is the first day of  immediately next reporting period following  the changes in business model in accordance  with principles laid down under Ind AS 109 –  Financial Instruments.
C. Other Equity Investments     All other equity investments are measured  at fair value, with value changes recognised  in Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss,  except for those equity investments for which  the Group has elected to present the value  changes in ‘Other Comprehensive Income’.
However, dividend on such equity investments  is recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss  when the Company’s right to receive payment  is established.
D.  Impairment of Financial Assets     In accordance with Ind AS 109, the Group  uses ‘Expected Credit Loss’ (ECL) model, for  evaluating impairment of financial assets  other than those measured at Fair Value  Through Profit and Loss (FVTPL).
Expected  Credit Losses are measured through a loss  allowance at an amount equal to: • The 12-months expected credit losses  (expected credit losses that result from  those default events on the financial  instrument that are possible within 12  months after the reporting date); or • Full lifetime expected credit losses  (expected credit losses that result from all  possible default events over the life of the  financial instrument).
For trade receivables, the Group applies  ‘simplified approach’ which requires  expected lifetime losses to be recognised  from initial recognition of the receivables.
The Group uses historical default rates to  determine impairment loss on the portfolio  of trade receivables.
At every reporting date  these historical default rates are reviewed  and changes in the forward-looking  estimates are analysed.
For other assets, the Group uses 12 month  Expected Credit Loss to provide for  impairment loss where there is no significant  increase in credit risk.
If there is significant  increase in credit risk full lifetime Expected  Credit Loss is used.
ii.
Financial Liabilities   A.
Initial Recognition and Measurement     All financial liabilities are recognised at fair  value and in case of borrowings, net of directly  attributable cost.
Fees of recurring nature  are directly recognised in the Consolidated  Statement of Profit and Loss as finance cost.
B.
Subsequent Measurement     Financial Liabilities are carried at amortised  cost using the effective interest method.
For  trade and other payables maturing within one  year from the balance sheet date, the carrying  amounts approximate fair value due to the  short maturity of these instruments.
iii.
Derivative Financial Instruments and  Hedge Accounting     The Group uses various derivative financial  instruments such as interest rate swaps,  currency swaps, forwards and options and  commodity contracts to mitigate the risk of  changes in interest rates, exchange rates and  commodity prices.
At the inception of a hedge  relationship, the Group formally designates  and documents the hedge relationship to  which the Group wishes to apply hedge  accounting and the risk management  objective and strategy for undertaking the  hedge.
Such derivative financial instruments  are initially recognised at fair value on the  date on which a derivative contract is entered  into and are also subsequently measured  at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as  financial assets when the fair value is positive  and as financial liabilities when the fair  value is negative.
Any gains or losses arising from changes  in the fair value of derivatives are taken  directly to Consolidated Statement of Profit  and Loss, except for the effective portion  of cash flow hedge which is recognised in  Other Comprehensive Income and later to  Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss,  when the hedged item affects profit or loss  or is treated as basis adjustment if a hedged  forecast transaction subsequently results in  the recognition of a non-financial asset or  non-financial liability.
Hedges that meet the criteria for hedge  accounting are accounted for as follows:   A.
Cash Flow Hedge     The Group designates derivative contracts  or non-derivative financial assets / liabilities  as hedging instruments to mitigate the risk  of movement in interest rates and foreign  exchange rates for foreign exchange  exposure on highly probable future cash  flows attributable to a recognised asset or  liability or forecast cash transactions.
When  a derivative is designated as a cash flow  hedging instrument, the effective portion of  changes in the fair value of the derivative is of  Profit and Loss as finance cost.
recognised in  the cash flow hedging reserve being part of  Other Comprehensive Income.
Any ineffective  portion of changes in the fair value of the  derivative is recognised immediately in the  Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss.
If  the hedging relationship no longer meets the  criteria for hedge accounting, then hedge  accounting is discontinued prospectively.
If  the hedging instrument expires or is sold /  terminated or exercised, the cumulative gain  or loss on the hedging instrument recognised  in cash flow hedging reserve till the period  the hedge was effective remains in cash  flow hedging reserve until the underlying  transaction occurs.
The cumulative gain  or loss previously recognised in the cash  flow hedging reserve is transferred to the  Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 406 407 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements upon the occurrence of the underlying  transaction.
If the forecasted transaction is no  longer expected to occur, then the amount  accumulated in cash flow hedging reserve is  reclassified in the Consolidated Statement of  Profit and Loss.
B.
Fair Value Hedge     The Group designates derivative contracts  or non-derivative financial assets / liabilities  as hedging instruments to mitigate the risk  of change in fair value of hedged item due to  movement in interest rates, foreign exchange  rates and commodity prices.
Changes in the fair value of hedging  instruments and hedged items that are  designated and qualify as fair value hedges  are recorded in the Consolidated Statement  of Profit and Loss.
If the hedging relationship  no longer meets the criteria for hedge  accounting, the adjustment to the carrying  amount of a hedged item for which the  effective interest method is used is amortised  to Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss  over the period of maturity.
iv.
Derecognition of Financial Instruments    The Group derecognises a financial asset when  the contractual rights to the cash flows from the  financial asset expire or it transfers the financial  asset and the transfer qualifies for derecognition  under Ind AS 109 – Financial Instruments.
A  financial liability (or a part of a financial liability)  is derecognised from the Group’s Balance Sheet  when the obligation specified in the contract is  discharged or cancelled or expires.
v. Offsetting    Financial assets and financial liabilities are  offset and the net amount is presented in the  Balance Sheet when, and only when, the Group  has a legally enforceable right to set off the  amount and it intends, either to settle them on  a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the  liability simultaneously.
(s) Non-Current Assets Held for Sale    Non-Current Assets are classified as Held for Sale if  their carrying amount will be recovered principally  through a sale transaction rather than through  continuing use and sale is considered highly  probable.
A sale is considered as highly probable  when decision has been made to sell, assets  are available for immediate sale in its present  condition, assets are being actively marketed  and sale has been agreed or is expected to  be concluded within 12 months of the date of  classification.
Non-current assets held for sale are  neither depreciated nor amortised.
Assets and  liabilities classified as Held for Sale are measured  at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value  less cost of disposal and are presented separately  in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
(t) Accounting for Oil and Gas Activity    The Group has adopted Successful Efforts Method  (SEM) of accounting for its Oil and Gas activities.
The policy of recognition of exploration and  evaluation expenditure is considered in line with  the principle of SEM.
Seismic costs, geological  and geophysical studies, petroleum exploration  license fees and general and administration costs  directly attributable to exploration and evaluation  activities are expensed off.
The costs incurred on  acquisition of interest in oil and gas blocks and on  exploration and evaluation other than those which  are expensed off are accounted for as Intangible  Assets under Development.
All development  costs incurred in respect of Proved Reserves are  also capitalised under Intangible Assets under  Development.
Once a well is ready to commence  commercial production, the costs accumulated  in Intangible Assets under Development are  classified as Other Intangible Assets corresponding  to proved developed oil and gas reserves.
The  exploration and evaluation expenditure which  does not result in discovery of proved oil and gas  reserves and all cost pertaining to production  are charged to the Consolidated Statement of  Profit and Loss.
The Group uses technical estimation of reserves as  per the Petroleum Resources Management System  guidelines 2011 and standard geological and  reservoir engineering methods.
The reserve review  and evaluation is carried out annually.
Oil and Gas  Joint Ventures are in the nature of Joint Operations.
Accordingly, assets and liabilities as well as income  and expenditure are accounted on the basis of  available information on a line-by-line basis with  similar items in the financial statements, according  to the participating interest of the Group.
(u) Earnings Per Share    Basic Earnings Per Share is calculated by dividing  the net profit after tax by the weighted average  number of equity shares outstanding during the  year adjusted for bonus element in equity share.
Diluted Earnings Per Share adjusts the figures used  in determination of basic earnings per share to  take into account the conversion of all dilutive  potential equity shares.
Dilutive potential equity  shares are deemed converted as at the beginning  of the period unless issued at a later date.
C.  Critical Accounting Judgements  and Key Sources of Estimation  Uncertainty   The preparation of the Group’s financial statements  requires management to make judgement, estimates  and assumptions that affect the reported amount  of revenue, expenses, assets and liabilities and the  accompanying disclosures.
Uncertainty about these  assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes  that require a material adjustment to the carrying  amount of assets or liabilities affected in future periods.
(a) Estimation of Oil and Gas Reserves   The determination of the Group’s estimated oil and  natural gas reserves requires significant judgements  and estimates to be applied and these are regularly  reviewed and updated.
Factors such as the availability  of geological and engineering data, reservoir  performance data, acquisition and divestment activity,  drilling of new wells, and commodity prices all impact  on the determination of the Group’s estimates of its oil  and natural gas reserves.
The Group bases it’s proved  reserves estimates on the requirement of reasonable  certainty with rigorous technical and commercial  assessments based on conventional industry practice  and regulatory requirements.
Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are used to  calculate depletion charges for the Group’s oil and gas  properties.
The impact of changes in estimated proved  reserves is dealt with prospectively by amortising  the remaining carrying value of the asset over the  expected future production.
Oil and natural gas  reserves also have a direct impact on the assessment  of the recoverability of asset carrying values reported  in the financial statements.
Details on proved reserves  and production both on product and geographical  basis are provided in Note 34.
(b) Decommissioning Liabilities   The liability for decommissioning costs are recognised  when the Group has an obligation to perform site  restoration activity.
The recognition and measurement  of decommissioning provisions involves the use of  estimates and assumptions.
These include the timing  of abandonment of well and related facilities which  would depend upon the ultimate life of the field,  expected utilisation of assets by other fields, the scope  of abandonment activity and pre-tax rate applied  for discounting.
(c)  Property Plant and Equipment / Other  Intangible Assets   Estimates are involved in determining the cost  attributable to bringing the assets to the location and  condition necessary for it to be capable of operating  in the manner intended by the management.
Property,  Plant and Equipment / Other Intangible Assets are  depreciated / amortised over their estimated useful  life, after taking into account estimated residual value.
Spectrum Cost is amortised over its balance validity  period, based on the expected pattern of consumption  of the expected future economic benefits.
Management reviews the estimated useful life and  residual values of the assets annually in order to  determine the amount of depreciation / amortisation  to be recorded during any reporting period.
The useful  life and residual values are based on the Group’s  historical experience with similar assets and take into  account anticipated technological and future risks.
The depreciation / amortisation for future periods  is revised if there are significant changes from  previous estimates.
(d)  Recoverability of Trade Receivables   Judgements are required in assessing the  recoverability of overdue trade receivables and  determining whether a provision against those  receivables is required.
Factors considered include  the credit rating of the counterparty, the amount  and timing of anticipated future payments and any  possible actions that can be taken to mitigate the risk  of non-payment.
(e) Provisions   The timing of recognition and quantification of the  liability requires the application of judgement to  existing facts and circumstances, which can be subject  to change.
The carrying amounts of provisions and  liabilities are reviewed regularly and revised to take  account of changing facts and circumstances.
(f)  Impairment of Financial and Non- Financial Assets   The impairment provisions for Financial Assets are  based on assumptions about risk of default and  expected cash loss rates.
The Group uses judgement  in making these assumptions and selecting the inputs  to the impairment calculation, based on Group’s past  history, existing market conditions as well as forward- looking estimates at the end of each reporting period.
In case of non-financial assets the Group estimates  asset’s recoverable amount, which is higher of an  asset’s or Cash Generating Units (CGU’s) fair value less  costs of disposal and its value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash  flows are discounted to their present value using  pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market  assessments of the time value of money and the risks  specific to the asset.
In determining fair value less costs  of disposal, recent market transactions are taken into  account, if no such transactions can be identified, an  appropriate valuation model is used.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 408 409 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 1 .
Property, Plant and Equipment, Other Intangible Assets, Capital Work-in-Progress and Intangible Assets under Development ( ` in crore) Description Gross Block Depreciation / Amortisation and Depletion Net Block As at 01-04-2021 Additions / Adjustments ^ Deductions / Adjustments As at 31-03-2022 As at 01-04-2021 For the Year # Deductions / Adjustments As at 31-03-2022 As at 31-03-2022 As at 31-03-2021 Property, Plant and   Equipment Own Assets: Land 49,938 288 45 50,181 - - - - 50,181 49,938 Buildings 34,067 7,682 67 41,682 10,878 4,278 17 15,139 26,543 23,189 Plant & Machinery 4,63,097 43,015 1,240 5,04,872 1,34,726 19,360 892 1,53,194 3,51,678 3,28,371 Electrical Installations 15,334 3,265 88 18,511 6,058 1,257 18 7,297 11,214 9,276 Equipments $ 18,523 14,252 137 32,638 6,083 1,993 7 8,069 24,569 12,440 Furniture & Fixtures 4,182 2,325 48 6,459 1,646 454 20 2,080 4,379 2,536 Vehicles 794 129 20 903 578 95 20 653 250 216 Ships 505 3 - 508 345 16 - 361 147 160 Aircrafts  and Helicopters 1,481 85 - 1,566 475 275 - 750 816 1,006 Sub-Total 5,87,921 71,044 1,645 6,57,320 1,60,789 27,728 974 1,87,543 4,69,777 4,27,132 Right-of-Use Assets: Land 18,830 849 5 19,674 2,454 348 - @ 2,802 16,872 16,376 Buildings 2,714 3,269 104 5,879 636 883 59 1,460 4,419 2,078 Plant & Machinery 8,104 5,889 - 13,993 2,655 1,968 - 4,623 9,370 5,449 Vehicles 61 - - 61 30 15 - 45 16 31 Ships 10 - - 10 10 - - 10 - - Sub-Total 29,719 10,007 109 39,617 5,785 3,214 59 8,940 30,677 23,934 Total (A) 6,17,640 81,051 1,754 6,96,937 1,66,57430,942 1,033 1,96,483 5,00,454 4,51,066 Other  Intangible Assets * Technical Knowhow   Fees 5,989 90 - 6,079 4,167 173 - 4,340 1,739 1,822 Spectrum Cost 60,907 32,270 - 93,177 9,618 3,855 - 13,473 79,704 51,289 Software 12,328 1,622 - 13,950 4,790 1,544 - 6,334 7,616 7,538 Development Rights 61,152 3,868 18,138 46,882 47,413 2,506 17,433 32,486 14,396 13,739 Others 7,584 6,023 17 13,590 1,992 733 15 2,710 10,880 5,592 Total (B) 1,47,960 43,873 18,155 1,73,678 67,980 8,811 17,448 59,343 1,14,335 79,980 Total (A+B) 7,65,600 1,24,924 19,909 8,70,615 2,34,554 39,753 18,481 2,55,826 6,14,789 5,31,046 Previous Year 7,33,529 47,001 14,930 7,65,600 2,11,130 26,793 3,369 2,34,554 5,31,046 5,22,399 Capital  Work-in-Progress 68,052 71,171 Intangible Assets  Under Development 1,04,454 54,782 $  Includes Office Equipments.
@  Land - ` 40,81,486 * Other than internally generated.
^  Additions / adjustments in gross block for the year include ` 19,714 crore on account of entities acquired during the year 2021-22.
#   Depreciation / Amortisation and Depletion for the year includes depreciation of ` 99 crore (Previous Year ` 99 crore) capitalised during the year  and ` 9,857 crore (Previous Year ` 122 crore) on account of entities acquired during the year 2021-22.
Thus, ` 29,797 crore has been considered in  the Statement of Profit and Loss.
1.1 Buildings include:  i) Cost of shares in Co-operative Societies of ` 2,03,700 (Previous Year ` 2,03,700).
ii)   ` 135 crore (Previous Year ` 135 crore) in shares of Companies / Societies with right to hold and use certain area of Buildings.
1.2 Other Intangible Assets - Others include:  i) Jetties amounting to ` 812 crore (Previous Year ` 812 crore), the Ownership of which vests with Gujarat Maritime Board.
ii)  ` 7 crore (Previous Year ` 7 crore) in shares of companies with Right to hold and use Land and Buildings.
Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives  have been allocated to the respective CGUs which are  determined at the entity level.
During the year ended  March 31, 2022, the Group has determined that there is  no impairment towards these assets.
(g)  Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets and  Liabilities   Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for  deductible temporary differences and unused tax  losses for which there is probability of utilisation against  the future taxable profit.
The Group uses judgement  to determine the amount of deferred tax that can be  recognised, based upon the likely timing and the level  of future taxable profits and business developments.
(h) Fair Value Measurement   For estimates relating to fair value of financial  instruments refer Note 37 of financial statements.
(i) Revenue   The application of Accounting Standard on  Revenue Recognition for digital segment involves  complexity and use of key judgements with respect  to multiple elements deliverables, timing of revenue  recognition, accounting of discounts, incentives, etc.
The Management has reviewed such accounting  treatment and is satisfied about its appropriateness in  terms of the relevant Ind AS.
(j)  Global Health Pandemic on COVID-19   The continuance of corona virus (COVID-19) pandemic  globally and in India is causing significant disturbance  and slowdown of economic activity.
The Group’s  operations and revenue during the period were  impacted due to COVID-19.
The Group has taken  into account the possible impact of COVID-19 in  preparation of financial statements, including its  assessment of recoverable value of its assets based  on internal and external information upto the date of  approval of these financial statements and current  indicators of future economic conditions.
(k) Leases   The Group evaluates if an arrangement qualifies  to be a lease as per the requirements of Ind AS 116.
Identification of a lease requires significant judgement.
The Group uses judgement in assessing whether a  contract (or part of contract) include a lease, the  lease term (including anticipated renewals), the  applicable discount rate, variable lease payments  whether are in-substance fixed.
The judgement  involves assessment of whether the asset included in  the contract is a fully or partly identified asset based  on the facts and circumstances, whether the contract  include a lease and non-lease component and if  so, separation thereof for the purpose of recognition  and measurement, determination of lease term  basis, inter alia the non-cancellable period of lease  and whether the lessee intends to opt for continuing  with the use of the asset upon the expiry thereof, and  whether the lease payments are fixed or variable or a  combination of both.
D.  Standards Issued but not Effective   On March 23, 2022, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs  (MCA) has notified Companies (Indian Accounting  Standards) Amendment Rules, 2022.
This notification  has resulted into amendments in the following existing  accounting standards which are applicable to  company from April 1, 2022.  i. Ind AS 101 – First time adoption of Ind AS  ii.
Ind AS 103 – Business Combination  iii.
Ind AS 109 – Financial Instrument  iv.
Ind AS 16 – Property, Plant and Equipment  v.  Ind AS 37 –Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and  Contingent Assets  vi.
Ind AS 41 – Agriculture   Application of above standards are not expected  to have any significant impact on the Group’s  financial statements.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 410 411 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 1.3 Capital work-in-Progress and Intangible Assets under Development include:  i)  ` 16,181 crore (Previous Year ` 13,697 crore) on account of Project Development Expenditure.
ii)  ` 10,153 crore (Previous Year ` 10,100 crore) on account of cost of construction materials at site.
1.4   Additions in Property, Plant & Equipment, Capital work-in-progress, Other Intangible Assets and Intangible Assets under  Development includes ` 749 crore (net loss) [Previous Year ` 279 crore (net gain)] on account of exchange difference  during the year.
1.5  For Assets pledged as security – Refer Note 16.1, 16.2 and 16.3.
( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March 2021 Units Amount Units Amount Big Tree Entertainment Private Limited - Compulsorily  Convertible Preference Shares Series C of ` 1,000 each 1,807 - 1,807 - Big Tree Entertainment Private Limited – Compulsorily  Convertible Preference Shares Series C1 of ` 10 each 3,61,400 - 3,61,400 - Big Tree Entertainment Private Limited - Compulsorily  Convertible Preference Shares Series D of ` 10 each 3,41,857 182 3,41,857 212 Dunzo Digital Private Limited - Compulsorly Convertible  Preference Shares Series F of ` 55 each 69,529 1,442 - - Two Platforms Inc 37,50,000 112 - - 19,383 17,859 In Preference shares - Unquoted, partly paid up NW18 HSN Holdings PLC – Class O Preference Shares of USD 0.2  each, paid up USD 0.05 each 12,75,367 - 12,75,367 - - - In Debentures or Bonds - Unquoted, fully paid up Ashwani Commercials Private Limited - Zero Coupon  Unsecured Optionally Fully Convertible Debentures of ` 10 each 13,55,90,000 136 13,55,90,000 136 136 136 In Share Warrant - Unquoted, partly paid up NW18 HSN Holdings PLC – Share Warrant of USD 10 each, paid  up USD 0.01 each 24,18,393 - 24,18,393 - - - In Limited Liability Partnership GenNext Ventures Investment Advisers LLP [ ` 31,64,755;  (Previous Year ` 31,17,337)] - - - - In Corpus of Trust Unquoted Investment in Corpus of Petroleum Trust 59,581 46,195 59,581 46,195 Total Investments in Associates 1,05,776 77,792 B.
Investment in Joint Ventures Investment measured at Cost (accounted  using Equity Method) In Equity Shares - Quoted, Fully paid up Alok Industries Limited of `1 each 1,98,65,33,333 158 1,98,65,33,333 263 In Equity Shares - Unquoted, Fully Paid Up Brooks Brothers India Private Limited of ` 10 each 2,45,00,000 19 2,45,00,000 15 Burberry India Private Limited of ` 10 each 2,23,22,952 42 2,23,22,952 38 Canali India Private Limited of ` 10 each 1,22,50,000 17 1,22,50,000 16 Dadri Toe Warehousing Private Limited of ` 10 each 2,43,43,661 24 2,39,45,276 24 Diesel Fashion India Reliance Private Limited of ` 10 each 5,65,95,000 16 5,65,95,000 15 D.E.
Shaw India Securities Private Limited of ` 10 each 1,07,00,000 1 1,07,00,000 1 Football Sports Development Limited of ` 10 each 14,85,711 100 14,85,711 131 Hathway Bhaskar CCN Multi Entertainment Private  Limited of ` 10 each 7,000 - 7,000 - Hathway Bhawani NDS Private Limited of ` 500 each  [ ` 26,67,096; (Previous Year ` 32,97,641)] 15,810 - 15,810 - Hathway Cable MCN Nanded Private Limited of ` 10 each 13,05,717 1 13,05,717 1 Hathway CBN Multinet Private Limited of ` 10 each - - 25,500 2 Hathway CCN Entertainment (India) Private Limited of ` 10 each - - 2,55,000 4 Hathway CCN Multinet Private Limited of ` 10 each - - 2,42,250 7 Hathway Channel 5 Cable and Datacom Private  Limited of ` 10 each 2,49,000 - 2,49,000 - Hathway Dattatray Cable Network Private Limited of ` 10 each 20,400 - 20,400 - Hathway Digital Saharanpur Cable & Datacom Private  Limited of ` 10 each 10,200 - 10,200 - ( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March 2021 Units Amount Units Amount 2.
Investments - Non-Current A.
Investment in Associates Investment measured at Cost (accounted  using Equity Method) In Equity Shares - Quoted, Fully paid up Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited of ` 10 each 68,60,064 221 68,60,064 210 GTPL Hathway Limited of ` 10 each 4,26,97,825 497 4,26,97,825 436 Sterling & Wilson Renewable Energy Limited of ` 1 each 7,58,77,334 2,812 - - 3,530 646 In Equity Shares - Unquoted, Fully paid up Big Tree Entertainment Private Limited of ` 10 each 17,04,279 - 17,04,279 - CCN DEN Network Private Limited of ` 10 each - - 20,40,000 - Clayfin Technologies Private Limited of ` 10 each 35,93,552 28 35,93,552 25 DEN ADN Network Private Limited of ` 10 each 19,38,000 4 19,38,000 3 Den Satellite Network Private Limited of ` 10 each 50,295 63 50,295 58 Eenadu Television Private Limited of ` 10 each 60,94,190 493 60,94,190 437 Gaurav Overseas Private Limited of ` 10 each [ ` 42,89,845;  (Previous Year ` 27,38,845)] 4,23,000 - 3,23,000 - Gujarat Chemical Port Limited of ` 1 each 64,29,20,000 645 64,29,20,000 538 Hathway VCN Cablenet Private Limited of ` 10 each [ ` 27,91,952;  (Previous Year ` 27,91,952)] 12,520 - 12,520 - Indian Vaccines Corporation Limited of ` 10 each [ ` 13,60,037;  (Previous Year ` 12,36,383)] 62,63,125 - 62,63,125 - NW18 HSN Holdings Plc.
of USD 0.2 each 92,62,233 - 92,62,233 - Pan Cable Services Private Limited of ` 10 each 10 - 10 - Reliance Europe Limited of Sterling Pound 1 each 11,08,500 41 11,08,500 41 Reliance Services and Holdings Limited of ` 10 each 50,000 21,557 50,000 11,854 Jamnagar Utilities & Power Private Limited Class A shares of ` 1  each [ ` 40,40,000; (Previous Year ` 40,72,000)] 52,00,000 - 52,00,000 - Vadodra Enviro Channel Limited of ` 10 Each [ ` Nil; (Previous  Year ` 1,43,020)] 14,302 - 14,302 - Vay Network Services Private Limited of ` 2 each [ ` Nil; (Previous  Year ` 39,00,000)] - - 19,57,413 - MM Styles Private Limited of ` 10 each 4,03,596 262 - - Future101 Design Private Limited of ` 10 each 5,658 33 - - Neolync Solutions Private Limited of ` 10 each 6,667 20 - - Ritu Kumar Fashion (LLC) of AED 1,000 each [ ` Nil] 147 - - - 23,146 12,956 In Preference Shares - Unquoted, Fully paid up Big Tree Entertainment Private Limited - Compulsorily  Convertible Preference Shares Series B of ` 1,000 each 1,156 - 1,156 - Reliance Services and Holdings Limited - 6% Non-Cumulative  Redeemable Preference Shares of ` 1,000 each 17,64,66,916 17,647 17,64,66,916 17,647 Big Tree Entertainment Private Limited – Compulsorily  Convertible Preference Shares Series B1 of ` 10 each 2,31,200 - 2,31,200 - Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 412 413 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements ( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March 2021 Units Amount Units Amount Hathway Ice Television Private Limited of ` 10 each 1,02,000 - 1,02,000 - Hathway Latur MCN Cable and Datacom Private Limited of ` 10  each [ ` 26,61,679; (Previous Year ` 12,11,163)] 51,000 - 51,000 - Hathway MCN Private Limited of ` 10 each 9,63,000 6 9,63,000 7 Hathway Sai Star Cable and Datacom Private  Limited of ` 10 each 68,850 2 68,850 9 Hathway Sonali OM Crystal Cable Private Limited of ` 10 each 68,000 8 68,000 1 Hathway Prime Cable & Datacom Private Limited of ` 10 each 2,29,500 - 2,29,500 - IBN Lokmat News Private Limited of ` 10 each 86,25,000 - 86,25,000 - Iconix Lifestyle India Private Limited of ` 10 each 52,86,250 132 25,05,000 39 India Gas Solution Private Limited of ` 10 each 2,25,00,000 152 2,25,00,000 9 Jio Payments Bank Limited of ` 10 each 18,45,20,000 86 16,24,00,000 88 Marks and Spencer Reliance India Private Limited (Class A  Shares of ` 10 each) 81,42,722 43 81,42,722 40 Marks and Spencer Reliance India Private Limited (Class C  Shares of ` 5 each) 9,51,16,546 170 9,51,16,546 160 Reliance Bally India Private Limited of ` 10 each 48,50,000 6 48,50,000 5 Reliance Paul & Shark Fashions Private Limited of ` 10 each 1,31,00,000 6 1,31,00,000 5 Reliance-GrandVision India Supply Private Limited of ` 10 each 1,35,00,000 5 1,35,00,000 5 Reliance-Vision Express Private Limited of ` 10 each 11,10,00,000 9 10,20,00,000 7 Pipeline Management Services Private Limited of ` 10 each 5,00,000 8 5,00,000 4 Ryohin-Keikaku Reliance India Private Limited of ` 10 each 2,88,12,000 15 2,48,92,000 16 TCO Reliance India Private Limited of ` 10 each 1,37,20,000 14 1,37,20,000 13 Ubona Technologies Private Limited of ` 10 each 10,821 10 10,821 5 CAA Global Brands Reliance Private Limited [ ` 47,050;  (Previous Year ` Nil)] 5,000 - - - Reliance Sideways Private Limited of ` 10 each [ ` 2,00,000;  (Previous Year ` 25,000)] 5,000 - 5,000 - Zegna South Asia Private Limited of ` 10 each 2,98,44,272 6 2,98,44,272 4 Ethane Crystal LLC Class A Share of $1 each 86,666 1 84,933 1 Ethane Emerald LLC Class A Share of $1 each 81,680 1 80,046 1 Ethane Opal LLC Class A Share of $1 each 81,545 1 79,914 1 Ethane Pearl LLC Class A Share of $1 each 87,021 1 85,280 1 Ethane Sapphire LLC Class A Share of $1 each 81,545 1 79,914 1 Ethane Topaz LLC Class A Share of $1 each 81,545 1 79,914 1 Ethane Crystal LLC Class C Share of $1 each 2,76,70,066 219 1,97,48,739 207 Ethane Emerald LLC Class C Share of $1 each 2,65,58,954 212 1,86,12,443 200 Ethane Opal LLC Class C Share of $1 each 2,48,80,086 200 1,85,81,663 189 Ethane Pearl LLC Class C Share of $1 each 2,64,80,720 211 1,98,29,430 199 Ethane Sapphire LLC Class C Share of $1 each 2,46,38,086 199 1,85,81,663 187 Ethane Topaz LLC Class C Share of $1 each 2,48,93,086 200 1,85,81,663 188 Sodium-ion Batteries Pty Limited of AUD $1.00 each 27,88,823 14 - - 2,159 1,847 In Preference Shares - Unquoted, Fully paid up IBN Lokmat News Private Limited – 0.10% Non-Cumulative  Redeemable Preference Shares Series "I" of ` 100 each 2,20,000 - 2,20,000 - IBN Lokmat News Private Limited – 0.10% Non-Cumulative  Redeemable Preference Shares Series "II" of ` 100 each 2,49,999 5 2,49,999 5 IBN Lokmat News Private Limited – 0.01% Optionally Convertible  Non-Cumulative Redeemable Preference Share Series  "II" of ` 100 each 1 - 1 - IBN Lokmat News Private Limited – 0.10% Non-Cumulative  Redeemable Preference Shares Series "III" of ` 100 each 20,35,250 5 20,35,250 7 Alok Industries Limited of `1 each - Preference Share 2,50,00,00,000 250 2,50,00,00,000 250 260 262 ( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March 2021 Units Amount Units Amount In Debentures or Bonds - Unquoted, fully paid up Indospace MET Logistics Park Farukhnagar Private Limited -  Non-Convertible Bonds of ` 10 each 49,400 5 - - Clarks Reliance Footwear Private Limited - 4.5% Optionally  Convertible Debentures of ` 10 each  5,10,00,000  51  -    -    56 - In Limited Liability Partnership Hathway SS Cable & Datacom LLP [ ` 5,88,980; (Previous  Year ` 11,52,820)] - - - - 316 262 Total Investments in Joint Ventures 2,633 2,372 C. Other Investments Investment measured at Amortised Cost In Government Securities - Unquoted 6 Years National Savings Certificate (Deposited with Sales Tax  Department and Other Government Authorities) [ ` 45,08,847;  (Previous Year ` 45,08,847)] - - - - - - In Debentures or Bonds - Quoted, Fully paid up Summit Digitel Infrastructure Private Limited – Secured  Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures of ` 10,00,000  each (Series 5) 53,360 5,372 1,18,360 11,880 5,372 11,880 In Debentures or Bonds - Unquoted, Fully paid up Jio Digital Fibre Private Limited – Secured Redeemable Non- Convertible Debentures of ` 10,00,000 each (Series PPD1) 60,000 6,035 60,000 6,000 Jio Digital Fibre Private Limited – Secured Redeemable Non- Convertible Debentures of ` 10,00,000 each (Series PPD2) 1,00,000 10,057 1,00,000 10,000 Jio Digital Fibre Private Limited – Secured Redeemable Non- Convertible Debentures of ` 10,00,000 each (Series PPD3) 93,420 9,396 93,420 9,342 25,488 25,342 In Preference Shares - Unquoted, Fully paid up 0% Redeemable, Non-Participating, Non-Cumulative and Non- Convertible Preference Shares of Summit Digitel Infrastructure  Private Limited of `10 each 5,00,00,000 14 - - 14 - In Others PTC - Master Trust 2019 Series I - 405 Marigold Trust 60 251 First Business Receivables Trust - 875 Tower Infrastructure Trust 56 56 116 1,587 Investment measured at Fair Value through Other  Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI) In Membership Interest of LLP - Unquoted Labs 02 Limited Partnership 47 29 First Close Partners I, LLP [ ` 22,30,050; (Previous Year ` Nil)] - - Breakthrough Energy Ventures II L.P. 129 21 176 50 In Membership Interest of LLC - Unquoted BreakThrough Energy Ventures LLC 612 199 612 199 In Preferred Shares - Unquoted, Fully paid up EdCast Inc - Series B 2,34,302 5 2,34,302 5 Krikey Inc - Series A 27,16,948 75 27,16,948 75 KaiOS Technologies PTE.
of USD 0.01 each 6,25,000 36 6,25,000 36 Netradyne Inc - Series A 1,50,75,708 442 1,91,34,355 276 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 414 415 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements ( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March 2021 Units Amount Units Amount Netradyne Inc - Series B 40,58,647 119 - - NexWafe GmbH - Series C 86,887 213 - - Homodeus Inc - Series B 2,94,118 2 2,94,118 2 892 394 In Preference Shares - Unquoted, Fully paid up Aeon Learning Private Limited - Series B compulsorily  convertible Preference Shares of ` 1 each 2 - 2 - Jio Digital Fibre Private Limited - 10% Optionally Convertible  Preference Shares of ` 10 Each 77,70,11,98,375 77,893 77,70,11,98,375 77,889 Jio Digital Fibre Private Limited - 10% Cumulative Redeemable  Preference Shares of ` 10 each 12,50,000 1 12,50,000 1 Summit Digitel Infrastructure Private limited – 0% Redeemable,  Non-Participating, Non-Cumulative and Non-Convertible  Preference Shares of ` 10 each - - 5,00,00,000 94 Karexpert Technologies Private Limited - Series A Preference  Shares of ` 20 each 22,222 10 22,222 10 Karexpert Technologies Private Limited - Series B Preference  Shares of ` 20 each 44,443 20 44,443 20 Pipeline Infrastructure Private Limited - 0.1% Compulsory  Convertible Preference Shares of ` 10 each 4,00,00,00,000 4,000 4,00,00,00,000 4,000 Pipeline Infrastructure Private Limited - 0.1% Redeemable  Preference Shares of ` 10 each 5,00,00,000 50 5,00,00,000 50 Eliph Nutrition Private Limited of ` 10 each 9,269 4 9,269 6 Teesta Retail Private Limited - 6% Non Cumulative Optionally  Convertible Preference Shares of ` 10 each 2,025 466 2,025 466 Altigreen Propulsion Labs Private Limited, Series A Compulsorily  Convertible Preference Shares of ` 100 each 34,000 50 - - 82,494 82,536 In Equity Shares - Quoted, Fully paid up Affinity Energy and Health Limited of AUD 0.1636 each - - 1,58,350 - Balaji Telefilms Limited of ` 2 each 2,52,00,000 179 2,52,00,000 144 EIH Limited of ` 2 each 11,77,60,869 1,821 11,77,60,869 1,095 Eros STX Global Corporation of GBP 0.30 each 31,11,088 4 31,11,088 41 Himachal Futuristic Communications Limited of ` 1 each 4,85,32,764 385 4,85,32,764 122 KSL and Industries Limited of ` 4 each [ ` 12,80,632; (Previous  Year ` 12,80,632)] 4,74,308 - 4,74,308 - Refex Industries Limited of ` 10 each 2,75,000 3 2,75,000 3 SMC Global Securities Limited of ` 2 each 11,35,670 9 11,35,670 8 Yatra Online Inc. of $ 0.0001 each 19,26,397 25 19,26,397 28  2,426 1,441 In Equity Shares - Unquoted, Fully Paid Up Ahmedabad Mega Clean Association of ` 10 each [ ` 1,00,000;  (Previous Year ` 1,00,000)] 10,000 - 10,000 - Aeon Learning Private Limited of ` 1 each [ ` 1,00,000; (Previous  Year ` 1,00,000)] 1,00,000 - 1,00,000 - 24x7 Learning Private Limited of ` 10 each 6,45,558 - 6,45,558 - DSE Estates Limited of ` 1 each 8,98,500 - 8,98,500 - Enercent Technologies Private Limited - - 21,000 3 Eshwar Land Private Limited of ` 10 each 400 - 400 - Future101 Design Private Limited of ` 10 each - - 2,019 14 Hathway Patiala Cable Private Limited of ` 10 each 71,175 3 71,175 3 KaiOS Technologies PTE.
Limited of USD 0.01 each 19,04,781 46 19,04,781 46 Eliph Nutrition Private Limited of ` 10 each [ ` 4,80,400; (Previous  Year ` 6,40,400)] 100 - 100 - MobileNXT Teleservices Private Limited of ` 10 each 3,01,876 - 3,01,876 - Petronet India Limited of ` 0.10 each [ ` 10,00,000; (Previous  Year ` 10,00,000)] 1,00,00,000 - 1,00,00,000 - ( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March 2021 Units Amount Units Amount Petronet VK Limited of ` 10 each [ ` 20,000; (Previous  Year ` 20,000)] 1,49,99,990 - 1,49,99,990 - Ushodaya Enterprises Private Limited of ` 100 each [ ` 27,50,000;  (Previous Year ` 27,50,000)] 27,500 - 27,500 - VAKT Holdings Limited of USD 0.001 each 58,009 58 39,894 39 Yatra Online Limited of ` 1 each 11,88,870 8 1,09,348 8 Ambri Inc. of $ 0.00001 each 4,23,44,173 372 - - 487 113 In Debentures or Bonds - Unquoted, Fully paid up Karkinos Health Care Private Limited - 0.1% Optionally  Convertible Debentures of ` 100 each 25,00,000 25 - 25 - In Debentures or Bonds - Quoted, Fully paid up 28,907 3,552 In Fixed Maturity Plan - Quoted, Fully Paid Up - 1,372 In Government Securities - Quoted 22,892 - In Units - Unquoted, fully paid up 2,924 2,206 Investments measured at Fair Value Through  Profit & Loss (FVTPL) In Equity Shares - Quoted, Fully paid up 158 - In Equity Shares - Unquoted, Fully paid up 360 491 In Preference Shares - Unquoted, Fully paid up - 375 In Debentures or Bonds - Quoted 328 - In Others Faering Capital India Evolving Fund of ` 1,000 each 11,66,581 347 11,66,581 160 GenNext Ventures Fund - Class A units of ` 10 each 1,33,58,384 26 1,98,58,351 78 IIFL Special Opportunities Fund Class A 5.1 of ` 10 each 4,95,06,919 52 4,95,06,919 57 JM Financial Property Fund – I of ` 3721 each (Previous  Year ` 3,721 each) 50,000 4 50,000 4 JMFRAC - Securities Receipt 3,40,000 26 3,40,000 26 KKR India Debt Fund I of ` 1,000 each 1,31,512 - 2,53,314 2 LICHFL Housing and Infrastructure Fund of ` 100 each 6,50,000 13 5,16,000 5 LICHFL Urban Development Fund of ` 10,000 each ` 2,975 paid  up (Previous Year ` 3,762 paid up) 25,000 3 25,000 7 Multiples Private Equity Fund - Scheme 1 of ` 1,00,000 each,  ` 5,145 paid up (Previous Year ` 16,971 each) 5,000 2 5,000 13 Multiples Private Equity Fund II LLP of ` 1,000 each 8,70,522 167 9,66,872 125 Paragon Partners Growth Fund - I of ` 100 each 43,27,809 79 45,43,052 62 Urban Infrastructure Opportunities Fund of ` 23,930 per unit  (Previous Year ` 27,430 each) 21,600 21 21,600 24 3one4 Capital Fund Scheme II of ` 1,00,000 fully paid up   (Previous Year ` 85,000 partly paid up) 2,000 68 2,000 30 Kalaari Capital Partners India IV of ` 1000 each 35,85,887 384 2,78,978 24 JMFARC - MARCH 2018 - Trust - Series I of ` 1,000 each 8,00,000 63 8,00,000 63 Nepean Focused Investment Fund - Class A of ` 1,00,000 each 2,10,893 2,101 - - CFMARC Trust 88 of ` 1000 each 70,95,948 710 - - 4,066 680 Total Other Investments 1,77,737 1,32,218 Total Non-Current Investments (A+B+C) 2,86,146 2,12,382 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 416 417 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements ( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2021 (Charge) / Credit  to Statement of  Profit and Loss ^ (Charge) /  Credit to Other  Comprehensive  Income Others (Including  Exchange  Difference) As at   31st March, 2022 Deferred Tax Assets (Net) in Relation to: Property, Plant and Equipment and Other  Intangible Asset (906) (281) - 30 (1,157) Financial Assets 71 - - (1) 70 Loan and Advances 1 - - - 1 Provisions 248 (13) - (1) 234 Disallowances 107 40 - (4) 143 Carried Forward Loss 1,762 (373) - 174 1,563 Others (136) 467 - (142) 189 Deferred Tax Assets (Net) 1,147 (160) - 56 1,043 Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net) in Relation to: Property, Plant and Equipment and Other  Intangible Asset 57,301 9,082 - (64) 66,319 Financial Assets and Others (7,089) 5,121 (422) (1) (2,391) Loan and Advances (30) (1) - - (31) Provisions (450) (72) (1) - (523) Disallowances 104 13 15 36 168 Carried Forward Losses (12,607) (1,172) - 103 (13,676) Others (228) 5 - 1 (222) Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net) 37,001 12,976 (408) 75 49,644 Net Deferred Tax Assets / (Liabilities) (35,854) (13,136) 408 (19) (48,601) ^  Refer Note 13 ( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 6.
Other Non-Current Assets (Unsecured and Considered Good)  Capital Advances 8,712 20,787  Security Deposits @ 3,180 3,194  Advance Income Tax (Net of Provision) # 5,926 5,104  Upfront Fibre Payment  14,980  15,500   Others *  28,390  20,392   Total 61,188 64,977 @  Includes Deposits of ` 485 crore (Previous Year ` 473 crore) given to Related Parties [Refer Note 33 (v)].
#  Refer Note 13 *  Includes device rights and advance for acquisition of Right-of-Use assets taken on lease.
( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 7.
Inventories  Raw Materials (Including Material in Transit) 17,177 15,200  Work-in-Progress * 33,985 27,781  Finished Goods 20,049 11,836  Stores and Spares 12,665 11,600  Stock-in-Trade 21,221 13,285  Others ^ 2,681 1,970  Total 1,07,778 81,672 * Includes land, development cost and inventory on completion of projects.
^  Includes Programming and Film Rights.
( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 3.
Loans – Non-Current (Unsecured and Considered Good)  Loans and Advances - to Others  1,588  1,117   Total  1,588  1,117  ( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 4.
Other Financials Assets - Non Current  Deposits with Related Parties [Refer Note 33 (v)]  520  519   Others *  1,857  848   Total  2,377  1,367  * Includes fair valuation of interest free deposits.
( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 5.
Deferred Tax  Component of Deferred Tax  Deferred Tax Assets (Net) 1,043 1,147  Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net) 49,644 37,001  Net Deferred Tax Assets / (Liabilities) (48,601)  (35,854) ( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 2.1 Category-wise Non Current Investments   Financial Assets measured at Cost  1,08,409  80,164    Financial Assets measured at Amortised Cost  30,990  38,809    Financial Assets measured at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive  Income (FVTOCI)  1,41,835  91,863    Financial Assets measured at Fair value through Profit & Loss (FVTPL)  4,912  1,546    Total Non-Current Investments (A+B+C)  2,86,146  2,12,382  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 418 419 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements ( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 8.
Investments - Current  Investment Measured at Amortised Cost  In Collateral Borrowing and Lending Obligation - Unquoted - 1,000 - 1,000  Investment Measured at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI)  In Fixed Maturity Plan - Quoted, Fully paid up 1,431 10,446  In Mutual Fund - Quoted 6,368 2,768  In Mutual Fund - Unquoted 63,527 95,006 71,326 1,08,220  Investment Measured at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss (FVTPL)  In Government Securities - Quoted 2,545 4,774  In Debentures or Bonds - Quoted, Fully Paid Up 89 1,961  In Mutual Fund - Quoted 474 3,238  In Treasury Bills - Quoted 10,819 13,161  In Certificate of Deposits - Unquoted 1,921 -  In Mutual Fund - Unquoted 20,944 20,092 36,792 43,226  Total Investments - Current 1,08,118 1,52,446 ( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 8.1 Category-Wise Investments – Current  Financial Assets measured at Amortised Cost - 1,000  Financial Assets measured at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 71,326 1,08,220  Financial Assets measured at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss 36,792 43,226  Total Investments - Current 1,08,118 1,52,446 ( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 9.
Trade Receivables (Unsecured and Considered Good)  Trade Receivables  23,640 19,014  Total  23,640 19,014  9.1  Trade Receivables ageing ( ` in crore) Outstanding for following periods   from due date of payment * Total Less than  6 Months 6 months -  1 year 1-2 year 2-3 year More than 3 years As at 31st March, 2022: Undisputed Trade Receivables – considered good 2,742 165 111 83 179 3,280 Undisputed Trade Receivables – which have  significant increase in credit risk - - - - - - Undisputed Trade Receivables – credit impaired - - - - - - Disputed Trade Receivables – considered good - - - - - - Disputed Trade Receivables – which have  significant increase in credit risk - - - - - - Disputed Trade Receivables – credit impaired - - - - - - Total 2,742 165 111 83 179 3,280 * Net of Provision ( ` in crore) Outstanding for following periods   from due date of payment * Total Less than  6 Months 6 months -  1 year 1-2 year 2-3 year More than 3 years As at 31st March, 2021: Undisputed Trade Receivables – considered good 5,572 300 219 383 44 6,518 Undisputed Trade Receivables – which have  significant increase in credit risk - - - - - - Undisputed Trade Receivables – credit impaired - - - - - - Disputed Trade Receivables – considered good - - - - - - Disputed Trade Receivables – which have  significant increase in credit risk - - - - - - Disputed Trade Receivables – credit impaired - - - - - - Total 5,572 300 219 383 44 6,518 * Net of Provision ( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 10.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash on Hand 144 91 Balances with Banks * 26,846 11,436 Others - Deposits / Advances 9,188 5,870 Cash and Cash Equivalents as per Balance Sheet 36,178 17,397 Cash and Cash Equivalents as per Cash Flow Statement 36,178 17,397 *  Includes Unclaimed Dividend of ` 202 crore (Previous Year ` 208 crore), Fixed Deposits of ` 15,501 crore (Previous Year ` 169 crore) with maturity  of more than 12 months and Fixed Deposits of ` 2,467 crore (Previous Year ` 2,683 crore) are given as collateral securities.
Principal amount of  these fixed deposits can be withdrawn or an equivalent amount can be availed against such deposits by the Company at any point of time  without prior notice or penalty.
( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 11.
Other Financial Assets - Current Deposits # 12,623  13,491  Call Money Receivable * -  39,843  Others ^ 11,273  7,790  Total 23,896  61,124  #  Include Deposits of ` 17 crore (Previous Year ` 17 crore) given to Related Parties [Refer Note 33 (v)].
* Refer Note 14.9 ^  Includes fair valuation of derivatives.
( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 12.
Other Current Assets (Unsecured and Considered Good) Balance with Customs, Central Excise, GST and State Authorities 31,342  26,638  Others ** 15,937  14,655  Total 47,279  41,293  ** Includes prepaid expenses, deposits, advance to vendors and claims receivable.
( ` in crore) Year Ended   31st March, 2022 Year Ended   31st March, 2021 13.
Taxation Income Tax Recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss Current Tax 3,161  2,205  Deferred Tax 13,136  (483) Total Income Tax Expenses 16,297  1,722  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 420 421 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements ( ` in crore) Year Ended   31st March, 2022 Year Ended   31st March, 2021 The income tax expenses for the year can be reconciled to the accounting  profit as follows: Profit Before Tax (Before Exceptional Item) 81,306 49,819 Applicable Tax Rate 34.944% 34.944% Computed Tax Expense 28,412 17,409 Tax Effect of: Exempted Income (1,599)  (157) Expenses Disallowed 7,730 6,417 Additional Allowances net of MAT Credit (22,820)  (14,882) Non-Taxable Subsidiaries and effect of Differential Tax Rate under various jurisdiction (3,333)  (2,184) Carried Forward Losses Utilised (5,478)  (4,261) Others 249  (137) Current Tax Provision (A) 3,161 2,205 Incremental Deferred Tax Liability on account of Property, Plant and Equipment and  Other Intangible Assets 2,352  8,034  Incremental Deferred Tax (Asset) / Liability on account of Financial Assets  and Other Items 10,784  (8,517) Deferred Tax Provision (B) 13,136  (483) Tax Expenses recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss (A+B) 16,297 1,722 Effective Tax Rate 20.04% 3.45% Tax on Exceptional Item ^ -  (13,801) ^  Refer Note 31 ( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 Advance Income Tax (Net of Provision) At start of the year 5,067 5,576 Charge for the year (3,161)  (2,205) Others * 158  (1,517) Tax paid during the year 3,797 3,213 At end of the year # 5,861 5,067 * Pertains to Provision for Tax on Other Comprehensive Income and Exceptional Item.
#  Refer Note 6 and Note 24 ( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 14.
Share Capital Authorised Share Capital: 14,00,00,00,000 Equity Shares of ` 10 each  14,000 14,000  (14,00,00,00,000) 1,00,00,00,000 Preference Shares of ` 10 each  1,000 1,000  (1,00,00,00,000) Total  15,000 15,000 Issued and Subscribed Capital: 6,76,59,94,014 Equity Shares of ` 10 each  6,766 6,339  (6,33,94,41,920)  -   Equity Shares of ` 10 each (Refer Note 14.9)  -    423   (42,26,26,894) Total  6,766 6,762 Paid Up Capital: 6,76,59,94,014 Equity Shares of ` 10 each, fully paid up  6,766 6,339  (6,33,94,41,920)  -   Equity Shares of ` 10 each, ` 2.5 paid up (Refer Note 14.9)  -   106  (42,26,26,894) Less: Calls unpaid (Refer Note 14.9)  (1)  -     Total  6,765  6,445  14.1 3,08,03,34,238  (3,08,03,34,238) Equity shares were allotted as fully paid Bonus Shares in the last five years by capitalisation of  Securities Premium and Capital Redemption Reserve 14.2 -  (42,26,26,894) Issued as partly paid shares under Right Issue (Refer Note 14.9) 14.3 41,31,91,759  (41,31,91,759) Shares held by Associates Figures in brackets represent Previous Year figures.
Name of the Shareholder As at   31st March, 2022 As at   31st March, 2021 No.
of Shares % held No.
of Shares % held  14.4   The details of shareholders holding more  than 5% shares: Srichakra Commercials LLP  73,95,99,829 10.93%  73,95,99,829 10.94% Devarshi Commercials LLP  54,55,69,460 8.06%  54,55,69,460 8.07% Karuna Commercials LLP  54,55,69,460 8.06%  54,55,69,460 8.07% Tattvam Enterprises LLP  54,55,69,460 8.06%  54,55,69,460 8.07% Life Insurance Corporation of India  41,35,42,219 6.11%  37,16,09,077 5.50%  14.5 Shareholding of Promoter Sr.  No.
Class of Equity Share Promoter’s Name No.
of shares at  the beginning  of the year Change  during the  year No.
of shares  at the end of  the year % of total  shares % change  during the  year As at 31st March, 2022 1 Fully paid-up equity  shares of ` 10 each Mukesh D. Ambani 75,00,000 5,52,020 80,52,020 0.12 - 2 Partly paid-up equity shares of  ` 10 each, ` 2.50 paid-up Mukesh D. Ambani 5,52,020 (5,52,020) - - - Total 80,52,020 - 80,52,020 0.12 - Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 422 423 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Sr.  No.
Class of Equity Share Promoter’s Name No.
of shares at  the beginning  of the year Change  during the  year No.
of shares  at the end of  the year % of total  shares % change  during the  year As at 31st March, 2021 1 Fully paid-up equity  shares of ` 10 each Mukesh D. Ambani 75,00,000  -   75,00,000 0.11 - 2 Partly paid-up equity shares of  ` 10 each, ` 2.50 paid-up Mukesh D. Ambani  -   5,52,020 5,52,020 0.01 0.01 Total 75,00,000  5,52,020 80,52,020 0.12 0.01 As at   31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 No.
of Shares No.
of Shares 14.6 The Reconciliation of the Number of Shares Outstanding is set out below: Equity Shares at the beginning of the year 6,76,20,68,814 6,33,92,67,510 Add: Shares issued on exercise of employee stock options 39,25,200 1,74,410 Add: Shares Issued on Rights Issue (Refer Note 14.9)  -   42,26,26,894 Equity Shares at the end of the year 6,76,59,94,014 6,76,20,68,814 14.7   Options granted under ESOS-2006 prior to withdrawal of scheme, continue to be governed by ESOS-2006.
There are no  options pending for vesting under ESOS-2006.
Pursuant to ‘Reliance Industries Limited Employees’ Stock Option Scheme  2017’ (ESOS-2017), 90,000 options have been granted to eligible employees during the year.
Options granted and remaining  to be vested as at the end of the year under ESOS-2017 is 3,90,000.
14.8  Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares:      The Company has only one class of equity shares having face value of ` 10 each.
The holder of the equity share is entitled  to dividend right and voting right in the same proportion as the capital paid-up on such equity share bears to the total  paid-up equity share capital of the Company.
The dividend proposed by Board of Directors is subject to approval of the  shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting, except in case of interim dividend.
In the event of liquidation of  the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive the remaining assets of the Company in the same  proportion as the capital paid-up on the equity shares held by them bears to the total paid-up equity share capital  of the Company.
14.9  Issue Of Shares Under Rights Issue:      The Company had, issued 42,26,26,894 equity shares of face value of ` 10/- each on right basis (‘Rights Equity Shares’).
In accordance with the terms of issue, ` 314.25 i.e.
25% of the Issue Price per Rights Equity Share, was received from the  concerned allottees on application and shares were allotted.
The Board has made First call of ` 314.25 per Rights Equity  Share (including a premium of ` 311.75 per share) in May, 2021 and  Second and Final call of ` 628.50 per Rights Equity  Share (including a premium of ` 623.50 per share) in November, 2021.As on March 31, 2022, an aggregate amount of  ` 81 crore is unpaid.
( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 15.
Other Equity Share Application Money Pending Allotment As per last Balance Sheet - 1 Issue of Shares / Application Money Received (Refer Note 15.1) - (1) - - Capital Reserve As per last Balance Sheet 291 291 Capital Redemption Reserve As per last Balance Sheet 50 50 Debenture Redemption Reserve As per last Balance Sheet 5,976 9,427 Transferred from / (to) Retained Earnings 524  (41) Transferred to General Reserve (1,795) (3,410) 4,705 5,976 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 Share Based Payments Reserve As per last Balance Sheet 737 18 On Employee Stock Options (303) 719 434 737 Statutory Reserve As per last Balance Sheet 689 561 Transferred from Retained Earnings 115 128 804 689 Securities Premium As per last Balance Sheet 74,508 61,395 Premium on Shares issued under Rights Issue (Refer Note 14.9)  39,527 13,104 On Employee Stock Options 841 9 Calls unpaid - Rights Issue (Refer Note 14.9) (80) -  1,14,796 74,508 Special Economic Zone Reinvestment Reserve As per last Balance Sheet 4,975 5,500 Transferred from / (to) Retained Earnings $ 4,135 (525) 9,110 4,975 General Reserve As per last Balance Sheet 2,58,426 2,55,016 Transfer from Debenture Redemption Reserve 1,795 3,410 2,60,221 2,58,426 Share Call Money Account As per last Balance Sheet 39,843 - Addition / (Reduction) during the year (Refer Note 14.9)  (39,843)  39,843  - 39,843 Retained Earnings As per last Balance Sheet 1,96,059 32,972 Profit for the year 60,705 49,128 Proceeds from fresh issue of equity by Subsidiaries - 1,18,170 Transfer of Foreign Currency Translation Reserve from OCI on  account of merger - (728) Others 258 -  2,57,022 1,99,542 Appropriations  Statutory Reserve  (115)  (128)  Transferred from / (to) Debentures Redemption Reserve  (524)  41   Transferred from / (to) Special Economic Zone    Reinvestment Reserve  (4,135)  525   Dividend on equity shares  (4,297)  (3,921)  (9,071)  (3,483)  2,47,951 1,96,059 Other Comprehensive Income * As per last Balance Sheet 1,12,173 77,596 Movement During the year 22,185 33,849 Transfer of Foreign Currency Translation Reserve to Retained  Earnings on account of Merger - 728 1,34,358 1,12,173 7,72,720 6,93,727 $  Considers Special Economic Zone Reinvestment Reserve created during the year of ` 5,040 (Previous Year ` 3,303 crore).
* Includes net movement in Foreign Currency Translation Reserve.
15.1   Share Application Money Pending Allotment represents application money received on account of Employees  Stock Option Scheme.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 424 425 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements ( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 Non-Current Current Non-Current Current 16.
Borrowings  Secured – At Amortised Cost  Non-Convertible Debentures 6,626 1,000 7,851 5,500  Term Loans - from Banks 2,157 227 2,419 1  Term Loans - from Others 5 - - - 8,788 1,227 10,270 5,501  Unsecured – At Amortised Cost  Non-Convertible Debentures 31,864 12,114 46,279 6,985  Bonds 55,549 605 25,256 11,560  Term Loans - from Banks 90,190 11,996 80,573 3,223  Term Loans - from Others 1,308 1,078 1,305 778 1,78,911 25,793 1,53,413 22,546  Total 1,87,699 27,020 1,63,683 28,047  16.1  Secured Non-Convertible Debentures Referred Above to the Extent of:    a)    ` 7,626 crore (Previous Year ` 13,351) are secured by hypothecation of all the movable plant and machinery, both present  and future, located at Hazira and Dahej Manufacturing Divisions of the Company.
16.2  Secured Term Loans from Banks Referred above to the Extent of:   a)   ` 2,293 crore (Previous Year ` 2,340 crore) are secured by way of a first ranking pari passu charge on all the Property, Plant  and Equipment (excluding land and / or any interest in the land) relating to the Project located at Jamnagar.
b)   ` 80 crore (Previous Year ` 80 crore) are secured on freehold property.
c)   ` 11 crore (Previous Year ` Nil) are secured by way of pari passu charge on current assets, movable and immovable  property and fixed deposits marked under lien.
16.3 Secured Term Loans from Others Referred above to the Extent of:   a) Term Loan from Others of ` 5 crore (Previous Year ` Nil) are secured by hypothecation of equipments.
16.4 Maturity Profile and Rate of Interest of Non-Convertible Debentures are as set out below:   a)  Secured: ( ` in crore) Rate of Interest Non-Current Current 2025-26 2024-25 2023-24 Total 2022-23 7.97%  -  -  -    1,000  8.00%  -  -  3,626  3,626  -    8.25%  1,000  1,000  1,000  3,000  -    Total  1,000  1,000  4,626  6,626  1,000    b)  Unsecured: ( ` in crore) Rate of Interest Non-Current * Current * Year of Maturity 2028-29 2026-27 2025-26 2024-25 2023-24 Total 2022-23 MIBOR+2.90%  -  -  -  -  3,600  3,600  -  REPO+2.80%  -  -  -  -  4,500  4,500  -  6.20%  -  5,000  -  -  -    5,000 - 6.95%  -  -  -  -  600  600  2,225  7.00%  -  -  -  -  -  -    5,000  7.05%  -  -  -  -  2,800  2,800  -  7.17%  -  -  -  -  -  -    4,900  7.20%  -  -  -  -  3,455  3,455  -  7.40%  -  -  1,990  -  -  1,990  -  8.65%  2,190  -  -  -  -  2,190  -  8.70%  800  -  -  -  -  800  -  8.95%  1,990  -  -  -  -  1,990  -  9.00%  -  -  -  850  -  850  -  9.05%  2,409  -  -  -  -  2,409  -  9.25%  -  -  -  1,742  -  1,742  -  Total 7,389 5,000 1,990 2,592 14,955 31,926 12,125 * Includes ` 39 crore (Non-Current ` 28 crore and Current ` 11 crore) as prepaid finance charges and ` 34 crore as revaluation gain.
16.5 Maturity Profile and Rate of Interest of Bonds are as set out below:   a)  Unsecured: ( ` in crore) Rate of  Interest Non-Current * Current * 2096-97 2061-62 2051-52 2046-47 2044-45 2040-41 2031-32 2027-28 2026-27 2025-26 2024-25 2023-24 Total 2022-23 1.87% - - - - - - - - - 147 147 147 441 147 2.06% - - - - - - - - - 145 145 145 435 145 2.44% - - - - - - - - - 163 163 163 489 163 2.51% - - - - - - - - - 171 171 171 513 171 2.88% - - - - - - 11,369 - - - - - 11,369 - 3.63% - - 13,264 - - - - - - - - - 13,264 - 3.67% - - - - - - - 6,063 - - - - 6,063 - 3.75% - 5,684 - - - - - - - - - - 5,684 - 4.13% - - - - - - - - - - 7,579 - 7,579 - 4.88% - - - - 5,684 - - - - - - - 5,684 - 6.25% - - - - - 3,790 - - - - - - 3,790 - 7.63% - - - - - - - 38 - - - - 38 - 8.25% - - - - - - - - 257 - - - 257 - 9.38% - - - - - - - - 168 - - - 168 - 10.25% 94 - - - - - - - - - - - 94 - 10.50% - - - 73 - - - - - - - - 73 - 94 5,684 13,264 73 5,684 3,790 11,369 6,101 425 626 8,205 626 55,941 626 * Includes ` 413 crore (Non-Current ` 392 crore and Current ` 21 crore) as prepaid finance charges.
16.6 Maturity Profile of Secured Term Loans are as set out below: ( ` in crore) Non-Current Current 1-5 years Above 5 years Total 1 year Term Loans - from Banks *  949 1,224 2,173 227 Term Loans - from Others  5  -    5  -    * Including ` 16 crore as prepaid finance charges.
16.7 Maturity Profile of Unsecured Term Loans are as set out below: ( ` in crore) Non-Current Current 1-5 years Above 5 years Total 1 year Term Loans - from Banks *  17,348  73,307  90,655  12,133  Term Loans - from Others  906  402  1,308  1,078 * Includes ` 588 crore (Non-Current ` 451 crore and Current ` 137 crore) as prepaid finance charges and ` 14 crore as revaluation gain.
Interest rates on term loans are in range of 0.31% to 8.34% (Previous Year 0.31% to 8.34%).
16.8 The Group has satisfied all the covenants prescribed in terms of borrowings.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 426 427 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements ( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 Non-Current Current Non-Current Current 17.
Deferred Payment Liabilities   Unsecured   Payable to Department of  Telecommunication ("DoT") ^ 37,184 - 18,837 -   Total 37,184 - 18,837 - ^   a)  The Group has prepaid deferred payment liability of ` 18,837 crore during the year against spectrum acquired up to 31st March, 2020.   b)  The deferred payment liability of ` 37,184 crore is payable in 16 equated annual instalments, after a moratorium of two years, commencing  from March, 2024.
( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 18.
Other Financial Liabilities - Non-Current  Other Payables ^ 12,024 14,616  Total 12,024 14,616 ^  Includes Interest Accrued but not due on Deferred Payment Liabilities, Deposits and Creditors for Capital Expenditure.
( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 19.
Provisions - Non-Current  Provision for Annuities 54 36  Provision for Decommissioning of Assets # 1,598 2,585  Others 201 4  Total 1,853 2,625 #   The movement in the provision is towards (i) Utilisation for Tapti facilities, (ii) changes in the exchange rates (iii) Unwinding of discount   (iv) change in estimate.
Provision for Decommissioning of Assets is for Tapti, KGD6 and CBM Block.
( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 20.
Borrowings – Current   Secured – At Amortised Cost   Working Capital Loans   From Banks     Foreign Currency Loans 479 30     Rupee Loans 3,585 3,246 4,064 3,276   Unsecured – At Amortised Cost   Other Loans and Advances   From Banks     Foreign Currency Loans 1,635 4,604     Rupee Loans 3,185 5,616 4,820 10,220   Commercial Paper ^ 42,622 46,505  Loans from Related Parties [Refer Note 33 (iii)] 80 80   Current maturities of Non-Current Borrowings  (Refer Note 16) 27,020 28,047   Total 78,606 88,128 ^   Maximum amount outstanding at any time during the year was ` 79,952 crore (Previous Year ` 79,032 crore).
20.1   a)  Working Capital Loans from Banks of ` 3,579 crore (Previous Year ` 2,981 crore) are secured by hypothecation of present and  future stock of raw materials, work-in-progress, finished goods, stores and spares (not relating to plant and machinery),  book debts, outstanding monies, receivables, claims, bills, materials in transit, etc.
save and except receivables of  Oil & Gas segment.
b) Working Capital Loans in foreign currency of ` 463 crore (Previous Year ` Nil) are secured on Leasehold property.
c)  Working Capital Loan from Bank of ` 4 crore (Previous Year ` Nil) are secured by way of collateral on Land and Building and  hypothecation of stocks / book debts.
d)  Working Capital Loan repayable on demand from Bank of ` 2 crore (Previous Year ` 65 crore) are secured by a first pari passu  charge over Property, Plant and Equipment and Current Assets.
e)  Working Capital Loan of ` 16 crore (Previous Year ` 230 crore) are secured by way of first charge on current assets and   fixed assets.
f) Refer Note 37 B (iv) for maturity profile.
g)  In respect of working capital loans, quarterly returns or statements of current assets filed by the Group with banks are in  agreement with the books of accounts.
h) The Group has satisfied all the covenants prescribed in terms of borrowings.
( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 21.
Trade Payables  Trade Payables 1,59,330 1,08,897  Total 1,59,330 1,08,897 21.1 Trade Payables Ageing ( ` in crore) Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment TotalLess than  1 year 1-2 year 2-3 year More than 3 year As at 31st March, 2022: MSME - - - - - Others 3,172 1,328 230 70 4,800 Disputed-MSME - - - - - Disputed-Others - - - - - Total 3,172 1,328 230 70 4,800 ( ` in crore) Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment TotalLess than  1 year 1-2 year 2-3 year More than 3 year As at 31st March, 2021: MSME - - - - - Others 8,620 713 125 129 9,587 Disputed-MSME - - - - - Disputed-Others - - - - - Total 8,620 713 125 129 9,587 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 22.
Other Financial Liabilities – Current  Interest accrued but not due on Borrowings 3,010 3,255  Unclaimed Dividend * 202 208  Unclaimed / Unpaid matured deposits and interest accrued thereon 2 2  Other Payables # 41,330 40,174  Total 44,544 43,639 *  Does not include any amount due and outstanding, to be credited to Investor Education and Protection Fund except ` 2 crore   (Previous Year ` 2 crore) which is held in abeyance due to legal cases pending.
#   Includes Creditors for Capital Expenditure, Security Deposit and Financial Liability at Fair Value.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 428 429 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 23.
Other Current Liabilities  Contract Liabilities 2,172 16,023  Other Payables ^ 19,412 17,011  Total 21,584 33,034 ^  Includes statutory dues.
( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 24.
Provisions – Current  Provision for Employee Benefits (Refer Note 28.1) * 1,131 874  Provision for Income Tax (Net of Advance Tax) ^ 65 37  Other Provisions @ 740 1,593  Total 1,936 2,504 * Includes gratuity, annual leave and vested long service leave entitlement accrued.
^  Refer Note 13 @  Includes Provision for Customs Duty, Excise Duty on Finished Goods and Other Duties and Taxes.
( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 25.
Revenue from Operations  Disaggregated Revenue  Oil to Chemicals  4,79,083 3,01,587  Oil and Gas  4,952 1,596  Retail  1,70,942 1,33,935  Digital Services  12,041 13,691  Financial Services  748 1,109  Others  53,868 34,408  Total * ^  7,21,634 4,86,326 * Net of GST.
^  Includes Income from Services.
Revenue from contract with customers differ from the revenue as per contracted price due to factors such as taxes recovered,  volume rebate, discounts, hedge etc.
( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 26.
Other Income  Interest   Bank Deposits 99  213    Debt instruments 11,463  9,408     Other Financial Assets measured  at Amortised Cost 790  589    Others 177  156  12,529  10,366   Dividend Income 41  39   Other Non-Operating Income 1,025  958   Gain on Financial Assets   Realised Gain 1,139  5,066    Unrealised Gain / (Loss) 213 (102) 1,352  4,964   Total 14,947  16,327  Above includes income from assets measured at Cost / Amortised cost of ` 4,904 crore (Previous Year ` 5,913 crore), income from  assets measured at Fair value through Profit and Loss of ` 1,441 crore (Previous Year ` 3,540 crore) and income from assets measured  at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income of ` 7,577 crore (Previous Year ` 5,505 crore).
( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 26.1  Other Comprehensive Income – Items that will not be reclassified to  Profit and Loss  Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plan 227 80  Equity Instruments through OCI 27,306 37,437  Total 27,533 37,517 ( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 26.2  Other Comprehensive Income – Items that will be reclassified to Profit and Loss  Debentures or Bonds (67) (203)  Debt Income Fund (695) (574)  Fixed Maturity Plan (371) 81  Commodity Hedge 91 504  Cash Flow Hedge (1,499) 2,727  Government Securities (121) (152)  Foreign Currency Translation 78 (1,119)  Total (2,584) 1,264 ( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 27.
Changes in Inventories of Finished Goods,  Work-in-Progress and Stock-in-Trade   Inventories (At Close)   Finished Goods / Stock-in-Trade 41,270 25,121   Work-in-Progress * 30,388 24,079 71,658 49,200   Inventories (At Commencement)   Finished Goods / Stock-in-Trade 25,121 23,151   Work-in-Progress 24,079 16,984 49,200 40,135  Capitalised during the year (33) (50)   Opening Stock of Subsidiaries acquired  during the year 942 51  Others 92 - 50,201 40,136   Total (21,457) (9,064) * Excludes inventory on completion of Projects.
( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 28.
Employee Benefits Expense  Salaries and Wages 15,729  12,556   Contribution to Provident and Other Funds  1,106  884   Staff Welfare Expenses  1,940  1,377   Total 18,775  14,817  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 430 431 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements  28.1  As per Indian Accounting Standard 19 – “Employee Benefits”, the Disclosures as Defined are given below: ( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 Defined Contribution Plan I)  Contribution to Defined Contribution Plan, recognised as expense for the  year is as under:  Employer’s Contribution to Provident Fund 473  370   Employer’s Contribution to Superannuation Fund 35  32   Employer’s Contribution to Pension Scheme 298  225  ( ` in crore) Gratuity (Funded) Gratuity (Unfunded) 2021-22 2020-21 2021-22 2020-21 Defined Benefit Plan  II)  Reconciliation of opening and closing  balances of Defined Benefit Obligation   Defined Benefit Obligation at  beginning of the year 1,248 1,219 423 348  On Acquisition / Transfers / Others  97  (2) 4 32   Current Service Cost 70 103 85 80   Interest Cost 89 83 18 24   Actuarial (Gain) / Loss  43  (28)  22  (45)   Benefits Paid *  (115)  (104)  (33)  (16)   Liability Transferred Out  (3)  (23)  -    -      Defined Benefit Obligation at  end of the year 1,429 1,248 519 423 * Includes benefits of ` 106 crore (Previous Year ` 93 crore) paid directly by Employer Entities.
( ` in crore) Gratuity (Funded) 2021-22 2020-21 III) Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of Fair Value of Plan Assets  Fair Value of Plan Assets at beginning of the year 1,241 1,166  On Acquisition / Transfers / Others 241 (1)  Expected Return on Plan Assets 99 83  Actuarial Gain / (Loss) (1) -  Employer Contribution 150 27  Benefits Paid (9) (11)  Asset Transferred Out (4) (23)  Fair Value of Plan Assets at end of the year 1,717 1,241 ( ` in crore) Gratuity (Funded) Gratuity (Unfunded) As at 31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 As at 31st March, 2022 As at  31st March, 2021 IV)  Reconciliation of Fair Value of Assets  and Obligations   Fair Value of Plan Assets 1,717 1,241 - -   Present Value of Obligation 1,429 1,248 519 423   Amount recognised in Balance Sheet  Surplus / (Deficit) 288 (7) (519) (423) ( ` in crore) Gratuity (Funded) Gratuity (Unfunded) 2021-22 2020-21 2021-22 2020-21 V)  Expenses recognised during the year   In Income Statement   Current Service Cost 70 103 85 80   Interest Cost 89 83 18 24   Return on Plan Assets  (103)  (79)  -    -      Net Cost  56  107  103  104    In Other Comprehensive Income   Actuarial (Gain) / Loss  42  (28)  22  (45)   Return on Plan Assets  4  (4)  -    -      Net (Income) / Expense for  the year recognised in Other  Comprehensive Income  46  (32)  22  (45) As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 (` in crore) % Invested (` in crore) % Invested VI) Investment Details  Government of India Securities 1 0.06 7 0.56  Insurance Policies 1,716 99.94 1,234 99.44  Total 1,717 100.00 1,241 100.00 ( ` in crore) Mortality Table (IALM) Gratuity (Funded) Gratuity (Unfunded) 2021-22 2012-14 (Ultimate) 2020-21 2006-08 (Ultimate) 2021-22 2012-14 (Ultimate) 2020-21 2006-08 (Ultimate) VII) Actuarial Assumptions   Discount Rate (per annum) 7.09% 6.95% 7.09% 6.95%   Expected Rate of Return on Plan  Assets (per annum) 7.09% 6.95% 7.09% 6.95%   Rate of Escalation in Salary (per annum) 6.00% p.a.
4.00% p.a.
for the  next 1 year, 6.00%  p.a.
thereafter 6.00% p.a.
4.00% p.a.
for the  next 1 year, 6.00%  p.a.
thereafter The estimates of Rate of Escalation in salary considered in actuarial valuation, take into account inflation, seniority,  promotion and other relevant factors including supply and demand in the employment market.
The above information is  certified by the actuary.
The Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets is determined considering several applicable factors, mainly the  composition of Plan Assets held, assessed risks, historical results of return on Plan Assets and the Group’s policy for Plan  Assets Management.
VI II) The expected contributions for Defined Benefit Plan for the next financial year will be in line with financial year 2021-22.
IX)  These plan’s typically expose the Group to actuarial risks such as: Investment Risk, Interest Risk, Longevity Risk  and Salary Risk.
Investment Risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated using a discount rate which is  determined by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting period on government bonds.
Interest Risk A decrease in the bond interest rate will increase the plan liability; however, this will be partially offset  by an increase in the return on the plan's debt investments.
Longevity Risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the best estimate  of the mortality of plan participants both during and after their employment.
An increase in the life  expectancy of the plan participants will increase the plan's liability.
Salary Risk The present value of the defined plan liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of plan  participants.
As such, an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan's liability.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 432 433 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements  28.2 Share Based Payments   1) Reliance Industries Limited   a) Scheme Details     The Company has Employee Stock Option Schemes i.e.
ESOS-2006 and ESOS-2017 under which options have been  granted at the various exercise prices to be vested from time to time on the basis of performance and other eligibility  criteria.
Details of number of options outstanding have been tabulated below: Financial Year (Year of Grant) Number of Options Outstanding Financial Year   of Vesting Range of  Exercise price ( `) Range of Fair value  at Grant Date (`)As At  31st March 2022 As at  31st March 2021 1) ESOS - 2006  i) Details of Employee Stock Options granted upto 31 st March, 2015 but not vested as on 1 st April, 2015   2008-09 - 1,200 2015-16 & 2016-17 322.30 156.20 - 164.90   Sub total - 1,200  ii)  Details of Employee Stock Options granted from 1 st April, 2015 to 31 st March, 2021   2016-17 - 24,000 2017-18 to 2020-21 548.00 149.80 - 204.50   Sub total - 24,000 2) ESOS - 2017   i) Details of Employee Stock Options granted from 1 st April, 2020 to 31 st March, 2021   2020-21 3,00,000 42,00,000 2021-22 to 2024-25 10.00 2,133.40-2,151.90   2021-22 90,000 - 2022-23 to 2025-26 10.00 2,595.20-2,613.30   Sub total 3,90,000 42,00,000  Total 3,90,000 42,25,200      Exercise Period would commence from the date of Vesting and would expire not later than seven years from the  Grant Date or such other period as may be decided by the Human Resources, Nomination and Remuneration  Committee of the Board.
b) Compensation expenses arising on account of the Share Based Payments ( `  in crore)  Year ended   31st March, 2022 Year ended  31st March, 2021 Expenses arising from equity – settled share-based payment transactions                                         - 0.02    c) Fair Value on the grant date     The fair value at grant date is determined using “Black Scholes Model” which takes into account the exercise price, term  of the option, share price at grant date and expected price volatility of the underlying shares, expected dividend yield  and the risk free interest rate for the term of the option.
During the year, 90,000 options were granted under ESOS-2017.
The model inputs for options granted during the year  ended 31st March, 2017, 31 st March, 2021 and 31 st March, 2022 included as mentioned below.
ESOS - 2006 ESOS - 2017 a)  Weighted average exercise price ` 1,096 ` 10 ` 10 b) Grant date: 05.10.2016 & 10.10.2016 05.10.2020 30.03.2022 c) Vesting year: 2017-18 to 2020-21 2021-22 to 2024-25 2022-23 to 2025-26 d) Share Price at grant date: ` 1,089 at 05.10.2016;   ` 1,096 at 10.10.2016 ` 2,212 ` 2,673 e) Expected price volatility of Company's share: 25.1% to 26.5% 30.2% to 31.9% 30.7% to 33% f)  Expected dividend yield: 1.07% 0.60% 0.49% g) Risk free interest rate: 7.00% 5.1% to 5.6% 5.86% to 6.34%    The expected price volatility is based on the historic volatility (based on remaining life of the options).
d) Movement in share options during the year: As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 Number of   share options Weighted average  exercise price Number of   share options Weighted average  exercise price Balance at the beginning of the year 42,25,200 13.14 2,29,540  380.59  Granted during the year  90,000 10.00 42,00,000  10.00  Exercised during the year  (39,25,200) 13.38  (1,74,410) 368.18 Expired / Lapsed during the year  -   -  (29,930) 321.00 Balance at the end of the year 3,90,000 10.00 42,25,200 13.14     Weighted average remaining contractual life of the share option outstanding at the end of year is 2,138 days (Previous  Year 2,370 days).
2) Jio Platforms Limited   a) Scheme Details     Jio Platforms Limited has introduced Employee Stock Option Scheme ESOS - 2020 under which options have been  granted at the exercise price of ` 10 per share to be vested over a period of five years from the date of grant based on  performance and other eligibility criteria.
Details of number of options outstanding have been tabulated below: Financial Year  (Year of Grant) Number of Options Outstanding Financial Year of  Vesting Range of  Exercise price ( `) Range of Fair  value at Grant  Date (`) As at   31st March, 2022 As at   31st March 2021 1) ESOS - 2020  i) Details of Employee Stock Options granted from 1 st April, 2020 to 31 st March, 2021   2020-21 1,33,60,000  2,07,00,000 2021-22 to 2025-26 10.00 541.20 - 542.30   2021-22 1,18,375 2022-23 to 2028-29 10.00 541.20 - 542.30   Sub total  1,34,78,375  2,07,00,000      Exercise Period would commence from the date of Vesting and would expire not later than seven years from the Grant  Date or such other period as may be decided by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
b) Fair Value on the grant date     The fair value at grant date is determined using “Black Scholes Model” which takes into account the exercise price, term  of the option, share price at grant date and expected price volatility of the underlying shares, expected dividend yield  and the risk free interest rate for the term of the option.
During the current year 1,18,375 options were granted under ESOS - 2020.
The model inputs for options granted during the  year ended 31 st March, 2022 included as mentioned below.
ESOS - 2020 a) Weighted average exercise price ` 10 b) Grant date: 05.10.2020 & 01.07.2021 c) Vesting year: 2021-22 to 2028-29 d) Share Price at grant date: ` 549.31 at 01.07.2021 `  549.31 at 05.10.2020 e) Expected price volatility of Company's share: 33.79% to 36.25% f) Risk free interest rate: 5.1% to 6.0%    The expected price volatility is based on the historic volatility (based on remaining life of the options).
c) Movement in share options during the year: As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 Number of   share options Weighted average   exercise price Number of   share options Weighted average   exercise price Balance at the beginning of the year  2,07,00,000  10.00  Exercised during the year  (73,40,000)  10.00  Granted during the year  1,18,375  10.00  2,07,00,000  10.00  Balance at the end of the year  1,34,78,375  10.00  2,07,00,000  10.00      Weighted average remaining contractual life of the share option outstanding at the end of year is 2,015 days (Previous  Year 2,370 days).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 434 435 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements ( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 29.
Finance Costs  Interest Expenses * 13,420 17,135  Interest on Lease Liabilities 1,018 772  Other Borrowing Costs 17 65  Applicable loss on foreign currency transactions and translation 129 3,217  Total 14,584 21,189 * Net of Interest Capitalised of ` 4,873 crore (Previous Year ` 4,588 crore).
( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 30.
Other Expenses   Manufacturing Expenses   Stores, Chemicals and Packing Materials 7,655 5,422   Electric Power, Fuel and Water 17,902 13,214   Labour Processing, Production Royalty and  Machinery Hire Charges 1,129 436   Repairs to Building 200 147   Repairs to Machinery 1,570 862   Exchange Difference (Net) 440 (713)   Excise Duty * (40) 241   Lease Rent 48 179 28,904 19,788   Land Development and  Construction Expenditure 222 190   Selling and Distribution Expenses   Warehousing and Distribution Expenses 10,576 8,503   Sales Tax / VAT 1,290 617   Other Selling and Distribution Expenses 5,402 4,175 17,268 13,295   Establishment Expenses   Professional Fees 1,626 1,486   Network Operating Expenses 24,513 21,319   Access Charges (Net) 709 4,543   Regulatory Charges 8,904 7,848   General Expenses 6,108 4,829   Programming and Telecast Related Expenses 2,410 1,782   Rent 578 599   Insurance 1,073 613   Rates and Taxes 1,105 680   Other Repairs 950 923   Travelling Expenses 365 236   Payment to Auditors 84 64   Loss on Sale / Discard of Property, Plant and  Equipment and Other   Intangible Assets 135 53   Charity and Donations 1,590 1,410 50,150 46,385   Less: Transferred to Project  Development Expenditure 729 989   Total 95,815 78,669 *  Excise Duty shown under manufacturing expenditure represents the aggregate of excise duty borne by the Group and difference between  excise duty on opening and closing stock of finished goods.
( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 30.1  Payment to Auditors As:  (a) Fees as Auditors *  73  54   (b) Tax Audit Fees  2  2   (c) Fees for Other Services  8  9   (d) Cost Audit Fees  1  1   Total  84  66  * Includes ` Nil (Previous Year ` 2 crore), in the nature of rights issue expenses accounted in Securities Premium Account.
Fees for Other Services includes certification fees paid to auditors.
Statute and other Regulations require auditors to certify  export / import documentation and transfer pricing among others.
30.2 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)   (a)  CSR amount required to be spent by the Companies within the Group as per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 read  with Schedule VII thereof during the year is ` 1,112 crore (Previous Year ` 1,102 crore).
(b) Expenditure related to Corporate Social Responsibility is ` 1,186 crore (Previous Year ` 1,140 crore).
( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 Rural Transformation  107 122 Health (including COVID -19)  783 361 Education  225 532 Sports For Development  32 50 Disaster Response (including COVID -19)  30 72 Arts, Culture, Heritage and Urban Renewal  9 3 Total  1,186  1,140    (c)  Out of Note (b) above, ` 866 crore (Previous Year ` 552 crore) is contributed to Reliance Foundation, ` 22 crore (Previous  Year ` 20 crore) to Reliance Foundation Youth Sports and ` 142 crore (Previous Year ` 375 crore) to Reliance Foundation  Institution of Education and Research which are related parties.
( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 Amount Amount Amount 31.
Exceptional Items (Net of Tax) a) Sale of Marcellus Assets - Ensign JV 2,872  -    b) Net gain on sale of investments (net of tax) -  4,966  c) Impairment of Assets of Shale Gas Entities -  (15,691) Recognition of Deferred Tax Asset relating to Shale  Gas Investments  -   15,570 Sub Total (c) -  (121) d) Sale of Marcellus Assets - Chevron JV -  850  e) Provisions for liabilities pertaining to erstwhile  subsidiary - GAPCO (36)  (53) Total 2,836 5,642   For the year ended 31 st March, 2022  a)  During the year, Reliance Eagleford Upstream Holding, LP (“REUHLP”) a wholly owned step-down subsidiary of Reliance  Industries Limited (“RIL”), signed agreements with Ensign Operating III, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company to divest  its interest in certain upstream assets in the Eagleford shale play of Texas, USA.
With this transaction, RIL has divested all its  shale gas assets and has exited from the shale gas business in North America.
This transaction resulted into an Exceptional  Gain on sale of assets amounting ` 2,872 crore (part of Oil & Gas segment).
For the year ended 31 st March, 2021  b)  Net gain on sale of investments with respect to Reliance BP Mobility Limited (Part of O2C segment) of ` 4,966 crore (net of  taxes of ` 1,508 crore).
c)   Due to the adverse changes in market environment, reduction in activity by operator and recent operational performance,  the Shale Gas subsidiaries (Part of Oil & Gas segment) have impaired their assets including unavoidable costs based on  contractual commitments, totaling to ` 15,691 crore.
This is in accordance with the requirements of Ind AS 36 – Impairment of  Assets, as the carrying amount of an investment exceeds its recoverable amount.
Further, the Company has also recognised  Deferred Tax Assets of ` 15,570 crore in respect of the difference between the book base and tax base of the Shale Gas  Operations, in accordance with Ind AS 12 – Income Tax.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 436 437 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements  d)  On February 3, 2021 Reliance Marcellus LLC (RMLLC, Part of Oil & Gas segment) divested its interest in upstream assets  (Chevron JV / EQT JV) in the Marcellus shale play of south-western Pennsylvania by signing a definitive agreement with  Northern Oil and Gas Inc. (NOG).
The sale is for a cash consideration of $ 250 million (with net adjustment of $ 13 million  pertaining to revenues and expenses subsequent to the effective date of July 1, 2020) and warrants that give entitlement to  purchase 3.25 million shares of NOG, valued at $ 17.6 million.
This transaction has resulted into a net gain of ` 850 crore.
( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 32.
Earnings Per Share ( EPS )   Face Value per Equity Share ( `) 10 10   Basic Earnings Per Share ( `) – After Exceptional Item 92.00 76.37   Basic Earnings per Share ( `) – Before Exceptional Item 87.71 67.60   Net Profit after Tax as per Statement of Profit and Loss attributable to Equity  Shareholders (After adjusting Non Controlling Interest) ( ` in crore) - After  Exceptional Item 60,705 49,128   Net Profit after Tax as per Statement of Profit and Loss attributable to Equity  Shareholders (After adjusting Non Controlling Interest) ( ` in crore) - Before  Exceptional Item 57,869 43,486   Weighted Average number of Equity Shares used as denominator for  calculating Basic EPS 6,59,81,11,978 6,43,28,74,848   Diluted Earnings per Share ( `) – After Exceptional Item 90.85 75.21   Diluted Earnings per Share ( `) – Before Exceptional Item 86.61 66.57   Net Profit after Tax as per Statement of Profit and Loss attributable to Equity  Shareholders (After adjusting Non Controlling Interest) ( ` in crore) - After  Exceptional Item 60,705 49,128   Net Profit after Tax as per Statement of Profit and Loss attributable to Equity  Shareholders (After adjusting Non Controlling Interest) ( ` in crore) - Before  Exceptional Item 57,869 43,486   Weighted Average number of Equity Shares used as denominator for  calculating Diluted EPS 6,68,16,52,444 6,53,21,38,901   Reconciliation of Weighted Average Number of Shares Outstanding   Weighted Average number of Equity Shares used as denominator for  calculating Basic EPS ^ 6,59,81,11,978 6,43,28,74,848   Total Weighted Average Potential Equity Shares * 8,35,40,466 9,92,64,053   Weighted Average number of Equity Shares used as denominator for  calculating Diluted EPS 6,68,16,52,444 6,53,21,38,901 ^  Refer Note 14.9 * Dilutive impact of Employee Stock Option Scheme and Partly paid Rights Issue Shares.
33.
Related Parties Disclosures  (i) List of Related Parties with relationships Sr.  No.
Name of the Related Party Relationship 1 Ashwani Commercials Private Limited Associates 2 Atri Exports Private Limited 3 Big Tree Entertainment DMCC 4 Big Tree Entertainment Lanka Private Limited 5 Big Tree Entertainment Private Limited 6 Big Tree Entertainment Singapore PTE.
Limited 7 Big Tree Sport & Recreational Events Tickets Selling L.L.C 8 BookmyShow Live Private Limited 9 Bookmyshow SDN.
BHD.
10 BookmyShow Venues Management Private Limited 11 Carin Commercials Private Limited 12 CCN DEN Network Private Limited # 13 Centura Agro Private Limited 14 Chander Commercials Private Limited 15 Clayfin Technologies Private Limited Sr.  No.
Name of the Related Party Relationship 16 Creative Agrotech Private Limited Associates 17 DEN ABC Cable Network Ambarnath Private Limited 18 DEN ADN Network Private Limited 19 DEN New Broad Communication Private Limited 20 Den Satellite Network Private Limited 21 DL GTPL Broadband Private Limited 22 DL GTPL Cabnet Private Limited 23 Dunzo Digital Private Limited @ 24 Dunzo Merchant Services Private Limited @ 25 Dyulok Technologies Private Limited 26 East West Pipeline Limited 27 Eenadu Television Private Limited 28 Einsten Commercials Private Limited 29 Enercent Technologies Private Limited ^ 30 Esterlina Solar – Proyecto Cinco, S.L.
@ 31 Esterlina Solar – Proyecto Cuatro, S.L.
@ 32 Esterlina Solar – Proyecto Diez, S.L.
@ 33 Esterlina Solar – Proyecto Dos, S.L.
@ 34 Esterlina Solar – Proyecto Nueve, S.L.
@ 35 Esterlina Solar – Proyecto Ocho, S.L.
@ 36 Esterlina Solar – Proyecto Seis, S.L.
@ 37 Esterlina Solar – Proyecto Siete, S.L.
@ 38 Esterlina Solar – Proyecto Tres, S.L.
@ 39 Esterlina Solar – Proyecto Uno, S.L.
@ 40 Esterlina Solar Engineers Private Limited @ 41 Fame Agro Private Limited 42 Fantain Sports Private Limited 43 Foodfesta Wellcare Private Limited 44 Future101 Design Private Limited @ 45 Gaurav Overseas Private Limited 46 GCO Solar Pty.
Ltd. @ 47 GenNext Ventures Investment Advisers LLP 48 GTPL Abhilash Communication Private Limited 49 GTPL Ahmedabad Cable Network Private Limited # 50 GTPL Anjali Cable Network Private Limited # 51 GTPL Bansidhar Telelink Private Limited 52 GTPL Bariya Television Network 53 GTPL Bawa Cable 54 GTPL Blue Bell Network Private Limited # 55 GTPL Broadband Private Limited 56 GTPL Crazy Network 57 GTPL Dahod Television Network Private Limited 58 GTPL DCPL Private Limited 59 GTPL Deesha Cable Net Private Limited # 60 GTPL Hathway Limited 61 GTPL Insight Channel Network Private Limited 62 GTPL Jay Santoshima Network Private Limited 63 GTPL Jaydeep Cable 64 GTPL Junagadh Network Private Limited 65 GTPL Jyoti Cable 66 GTPL Kaizen Infonet Private Limited ^  Entities converted to subsidiaries during the year.
@  Relationships established during the year.
#  Ceased to be related party during the year.
#  Ceased to be related party during the year.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 438 439 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Sr.  No.
Name of the Related Party Relationship 67 GTPL KCBPL Broad Band Private Limited Associates 68 GTPL Khambhat Cable Network 69 GTPL Khusboo Video Channel 70 GTPL Kolkata Cable & Broad Band Pariseva Limited 71 GTPL Leo Vision 72 GTPL Link Network Private Limited 73 GTPL Lucky Video Cable 74 GTPL Ma Bhagawati Entertainment Services 75 GTPL Media Entertainment # 76 GTPL Meghana Distributors Private Limited # 77 GTPL Narmada Cable Services 78 GTPL Narmada Cyberzone Private Limited 79 GTPL Parshwa Cable Network Private Limited 80 GTPL Parth World Vision 81 GTPL Sai Vision # 82 GTPL Sai World Channel 83 GTPL Sharda Cable Network Private Limited # 84 GTPL Shiv Cable Network 85 GTPL Shiv Cable # 86 GTPL Shreenathji Communication 87 GTPL SK Network Private Limited 88 GTPL SK Vision 89 GTPL SMC Network Private Limited 90 GTPL Solanki Cable Network Private Limited 91 GTPL Sorath Telelink Private Limited 92 GTPL Surat Telelink Private Limited # 93 GTPL Swastik Communication 94 GTPL Tridev Cable Network 95 GTPL TV Tiger Private Limited # 96 GTPL V & S Cable Private Limited 97 GTPL Vidarbha Tele Link Private Limited # 98 GTPL Video Badshah Private Limited # 99 GTPL Video Vision Private Limited # 100 GTPL Vision Services Private Limited 101 GTPL Vraj Cable 102 GTPL VVC Network Private Limited 103 GTPL World View Cable 104 GTPL World Vision 105 GTPL Zigma Vision Private Limited 106 Gujarat Chemical Port Limited 107 Hathway VCN Cablenet Private Limited 108 Honeywell Properties Private Limited 109 Indian Vaccines Corporation Limited 110 Jaipur Enclave Private Limited 111 Jamnagar Utilities & Power Private Limited 112 Kaniska Commercials Private Limited 113 KCIPI Trading Company Private Limited 114 Konark IP Dossiers Private Limited 115 Marugandha Land Developers Private Limited 116 MM Styles Private Limited @ 117 N.C. Trading Company Private Limited Sr.  No.
Name of the Related Party Relationship 118 Neolync India Private Limited @ Associates 119 Neolync Solutions Private Limited @ 120 Netravati Commercials Private Limited 121 Noveltech Agro Private Limited 122 NW18 HSN Holdings PLC 123 Pan Cable Services Private Limited 124 Parinita Commercials Private Limited 125 Pepino Farms Private Limited 126 Petroleum Trust 127 Prakhar Commercials Private Limited 128 Preebee Lifestyle Private Limited @ 129 PT Big Tree Entertainment Indonesia 130 Rakshita Commercials Private Limited 131 Reliance Europe Limited 132 Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited 133 Reliance Services and Holdings Limited 134 Ritu Kumar Fashion (LLC) @ 135 Rocky Farms Private Limited 136 Scod18 Networking Private Limited # 137 Shree Salasar Bricks Private Limited 138 Sikka Ports & Terminals Limited 139 SpaceBound Web Labs Private Limited 140 Sterling and Wilson (Thailand) Limited @ 141 Sterling and Wilson Engineering (Pty) Ltd. @ 142 Sterling and Wilson International LLP @ 143 Sterling and Wilson International Solar FZCO @ 144 Sterling and Wilson Kazakhstan, LLP @ 145 Sterling and Wilson Middle East Solar Energy LLC @ 146 Sterling and Wilson Renewable Energy Limited @ 147 Sterling and Wilson Saudi Arabia Limited @ 148 Sterling and Wilson Singapore Pte Ltd @ 149 Sterling And Wilson Solar Australia Pty.
Ltd. @ 150 Sterling and Wilson Solar LLC @ 151 Sterling and Wilson Solar Malaysia Sdn.
Bhd.
@ 152 Sterling and Wilson Solar Solutions Inc. @ 153 Sterling and Wilson Solar Solutions, LLC @ 154 Sterling and Wilson Solar Spain, S.L.
@ 155 Sterling Wilson - SPCPL - Chint Moroccan Venture @ 156 Townscript PTE.
Ltd, Singapore 157 Townscript USA, Inc. 158 TribeVibe Entertainment Private Limited 159 Two Platforms Inc. @ 160 Vadodara Enviro Channel Limited 161 Vay Network Services Private Limited # 162 Vishnumaya Commercials Private Limited 163 Alok Industries International Limited Joint Ventures 164 Alok Industries Limited 165 Alok Infrastructure Limited 166 Alok International (Middle East) FZE 167 Alok International Inc. 168 Alok Singapore PTE Limited @  Relationships established during the year.
#  Ceased to be related party during the year.
@  Relationships established during the year.
#  Ceased to be related party during the year.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 440 441 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Sr.  No.
Name of the Related Party Relationship 169 Alok Worldwide Limited Joint Ventures 170 Brooks Brothers India Private Limited 171 Burberry India Private Limited 172 CAA-Global Brands Reliance Private Limited @ 173 Canali India Private Limited 174 Clarks Reliance Footwear Private Limited (Formerly known as Clarks Future Footwear  Private Limited) @ 175 D. E. Shaw India Securities Private Limited 176 Diesel Fashion India Reliance Private Limited 177 Ethane Crystal LLC 178 Ethane Emerald LLC 179 Ethane Opal LLC 180 Ethane Pearl LLC 181 Ethane Sapphire LLC 182 Ethane Topaz LLC 183 Football Sports Development Limited 184 Grabal Alok International Limited 185 Hathway Bhaskar CCN Multi Entertainment Private Limited 186 Hathway Bhawani NDS Network Limited 187 Hathway Cable MCN Nanded Private Limited 188 Hathway CBN Multinet Private Limited # 189 Hathway CCN Entertainment (India) Private Limited # 190 Hathway CCN Multinet Private Limited # 191 Hathway Channel 5 Cable and Datacom Private Limited 192 Hathway Dattatray Cable Network Private Limited 193 Hathway ICE Television Private Limited 194 Hathway Latur MCN Cable & Datacom Private Limited 195 Hathway MCN Private Limited 196 Hathway Prime Cable & Datacom Private Limited 197 Hathway Sai Star Cable & Datacom Private Limited 198 Hathway Sonali OM Crystal Cable Private Limited 199 Hathway SS Cable & Datacom LLP 200 IBN Lokmat News Private Limited 201 Iconix Lifestyle India Private Limited 202 India Gas Solutions Private Limited 203 Indospace MET Logistics Park Farukhnagar Private Limited (Formerly known as Dadri Toe  Warehousing Private Limited) 204 Jio Payments Bank Limited 205 Marks and Spencer Reliance India Private Limited 206 Mileta a.s. 207 Pipeline Management Services Private Limited 208 Reliance Bally India Private Limited 209 Reliance Paul & Shark Fashions Private Limited 210 Reliance Sideways Private Limited 211 Reliance-GrandVision India Supply Private Limited 212 Reliance-Vision Express Private Limited 213 Ryohin-Keikaku Reliance India Private Limited 214 Sodium-ion Batteries Pty Limited @ 215 TCO Reliance India Private Limited 216 Ubona Technologies Private Limited 217 Zegna South Asia Private Limited @  Relationships established during the year.
#  Ceased to be related party during the year.
Sr.  No.
Name of the Related Party Relationship 218 Shri Mukesh D. Ambani Key  Managerial Personnel 219 Shri Nikhil R. Meswani 220 Shri Hital R. Meswani 221 Shri P. M. S. Prasad 222 Shri P. K. Kapil 223 Shri Alok Agarwal  224 Shri Srikanth Venkatachari 225 Shri K. Sethuraman # 226 Smt.
Savithri Parekh 227 Smt.
Nita M. Ambani Relative of Key  Managerial Personnel 228 Dhirubhai Ambani Foundation Enterprises over  which Key Managerial  Personnel are  able to exercise  significant influence 229 Hirachand Govardhandas Ambani Public Charitable Trust 230 Sir Hurkisondas Nurrotamdas Hospital and Research Centre 231 Sir HN Hospital Trust 232 Jamnaben Hirachand Ambani Foundation 233 Reliance Foundation 234 Reliance Foundation Institution of Education and Research 235 Reliance Foundation Youth Sports 236 IPCL Employees Gratuity Fund - Baulpur Unit Post Employment   Benefit Plans 237 IPCL Employees Provident Fund Trust 238 Reliance Employees Provident Fund Bombay 239 Reliance Industries Limited Employees Gratuity Fund 240 Reliance Industries Limited Staff Superannuation Scheme 241 Reliance Industries Limited Vadodara Units Employees Superannuation Fund 242 Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited Employees Gratuity Fund 243 Reliance Retail Limited Employees Gratuity Fund 244 Reliance Retail Limited Employees Provident Fund 245 RIL Vadodara Unit Employees Gratuity Fund #  Ceased to be related party during the year  (ii) Transactions during the year ended March 31, 2022 with Related Parties: ( ` in crore) Sr.  No.
Nature of Transactions (Excluding Reimbursements) Associates /  Joint Ventures Key Managerial  Personnel / Relative Others Total 1 Purchase of Property, Plant and Equipment and Other  Intangible Assets 141 - - 141 47 - - 47 2 Purchase / Subscription of Investments 204 - - 204 146 - - 146 3 Sale / Redemption of Investments - - - - 339 - - 339 4 Payment of Call Money on Equity Shares 2 160 - 162 1 54 - 55 5 Loans and Advances, Deposits Given 77 - - 77 7 - - 7 6 Loans and Advances, Deposits Returned 86 - - 86 35 - - 35 7 Revenue from Operations 4,845 - 42 4,887 1,931 - 9 1,940 8 Other Income 22 - 5 27 45 - 4 49 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 442 443 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements ( ` in crore) Sr.  No.
Nature of Transactions (Excluding Reimbursements) Associates /  Joint Ventures Key Managerial  Personnel / Relative Others Total 9 Purchases / Material Consumed 2,872 - - 2,872 1,655 - 1 1,656 10 Electric Power, Fuel and Water 4,517 - - 4,517 4,782 - - 4,782 11 Hire Charges 113 - - 113 46 - - 46 12 Employee Benefits Expense 6 - 644 650 - - 583 583 13 Payment to Key Managerial Personnel / Relative - 97 - 97 - 99 - 99 14 Selling and Distribution Expenses 2,279 - - 2,279 2,114 - - 2,114 15 Rent 16 - - 16 15 - - 15 16 Professional Fees 11 - - 11 36 - - 36 17 Programming and Telecast Related Expenses 31 - - 31 39 - - 39 18 General Expenses * 30 - 6 36 13 - 6 19 19 Donations - - 1,138 1,138 - - 1,021 1,021 20 Finance Cost 1 - - 1 3 - - 3 Figures in italic represents balance as on 31st March, 2021.
* Does not include sitting fees of non-executive director.
(iii) Balances as on March 31, 2022 with Related Parties: ( ` in crore) Sr.  No.
Nature of Balances Associates /  Joint Ventures Key Managerial  Personnel / Relative Others Total 1 Investments 1,08,409 - - 1,08,409 80,164 - - 80,164 2 Trade Receivables 852 - 2 854 634 - 2 636 3 Loans and Advances 1 - - 1 23 - - 23 4 Deposits 1,022 - - 1,022 1,009 - - 1,009 5 Unsecured Loans 80 - - 80 80 - - 80 6 Trade and Other Payables 1,268 - 5 1,273 997 - - 997 7 Other Financial Assets 17 - - 17 14 - - 14 8 Financial Guarantees - - - - 110 - - 110 Figures in italic represents balance as on 31st March, 2021.
(iv) Disclosure in respect of Major Related Party Transactions during the year March 31, 2022 ( ` in crore)  Particulars Relationship 2021-22 2020-21 1  Purchase of Property, Plant and Equipment and Other  Intangible Assets   Eenadu Television Private Limited Associate 4 -   Football Sports Development Limited Joint Venture 55 -   Jamnagar Utilities & Power Private Limited Associate 80 42   Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate - 1   Sikka Ports & Terminals Limited Associate 2 4 2  Purchase / Subscription of Investments   Actoserba Active Wholesale Limited (Formerly known as  Actoserba Active Wholesale Private Limited) # Associate - 128   Clarks Reliance Footwear Private Limited (Formerly known  as Clarks Future Footwear Private Limited) Joint Venture 51 -   Enercent Technologies Private Limited ^ Associate 4 -   Future101 Design Private Limited Associate 4 -   Iconix Lifestyle India Private Limited Joint Venture 89 -   India Gas Solutions Private Limited Joint Venture - 8   Indospace MET Logistics Park Farukhnagar Private Limited  (Formerly known as Dadri Toe Warehousing Private Limited) Joint Venture 5 -   Jio Payments Bank Limited Joint Venture 22 -   Neolync Solutions Private Limited Associate 20 -   Reliance Paul & Shark Fashions Private Limited Joint Venture - 1   Reliance-Vision Express Private Limited Joint Venture 6 8   Ryohin-Keikaku Reliance India Private Limited Joint Venture 3 1 3  Sale / Redemption of Investments   Petroleum Trust Associate - 239   Reliance Services and Holdings Limited Associate - 100 4  Payment of Call Money on Equity Shares   Shri Mukesh D. Ambani Key Managerial Personnel 52 18   Shri Nikhil R. Meswani Key Managerial Personnel 21 7   Shri Hital R. Meswani Key Managerial Personnel 20 7   Shri P. M. S. Prasad Key Managerial Personnel 4 1   Shri P. K. Kapil [ ` 33,30,736; (Previous Year ` 11,10,145)] Key Managerial Personnel - -   Shri Alok Agarwal Key Managerial Personnel 9 3   Shri Srikanth Venkatachari Key Managerial Personnel 2 1   Shri K. Sethuraman [ ` 2,77,797; (Previous Year ` 2,77,797)] * Key Managerial Personnel - -   Smt.
Nita M. Ambani Relative of Key  Managerial Personnel 52 17   Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate 2 1 5  Loans and Advances, Deposits Given   Chander Commercials Private Limited Associate 20 -  GTPL Hathway Limited Associate  1  -    Gujarat Chemical Port Limited Associate 1 -   Honeywell Properties Private Limited Associate 30 -   Kaniska Commercials Private Limited Associate 3 7   Parinita Commercials Private Limited Associate 22 - 6 Loans and Advances, Deposits Returned   Ashwani Commercials Private Limited Associate 4 2   CCN DEN Network Private Limited Associate 18 -   Chander Commercials Private Limited Associate 23 -   DEN ADN Network Private Limited Associate 4 2   Gujarat Chemical Port Limited Associate - 23  Hathway ICE Television Private Limited Joint Venture  1  -    Hathway Sai Star Cable & Datacom Private Limited Joint Venture - 1 ^  Entities converted to subsidiaries during the year.
#  Entities converted to subsidiaries during the previous year.
* Ceased to be related party during the year.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 444 445 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements ( ` in crore)  Particulars Relationship 2021-22 2020-21   Honeywell Properties Private Limited Associate 35 -  Prakhar Commercials Private Limited Associate  1  -    Reliance Services and Holdings Limited Associate - 7 7  Revenue from operations   Alok Industries Limited Joint Venture 3,083 1,455   Big Tree Entertainment Private Limited Associate 1 -   Brooks Brothers India Private Limited Joint Venture 9 5   Burberry India Private Limited Joint Venture 2 2   Canali India Private Limited Joint Venture 4 2   CCN DEN Network Private Limited Associate 1 3   Clarks Reliance Footwear Private Limited (Formerly known  as Clarks Future Footwear Private Limited) Joint Venture 2 -   DEN ADN Network Private Limited Associate 1 1   DEN New Broad Communication Private Limited Associate 2 1   Den Satellite Network Private Limited Associate 21 21   Diesel Fashion India Reliance Private Limited Joint Venture 10 5   DL GTPL Cabnet Private Limited Associate 8 7   Eenadu Television Private Limited Associate 10 4   Football Sports Development Limited Joint Venture 29 1   GTPL Broadband Private Limited Associate 15 -   GTPL Hathway Limited Associate 126 107   GTPL Kolkata Cable & Broad Band Pariseva Limited Associate 60 25   Gujarat Chemical Port Limited Associate 11 4   Hathway Bhawani NDS Network Limited Joint Venture - 1   Hathway Cable MCN Nanded Private Limited Joint Venture 7 7   Hathway CCN Entertainment (India) Private Limited Joint Venture 1 1   Hathway CCN Multinet Private Limited Joint Venture 1 -   Hathway Dattatray Cable Network Private Limited Joint Venture 1 1   Hathway Latur MCN Cable & Datacom Private Limited Joint Venture 5 5   Hathway MCN Private Limited Joint Venture 15 15   Hathway Sai Star Cable & Datacom Private Limited Joint Venture 7 8   Sir HN Hospital Trust Others 2 1   IBN Lokmat News Private Limited Joint Venture 1 1   Iconix Lifestyle India Private Limited Joint Venture 3 3   India Gas Solutions Private Limited Joint Venture 847 7   Jamnaben Hirachand Ambani Foundation Others 1 1   Jamnagar Utilities & Power Private Limited Associate 258 107   Jio Payments Bank Limited Joint Venture 7 16   Konark IP Dossiers Private Limited Associate 1 -   Marks and Spencer Reliance India Private Limited Joint Venture 47 39   Net 9 Online Hathway Private Limited Joint Venture - 1   Pipeline Management Services Private Limited Joint Venture - 4   Reliance Bally India Private Limited Joint Venture 3 1   Reliance Foundation Others 37 7   Reliance Foundation Institution of Education and Research Others 1 -   Reliance Foundation Youth Sports Others 1 -   Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate 1 1   Reliance Paul & Shark Fashions Private Limited Joint Venture 2 1   Reliance-Vision Express Private Limited Joint Venture 4 2   RISE Worldwide Limited # Joint Venture - 9   Ryohin-Keikaku Reliance India Private Limited Joint Venture 5 3   Sikka Ports & Terminals Limited Associate 227 51   TCO Reliance India Private Limited Joint Venture 3 2   Ubona Technologies Private Limited Joint Venture 2 - ( ` in crore)  Particulars Relationship 2021-22 2020-21   Zegna South Asia Private Limited Joint Venture 2 2 8  Other Income   Clarks Reliance Footwear Private Limited (Formerly known  as Clarks Future Footwear Private Limited) Joint Venture 1 -   DEN ADN Network Private Limited Associate 1 1   GTPL Hathway Limited Associate - 13   Gujarat Chemical Port Limited Associate 15 12   Sir HN Hospital Trust Others 1 1   IBN Lokmat News Private Limited Joint Venture 1 2   Jamnaben Hirachand Ambani Foundation Others 4 3   Jamnagar Utilities & Power Private Limited Associate 1 2   Pipeline Management Services Private Limited Joint Venture - 6   Reliance Europe Limited Associate - 1   Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate 2 2   RISE Worldwide Limited # Joint Venture - 5   Sikka Ports & Terminals Limited Associate 1 1 9  Purchases / Material Consumed   Alok Industries Limited Joint Venture 92 51   Ashwani Commercials Private Limited Associate 1 -   Brooks Brothers India Private Limited Joint Venture 14 5   Canali India Private Limited Joint Venture 2 2   Clarks Reliance Footwear Private Limited (Formerly known  as Clarks Future Footwear Private Limited) Joint Venture 4 -   Diesel Fashion India Reliance Private Limited Joint Venture 11 4   Gujarat Chemical Port Limited Associate 142 175   Sir HN Hospital Trust Others - 1   India Gas Solutions Private Limited Joint Venture 1,094 -   Jamnagar Utilities & Power Private Limited Associate 25 5   Jio Payments Bank Limited Joint Venture 4 -   Marks and Spencer Reliance India Private Limited Joint Venture 26 10   Reliance Bally India Private Limited Joint Venture 3 1   Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate 22 23   Reliance Paul & Shark Fashions Private Limited Joint Venture 2 2   Reliance-Vision Express Private Limited Joint Venture 1 -   Ryohin-Keikaku Reliance India Private Limited Joint Venture 11 1   Sikka Ports & Terminals Limited Associate 1,417 1,375   Zegna South Asia Private Limited Joint Venture 1 1 10  Electric Power, Fuel and Water   Jamnagar Utilities & Power Private Limited Associate 4,503 4,767   Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate 14 15 11  Hire Charges   Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate 12 4   Sikka Ports & Terminals Limited Associate 101 42 12  Employee Benefits Expense   Alok Industries Limited Joint Venture 6 -   Sir HN Hospital Trust Others 42 13   IPCL Employees Provident Fund Trust Others * 126 132   Reliance Employees Provident Fund Bombay Others * 279 286   Reliance Industries Limited Staff Superannuation Scheme Others * 19 18   Reliance Industries Limited Vadodara Units Employees  Superannuation Fund Others * 1 2   Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited Employees Gratuity Fund Others * - 13   Reliance Retail Limited Employees Gratuity Fund Others * 26 14   Reliance Retail Limited Employees Provident Fund Others * 151 105 * Also includes employee contribution.
#  Entities converted to subsidiaries during the previous year.
#  Entities converted to subsidiaries during the previous year.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 446 447 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements ( ` in crore)  Particulars Relationship 2021-22 2020-21 13  Payment to Key Managerial Personnel / Relative   Shri Nikhil R. Meswani Key Managerial Personnel 24 24   Shri Hital R. Meswani Key Managerial Personnel 24 24   Shri P. M. S. Prasad Key Managerial Personnel 12 12   Shri P. K. Kapil Key Managerial Personnel 4 4   Shri Alok Agarwal Key Managerial Personnel 12 11   Shri Srikanth Venkatachari Key Managerial Personnel 15 17   Shri K. Sethuraman * Key Managerial Personnel 2 3   Smt.
Savithri Parekh Key Managerial Personnel 2 2   Smt.
Nita M. Ambani Relative of Key  Managerial Personnel 2 2 14  Selling and Distribution Expenses   CCN DEN Network Private Limited Associate 1 3   DEN ADN Network Private Limited Associate 2 2   Den Satellite Network Private Limited Associate 8 9   DL GTPL Cabnet Private Limited Associate 5 4   Eenadu Television Private Limited Associate 1 1   GTPL Hathway Limited Associate 105 58   GTPL Kolkata Cable & Broad Band Pariseva Limited Associate 46 11   Gujarat Chemical Port Limited Associate 66 62   Hathway Sai Star Cable & Datacom Private Limited Joint Venture 1 1   IBN Lokmat News Private Limited Joint Venture 1 -   Jio Payments Bank Limited Joint Venture - 1   Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate 4 -   RISE Worldwide Limited # Joint Venture - 1   Sikka Ports & Terminals Limited Associate 2,039 1,961 15  Rent   Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate 16 15 16  Professional Fees   GenNext Ventures Investment Advisers LLP Associate - 1   Reliance Europe Limited Associate 11 26   Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate - 9 17  Programming and Telecast Related Expenses   Big Tree Entertainment Private Limited Associate - 2   Eenadu Television Private Limited Associate 16 12   Hathway Cable MCN Nanded Private Limited Joint Venture 2 2   Hathway Dattatray Cable Network Private Limited Joint Venture 1 1   Hathway Latur MCN Cable & Datacom Private Limited Joint Venture 1 2   Hathway MCN Private Limited Joint Venture 7 7   Hathway Sai Star Cable & Datacom Private Limited Joint Venture 2 2   IBN Lokmat News Private Limited Joint Venture 2 2   RISE Worldwide Limited # Joint Venture - 9 18  General Expenses   Alok Industries Limited Joint Venture 1 1   Ashwani Commercials Private Limited Associate - 2   DEN ADN Network Private Limited Associate 1 -   Iconix Lifestyle India Private Limited Joint Venture 16 -   Sir HN Hospital Trust Others 1 6   Jamnagar Utilities & Power Private Limited Associate - 1   Reliance Foundation Others 5 -   Sikka Ports & Terminals Limited Associate 8 5   Vadodara Enviro Channel Limited Associate 2 2   Zegna South Asia Private Limited Joint Venture 2 2 ( ` in crore)  Particulars Relationship 2021-22 2020-21 19  Donations   Hirachand Govardhandas Ambani Public Charitable Trust Others 3 3   Jamnaben Hirachand Ambani Foundation Others 101 49   Reliance Foundation Others 870 567   Reliance Foundation Institution of Education and Research Others 142 382   Reliance Foundation Youth Sports Others 22 20 20  Finance Cost   Reliance Europe Limited Associate 1 3  (v) Disclosure in respect of Major Related Party Balances as on 31 st March, 2022 ( ` in crore) Particulars Relationship 2021-22 2020-21 1 Loans and Advances CCN DEN Network Private Limited Associate - 18 DEN ADN Network Private Limited Associate - 4 GTPL Hathway Limited Associate 1 -  Hathway ICE Television Private Limited Joint Venture - 1 2 Deposits Ashwani Commercials Private Limited Associate 57 61 Atri Exports Private Limited Associate 19 19 Carin Commercials Private Limited Associate 77 77 Centura Agro Private Limited Associate 10 10 Chander Commercials Private Limited Associate 32 35 Creative Agrotech Private Limited Associate 15 15 Einsten Commercials Private Limited Associate 36 36 Fame Agro Private Limited Associate 3 3 Gaurav Overseas Private Limited Associate 17 17 Gujarat Chemical Port Limited * Associate 49 48 Honeywell Properties Private Limited Associate 45 50 Jaipur Enclave Private Limited Associate 4 4 Jamnagar Utilities & Power Private Limited * Associate 118 118 Kaniska Commercials Private Limited Associate 40 37 Marugandha Land Developers Private Limited Associate 5 5 Netravati Commercials Private Limited Associate 6 6 Noveltech Agro Private Limited Associate 3 3 Parinita Commercials Private Limited Associate 28 6 Pepino Farms Private Limited Associate 1 1 Prakhar Commercials Private Limited Associate 29 30 Rakshita Commercials Private Limited Associate 6 6 Rocky Farms Private Limited Associate 29 29 Shree Salasar Bricks Private Limited Associate 33 33 Sikka Ports & Terminals Limited * Associate 353 353  Vishnumaya Commercials Private Limited Associate 7 7 3 Financial Guarantees  Reliance Europe Limited Associate - 110 * Fair value of deposit as per Accounting Standard.
#  Entities converted to subsidiaries during the previous year.
* Ceased to be related party during the year.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 448 449 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 33.1 Compensation of Key Managerial Personnel   The compensation of directors and other member of Key Managerial Personnel during the year was as follows: ( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 I  Short-Term benefits 93 95 II  Post Employment benefits 2 2 Total 95 97 34.1 Disclosure of Group’s interest in Oil and Gas Joint Arrangements (Joint Operations): Sr.  No.
Name of the Fields in the  Joint Arrangement (Joint  Operations) Company’s % Interest Partners and their Participating Interest (PI) Country 2021-22 2020-21 1 Mid and South Tapti 30.00% 30.00% BG Exploration & Production India Limited - 30% India Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited - 40% 2 NEC - OSN - 97/2 66.67% 66.67% BP Exploration (Alpha) Limited - 33.33% India 3 KG - DWN - 98/3 66.67% 66.67% BP Exploration (Alpha) Limited - 33.33% India 4 KG-UDWHP-2018/1 60.00% 60.00% BP Exploration (Alpha) Limited.
- 40% India 5 EFS JDA Partnership  - * 49.26% USA * Sold during the year.
34.2 Quantities of Group’s Interest (on Gross Basis) in Proved Reserves and Proved Developed Reserves: Particulars Reserves in India Reserves outside India (North America) Proved Reserves (Million MT **) Proved Developed  Reserves (Million MT **) Proved Reserves (Million MT **) Proved Developed  Reserves (Million MT **) 2021-22 2020-21 2021-22 2020-21 2021 2020 2021 2020 Oil: Opening Balance 3.24 3.24  -    -   5.29 10.00 1.69 2.45 Revision of estimates  0.09  -    0.08  -    (0.37)  (4.28)  1.00  (0.33) Production  (0.02)  -    (0.02)  -    (0.37)  (0.43)  (0.37)  (0.43) Sale during the Year  -    -    -    -    (4.55)  -    (2.32)  -    Closing Balance 3.31 3.24  0.06  -    -   5.29  -   1.69 ** 1 MT = 7.5 bbl Particulars Reserves in India Reserves outside India (North America) Proved Reserves (Million MT $) Proved Developed  Reserves (Million MT $) Proved Reserves (Million MT $) Proved Developed  Reserves (Million MT $) 2021-22 2020-21 2021-22 2020-21 2021 2020 2021 2020 Gas: Opening Balance 57,739 58,526 24,277 9,225 17,806 34,245 13,769 17,209 Revision of estimates  (3) 1  7,643 15,840  (183)  (14,552)  742  (1,553) Production  (4,525)  (788)  (4,525)  (788)  (253)  (1,887)  (253)  (1,887) Sale during the Year  -    -    -    -    (17,370)  -    (14,258)  -    Closing Balance 53,211 57,739 27,395 24,277  -   17,806  -   13,769 $  1 cubic meter (M3) = 35.315 cubic feet and 1 cubic feet = 1000 BTU and 1 MT = 7.5 bbl  The reserve estimates for producing fields are revised based on the performance of producing fields and with respect to  discovered fields, the revision are based on the revised geological and reservoir simulation studies.
34.3  The Government of India (GOI), by its letters dated 2 nd May, 2012, 14 th November, 2013, 10 th July, 2014 and 3 rd June, 2016 has  disallowed certain costs which the Production Sharing Contract (PSC), relating to Block KGDWN-98/3 entitles the Company  to recover.
The Company continues to maintain that the Contractor is entitled to recover all of its costs under the terms of  the PSC and there are no provisions that entitle the GOI to disallow the recovery of any Contract Cost as defined in the PSC.
The Company referred the issue to arbitration with GOI for resolution of disputes.
The demand from the GOI of $ 165 million  ( ` 1,248 crore) being the Company’s share (total demand $ 247 million- ` 1,872 crore) towards additional Profit Petroleum  has been considered as contingent liability.
In supersession of Ministry’s Gazette Notification no.
22011/3/2012-ONG.D.V.
dated 10 th January, 2014, the GOI notified the  New Domestic natural Gas Pricing Guidelines 2014, the GOI has directed the Company to instruct customers to deposit  differential revenue on gas sales from D1D3 field on account of the prices determined under the above guidelines converted  to NCV basis and the prevailing price prior to 1 st November, 2014 ($ 4.205 per MMBTU) to be credited to the gas pool account  maintained by GAIL (India) Limited.
The amount so deposited by customer in Gas pool Account is ` 295 crore (net) as at  31st March, 2022 is disclosed under Other Non-Current Assets.
Revenue has been recognised at the GOI notified prices in  respect of gas quantities sold from D1D3 field from 1 st November, 2014.
This amount in the Gas Pool Account has also been  challenged under cost recovery arbitration and is pending adjudication.
Tribunal has scheduled further procedural hearing in the matter.
34.4 (a)   GOI sent a notice to the KG D6 Contractor on 4 th November, 2016 asking the Contractor to deposit approximately US $1.55  billion on account of alleged gas migration from ONGC’s blocks.
RIL, as Operator, for and on behalf of all constituents  of the Contractor, initiated arbitration proceedings against the GOI.
The Arbitral Tribunal vide its Final Award dated  24 th July, 2018 upheld Contractor’s claims.
GOI filed an Appeal under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, against the Final  Award of the Arbitral Tribunal on 15 th November, 2018 before the Hon’ble Delhi High Court.
The Appeal is currently being  heard before the Hon’ble Delhi High Court.
(b)    Arbitration was initiated by BG Exploration and Production India Limited and RIL (together the Claimants) against GOI  on 16 th December, 2010 under the PSCs for Panna – Mukta and Tapti blocks due to difference in interpretation of certain  PSC provisions between Claimants and GOI.
The Arbitral Tribunal by majority issued a final partial award (‘2016 FPA’),  and separately, two dissenting opinions in the matter on 12 th October, 2016.
Claimants challenged certain parts of the  2016 FPA before the English Courts, which delivered its judgment on 16 th April, 2018 and remitted one of the challenged  issues back to the Arbitral Tribunal for reconsideration.
The Arbitral Tribunal decided in favour of the Claimants in large  part vide its final partial award dated 1 st October, 2018 (‘2018 FPA’).
GOI and Claimants filed an appeal before the English  Commercial Court against this 2018 FPA.
The English Commercial Court rejected GOI’s challenges to 2018 FPA and  upheld Claimants’ challenge in February 2020 and remitted the underlying issue in challenge back to the Arbitration  Tribunal for determination.
On 29 th January, 2021 the Tribunal issued a further final partial award on the remitted matter  and GOI has challenged the same before the English Commercial Court.
Claimants have filed an application before  the Arbitral Tribunal seeking increase in the PSC Cost Recovery Limits and the same is sub-judice.
Arbitral Tribunal is yet  to schedule the final re-computation of accounts phase of the arbitration, which will take place post determination of  Claimants’ request for increase in cost recovery limit under the PSCs.
GOI has also filed an execution petition before the Hon’ble Delhi High Court under sections 47 and 49 of the Arbitration  and Conciliation Act, 1996 and Section 151 of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 seeking enforcement and execution of the  2016 FPA, ignoring the judgments of English High Court and the subsequent Tribunal Awards.
The Claimants contend  that GOI’s Execution Petition is not maintainable.
GOI’s Execution Petition is currently sub judice before Delhi High Court.
(c)   NTPC had filed a suit for specific performance of a contract for supply of natural gas by RIL before the Hon’ble Bombay  High Court.
The main issue in dispute is whether a valid, concluded and binding contract exists between the parties for  supply of Natural Gas of 132 Trillion BTU annually for a period of 17 years.
The matter is presently sub judice and RIL is of  the view that NTPC’s claim lacks merit and no binding contract for supply of gas was executed between NTPC and RIL.
Considering the complexity of above issues, the Company is of the view that any attempt for quantification of possible  exposure to the Company will have an effect of prejudicing Company’s legal position in the ongoing arbitration/ litigations.
Moreover, the Company considers above demand/disputes as remote.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 450 451 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements ( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 35.
Details of Contingent Liabilities & Commitments (I) Contingent Liabilities (A) Claims against the Group / disputed liabilities not acknowledged as debts * (a) In respect of joint ventures 1,458 2,066 (b) In respect of others 9,099 6,563 (B) Guarantees (i)  Guarantees to Banks and Financial Institutions against credit facilities  extended to third parties & other guarantees.
(a) In respect of joint ventures 20 20  (b) In respect of others 718 870 (ii)  Performance Guarantees  (a) In respect of others 2,133 2,061 (iii)   Outstanding guarantees furnished to Banks and Financial Institutions including  in respect of Letters of Credits  (a) In respect of joint ventures 1,580 1,391  (b) In respect of others 9,649 10,474 (II) Commitments (A) Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and  not provided for: (a) In respect of Joint Ventures 4,395 7,248 (b) In respect of others 13,126 52,331 (B) Uncalled Liability on Shares and other investments partly paid 3,304 239 (C) Other commitments (i)  Investments 972 712 *  The Group has assessed that the demand is likely to be either deleted or substantially reduced and accordingly no provision is considered  necessary.
(III)  On December 16, 2010, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) issued a show cause notice (“SCN”) inter alia to  the Company (RIL) in connection with the trades by RIL in the stock exchanges in 2007 in the shares of Reliance Petroleum  Limited, then a subsidiary of RIL.
Hearings were held before the Whole Time Member (“WTM”) of SEBI in respect of the SCN.
By  an order dated March 24, 2017, the WTM passed the directions: (i) prohibiting inter alia RIL from dealing in equity derivatives  in the ‘Futures & Options’ segment of stock exchanges, directly or indirectly, for a period of one year from the date of the  order; and (ii) to RIL to disgorge an amount of ` 447 crore along with interest at the rate of 12% per annum from November 29,  2007 till the date of payment.
In May 2017, RIL and the other noticees filed an appeal before the Securities Appellate Tribunal  (“SAT”) against this order.
SAT, by a majority order (2:1), dismissed the appeal on November 5, 2020 and directed RIL to pay  the disgorged amount within sixty days from the date of the order.
The appeal of RIL and other noticees has been admitted  by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India.
By its order dated December 17, 2020, the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India directed RIL  to deposit ` 250 crore in the Investors’ Protection Fund, subject to the final result of the appeal and stayed the recovery of the  balance, inclusive of interest, pending the appeal.
RIL has complied with the order dated December 17, 2020 of the Hon’ble  Supreme Court of India.
(IV)   Hathway Cable and Datacom Limited has received Show Cause cum Demand Notices (“SCNs”) from the Department of  Telecommunications (“DOT”), Government of India for the financial years from 2006-07 to 2019-20 towards license fees  aggregating to ` 3,587 crore which includes penalty and interest thereon.
The Company has made representations to DOT  contesting the basis of such demand.
Based on opinion of legal expert, the Company is confident that it has good grounds  on merit to defend itself in the above matter.
36.
Capital Management   The Group adheres to a disciplined Capital Management framework in order to maintain a strong balance sheet.
The main  objectives are as follows:  a)   Maintain investment grade ratings for all issuing entities, domestically and internationally by ensuring that the financial  strength of their Balance Sheets are preserved.
b)  Manage foreign exchange, interest rates and commodity price risk, and minimise the impact of market volatility on earnings.
c) Diversify sources of financing and spread the maturity across tenure buckets in order to manage liquidity risk.
d)   Leverage optimally in order to maximise shareholder returns.
The Net Gearing Ratio at the end of the reporting period was as follows: ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 Gross Debt  2,66,305 2,51,811 Cash and Marketable Securities *  2,31,490 2,54,019 Net Debt (A)  34,815 (2,208) Total Equity (As per Balance Sheet) (B)  7,79,485 7,00,172 Net Gearing Ratio (A / B)  0.04 -   *  Cash and Marketable Securities include Cash and Cash Equivalents of ` 36,178 crore (Previous Year ` 17,397 crore), Current Investments  of ` 1,08,118 crore (Previous Year ` 1,52,446 crore), Other Marketable Securities of ` 87,113 crore (Previous Year ` 44,333 crore) including  investments in Jio Digital Fibre Private Limited and Summit Digitel Infrastructure Private Limited and Share Call money receivable on rights  issue of ` 81 crore (Previous Year ` 39,843 crore).
37.
Financial Instruments   A.
Fair Value Measurement Hierarchy ( ` in crore) As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 Carrying Amount Level of input used in Carrying Amount Level of input used in Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial Assets At Amortised Cost Investments # 30,990 - - - 39,809 - - - Trade Receivables 23,640 - - - 19,014 - - - Cash and Cash Equivalents 36,178 - - - 17,397 - - - Loans 1,718 - - - 1,182 - - - Other Financial Assets 24,530 - - - 59,964 - - - At FVTPL Investments  41,704  34,298  7,087  319 44,772 38,901 5,380 491 Other Financial Assets  1,743  8  1,735  -   2,520 36 2,484 - At FVTOCI Investments  2,13,161  91,682  36,805  84,674 2,00,083 1,12,282 4,519 83,282 Other Financial Assets  -    -    -    -   7 - 7 - Financial Liabilities At Amortised Cost Borrowings 2,66,305 - - - 2,51,811 - - - Deferred Payment Liabilities 37,184 - - - 18,837 - - - Trade Payables 1,59,330 - - - 1,08,897 - - - Other Financial Liabilities 50,887 - - - 54,532 - - - Lease Liabilities 15,669 - - - 8,314 - - - At FVTPL Other Financial Liabilities 5,231 - 5,231 - 3,723 - 3,723 - At FVTOCI Other Financial Liabilities 450 - 450 - - - - - #  Excludes Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures of ` 1,08,409 crore (Previous Year ` 80,164 crore)] measured at cost (Refer Note 2.1).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 452 453 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements   Reconciliation of fair value measurement of the investment categorised at Level 3: ( ` in crore)  As at 31st March, 2022       As at 31st March 2021 At FVTPL At FVTOCI At FVTPL At FVTOCI Opening Balance  491  83,282  1,104  82,897  Addition during the year  -    1,177  100  173  Sale / Reduction during the year  (174)  (115)  (715)  (39) Total Gain / (Loss)  2  330  2  251  Closing Balance  319  84,674  491  83,282  Line item in which gain / (loss) recognised Other Income -   ` 2 crore   unrealised Other  Comprehensive  Income-Items  that will not  be reclassified  to Profit or Loss Other Income -   ` 2 crore   unrealised Other  Comprehensive  Income - Items  that will not  be reclassified  to Profit or Loss     Sensitivity of level 3 financial instrument’s fair value to changes in significant unobservable inputs used in their  fair valuation: ( ` in crore)  Valuation   Technique Significant   Unobservable Input Change in % Sensitivity of the fair value to   change in input 31st March, 2022 31st March 2021 Investment  in OCPS (FVTOCI) Discounting   Cash Flow Discounting rate - 14.51%  (previous year - 13.12%) +0.10%  (1,547)  (1,436) -0.10%  1,573  1,463     The financial instruments are categorised into three levels based on the inputs used to arrive at fair value measurements  as described below:    Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;    Level 2:  Inputs other than the quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly  or indirectly; and   Level 3: Inputs based on unobservable market data.
Valuation Methodology   All financial instruments are initially recognised and subsequently re-measured at fair value as described below:   a)  The fair value of investment in quoted Equity Shares, Bonds, Government Securities, Treasury Bills, Certificate of Deposits  and Mutual Funds is measured at quoted price or NAV.
b)  The fair value of Interest Rate Swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on  observable yield curves.
c)  The fair value of Forward Foreign Exchange contracts and Currency Swaps is determined using observable forward  exchange rates and yield curves at the balance sheet date.
d)  The fair value of over-the-counter Foreign Currency Option contracts is determined using the Black Scholes  valuation model.
e)   Commodity derivative contracts are valued using available information in markets and quotations from exchange,  brokers and price index developers.
f)  The fair value for Level 3 instruments is valued using inputs based on information about market participants assumptions  and other data that are available.
g)  The fair value of the remaining financial instruments is determined using discounted cash flow analysis.
h) All foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rate at reporting date.
B.
Financial Risk Management    The Group’s activities expose it to variety of financial risks: market risk, credit risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk.
Within the  boundaries of approved Risk Management Policy framework The Group uses derivative instruments to manage the volatility  of financial markets and minimize the adverse impact on its financial performance.
i) Market Risk     Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in  market prices.
Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and other price risk, such as equity  price risk and commodity risk.
a) Foreign Currency Risk      Foreign Currency Risk is the risk that the Fair Value or Future Cash Flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of  changes in foreign currency rates.
Exposures can arise on account of the various assets and liabilities which are  denominated in currencies other than Indian Rupee.
The following table shows foreign currency exposures in US Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen on financial instruments at  the end of the reporting period.
The exposure to all other foreign currencies are not material.
( ` in crore) Foreign Currency Exposure As at 31st March, 2022 As at 31st March, 2021 USD EUR JPY USD EUR JPY Borrowings  1,17,302  11,998  12,054  98,493  12,634  12,962  Trade and Other Payables  1,33,506  1,261  60  84,280  2,584  36  Trade and Other Receivables  (14,914)  (319)  (22)  (4,366)  (110)  (13) Derivatives - Forwards and Futures  (55,442)  (12,523)  (12,250)  (55,167)  (13,974)  (12,936) - Currency Swaps  -    -    -    2,655  -    -    - Options  (2,877)  126  (319)  (19,347)  (472)  727  Exposure 1,77,575 543 (477) 1,06,548 662 776     b) Interest Rate Risk      The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk, changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair values  of its financial instruments, principally debt.
The Group issues debt in a variety of currencies based on market  opportunities and it uses derivatives to hedge interest rate exposures.
The exposure of the Group’s borrowings and derivatives to interest rate changes at the end of the reporting period  are as follows: ( ` in crore) Interest Rate Exposure As at   31st March, 2022 As at   31st March, 2021 Borrowings Non-Current - Floating (Includes Current Maturities) *  96,097  91,399  Non-Current - Fixed (Includes Current Maturities) * 1,19,723 1,01,143 Current # 52,178 60,371 Total  2,67,998 2,52,913 Derivatives Foreign Currency Interest Rate Swaps  7,712 33,279 Rupees Interest Rate Swaps  54,845 19,450 Currency Swaps ^  -   2,655 * Includes ` 1,053 crore (Previous Year ` 812 crore) as Prepaid Financial Charges and ` 48 crore as revaluation gain.
#  Includes ` 592 crore (Previous Year ` 290 crore) as Commercial Paper Discount.
^  Receive fix in INR and pay floating in USD   ii) Commodity Price Risk  Commodity price risk arises due to fluctuation in prices of crude oil, other feed stock and products and bullion.
The Group  has a risk management framework aimed at prudently managing the risk arising from the volatility in commodity prices  and freight costs.
The Group’s commodity price risk is managed centrally through well-established trading operations and control  processes.
In accordance with the risk management policy, the Group enters into various transactions using derivatives  and uses over-the-counter as well as Exchange Traded Futures, Options and Swap contracts to hedge its commodity  and freight exposure.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 454 455 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements   iii)  Credit Risk  Credit risk is the risk that a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to perform or pay the amounts due  causing financial loss to the Group.
Credit risk arises from Group’s activities in investments, dealing in derivatives and  receivables from customers and other financial instruments.
The Group ensures that sales of products are made to  customers with appropriate creditworthiness.
Credit information is regularly shared between businesses and finance  function, with a framework in place to quickly identify, respond and recognise cases of credit deterioration.
The Group has a prudent and conservative process for managing its credit risk arising in the course of its business  activities.
Credit risk across the Group, is actively managed through Letters of Credit, Bank Guarantees, Parent Group  Guarantees, advance payments, security deposits and factoring and forfaiting without recourse to Group.
The Group  restricts its fixed income investments in liquid securities carrying high credit rating.
iv)  Liquidity Risk  Liquidity risk arises from the Group’s inability to meet its cash flow commitments on the due date.
The Group maintains  sufficient stock of cash, marketable securities and committed credit facilities.
The Group accesses global and local  financial markets to meet its liquidity requirements.
It uses a range of products and a mix of currencies to ensure efficient  funding from across well-diversified markets and investor pools.
Treasury monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s cash  flow position and ensures that the Group is able to meet its financial obligation at all times including contingencies.
The Group’s liquidity is managed centrally with operating units forecasting their cash and liquidity requirements.
Treasury pools the cash surpluses from across the different operating units and then arranges to either fund the net  deficit or invest the net surplus in a range of short-dated, secure and liquid instruments including short-term bank  deposits, money market funds, reverse repos and similar instruments.
The portfolio of these investments is diversified to  avoid concentration risk in any one instrument or counterparty.
( ` in crore) Maturity Profile As at 31st March, 2022 * Below 3  Months 3-6 Months 6-12  Months 1-3 Years 3-5 Years Above 5  Years Total Borrowings Non-Current #@  2,266  6,715  18,207  81,494  44,682  62,456  2,15,820  Current ^  39,736  11,228  1,214  -    -    -    52,178  Total  42,002  17,943  19,421  81,494  44,682  62,456  2,67,998  Lease Liabilities (Gross) 965 954 1,880 6,765 5,475 6,315  22,354  Derivative Liabilities Forwards  4,740  1,805  1,001  683  -    -    8,229  Options  151  2  20  -    -    -    173  Interest Rate Swaps  -    -    4  598  70  -    672  Total  4,891  1,807  1,025  1,281  70  -    9,074  * Does not include Trade Payables (Current) amounting to ` 1,59,330 crore.
#  Includes ` 1,053 crore as Prepaid Finance Charges and ` 48 crore as revaluation gain.
@  Does not include interest thereon (For Interest rate refer Note 16.4).
^  Includes ` 592 crore as Commercial Paper Discount.
( ` in crore) Maturity Profile as at 31st March, 2021 * Below 3  Months 3-6 Months 6-12  Months 1-3 Years 3-5 Years Above 5  Years Total  Borrowings Non-Current #@ 3,083 4,629 20,489 66,891 62,782 34,668  1,92,542  Current ^ 53,402 2,938 4,031  -    -    -    60,371  Total 56,485 7,567 24,520 66,891 62,782 34,668 2,52,913 Lease Liabilities (Gross) 487 485 963 3,483 2,631 4,996  13,045  Derivative Liabilities Forwards  1,518  841  176  2,012  -    -    4,547  Options  178  -    33  -    -    -   211 Interest Rate Swaps  10  1  241  575  76  -   903 Total  1,706  842  450  2,587  76  -   5,661 * Does not include Trade Payables (Current) amounting to ` 1,08,897 crore.
#  Includes ` 812 crore as Prepaid Finance Charges.
@ Does not include interest thereon.
^  Includes ` 290 crore as Commercial Paper Discount.
C. Hedge Accounting    The Group’s business objective includes safe-guarding its earnings against adverse price movements of crude oil and  other feedstock, refined products, precious metals, freight costs as well as foreign exchange and interest rates.
The Group  has adopted a structured risk management policy to hedge all these risks within an acceptable risk limit and an approved  hedge accounting framework which allows for Fair Value and Cash Flow hedges.
Hedging instruments include exchange  traded futures and options, over-the-counter swaps, forwards and options as well as non-derivative instruments to achieve  this objective.
There is an economic relationship between the hedged items and the hedging instruments.
The Group has established a  hedge ratio of 1:1 for the hedging relationships.
To test the hedge effectiveness, the Group uses the hypothetical derivative  method and Dollar offset method.
The hedge ineffectiveness can arise from:   - Differences in the timing of the cash flows.
- Different indexes (and accordingly different curves).
- The counterparties’ credit risk differently impacting the fair value movements.
The table below shows the position of hedging instruments and hedged items as on the balance sheet date:   Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting   A.
Fair Value Hedge    Hedging Instrument ( ` in crore) Nominal Value Quantity Carrying Amount Changes in Fair Value Hedge Maturity Line Item in Balance Sheet(Kbbl) (Kgs) Assets Liabilities As at 31st March, 2022 Foreign Currency Risk Derivative Contracts - - - - - - Interest Rate Risk Derivative Contracts 7,825 - - - 46 (46) 3 to 5 years Other Financial  Liabilities - Current  Commodity Price Risk Derivative Contracts 61,303 2,11,383 6,400 3,081 4,396 (707) April 2022 to  March 2023 Other Financial  Assets / Liabilities As at 31st March, 2021 Foreign Currency Risk Derivative Contracts 2,557 - - - 86 (72) April 2021 to   May 2021 Other  Financial Liabilities Interest Rate Risk Derivative Contracts - - - - - - Commodity Price Risk Derivative Contracts 39,236 3,84,949 5,092 1,766 1,071 373 April 2021 to   December 2023 Other Financial  Assets / Liabilities Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 456 457 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements    Hedged Items ( ` in crore) Carrying Amount Changes in   Fair Value Line Item in   Balance SheetAssets Liabilities As at 31st March, 2022 Foreign Currency Risk Import Firm Commitments  -    -    -    Interest Rate Risk Derivative Contracts  -    7,777  48  Non-Current   Borrowings  Commodity Price Risk Firm Commitments for purchase of feedstock and freight  -    1,010  (943) Other Current  Assets / Liabilities  Firm Commitments for sale of products  2,114  231  2,301 Other Current Assets Inventories  10,484  -    (301) Inventories  As at 31st March, 2021 Foreign Currency Risk Import Firm Commitments  86  -    72  Other  Financial Assets  Interest Rate Risk Derivative Contracts - - - Commodity Price Risk Firm Commitments for purchase of feedstock and freight  -   536  (887) Other Current  Assets / Liabilities  Firm Commitments for sale of products 236 1,218  (210) Other Current Assets Inventories 5,930  -    1,043 Inventories    B.
Cash Flow Hedge     Hedging Instruments ( `  in crore)  Nominal  Value  Carrying amount Changes in  Fair Value Hedge Maturity Line Item in Balance  Sheet Assets Liabilities  As at 31st March, 2022 Foreign Currency Risk Foreign Currency Risk  Components - Trade Payable  22,301  -    22,738  (437)  1st April 2022 to  31st March 2025  Trade Payables  Foreign Currency Risk  Components - Borrowings 1,20,017  - 1,23,697  (3,685) 30th September  2022 to  30th September   2033 Non Current  Liabilities-Financial  Liabilities-Borrowings Interest Rate Risk Interest Rate Swap  -    -    -    -    -    -    As at 31st March, 2021 Foreign Currency Risk Foreign Currency Risk  Components - Borrowings 7,218  -   7,311  256 June 2022 Non Current  Liabilities-Financial  Liabilities-Borrowings Interest Rate Risk Interest Rate Swap 33,590  82  -    141 April 2021 to   March 2025 Other Financial Assets    Hedged Items ( ` in crore) Nominal Value Changes in   Fair Value Hedge Reserve Line Item in   Balance Sheet As at 31st March, 2022 Foreign Currency Risk Highly Probable Forecasted Exports  1,42,317  4,123  (4,810) Other Equity Interest Rate Risk Borrowings  -    -    -    As at 31st March, 2021 Foreign Currency Risk Highly Probable Forecasted Exports 7,218  (256)  (3,059) Other Equity Interest Rate Risk Borrowings 33,590  (141)  (97) Other Equity   C. Movement in Cash Flow Hedge ( ` in crore) Sr.  No.
Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 Line Item in Balance Sheet /  Statement of Profit and Loss 1 At the beginning of the year  (3,156)  (5,883) 2 Gain / (loss) recognised in Other  Comprehensive Income during the year  (4,334)  914  Items that will  be reclassified  to Profit & Loss 3 Amount reclassified to Profit and Loss  during the year 2,835 1,813 Value of Sale 4 At the end of the year  (4,655)  (3,156) Other  Comprehensive Income 38 Segment Information   The Group has five principal operating and reporting segments; viz.
Oil To Chemicals (O2C), Oil and Gas, Retail,  Digital Services  and Financial Services.
The accounting policies adopted for segment reporting are in line with the accounting policy of the Company with following  additional policies for segment reporting.
a)  Revenue and Expenses have been identified to a segment on the basis of relationship to operating activities of the segment.
Revenue and Expenses which relate to enterprise as a whole and are not allocable to a segment on reasonable basis have  been disclosed as “Unallocable”.
b)  Segment Assets and Segment Liabilities represent Assets and Liabilities in respective segments.
Investments, tax related  assets and other assets and liabilities that cannot be allocated to a segment on reasonable basis have been disclosed  as “Unallocable”.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 458 459 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements (I) Primary Segment Information ( ` in crore) 2021-22 O2C Oil and  Gas Retail Digital  Services Financial  Services Others Unallocable Total 1 Segment Revenue External Turnover 4,99,663 4,962 1,95,676 27,085 761 64,609 - 7,92,756 Inter Segment Turnover 1,237 2,530 4,073 73,076 1,366 6,751 - - Value of Sales and Services (Revenue) * 5,00,900 7,492 1,99,749 1,00,161 2,127 71,360 - 7,92,756 Less: GST Recovered 20,580 10 24,734 15,044 13 10,741 - 71,122 Revenue from Operations (Net of GST) 4,80,320 7,482 1,75,015 85,117 2,114 60,619 - 7,21,634 2 Segment Result before   Interest and Taxes ** 45,194 2,879 10,198 25,150 708 5,196 (4,339) 84,986 Finance Cost ^ (14,584) Interest Income 10,904 Profit Before Tax and Exceptional Items 81,306 Exceptional Item (Net of Tax)  (Refer Note 31) 2,836 Profit Before Tax 84,142 Current Tax (3,161) Deferred Tax (13,136) Profit after Tax (before adjustment for  Non-Controlling Interest) 67,845 Share of (Profit) / Loss transferred to  Non-Controlling Interest (7,140) Profit after Tax (after adjustment for  Non-Controlling Interest) 60,705 3 Other Information Segment Assets # 3,79,209 34,938 1,24,736 3,71,907 1,08,597 1,60,961 3,36,206 15,16,554 Segment Liabilities # 61,336 10,899 36,031 1,17,938 190 24,371 12,65,789 15,16,554 Capital Expenditure 7,913 5,520 29,873 82,744 46 13,606 5,650 1,45,352 Depreciation / Amortisation and   Depletion Expense 7,528 2,578 2,225 15,118 15 1,942 391 29,797 * Total Value of Sales and Services is after elimination of inter segment turnover of ` 89,033 crore.
**  Segment results includes Interest income / Other Income pertaining to the respective segments.
^   Segment results of the financial services segment includes finance cost relating to the segment.
The difference between finance cost in  financial results and segment information is on account of finance cost relating to financial services segment.
#   Segment assets and liabilities have been grossed up, with respect to bill discounting of ` 14,784 crore and other non-current assets of ` 2,105  crore, whereas the same has been netted off in the respective heads of Balance sheet.
( ` in crore) 2020-21 O2C Oil and  Gas Retail Digital  Services Financial  Services Others Unallocable Total 1 Segment Revenue External Turnover  3,15,105  1,608  1,52,501  27,336  1,114  41,574  -    5,39,238  Inter Segment Turnover  4,903  532  5,201  62,951  1,324  6,646  -    Value of Sales and Services (Revenue) *  3,20,008  2,140  1,57,702  90,287  2,438  48,220  -    5,39,238  Less: GST Recovered  13,518  12  18,566  13,645  5  7,166  52,912  Revenue from Operations (Net of GST)  3,06,490  2,128  1,39,136  76,642  2,433  41,054  -    4,86,326  2 Segment Result before   Interest and Taxes ** 29,773  (1,477) 7,991 21,181 1,294 3,635  (1,070)  61,327  Finance Cost ^  (21,027) Interest Income  9,519  Profit Before Tax and Exceptional Items  49,819  Exceptional Item (Net of Tax)  (Refer Note 31)  5,642  Profit Before Tax 55,461  Current Tax  (2,205) Deferred Tax  483  Profit after Tax (before adjustment for  Non-Controlling Interest) 53,739 Share of (Profit) / Loss transferred to  Non-Controlling Interest  (4,611) Profit after Tax (after adjustment for  Non-Controlling Interest) 49,128  3 Other Information Segment Assets # 3,58,964 35,163 98,361 3,05,965 80,765 1,34,717 3,25,455 13,39,390 Segment Liabilities # 44,284 14,359 20,879 68,328 93 14,272 11,77,175 13,39,390 Capital Expenditure 7,867 3,879 10,321 35,998 18 18,289 3,295 79,667 Depreciation / Amortisation and   Depletion Expense  8,397  1,735  1,851  12,854  -    1,376  359  26,572  * Total Value of Sales and Services is after elimination of inter segment turnover of ` 81,557 crore.
** Segment results includes Interest income / Other Income pertaining to the respective segments.
^  Segment results of the financial services segment includes finance cost relating to the segment.
The difference between finance cost in  financial results and segment information is on account of finance cost relating to financial services segment.
#   Segment assets and liabilities have been grossed up, with respect to advance from customers of ` 1,813 crore, bill discounting of ` 14,259 crore  and other non-current assets of ` 2,106 crore, whereas the same is netted off in the respective heads of Balance Sheet.
(II)   Inter segment pricing are at Arm’s length basis.
(III)    As per Indian Accounting Standard 108 - Operating Segments, the Company has reported segment information on  consolidated basis including businesses conducted through its subsidiaries.
(IV)  The reportable segments are further described below: -   The Oil to Chemicals business includes Refining, Petrochemicals, fuel retailing through Reliance BP Mobility Limited, aviation  fuel and bulk wholesale marketing.
It includes breadth of portfolio spanning transportation fuels, polymers, polyesters and  elastomers.
The deep and unique integration of O2C business includes world-class assets comprising Refinery Off-Gas  Cracker, Aromatics, Gasification, multi-feed and gas crackers along with downstream manufacturing facilities, logistics and  supply-chain infrastructure.
-  The Oil and Gas segment includes exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas.
- The Retail segment includes consumer retail and range of related services.
- The Digital Services segment includes provision of a range of digital services.
-   The Financial Services segment comprises of management and deployment of identified resources of the Company to  various activities including non-banking financial services, insurance broking.
-   Other business segments which are not separately reportable have been grouped under the Others segment.
-  Other investments / assets / liabilities, long term resources raised by the Company, business trade financing liabilities  managed by the centralised treasury function and related income / expense are considered under Unallocated.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 460 461 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements (V)  Secondary Segment Information ( ` in crore) 2021-22 2020-21 1 Segment Revenue – External Turnover Within India 5,05,324 3,31,557 Outside India 2,87,432 2,07,681 Total 7,92,756 5,39,238 2 Non-Current Assets Within India 11,32,279 9,35,322 Outside India 20,367 12,879 Total 11,52,646 9,48,201 39  Enterprises Consolidated as Subsidiary in accordance with Indian Accounting Standard 110 – Consolidated  Financial Statements Sr.  No.
Name of the Enterprise Country of  Incorporation Proportion of  Ownership Interest 1 7-India Convenience Retail Limited India 85.06% 2 Aaidea Solutions Limited (Formerly known as Aaidea Solutions Private Limited) India 82.07% 3 ABC Cable Network Private Limited India 66.95% 4 Abraham and Thakore Exports Private Limited India 46.78% 5 Actoserba Active Wholesale Limited (Formerly known as Actoserba Active  Wholesale Private Limited) India 73.28% 6 Addverb Technologies BV Netherlands 47.92% 7 Addverb Technologies Private Limited India 47.92% 8 Addverb Technologies Pte Limited Singapore 47.92% 9 Addverb Technologies Pty Limited Australia 47.92% 10 Addverb Technologies USA Inc. United States of  America 47.92% 11 Adventure Marketing Private Limited India 100.00% 12 AETN18 Media Private Limited India 21.27% 13 Affinity USA LLC * United States of  America 100.00% 14 Amante India Private Limited (Formerly known as MAS Brands India Private Limited) India 85.06% 15 Angel Cable Network Private Limited India 66.95% 16 Asteria Aerospace Limited (Formerly known as Asteria Aerospace Private Limited) India 49.54% 17 Aurora Algae LLC * United States of  America 100.00% 18 Bali Den Cable Network Limited India 66.95% 19 Bhadohi DEN Entertainment Private Limited India 17.41% 20 Cab-i-Net Communications Private Limited India 66.95% 21 Channels India Network Private Limited India 50.55% 22 Chennai Cable Vision Network Private Limited India 40.17% 23 Colorful Media Private Limited India 100.00% 24 Colosceum Media Private Limited India 73.15% 25 C-Square Info-Solutions Private Limited India 69.44% 26 Dadha Pharma Distribution Private Limited India 85.06% 27 DEN Ambey Cable Networks Private Limited India 40.84% 28 DEN BCN Suncity Network Limited India 66.95% 29 Den Broadband Limited India 66.95% 30 Den Budaun Cable Network Private Limited India 34.14% 31 Den Digital Cable Network Limited India 66.95% 32 Den Discovery Digital Networks Private Limited India 34.14% 33 Den Enjoy Cable Networks Private Limited India 34.14% 34 Den Enjoy Navaratan Network Private Limited India 17.41% 35 DEN Enjoy SBNM Cable Network Private Limited India 66.95% Sr.  No.
Name of the Enterprise Country of  Incorporation Proportion of  Ownership Interest 36 Den F K Cable TV Network Private Limited India 34.14% 37 Den Fateh Marketing Private Limited India 34.14% 38 Den Kashi Cable Network Limited India 34.14% 39 Den Maa Sharda Vision Cable Networks Limited India 66.95% 40 Den Mahendra Satellite Private Limited India 66.95% 41 Den Malabar Cable Vision Limited India 66.95% 42 Den Malayalam Telenet Private Limited India 34.14% 43 Den Mod Max Cable Network Private Limited India 34.14% 44 Den Nashik City Cable Network Private Limited India 34.14% 45 Den Networks Limited India 66.95% 46 DEN Pawan Cable Network Limited India 66.95% 47 Den Premium Multilink Cable Network Private Limited India 34.14% 48 Den Rajkot City Communication Private Limited India 34.13% 49 Den Satellite Cable TV Network Limited India 34.14% 50 Den Saya Channel Network Limited India 34.14% 51 DEN STN Television Network Private Limited India 66.95% 52 Den Supreme Satellite Vision Private Limited India 66.95% 53 Den Varun Cable Network Limited India 66.95% 54 Den-Manoranjan Satellite Private Limited India 34.14% 55 Digital Media Distribution Trust India 100.00% 56 Digital18 Media Limited India 73.15% 57 Divya Drishti Den Cable Network Private Limited India 66.95% 58 Drashti Cable Network Limited India 55.47% 59 Dronagiri Bokadvira East Infra Limited India 100.00% 60 Dronagiri Bokadvira North Infra Limited India 100.00% 61 Dronagiri Bokadvira South Infra Limited India 100.00% 62 Dronagiri Bokadvira West Infra Limited India 100.00% 63 Dronagiri Dongri East Infra Limited India 100.00% 64 Dronagiri Dongri North Infra Limited India 100.00% 65 Dronagiri Dongri South Infra Limited India 100.00% 66 Dronagiri Dongri West Infra Limited India 100.00% 67 Dronagiri Funde East Infra Limited India 100.00% 68 Dronagiri Funde North Infra Limited India 100.00% 69 Dronagiri Funde South Infra Limited India 100.00% 70 Dronagiri Funde West Infra Limited India 100.00% 71 Dronagiri Navghar East Infra Limited India 100.00% 72 Dronagiri Navghar North First Infra Limited India 100.00% 73 Dronagiri Navghar North Infra Limited India 100.00% 74 Dronagiri Navghar North Second Infra Limited India 100.00% 75 Dronagiri Navghar South First Infra Limited India 100.00% 76 Dronagiri Navghar South Infra Limited India 100.00% 77 Dronagiri Navghar South Second Infra Limited India 100.00% 78 Dronagiri Navghar West Infra Limited India 100.00% 79 Dronagiri Pagote East Infra Limited India 100.00% 80 Dronagiri Pagote North First Infra Limited India 100.00% 81 Dronagiri Pagote North Infra Limited India 100.00% 82 Dronagiri Pagote North Second Infra Limited India 100.00% 83 Dronagiri Pagote South First Infra Limited India 100.00% 84 Dronagiri Pagote South Infra Limited India 100.00% 85 Dronagiri Pagote West Infra Limited India 100.00% 86 Dronagiri Panje East Infra Limited India 100.00% 87 Dronagiri Panje North Infra Limited India 100.00% * Subsidiary Companies having 31st December as Reporting Date.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 462 463 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Sr.  No.
Name of the Enterprise Country of  Incorporation Proportion of  Ownership Interest 88 Dronagiri Panje South Infra Limited India 100.00% 89 Dronagiri Panje West Infra Limited India 100.00% 90 e-Eighteen.com Limited India 67.26% 91 Elite Cable Network Private Limited India 42.29% 92 Eminent Cable Network Private Limited India 37.49% 93 Enercent Technologies Private Limited India 59.18% 94 Faradion Limited United Kingdom 92.01% 95 Faradion UG Germany 92.01% 96 Foodhall Franchises Limited India 85.06% 97 Future Lifestyles Franchisee Limited India 85.06% 98 Futuristic Media and Entertainment Limited India 66.95% 99 Galaxy Den Media & Entertainment Private Limited India 66.95% 100 Genesis Colors Limited India 54.44% 101 Genesis La Mode Private Limited India 73.25% 102 GLB Body Care Private Limited India 79.16% 103 GLF Lifestyle Brands Private Limited India 73.25% 104 GML India Fashion Private Limited India 73.25% 105 Grab A Grub Services Private Limited India 70.10% 106 Greycells18 Media Limited India 65.61% 107 Hamleys (Franchising) Limited * United Kingdom 68.05% 108 Hamleys Asia Limited * Hongkong 68.05% 109 Hamleys of London Limited * United Kingdom 68.05% 110 Hamleys Toys (Ireland) Limited * Ireland 68.05% 111 Hathway Bhawani Cabletel & Datacom Limited India 40.01% 112 Hathway Cable and Datacom Limited India 52.86% 113 Hathway Digital Limited India 52.86% 114 Hathway Kokan Crystal Cable Network Limited India 52.86% 115 Hathway Mantra Cable & Datacom Limited India 52.86% 116 Hathway Nashik Cable Network Private Limited India 47.61% 117 Independent Media Trust India 100.00% 118 IndiaCast Media Distribution Private Limited India 31.48% 119 IndiaCast UK Limited United Kingdom 31.48% 120 IndiaCast US Limited United States of  America 31.48% 121 Indiavidual Learning Limited India 56.63% 122 Indiawin Sports Private Limited India 100.00% 123 Infomedia Press Limited India 37.08% 124 Intelligent Supply Chain Infrastructure Management Private Limited (Formerly  Known as Jio Digital Cableco Private Limited) India 97.01% 125 Intimi India Private Limited India 85.06% 126 Jaisuryas Retail Ventures Private Limited India 85.06% 127 JD International Pte.
Ltd. Singapore 56.96% 128 Jio Cable and Broadband Holdings Private Limited India 100.00% 129 Jio Content Distribution Holdings Private Limited India 100.00% 130 Jio Digital Distribution Holdings Private Limited India 100.00% 131 Jio Estonia OÜ * Estonia 66.43% 132 Jio Futuristic Digital Holdings Private Limited India 100.00% 133 Jio Haptik Technologies Limited India 66.43% 134 Jio Information Aggregator Services Limited India 100.00% 135 Jio Infrastructure Management Services Limited India 100.00% 136 Jio Internet Distribution Holdings Private Limited India 100.00% 137 Jio Limited India 100.00% 138 Jio Media Limited India 66.43% Sr.  No.
Name of the Enterprise Country of  Incorporation Proportion of  Ownership Interest 139 Jio Platforms Limited India 66.43% 140 Jio Satellite Communications Limited India 66.43% 141 Jio Space Technology Limited India 66.43% 142 Jio Television Distribution Holdings Private Limited India 100.00% 143 Jio Things Limited India 66.43% 144 Just Dial Inc. United States of  America 56.96% 145 Just Dial Limited India 56.96% 146 Kalamboli East Infra Limited India 100.00% 147 Kalamboli North First Infra Limited India 100.00% 148 Kalamboli North Infra Limited India 100.00% 149 Kalamboli North Second Infra Limited India 100.00% 150 Kalamboli North Third Infra Limited India 100.00% 151 Kalamboli South First Infra Limited India 100.00% 152 Kalamboli South Infra Limited India 100.00% 153 Kalamboli West Infra Limited India 100.00% 154 Kalanikethan Fashions Private Limited India 85.06% 155 Kalanikethan Silks Private Limited India 85.06% 156 Kishna Den Cable Networks Private Limited India 17.41% 157 Kutch New Energy Projects Limited (formerly known as Reliance Solar  Projects Limited) India 100.00% 158 Libra Cable Network Limited India 34.14% 159 M Entertainments Private Limited India 83.17% 160 Mahadev Den Cable Network Limited India 34.14% 161 Mahavir Den Entertainment Private Limited India 34.14% 162 Maitri Cable Network Private Limited India 66.95% 163 Mansion Cable Network Private Limited India 44.19% 164 MAS Brands Exports (Private) Limited * Sri Lanka 85.06% 165 MAS Brands Lanka (Private) Limited * Sri Lanka 85.06% 166 Media18 Distribution Services Limited India 73.15% 167 Meerut Cable Network Private Limited India 34.14% 168 Mesindus Ventures Limited (Formerly known as Mesindus Ventures Private Limited) India 70.88% 169 Mindex 1 Limited Gibraltar 100.00% 170 Model Economic Township Limited India 100.00% 171 Moneycontrol.Dot Com India Limited India 67.26% 172 Multitrack Cable Network Private Limited India 66.95% 173 MYJD Private Limited India 56.96% 174 Netmeds Marketplace Limited India 85.06% 175 Network18 Media & Investments Limited India 73.15% 176 Network18 Media Trust India 73.15% 177 New Emerging World of Journalism Limited India 49.82% 178 Nilgiris Stores Limited India 85.06% 179 NowFloats Technologies Private Limited India 75.13% 180 Radiant Satellite (India) Private Limited India 34.14% 181 Radisys B.V. * Netherlands 66.43% 182 Radisys Canada Inc. * Canada 66.43% 183 Radisys Cayman Limited * Cayman Islands 66.43% 184 Radisys Convedia (Ireland) Limited * Ireland 66.43% 185 Radisys Corporation * United States of  America 66.43% 186 Radisys GmbH * Germany 66.43% 187 Radisys India Limited (formerly known as Radisys India Private Limited) India 66.43% 188 Radisys International LLC * United States of  America 66.43% * Subsidiary Companies having 31st December as Reporting Date.
*  Subsidiary Companies having 31st December as Reporting Date.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 464 465 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Sr.  No.
Name of the Enterprise Country of  Incorporation Proportion of  Ownership Interest 189 Radisys International Singapore Pte.
Ltd. * Singapore 66.43% 190 Radisys Spain S.L.U.
* Spain 66.43% 191 Radisys Systems Equipment Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. * China 66.43% 192 Radisys Technologies (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd. * China 66.43% 193 Radisys UK Limited * United Kingdom 66.43% 194 RB Holdings Private Limited India 100.00% 195 RB Media Holdings Private Limited India 100.00% 196 RB Mediasoft Private Limited India 100.00% 197 RBML Solutions India Limited India 51.00% 198 REC Americas LLC * United States of  America 100.00% 199 REC ScanModule Sweden AB * Sweden 100.00% 200 REC Solar (Japan) Co., Ltd. * Japan 100.00% 201 REC Solar EMEA GmbH * Germany 100.00% 202 REC Solar France SAS * France 100.00% 203 REC Solar Holdings AS * Norway 100.00% 204 REC Solar Norway AS * Norway 100.00% 205 REC Solar Pte.
Ltd. * Singapore 100.00% 206 REC Systems (Thailand) Co., Ltd. * Thailand 99.99% 207 REC Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. * China 100.00% 208 REC US Holdings, Inc. * United States of  America 100.00% 209 Recron (Malaysia) Sdn.
Bhd.
* Malaysia 100.00% 210 Reliance 4IR Realty Development Limited India 100.00% 211 Reliance Ambit Trade Private Limited India 100.00% 212 Reliance BP Mobility Limited India 51.00% 213 Reliance Brands Holding UK Limited * United Kingdom 68.05% 214 Reliance Brands Limited India 68.05% 215 Reliance Brands Luxury Fashion Private Limited India 61.43% 216 Reliance Carbon Fibre Cylinder Limited India 100.00% 217 Reliance Clothing India Private Limited India 85.00% 218 Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited India 100.00% 219 Reliance Comtrade Private Limited India 100.00% 220 Reliance Content Distribution Limited India 100.00% 221 Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited India 100.00% 222 Reliance Digital Health Limited (Formerly known as Kanhatech Solutions Limited) India 100.00% 223 Reliance Digital Health USA Inc. * United States of  America 100.00% 224 Reliance Eagleford Upstream GP LLC * United States of  America 100.00% 225 Reliance Eagleford Upstream Holding LP * United States of  America 100.00% 226 Reliance Eagleford Upstream LLC * United States of  America 100.00% 227 Reliance Eminent Trading & Commercial Private Limited India 100.00% 228 Reliance Ethane Holding Pte Limited Singapore 100.00% 229 Reliance Ethane Pipeline Limited India 100.00% 230 Reliance Exploration & Production DMCC * United Arab  Emirates 100.00% 231 Reliance GAS Lifestyle India Private Limited India 34.87% 232 Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited India 100.00% 233 Reliance Global Energy Services (Singapore) Pte.
Limited Singapore 100.00% 234 Reliance Global Energy Services Limited United Kingdom 100.00% 235 Reliance Hydrogen Electrolysis Limited India 100.00% 236 Reliance Hydrogen Fuel Cell Limited India 100.00% Sr.  No.
Name of the Enterprise Country of  Incorporation Proportion of  Ownership Interest 237 Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited India 100.00% 238 Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC * United Arab  Emirates 100.00% 239 Reliance Innovative Building Solutions Private Limited India 100.00% 240 Reliance International Limited United Arab  Emirates 100.00% 241 Reliance Jio Global Resources LLC * United States of  America 66.43% 242 Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited India 66.43% 243 Reliance Jio Infocomm Pte.
Ltd. * Singapore 66.43% 244 Reliance Jio Infocomm UK Limited * United Kingdom 66.43% 245 Reliance Jio Infocomm USA Inc. * United States of  America 66.43% 246 Reliance Jio Media Limited India 100.00% 247 Reliance Jio Messaging Services Limited India 100.00% 248 Reliance Lifestyle Products Private Limited India 64.74% 249 Reliance Marcellus II LLC * United States of  America 100.00% 250 Reliance Marcellus LLC * United States of  America 100.00% 251 Reliance New Energy Carbon Fibre Cylinder Limited India 100.00% 252 Reliance New Energy Hydrogen Electrolysis Limited India 100.00% 253 Reliance New Energy Hydrogen Fuel Cell Limited India 100.00% 254 Reliance New Energy Limited (Formerly known as Reliance New Energy Solar Limited) India 100.00% 255 Reliance New Energy Power Electronics Limited India 100.00% 256 Reliance New Energy Storage Limited India 100.00% 257 Reliance New Solar Energy Limited India 100.00% 258 Reliance O2C Limited India 100.00% 259 Reliance Payment Solutions Limited India 100.00% 260 Reliance Petro Marketing Limited India 85.00% 261 Reliance Petroleum Retail Limited India 100.00% 262 Reliance Power Electronics Limited India 100.00% 263 Reliance Progressive Traders Private Limited India 100.00% 264 Reliance Projects & Property Management Services Limited India 100.00% 265 Reliance Prolific Commercial Private Limited India 100.00% 266 Reliance Prolific Traders Private Limited India 100.00% 267 Reliance Retail and Fashion Lifestyle Limited India 85.06% 268 Reliance Retail Finance Limited India 100.00% 269 Reliance Retail Insurance Broking Limited India 100.00% 270 Reliance Retail Limited India 85.00% 271 Reliance Retail Ventures Limited India 85.06% 272 Reliance Ritu Kumar Private Limited (Formerly known as Ritika Private Limited) India 44.41% 273 Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited India 74.90% 274 Reliance SMSL Limited India 100.00% 275 Reliance Storage Limited India 100.00% 276 Reliance Strategic Business Ventures Limited India 100.00% 277 Reliance Strategic Investments Limited India 100.00% 278 Reliance Syngas Limited India 100.00% 279 Reliance Universal Traders Private Limited India 100.00% 280 Reliance Vantage Retail Limited India 100.00% 281 Reliance Ventures Limited India 100.00% 282 Reliance-GrandOptical Private Limited India 85.00% 283 Reverie Language Technologies Limited India 55.76% 284 RIL USA, Inc. * United States of  America 100.00% * Subsidiary Companies having 31st December as Reporting Date.
*  Subsidiary Companies having 31st December as Reporting Date.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 466 467 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Sr.  No.
Name of the Enterprise Country of  Incorporation Proportion of  Ownership Interest 285 RISE Worldwide Limited India 100.00% 286 Ritu Kumar ME (FZE) [Formerly known as Ritu Kumar ME (FZC)] United Arab  Emirates 44.41% 287 Roptonal Limited Cyprus 21.27% 288 Rose Entertainment Private Limited India 34.14% 289 RP Chemicals (Malaysia) Sdn.
Bhd.
* Malaysia 100.00% 290 RRB Mediasoft Private Limited India 100.00% 291 Saavn Inc. United States of  America 57.89% 292 Saavn LLC United States of  America 57.89% 293 Saavn Media Limited India 57.89% 294 SankhyaSutra Labs Limited India 57.66% 295 Shopsense Retail Technologies Limited (Formerly known as Shopsense Retail  Technologies Private Limited) India 73.74% 296 Shri Kannan Departmental Store Limited (Formerly known as Shri Kannan  Departmental Store Private Limited) India 85.06% 297 Silverline Television Network Limited India 66.95% 298 skyTran Inc. * United States of  America 54.46% 299 skyTran Israel Ltd. * Israel 54.46% 300 Srishti Den Networks Limited India 34.14% 301 Stoke Park Limited * United Kingdom 100.00% 302 Strand Life Sciences Private Limited India 73.23% 303 Surajya Services Limited (Formerly known as Surajya Services Private Limited) India 45.49% 304 Surela Investment And Trading Limited India 100.00% 305 Tesseract Imaging Limited India 61.39% 306 The Indian Film Combine Private Limited India 83.17% 307 Tira Beauty Limited India 85.06% 308 Tresara Health Limited (Formerly known as Tresara Health Private Limited) India 85.06% 309 TV18 Broadcast Limited India 41.70% 310 Ulwe East Infra Limited India 100.00% 311 Ulwe North Infra Limited India 100.00% 312 Ulwe South Infra Limited India 100.00% 313 Ulwe Waterfront East Infra Limited India 100.00% 314 Ulwe Waterfront North Infra Limited India 100.00% 315 Ulwe Waterfront South Infra Limited India 100.00% 316 Ulwe Waterfront West Infra Limited India 100.00% 317 Ulwe West Infra Limited India 100.00% 318 Urban Ladder Home Décor Solutions Limited (Formerly known as Urban Ladder  Home Décor Solutions Private Limited) India 85.05% 319 VasyERP Solutions Private Limited India 82.35% 320 VBS Digital Distribution Network Limited India 34.14% 321 Viacom 18 Media (UK) Limited United Kingdom 21.27% 322 Viacom 18 Media Private Limited India 21.27% 323 Viacom 18 US Inc. United States of  America 21.27% 324 Vitalic Health Private Limited India 60.02% 325 Watermark Infratech Private Limited India 100.00% 326 Web18 Digital Services Limited India 73.15% 40  Significant Enterprises Consolidated as Associates and Joint Ventures in accordance with Indian Accounting Standard 28 –  Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Sr.  No.
Name of the Enterprise Country of  Incorporation Proportion of  Ownership Interest 1 Alok Industries International Limited British Virgin Islands 40.01% 2 Alok Industries Limited India 40.01% 3 Alok Infrastructure Limited India 40.01% 4 Alok International (Middle East) FZE United Arab Emirates 40.01% 5 Alok International Inc. United States   of America 40.01% 6 Alok Singapore PTE Limited Singapore 40.01% 7 Alok Worldwide Limited British Virgin Islands 40.01% 8 Big Tree Entertainment DMCC United Arab Emirates 21.43% 9 Big Tree Entertainment Lanka Private Limited Sri Lanka 21.43% 10 Big Tree Entertainment Private Limited India 28.74% 11 Big Tree Entertainment Singapore PTE.
Limited Singapore 21.43% 12 Big Tree Sport & Recreational Events Tickets Selling L.L.C United Arab Emirates 10.50% 13 BookmyShow Live Private Limited India 28.74% 14 Bookmyshow SDN.
BHD.
Malaysia 21.43% 15 BookmyShow Venues Management Private Limited India 28.74% 16 Brooks Brothers India Private Limited India 33.34% 17 Burberry India Private Limited India 26.67% 18 CAA-Global Brands Reliance Private Limited India 34.02% 19 Canali India Private Limited India 30.10% 20 Clarks Reliance Footwear Private Limited (Formerly known as Clarks Future  Footwear Private Limited) India 0.00% 21 Clayfin Technologies Private Limited India 39.15% 22 D. E. Shaw India Securities Private Limited India 50.00% 23 DEN ABC Cable Network Ambarnath Private Limited India 17.07% 24 DEN ADN Network Private Limited India 34.14% 25 DEN New Broad Communication Private Limited India 17.07% 26 Den Satellite Network Private Limited India 33.48% 27 Diesel Fashion India Reliance Private Limited India 33.34% 28 DL GTPL Broadband Private Limited India 5.30% 29 DL GTPL Cabnet Private Limited India 5.30% 30 Dunzo Digital Private Limited India 23.73% 31 Dunzo Merchant Services Private Limited India 23.73% 32 Dyulok Technologies Private Limited India 22.79% 33 Eenadu Television Private Limited India 10.22% 34 Esterlina Solar – Proyecto Cinco, S.L.
Spain 39.60% 35 Esterlina Solar – Proyecto Cuatro, S.L.
Spain 39.60% 36 Esterlina Solar – Proyecto Diez, S.L.
Spain 39.60% 37 Esterlina Solar – Proyecto Dos, S.L.
Spain 39.60% 38 Esterlina Solar – Proyecto Nueve, S.L.
Spain 39.60% 39 Esterlina Solar – Proyecto Ocho, S.L.
Spain 39.60% 40 Esterlina Solar – Proyecto Seis, S.L.
Spain 39.60% 41 Esterlina Solar – Proyecto Siete, S.L.
Spain 39.60% 42 Esterlina Solar – Proyecto Tres, S.L.
Spain 39.60% 43 Esterlina Solar – Proyecto Uno, S.L.
Spain 39.60% 44 Esterlina Solar Engineers Private Limited India 40.00% 45 Ethane Crystal LLC Marshall Islands 50.00% 46 Ethane Emerald LLC Marshall Islands 50.00% 47 Ethane Opal LLC Marshall Islands 50.00% 48 Ethane Pearl LLC Marshall Islands 50.00% 49 Ethane Sapphire LLC Marshall Islands 50.00% 50 Ethane Topaz LLC Marshall Islands 50.00% * Subsidiary Companies having 31st December as Reporting Date.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 468 469 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Sr.  No.
Name of the Enterprise Country of  Incorporation Proportion of  Ownership Interest 51 Fantain Sports Private Limited India 21.81% 52 Foodfesta Wellcare Private Limited India 28.74% 53 Football Sports Development Limited India 65.00% 54 Future101 Design Private Limited India 29.26% 55 Gaurav Overseas Private Limited India 50.00% 56 GCO Solar Pty.
Ltd. Australia 30.40% 57 GenNext Ventures Investment Advisers LLP India 50.00% 58 Grabal Alok International Limited British Virgin Islands 40.01% 59 GTPL Abhilash Communication Private Limited India 14.44% 60 GTPL Bansidhar Telelink Private Limited India 12.42% 61 GTPL Bariya Television Network India 10.39% 62 GTPL Bawa Cable India 10.39% 63 GTPL Broadband Private Limited India 20.37% 64 GTPL Crazy Network India 10.18% 65 GTPL Dahod Television Network Private Limited India 10.39% 66 GTPL DCPL Private Limited India 20.37% 67 GTPL Hathway Limited India 20.37% 68 GTPL Insight Channel Network Private Limited India 15.17% 69 GTPL Jay Santoshima Network Private Limited India 10.39% 70 GTPL Jaydeep Cable India 10.39% 71 GTPL Junagadh Network Private Limited India 10.39% 72 GTPL Jyoti Cable India 10.39% 73 GTPL Kaizen Infonet Private Limited India 20.37% 74 GTPL KCBPL Broad Band Private Limited India 10.41% 75 GTPL Khambhat Cable Network India 10.39% 76 GTPL Khusboo Video Channel India 10.39% 77 GTPL Kolkata Cable & Broad Band Pariseva Limited India 10.41% 78 GTPL Leo Vision India 10.39% 79 GTPL Link Network Private Limited India 10.39% 80 GTPL Lucky Video Cable India 10.39% 81 GTPL Ma Bhagawati Entertainment Services India 10.39% 82 GTPL Narmada Cable Services India 10.39% 83 GTPL Narmada Cyberzone Private Limited India 12.22% 84 GTPL Parshwa Cable Network Private Limited India 11.67% 85 GTPL Parth World Vision India 10.39% 86 GTPL Sai World Channel India 10.39% 87 GTPL Shiv Cable Network India 15.28% 88 GTPL Shreenathji Communication India 10.39% 89 GTPL SK Network Private Limited India 10.39% 90 GTPL SK Vision India 10.39% 91 GTPL SMC Network Private Limited India 10.39% 92 GTPL Solanki Cable Network Private Limited India 10.39% 93 GTPL Sorath Telelink Private Limited India 10.39% 94 GTPL Swastik Communication India 10.39% 95 GTPL Tridev Cable Network India 10.39% 96 GTPL V & S Cable Private Limited India 19.61% 97 GTPL Vision Services Private Limited India 10.39% 98 GTPL Vraj Cable India 10.39% 99 GTPL VVC Network Private Limited India 10.39% 100 GTPL World View Cable India 10.39% 101 GTPL World Vision India 10.39% 102 GTPL Zigma Vision Private Limited India 20.37% 103 Gujarat Chemical Port Limited India 41.80% Sr.  No.
Name of the Enterprise Country of  Incorporation Proportion of  Ownership Interest 104 Hathway Bhaskar CCN Multi Entertainment Private Limited India 37.00% 105 Hathway Bhawani NDS Network Limited India 20.65% 106 Hathway Cable MCN Nanded Private Limited India 23.81% 107 Hathway Channel 5 Cable and Datacom Private Limited India 26.96% 108 Hathway Dattatray Cable Network Private Limited India 26.96% 109 Hathway ICE Television Private Limited India 26.96% 110 Hathway Latur MCN Cable & Datacom Private Limited India 26.96% 111 Hathway MCN Private Limited India 26.96% 112 Hathway Prime Cable & Datacom Private Limited India 26.96% 113 Hathway Sai Star Cable & Datacom Private Limited India 26.96% 114 Hathway Sonali OM Crystal Cable Private Limited India 35.94% 115 Hathway SS Cable & Datacom LLP India 26.96% 116 Hathway VCN Cablenet Private Limited India 13.23% 117 IBN Lokmat News Private Limited India 20.85% 118 Iconix Lifestyle India Private Limited India 34.02% 119 India Gas Solutions Private Limited India 50.00% 120 Indian Vaccines Corporation Limited India 33.33% 121 Indospace MET Logistics Park Farukhnagar Private Limited (Formerly known as  Dadri Toe Warehousing Private Limited) India 26.00% 122 Jio Payments Bank Limited India 70.00% 123 Konark IP Dossiers Private Limited India 16.74% 124 Marks and Spencer Reliance India Private Limited India 41.66% 125 Mileta a.s. Czech Republic 40.01% 126 MM Styles Private Limited India 27.22% 127 Neolync India Private Limited India 29.60% 128 Neolync Solutions Private Limited India 40.00% 129 NW18 HSN Holdings PLC Cyprus 29.77% 130 Pan Cable Services Private Limited India 17.62% 131 Petroleum Trust * India  -    132 Pipeline Management Services Private Limited India 50.00% 133 Preebee Lifestyle Private Limited India 17.24% 134 PT Big Tree Entertainment Indonesia Indonesia 21.43% 135 Reliance Bally India Private Limited India 34.02% 136 Reliance Europe Limited United Kingdom 50.00% 137 Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited India 45.43% 138 Reliance Paul & Shark Fashions Private Limited India 34.02% 139 Reliance Services and Holdings Limited India 50.00% 140 Reliance Sideways Private Limited India 34.02% 141 Reliance-GrandVision India Supply Private Limited India 42.51% 142 Reliance-Vision Express Private Limited India 42.51% 143 Ritu Kumar Fashion (LLC) United Arab Emirates 21.76% 144 Ryohin-Keikaku Reliance India Private Limited India 33.34% 145 Sodium-ion Batteries Pty Limited Australia 45.91% 146 SpaceBound Web Labs Private Limited India 28.74% 147 Sterling and Wilson (Thailand) Limited Thailand 39.84% 148 Sterling and Wilson Engineering (Pty) Ltd. South Africa 24.00% 149 Sterling and Wilson International LLP Kazakhstan 40.00% 150 Sterling and Wilson International Solar FZCO United Arab Emirates 40.00% 151 Sterling and Wilson Kazakhstan, LLP Kazakhstan 40.00% 152 Sterling and Wilson Middle East Solar Energy LLC United Arab Emirates 40.00% 153 Sterling and Wilson Renewable Energy Limited India 40.00% 154 Sterling and Wilson Saudi Arabia Limited Saudi Arabia 38.00% 155 Sterling and Wilson Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore 40.00% * Being Trust, without share capital, percentage shareholding not applicable.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 470 471 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Sr.  No.
Name of the Enterprise Country of  Incorporation Proportion of  Ownership Interest 156 Sterling And Wilson Solar Australia Pty.
Ltd. Australia 40.00% 157 Sterling and Wilson Solar LLC Oman 28.00% 158 Sterling and Wilson Solar Malaysia Sdn.
Bhd.
Malaysia 40.00% 159 Sterling and Wilson Solar Solutions Inc. United States   of America 40.00% 160 Sterling and Wilson Solar Solutions, LLC United States   of America 40.00% 161 Sterling and Wilson Solar Spain, S.L.
Spain 39.60% 162 Sterling Wilson - SPCPL - Chint Moroccan Venture India 36.80% 163 TCO Reliance India Private Limited India 33.34% 164 Townscript PTE.
Ltd, Singapore Singapore 22.79% 165 Townscript USA, Inc. United States   of America 22.79% 166 TribeVibe Entertainment Private Limited India 8.56% 167 Two Platforms Inc. United States   of America 16.61% 168 Ubona Technologies Private Limited India 36.58% 169 Vadodara Enviro Channel Limited India 28.57% 170 Zegna South Asia Private Limited India 33.34% 41  Additional Information, as required under Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, of Enterprises Consolidated as  Subsidiaries / Associates / Joint Ventures Sr.  No.
Name of the Enterprise Net Assets i.e.
Total Assets  minus Total Liabilities Share in Profit or Loss Share in Other   Comprehensive Income Share in Total  Comprehensive Income As % of consolidated Net Assets Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated Profit or Loss Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated  Other Comprehensive Income Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated  Total Comprehensive Income Amount  (` in crore) Parent Reliance Industries Limited 60.49% 4,71,527.00 64.38% 39,084.00 (8.92%) (1,979.00) 44.76% 37,105.00 Subsidiaries Indian 1 7-India Convenience Retail Limited ^ 0.00% 37.88 (0.01%) (5.23) - - (0.01%) (5.23) 2 Aaidea Solutions Limited (Formerly known as  Aaidea Solutions Private Limited) ^ (0.01%) (41.00) 0.00% 2.07 (0.01%) (1.71) 0.00% 0.36 3 Abraham and Thakore Exports Private Limited ^ (0.00%) (8.73) (0.00%) (0.08) 0.00% 0.03 (0.00%) (0.05) 4 Actoserba Active Wholesale Limited (Formerly  known as Actoserba Active Wholesale  Private Limited) 0.01% 55.95 (0.06%) (34.99) (0.00%) (0.18) (0.04%) (35.17) 5 Addverb Technologies Private Limited ^ 0.04% 342.04 0.03% 17.08 (0.00%) (0.27) 0.02% 16.81 6 Adventure Marketing Private Limited 0.05% 382.96 (0.00%) (0.03) - - (0.00%) (0.03) 7 Amante India Private Limited (Formerly known  as MAS Brands India Private Limited) ^ (0.01%) (43.37) (0.00%) (2.21) (0.00%) (0.20) (0.00%) (2.41) 8 Asteria Aerospace Limited (Formerly known as  Asteria Aerospace Private Limited) 0.00% 29.51 (0.01%) (4.49) (0.00%) (0.04) (0.01%) (4.53) 9 Colorful Media Private Limited 0.05% 382.95 (0.00%) (0.03) - - (0.00%) (0.03) 10 C-Square Info-Solutions Private Limited 0.01% 46.29 0.00% 1.67 0.00% 0.02 0.00% 1.69 11 Dadha Pharma Distribution Private Limited 0.00% 14.51 0.01% 4.63 0.00% 0.06 0.01% 4.69 12 Den Networks Limited (Consolidated) 0.39% 3,013.29 0.28% 171.08 0.03% 6.04 0.21% 177.12 13 Digital Media Distribution Trust 0.75% 5,820.98 (0.00%) (0.01) - - (0.00%) (0.01) 14 Dronagiri Bokadvira East Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 15 Dronagiri Bokadvira North Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 16 Dronagiri Bokadvira South Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 17 Dronagiri Bokadvira West Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 18 Dronagiri Dongri East Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 19 Dronagiri Dongri North Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 20 Dronagiri Dongri South Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 21 Dronagiri Dongri West Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - Sr.  No.
Name of the Enterprise Net Assets i.e.
Total Assets  minus Total Liabilities Share in Profit or Loss Share in Other   Comprehensive Income Share in Total  Comprehensive Income As % of consolidated Net Assets Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated Profit or Loss Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated  Other Comprehensive Income Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated  Total Comprehensive Income Amount  (` in crore) 22 Dronagiri Funde East Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 23 Dronagiri Funde North Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 24 Dronagiri Funde South Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 25 Dronagiri Funde West Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 26 Dronagiri Navghar East Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 27 Dronagiri Navghar North First Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 28 Dronagiri Navghar North Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 29 Dronagiri Navghar North Second Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 30 Dronagiri Navghar South First Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 31 Dronagiri Navghar South Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 32 Dronagiri Navghar South Second Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 33 Dronagiri Navghar West Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 34 Dronagiri Pagote East Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 35 Dronagiri Pagote North First Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 36 Dronagiri Pagote North Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 37 Dronagiri Pagote North Second Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 38 Dronagiri Pagote South First Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 39 Dronagiri Pagote South Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 40 Dronagiri Pagote West Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 41 Dronagiri Panje East Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 42 Dronagiri Panje North Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 43 Dronagiri Panje South Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 44 Dronagiri Panje West Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 45 Enercent Technologies Private Limited ^ 0.00% 5.08 (0.00%) (4.08) - - (0.00%) (4.08) 46 Foodhall Franchises Limited ^ - - (0.00%) (0.01) - - (0.00%) (0.01) 47 Future Lifestyles Franchisee Limited ^ - - (0.00%) (0.01) - - (0.00%) (0.01) 48 Genesis Colors Limited 0.01% 45.67 (0.03%) (18.34) 0.00% 0.06 (0.02%) (18.28) 49 Genesis La Mode Private Limited 0.01% 54.56 0.02% 11.69 0.00% 0.04 0.01% 11.73 50 GLB Body Care Private Limited 0.00% 0.33 0.00% 0.01 - - 0.00% 0.01 51 GLF Lifestyle Brands Private Limited 0.01% 90.34 0.01% 6.54 0.00% 0.01 0.01% 6.55 52 GML India Fashion Private Limited 0.00% 14.54 0.00% 1.49 - - 0.00% 1.49 53 Grab A Grub Services Private Limited 0.01% 63.85 0.01% 4.17 0.00% 0.37 0.01% 4.54 54 Hathway Cable and Datacom  Limited (Consolidated) 0.53% 4,126.78 0.22% 130.52 (0.01%) (1.45) 0.16% 129.07 55 Independent Media Trust 0.43% 3,365.74 (0.00%) (0.01) - - (0.00%) (0.01) 56 Indiavidual Learning Limited 0.01% 84.07 0.00% 0.33 - - 0.00% 0.33 57 Indiawin Sports Private Limited 0.04% 348.02 0.05% 27.65 - - 0.03% 27.65 58 Intelligent Supply Chain Infrastructure  Management Private Limited (Formerly Known  as Jio Digital Cableco Private Limited) (0.00%) (0.01) (0.00%) (0.01) - - (0.00%) (0.01) 59 Intimi India Private Limited ^ 0.00% 3.70 0.00% 1.14 - - 0.00% 1.14 60 Jaisuryas Retail Ventures Private Limited ^ 0.00% 0.41 (0.00%) (2.62) - - (0.00%) (2.62) 61 Jio Cable and Broadband Holdings  Private Limited 0.08% 591.13 (0.00%) (0.01) - - (0.00%) (0.01) 62 Jio Content Distribution Holdings Private Limited 0.25% 1,980.30 0.00% 0.12 - - 0.00% 0.12 63 Jio Digital Distribution Holdings Private Limited 0.07% 553.43 - - - - - - 64 Jio Futuristic Digital Holdings Private Limited 0.17% 1,323.38 (0.00%) (0.06) - - (0.00%) (0.06) 65 Jio Haptik Technologies Limited 0.04% 309.61 0.01% 6.34 0.00% 0.07 0.01% 6.41 66 Jio Information Aggregator Services Limited 0.00% 0.03 (0.00%) (0.01) - - (0.00%) (0.01) 67 Jio Infrastructure Management Services Limited 0.00% 0.92 0.00% 0.31 - - 0.00% 0.31 68 Jio Internet Distribution Holdings Private Limited 0.10% 791.12 (0.00%) (0.07) - - (0.00%) (0.07) 69 Jio Limited (0.00%) (0.01) (0.00%) (0.01) - - (0.00%) (0.01) 70 Jio Media Limited 0.06% 447.73 0.00% 0.02 (0.00%) (0.04) (0.00%) (0.02) ^  Company was Subsidiary / Associate / Joint Venture for part of the year.
^  Company was Subsidiary / Associate / Joint Venture for part of the year.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 472 473 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Sr.  No.
Name of the Enterprise Net Assets i.e.
Total Assets  minus Total Liabilities Share in Profit or Loss Share in Other   Comprehensive Income Share in Total  Comprehensive Income As % of consolidated Net Assets Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated Profit or Loss Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated  Other Comprehensive Income Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated  Total Comprehensive Income Amount  (` in crore) 71 Jio Platforms Limited 26.57% 2,07,095.75 1.00% 610.08 0.96% 212.52 0.99% 822.60 72 Jio Satellite Communications Limited ^ 0.00% 8.21 (0.00%) (1.79) - - (0.00%) (1.79) 73 Jio Space Technology Limited ^ 0.00% 0.39 (0.00%) (2.62) - - (0.00%) (2.62) 74 Jio Television Distribution Holdings  Private Limited 0.07% 569.75 - - - - - - 75 Jio Things Limited 0.00% 0.67 (0.00%) (0.30) - - (0.00%) (0.30) 76 Just Dial Limited ^ 0.45% 3,486.08 0.10% 58.60 (0.01%) (1.28) 0.07% 57.32 77 Kalamboli East Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 78 Kalamboli North First Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 79 Kalamboli North Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 80 Kalamboli North Second Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 81 Kalamboli North Third Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 82 Kalamboli South First Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 83 Kalamboli South Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 84 Kalamboli West Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 85 Kalanikethan Fashions Private Limited ^ (0.00%) (5.04) 0.00% 3.03 0.00% 0.04 0.00% 3.07 86 Kalanikethan Silks Private Limited ^ 0.01% 68.23 (0.00%) (0.14) 0.00% 0.20 0.00% 0.06 87 Kutch New Energy Projects Limited (Formerly  known as Reliance Solar Projects Limited) ^ 0.00% 0.01 - - - - - - 88 M Entertainments Private Limited 0.00% 0.13 - - - - - - 89 Mesindus Ventures Limited (Formerly known as  Mesindus Ventures Private Limited) 0.00% 38.46 - - - - - - 90 Model Economic Township Limited 0.82% 6,419.28 0.11% 49.40 0.00% 0.03 0.08% 49.45 91 MYJD Private Limited ^ (0.00%) (0.03) (0.00%) (0.01) - - (0.00%) (0.01) 92 Netmeds Marketplace Limited 0.00% 29.61 0.02% 10.58 0.00% 0.22 0.01% 10.80 93 Network18 Media & Investments  Limited (Consolidated) 0.59% 4,607.20 1.38% 837.65 0.02% 3.47 1.01% 841.12 94 New Emerging World of Journalism Limited 0.01% 45.44 0.00% 2.49 0.00% 0.07 0.00% 2.56 95 Nilgiris Stores Limited ^ - - (0.00%) (0.01) - - (0.00%) (0.01) 96 NowFloats Technologies Private Limited 0.00% 33.39 0.00% 2.09 0.00% 0.01 0.00% 2.10 97 Radisys India Limited (Formerly known as  Radisys India Private Limited) 0.02% 188.55 0.04% 26.34 (0.00%) (0.64) 0.03% 25.70 98 RB Holdings Private Limited 0.00% 0.12 (0.00%) (0.01) - - (0.00%) (0.01) 99 RB Media Holdings Private Limited 0.05% 383.37 (0.00%) (0.02) - - (0.00%) (0.02) 100 RB Mediasoft Private Limited 0.05% 414.09 (0.00%) (0.03) - - (0.00%) (0.03) 101 RBML Solutions India Limited 0.03% 263.40 0.01% 3.54 - - 0.00% 3.54 102 Reliance 4IR Realty Development Limited 3.67% 28,643.13 0.03% 18.84 - - 0.02% 18.84 103 Reliance Ambit Trade Private Limited 0.12% 915.43 0.00% 1.65 - - 0.00% 1.65 104 Reliance BP Mobility Limited 0.23% 1,830.27 0.55% 336.49 (0.01%) (2.33) 0.40% 334.16 105 Reliance Brands Limited (0.05%) (395.84) (0.35%) (213.77) 0.00% 0.49 (0.26%) (213.28) 106 Reliance Brands Luxury Fashion Private Limited 0.02% 166.01 0.01% 3.88 0.00% 0.30 0.01% 4.18 107 Reliance Carbon Fibre Cylinder Limited ^ 0.00% 0.01 - - - - - - 108 Reliance Clothing India Private Limited (0.01%) (84.70) (0.03%) (16.54) 0.00% 0.02 (0.02%) (16.52) 109 Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited 0.21% 1,672.26 0.00% 0.55 0.00% 0.18 0.00% 0.73 110 Reliance Comtrade Private Limited 0.02% 117.87 (0.00%) (0.05) - - (0.00%) (0.05) 111 Reliance Content Distribution Limited 0.76% 5,908.01 (0.00%) (0.03) - - (0.00%) (0.03) 112 Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited 2.70% 21,078.06 0.19% 114.75 (0.00%) (0.52) 0.14% 114.23 113 Reliance Digital Health Limited (Formerly known  as Kanhatech Solutions Limited) 0.01% 86.42 0.00% 2.01 - - 0.00% 2.01 114 Reliance Eminent Trading & Commercial  Private Limited 0.49% 3,826.31 (0.00%) (2.33) - - (0.00%) (2.33) 115 Reliance Ethane Pipeline Limited 0.07% 509.26 0.20% 120.83 (0.00%) (0.02) 0.15% 120.81 116 Reliance GAS Lifestyle India Private Limited 0.01% 103.36 0.01% 4.75 0.00% 0.02 0.01% 4.77 117 Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited 0.07% 508.25 (0.02%) (15.12) 0.00% 0.10 (0.02%) (15.02) Sr.  No.
Name of the Enterprise Net Assets i.e.
Total Assets  minus Total Liabilities Share in Profit or Loss Share in Other   Comprehensive Income Share in Total  Comprehensive Income As % of consolidated Net Assets Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated Profit or Loss Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated  Other Comprehensive Income Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated  Total Comprehensive Income Amount  (` in crore) 118 Reliance Hydrogen Electrolysis Limited ^ 0.00% 0.01 - - - - - - 119 Reliance Hydrogen Fuel Cell Limited ^ 0.00% 0.01 - - - - - - 120 Reliance Industrial Investments and  Holdings Limited 3.29% 25,631.50 0.48% 294.19 - - 0.35% 294.19 121 Reliance Innovative Building Solutions  Private Limited 0.00% 7.35 (0.00%) (0.50) - - (0.00%) (0.50) 122 Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited 25.37% 1,97,790.18 24.41% 14,817.32 0.00% 0.26 17.88% 14,817.58 123 Reliance Jio Media Limited 0.01% 82.62 (0.00%) (0.11) - - (0.00%) (0.11) 124 Reliance Jio Messaging Services Limited 0.01% 85.95 (0.00%) (0.11) - - (0.00%) (0.11) 125 Reliance Lifestyle Products Private Limited 0.00% 7.20 0.00% 1.80 0.00% 0.01 0.00% 1.81 126 Reliance New Energy Carbon Fibre  Cylinder Limited ^ 0.00% 0.01 - - - - - - 127 Reliance New Energy Hydrogen  Electrolysis Limited ^ 0.00% 0.01 - - - - - - 128 Reliance New Energy Hydrogen Fuel Cell Limited ^ 0.00% 0.01 - - - - - - 129 Reliance New Energy Limited (Formerly known  as Reliance New Energy Solar Limited) ^ 0.74% 5,774.00 - - - - - - 130 Reliance New Energy Power Electronics Limited ^ 0.00% 0.01 - - - - - - 131 Reliance New Energy Storage Limited ^ 0.00% 0.01 - - - - - - 132 Reliance New Solar Energy Limited ^ 0.00% 0.11 - - - - - - 133 Reliance O2C Limited 0.00% 31.49 0.05% 31.50 - - 0.04% 31.50 134 Reliance Payment Solutions Limited 0.02% 190.59 (0.02%) (10.76) (0.00%) (0.01) (0.01%) (10.77) 135 Reliance Petro Marketing Limited 0.05% 391.15 0.02% 10.08 0.06% 12.40 0.03% 22.48 136 Reliance Petroleum Retail Limited - - - - - - - - 137 Reliance Power Electronics Limited ^ 0.00% 0.01 - - - - - - 138 Reliance Progressive Traders Private Limited 0.51% 3,954.30 0.03% 16.44 - - 0.02% 16.44 139 Reliance Projects & Property Management  Services Limited 3.12% 24,334.30 0.50% 300.86 (0.07%) (15.66) 0.34% 285.20 140 Reliance Prolific Commercial Private Limited 0.08% 636.07 0.01% 3.48 - - 0.00% 3.48 141 Reliance Prolific Traders Private Limited 0.36% 2,809.03 0.00% 0.08 - - 0.00% 0.08 142 Reliance Retail and Fashion Lifestyle Limited 0.01% 52.38 0.00% 0.38 - - 0.00% 0.38 143 Reliance Retail Finance Limited 0.47% 3,666.18 0.04% 26.96 - - 0.03% 26.96 144 Reliance Retail Insurance Broking Limited 0.00% 4.22 0.01% 6.83 (0.00%) (0.11) 0.01% 6.72 145 Reliance Retail Limited 3.88% 30,254.76 8.13% 4,934.65 (0.01%) (2.10) 5.95% 4,932.55 146 Reliance Retail Ventures Limited 8.76% 68,251.25 3.88% 2,354.73 0.21% 47.04 2.90% 2,401.77 147 Reliance Ritu Kumar Private Limited (Formerly  known as Ritika Private Limited) ^ 0.01% 110.39 0.01% 3.54 (0.00%) (0.47) 0.00% 3.07 148 Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited 0.30% 2,355.66 (0.00%) (0.14) - - (0.00%) (0.14) 149 Reliance SMSL Limited 0.00% 37.40 0.04% 22.91 0.02% 4.00 0.03% 26.91 150 Reliance Storage Limited ^ 0.00% 0.01 - - - - - - 151 Reliance Strategic Business Ventures Limited 1.66% 12,931.87 0.30% 179.81 3.95% 875.36 1.27% 1,055.17 152 Reliance Strategic Investments Limited 0.29% 2,228.03 0.28% 168.04 - - 0.20% 168.04 153 Reliance Syngas Limited ^ 0.00% 0.10 - - - - - - 154 Reliance Universal Traders Private Limited 0.22% 1,727.63 0.00% 1.56 - - 0.00% 1.56 155 Reliance Vantage Retail Limited 0.02% 158.01 0.00% 2.02 - - 0.00% 2.02 156 Reliance Ventures Limited 0.59% 4,591.66 0.62% 374.76 - - 0.45% 374.76 157 Reliance-GrandOptical Private Limited (0.00%) (0.01) (0.00%) (0.02) - - (0.00%) (0.02) 158 Reverie Language Technologies Limited 0.01% 86.85 0.00% 2.70 0.00% 0.02 0.00% 2.72 159 RISE Worldwide Limited 0.03% 213.14 0.02% 12.61 0.00% 0.14 0.02% 12.75 160 RRB Mediasoft Private Limited 0.04% 293.87 (0.00%) (0.03) - - (0.00%) (0.03) 161 Saavn Media Limited 1.05% 8,221.98 0.00% 0.46 - - 0.00% 0.46 162 SankhyaSutra Labs Limited 0.01% 69.80 0.00% 0.33 0.00% 0.05 0.00% 0.38 163 Shopsense Retail Technologies Limited   (Formerly known as Shopsense Retail  Technologies Private Limited) 0.01% 106.24 0.00% 0.22 (0.00%) (0.67) (0.00%) (0.45) ^  Company was Subsidiary / Associate / Joint Venture for part of the year.
^  Company was Subsidiary / Associate / Joint Venture for part of the year.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 474 475 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Sr.  No.
Name of the Enterprise Net Assets i.e.
Total Assets  minus Total Liabilities Share in Profit or Loss Share in Other   Comprehensive Income Share in Total  Comprehensive Income As % of consolidated Net Assets Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated Profit or Loss Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated  Other Comprehensive Income Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated  Total Comprehensive Income Amount  (` in crore) 164 Shri Kannan Departmental Store Limited  (Formerly known as Shri Kannan Departmental  Store Private Limited) 0.01% 96.87 (0.07%) (44.22) 0.00% 0.15 (0.05%) (44.07) 165 Strand Life Sciences Private Limited ^ 0.01% 90.20 0.03% 18.90 (0.00%) (0.20) 0.02% 18.70 166 Surajya Services Limited (Formerly known as  Surajya Services Private Limited) 0.00% 27.59 (0.00%) (1.10) (0.00%) (0.00) (0.00%) (1.10) 167 Surela Investment And Trading Limited (0.00%) (1.38) (0.00%) (0.34) - - (0.00%) (0.34) 168 Tesseract Imaging Limited 0.00% 8.60 0.00% 0.06 - - 0.00% 0.06 169 The Indian Film Combine Private Limited 0.28% 2,184.18 (0.06%) (38.62) 0.01% 1.19 (0.05%) (37.43) 170 Tira Beauty Limited ^ - - (0.00%) (0.01) - - (0.00%) (0.01) 171 Tresara Health Limited (Formerly known as  Tresara Health Private Limited) (0.00%) (26.08) (0.01%) (4.58) - - (0.01%) (4.58) 172 Ulwe East Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 173 Ulwe North Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 174 Ulwe South Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 175 Ulwe Waterfront East Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 176 Ulwe Waterfront North Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 177 Ulwe Waterfront South Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 178 Ulwe Waterfront West Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 179 Ulwe West Infra Limited 0.00% 0.04 - - - - - - 180 Urban Ladder Home Décor Solutions Limited  (Formerly known as Urban Ladder Home Décor  Solutions Private Limited) 0.00% 20.25 0.02% 9.63 0.00% 0.75 0.01% 10.38 181 VasyERP Solutions Private Limited ^ 0.00% 8.78 (0.00%) (0.87) - - (0.00%) (0.87) 182 Vitalic Health Private Limited 0.00% 38.35 0.00% 2.15 0.00% 0.80 0.00% 2.95 183 Watermark Infratech Private Limited 0.05% 383.00 (0.00%) (0.02) - - (0.00%) (0.02) Foreign 1 Addverb Technologies BV ^ (0.00%) (2.19) (0.00%) (2.20) 0.00% 0.01 (0.00%) (2.19) 2 Addverb Technologies Pte Limited ^ 0.00% 0.68 (0.00%) (2.40) 0.00% 0.07 (0.00%) (2.33) 3 Addverb Technologies Pty Limited ^ 0.00% 4.03 0.01% 4.05 0.00% 0.05 0.00% 4.10 4 Addverb Technologies USA Inc. ^ 0.00% 4.39 (0.01%) (3.16) (0.00%) (0.03) (0.00%) (3.19) 5 Affinity USA LLC * - - - - - - - - 6 Aurora Algae LLC * - - - - - - - - 7 Faradion Limited ^ 0.03% 257.59 (0.01%) (5.80) - - (0.01%) (5.80) 8 Faradion UG ^ 0.00% 0.47 0.00% 0.10 - - 0.00% 0.10 9 Hamleys (Franchising) Limited * 0.02% 168.81 0.04% 23.10 - - 0.03% 23.10 10 Hamleys Asia Limited * (0.00%) (0.37) (0.00%) (0.11) - - (0.00%) (0.11) 11 Hamleys of London Limited * (0.03%) (205.12) (0.08%) (47.83) - - (0.06%) (47.83) 12 Hamleys Toys (Ireland) Limited * (0.01%) (69.99) (0.00%) (0.02) (0.02%) (5.24) (0.01%) (5.26) 13 JD International Pte.
Ltd. ^ 0.00% 0.07 (0.00%) (0.02) - - (0.00%) (0.02) 14 Jio Estonia OÜ * 0.00% 1.36 0.00% 0.33 (0.00%) (0.08) 0.00% 0.25 15 Just Dial Inc. ^ 0.00% 0.81 (0.00%) (0.07) - - (0.00%) (0.07) 16 MAS Brands Exports (Private) Limited * ^ 0.00% 1.48 0.00% 0.27 (0.00%) (0.74) (0.00%) (0.47) 17 MAS Brands Lanka (Private) Limited * ^ 0.01% 44.59 0.00% 0.61 (0.02%) (5.11) (0.01%) (4.50) 18 Mindex 1 Limited 0.02% 180.22 0.01% 4.56 (0.01%) (2.35) 0.00% 2.21 19 Radisys B.V. * 0.00% 4.93 0.00% 0.22 (0.00%) (0.38) (0.00%) (0.16) 20 Radisys Canada Inc. * 0.00% 28.04 0.00% 0.34 - - 0.00% 0.34 21 Radisys Cayman Limited * 0.00% 0.07 - - - - - - 22 Radisys Convedia (Ireland) Limited * 0.00% 0.39 (0.00%) (0.44) - - (0.00%) (0.44) 23 Radisys Corporation * (0.02%) (182.53) 0.00% 2.48 - - 0.00% 2.48 24 Radisys GmbH * 0.00% 5.57 0.00% 0.22 (0.00%) (0.38) (0.00%) (0.16) 25 Radisys International LLC * 0.00% 2.32 - - - - - - Sr.  No.
Name of the Enterprise Net Assets i.e.
Total Assets  minus Total Liabilities Share in Profit or Loss Share in Other   Comprehensive Income Share in Total  Comprehensive Income As % of consolidated Net Assets Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated Profit or Loss Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated  Other Comprehensive Income Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated  Total Comprehensive Income Amount  (` in crore) 26 Radisys International Singapore Pte.
Ltd. * 0.00% 0.56 (0.00%) (0.03) (0.00%) (0.02) (0.00%) (0.05) 27 Radisys Spain S.L.U.
* 0.00% 1.38 0.00% 0.16 (0.00%) (0.10) 0.00% 0.06 28 Radisys Systems Equipment Trading  (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. * 0.00% 13.33 (0.00%) (0.43) 0.00% 0.32 (0.00%) (0.11) 29 Radisys Technologies (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd. * (0.00%) (8.40) (0.01%) (3.41) 0.01% 2.24 (0.00%) (1.17) 30 Radisys UK Limited * 0.00% 9.17 (0.00%) (0.29) (0.00%) (0.02) (0.00%) (0.31) 31 REC Americas LLC * ^ 0.09% 735.98 0.03% 16.37 - - 0.02% 16.37 32 REC ScanModule Sweden AB * ^ 0.00% 27.80 (0.00%) (0.04) - - (0.00%) (0.04) 33 REC Solar (Japan) Co., Ltd. * ^ 0.00% 19.35 0.01% 4.92 - - 0.01% 4.92 34 REC Solar EMEA GmbH * ^ 0.01% 78.80 0.01% 3.88 - - 0.00% 3.88 35 REC Solar France SAS * ^ (0.00%) (1.76) (0.00%) (0.06) - - (0.00%) (0.06) 36 REC Solar Holdings AS * ^ (0.08%) (613.57) 0.01% 8.68 - - 0.01% 8.68 37 REC Solar Norway AS * ^ 0.07% 520.74 (0.03%) (21.23) - - (0.03%) (21.23) 38 REC Solar Pte.
Ltd. * ^ 0.10% 773.09 (0.27%) (165.10) - - (0.20%) (165.10) 39 REC Systems (Thailand) Co., Ltd. * ^ 0.00% 0.68 - - - - - - 40 REC Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. * ^ 0.00% 6.31 (0.02%) (9.45) - - (0.01%) (9.45) 41 REC US Holdings, Inc. * ^ - - - - - - - - 42 Recron (Malaysia) Sdn.
Bhd.
* 0.19% 1,517.98 0.44% 269.58 0.35% 78.11 0.42% 347.69 43 Reliance Brands Holding UK Limited * 0.10% 778.30 (0.00%) (0.64) - - (0.00%) (0.64) 44 Reliance Digital Health USA Inc. * 0.00% 4.46 0.00% 0.17 - - 0.00% 0.17 45 Reliance Eagleford Upstream GP LLC * - - 0.00% 0.23 - - 0.00% 0.23 46 Reliance Eagleford Upstream Holding LP * 0.01% 43.86 4.40% 2,668.79 - - 3.22% 2,668.79 47 Reliance Eagleford Upstream LLC * - - - - - - - - 48 Reliance Ethane Holding Pte Limited 0.15% 1,151.74 0.04% 24.42 0.01% 2.03 0.03% 26.45 49 Reliance Exploration & Production DMCC * 0.33% 2,579.18 1.54% 932.74 0.15% 33.65 1.17% 966.39 50 Reliance Global Energy Services  (Singapore) Pte.
Limited 0.08% 648.41 0.12% 72.98 0.10% 21.68 0.11% 94.66 51 Reliance Global Energy Services Limited 0.00% 31.46 0.00% 2.56 0.01% 1.77 0.01% 4.33 52 Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC * 0.05% 394.25 (1.43%) (866.55) (0.16%) (36.49) (1.09%) (903.04) 53 Reliance International Limited ^ 0.03% 206.09 0.03% 16.44 0.00% 0.53 0.02% 16.97 54 Reliance Jio Global Resources LLC * 0.01% 40.99 (0.03%) (18.55) 0.00% 0.90 (0.02%) (17.65) 55 Reliance Jio Infocomm Pte.
Ltd. * 0.14% 1,123.99 0.14% 86.48 0.08% 18.18 0.13% 104.66 56 Reliance Jio Infocomm UK Limited * 0.01% 66.43 0.00% 0.31 0.00% 0.39 0.00% 0.70 57 Reliance Jio Infocomm USA Inc. * 0.03% 211.46 (0.05%) (30.04) (0.13%) (29.01) (0.07%) (59.05) 58 Reliance Marcellus II LLC * - - - - - - - - 59 Reliance Marcellus LLC * (0.07%) (520.35) 2.54% 1,544.58 - - 1.86% 1,544.58 60 RIL USA, Inc. * 0.13% 1,045.18 0.02% 12.18 0.09% 18.92 0.04% 31.10 61 Ritu Kumar ME (FZE) (Formerly known as Ritu  Kumar ME (FZC)) ^ (0.00%) (9.90) 0.00% 0.19 - - 0.00% 0.19 62 RP Chemicals (Malaysia) Sdn.
Bhd.
* 0.12% 940.90 0.03% 17.42 (0.08%) (16.70) 0.00% 0.72 63 Saavn Inc. 0.02% 148.49 0.14% 82.75 - - 0.10% 82.75 64 Saavn LLC 0.01% 51.33 0.00% 0.01 - - 0.00% 0.01 65 skyTran Inc. * 0.02% 126.27 (0.10%) (58.74) 0.02% 3.98 (0.07%) (54.76) 66 skyTran Israel Ltd. * ^ - - - - - - - - 67 Stoke Park Limited * ^ 0.04% 319.12 0.03% 16.40 (0.05%) (10.66) 0.01% 5.74 Others Non-Controlling Interests (14.05%) (1,09,499.00) (11.76%) (7,140.00) (0.34%) (75.00) (8.70%) (7,215.00) Adjustments due to Consolidation (Elimination) (49.79%) (3,88,138.60) (2.93%) (1,760.84) (0.15%) (33.20) (2.19%) (1,794.04) ^  Company was Subsidiary / Associate / Joint Venture for part of the year.
* Subsidiary Companies having 31st December as Reporting Date.
^  Company was Subsidiary / Associate / Joint Venture for part of the year.
* Subsidiary Companies having 31st December as Reporting Date.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022 476 477 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance  Management   Review Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Sr.  No.
Name of the Enterprise Net Assets i.e.
Total Assets  minus Total Liabilities Share in Profit or Loss Share in Other   Comprehensive Income Share in Total  Comprehensive Income As % of consolidated Net Assets Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated Profit or Loss Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated  Other Comprehensive Income Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated  Total Comprehensive Income Amount  (` in crore) Associates (Investment as per the equity method) Indian 1 Clayfin Technologies Private Limited 0.00% 3.38 0.00% 2.86 0.00% 0.02 0.00% 2.88 2 Dunzo Digital Private Limited ^ (0.00%) (38.86) (0.06%) (38.79) - - (0.05%) (38.79) 3 Dunzo Merchant Services Private Limited ^ (0.00%) (0.35) (0.00%) (0.07) - - (0.00%) (0.07) 4 Future101 Design Private Limited ^ 0.00% 1.62 0.00% 1.62 - - 0.00% 1.62 5 Gaurav Overseas Private Limited 0.00% 0.01 0.00% 0.06 - - 0.00% 0.06 6 GenNext Ventures Investment Advisers LLP 0.00% 0.09 - - - - - - 7 Gujarat Chemical Port Limited 0.07% 580.89 0.18% 107.14 0.00% 0.04 0.13% 107.18 8 Indian Vaccines Corporation Limited (0.00%) (0.47) 0.00% 0.01 - - 0.00% 0.01 9 MM Styles Private Limited ^ 0.00% 8.00 0.01% 8.00 - - 0.01% 8.00 10 Neolync India Private Limited ^ - - - - - - - - 11 Neolync Solutions Private Limited ^ (0.00%) (0.36) (0.00%) (0.36) - - (0.00%) (0.36) 12 Petroleum Trust 7.46% 58,165.12 - - 60.75% 13,478.04 16.26% 13,478.04 13 Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited 0.03% 205.11 0.01% 3.50 0.04% 8.11 0.01% 11.61 14 Reliance Services and Holdings Limited 2.77% 21,556.65 0.01% 5.38 43.29% 9,603.27 11.59% 9,608.65 15 Sterling and Wilson Renewable Energy Limited  (Consolidated) ^ (0.01%) (41.77) (0.06%) (33.68) (0.04%) (8.09) (0.05%) (41.77) 16 Vadodara Enviro Channel Limited (0.00%) (0.25) (0.00%) (0.25) - - (0.00%) (0.25) Foreign 1 Reliance Europe Limited 0.00% 37.52 0.00% 0.79 - - 0.00% 0.79 2 Ritu Kumar Fashion (LLC) ^ - - - - - - - - 3 Two Platforms Inc. ^ - - - - - - - - Joint Ventures (Investment as per the equity method) Indian 1 Alok Industries Limited (Consolidated) (0.01%) (110.58) (0.14%) (85.28) (0.08%) (16.64) (0.12%) (101.92) 2 Brooks Brothers India Private Limited (0.00%) (5.58) 0.01% 4.32 - - 0.01% 4.32 3 Burberry India Private Limited 0.00% 19.26 0.01% 7.75 - - 0.01% 7.75 4 CAA-Global Brands Reliance Private Limited ^ 0.00% 0.01 - - - - - - 5 Canali India Private Limited 0.00% 4.68 0.00% 1.64 - - 0.00% 1.64 6 Clarks Reliance Footwear Private Limited  (Formerly known as Clarks Future Footwear  Private Limited) ^ - - - - - - - - 7 D. E. Shaw India Securities Private Limited 0.00% 1.50 - - - - - - 8 Diesel Fashion India Reliance Private Limited (0.01%) (40.39) 0.00% 1.59 - - 0.00% 1.59 9 Football Sports Development Limited (0.02%) (131.99) (0.05%) (30.10) (0.00%) (0.21) (0.04%) (30.31) 10 Iconix Lifestyle India Private Limited 0.00% 11.14 0.01% 4.42 - - 0.01% 4.42 11 India Gas Solutions Private Limited 0.02% 129.21 0.23% 142.33 - - 0.17% 142.33 12 Indospace MET Logistics Park Farukhnagar  Private Limited (Formerly known as Dadri Toe  Warehousing Private Limited) (0.00%) (0.40) (0.00%) (0.40) - - (0.00%) (0.40) 13 Jio Payments Bank Limited (0.01%) (98.32) (0.04%) (23.75) (0.00%) (0.08) (0.03%) (23.83) 14 Marks and Spencer Reliance India Private Limited (0.01%) (68.41) 0.02% 13.85 - - 0.02% 13.85 15 Pipeline Management Services Private Limited 0.00% 7.23 0.01% 3.61 (0.00%) (0.13) 0.00% 3.48 16 Reliance Bally India Private Limited 0.00% 1.35 0.00% 1.52 - - 0.00% 1.52 17 Reliance Paul & Shark Fashions Private Limited (0.00%) (7.43) 0.00% 0.22 - - 0.00% 0.22 18 Reliance Sideways Private Limited - - 0.00% 0.03 - - 0.00% 0.03 19 Reliance-GrandVision India Supply  Private Limited (0.00%) (8.61) (0.00%) (0.23) - - (0.00%) (0.23) 20 Reliance-Vision Express Private Limited (0.01%) (101.91) (0.01%) (4.13) - - (0.00%) (4.13) 21 Ryohin-Keikaku Reliance India Private Limited (0.00%) (13.98) (0.01%) (3.32) - - (0.00%) (3.32) 22 TCO Reliance India Private Limited 0.00% 0.47 0.00% 1.32 - - 0.00% 1.32 23 Zegna South Asia Private Limited (0.00%) (24.11) 0.00% 2.23 - - 0.00% 2.23 Sr.  No.
Name of the Enterprise Net Assets i.e.
Total Assets  minus Total Liabilities Share in Profit or Loss Share in Other   Comprehensive Income Share in Total  Comprehensive Income As % of consolidated Net Assets Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated Profit or Loss Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated  Other Comprehensive Income Amount (` in crore) As % of consolidated  Total Comprehensive Income Amount  (` in crore) Foreign 1 Ethane Crystal LLC 0.00% 27.02 0.02% 12.80 (0.00%) (0.72) 0.01% 12.08 2 Ethane Emerald LLC 0.00% 27.50 0.02% 12.98 (0.00%) (0.70) 0.01% 12.28 3 Ethane Opal LLC 0.00% 27.24 0.02% 12.94 (0.00%) (0.77) 0.01% 12.17 4 Ethane Pearl LLC 0.00% 26.44 0.02% 13.58 (0.01%) (1.59) 0.01% 11.99 5 Ethane Sapphire LLC 0.00% 27.63 0.02% 13.09 (0.00%) (0.88) 0.01% 12.21 6 Ethane Topaz LLC 0.00% 26.85 0.02% 13.79 (0.01%) (1.63) 0.01% 12.16 7 Sodium-ion Batteries Pty Limited ^ - - - - - - - - Grand Total 100% 7,79,485 100% 60,705 100% 22,185 100% 82,890 ^  Company was Subsidiary / Associate / Joint Venture for part of the year.
42 Other Statutory Information  42.1  Balances outstanding with nature of transactions with Struck off Companies as per section 248 of the  Companies Act, 2013: Sr.  No.
Name of Struck off Company Nature of transactions  with Struck off  Company Balance outstanding   (` in crore) Relationship with the Struck off  Company 1 YSR Films Private Limited ( ` 43,92,000) Trade Payables *  -   NA * Outstanding balance is on account of non-compliance by vendor as per contract.
43 Events after the Reporting Period   The Board of Directors have recommended dividend of ` 8/- per fully paid up equity share of ` 10/- each for the  financial year 2021-22.
44   The figures for the corresponding previous year have been regrouped / reclassified wherever necessary, to make  them comparable.
45 Approval of Financial Statements  The Consolidated Financial Statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on May 06, 2022.
^  Company was Subsidiary / Associate / Joint Venture for part of the year.
Annexure “A” 478 479 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Financial   Statements Statement containing Salient Features of Financial Statements of Subsidiaries / Associates / Joint Ventures as per Companies Act, 2013 Part “A”: Subsidiaries (` in crore)  Foreign Currencies in Million Sr.  No.
Name of Subsidiary Company The date since which Subsidiary was  acquired Reporting Currency Equity  Share  Capital Other  Equity $ Total  Assets Total  Liabilities Investments Total  Income Profit  Before  Taxation Provision  for  Taxation Profit  After  Taxation Other  Compre-  hensive  Income Total  Compre-  hensive  Income Proposed   Dividend % of  Share- holding # 1 7-India Convenience Retail Limited 07.04.2021 INR 45.00 (7.12) 93.02 55.14 10.63 1.00 (3.74) 1.49 (5.23) - (5.23) - 100.00% 2 Aaidea Solutions Limited (Formerly known as  Aaidea Solutions Private Limited) 19.07.2021 INR 0.04 (41.04) 98.09 139.09 32.04 421.49 (65.92) - (65.92) (1.71) (67.63) - 96.49% 3 Abraham and Thakore Exports Private Limited 23.02.2022 INR 0.08 (8.81) 5.26 13.99 - 4.55 (3.02) 1.90 (4.92) 0.03 (4.89) - 55.00% 4 Actoserba Active Wholesale Limited (Formerly  known as Actoserba Active Wholesale  Private Limited) 18.02.2021 INR 1.02 54.93 161.94 105.99 - 227.55 (34.99) - (34.99) (0.18) (35.17) - 86.15% 5 Addverb Technologies BV 13.07.2021 EUR 0.00 (0.26) 0.42 0.68 - 0.35 (0.26) - (0.26) - (0.26) - 100.00% INR 0.00 (2.19) 3.54 5.73 - 2.95 (2.19) - (2.19) - (2.19) - 6 Addverb Technologies Private Limited 13.07.2021 INR 0.51 341.53 461.67 119.63 130.11 278.57 15.51 2.33 13.18 (0.31) 12.87 - 56.34% 7 Addverb Technologies Pte Limited 13.07.2021 SGD 0.76 (0.63) 0.74 0.61 - 1.09 0.57 - 0.57 - 0.57 - 100.00% INR 4.25 (3.53) 4.14 3.42 - 6.10 3.19 - 3.19 - 3.19 - 8 Addverb Technologies Pty Limited 13.07.2021 AUD 0.18 0.54 7.18 6.46 - 17.00 0.80 0.24 0.56 - 0.56 - 100.00% INR 1.02 3.06 40.74 36.66 - 96.46 4.54 1.36 3.18 - 3.18 - 9 Addverb Technologies USA Inc. 08.11.2021 USD 1.00 (0.42) 0.90 0.32 - - (0.60) (0.18) (0.42) - (0.42) - 100.00% INR 7.58 (3.18) 6.82 2.42 - - (4.55) (1.36) (3.19) - (3.19) - 10 Affinity USA LLC * 15.07.2019 USD - - - - - - - - - - - - 100.00% INR - - - - - - - - - - - - 11 Amante India Private Limited (Formerly known  as MAS Brands India Private Limited) 11.11.2021 INR 49.74 (93.11) 90.58 133.95 - 81.10 (26.28) - (26.28) (0.20) (26.48) - 100.00% 12 Asteria Aerospace Limited (Formerly known as  Asteria Aerospace Private Limited) 12.12.2019 INR 0.08 29.43 116.49 86.98 7.67 18.90 (4.49) - (4.49) (0.04) (4.53) - 74.57% 13 Aurora Algae LLC * 21.04.2015 USD - - - - - - - - - - - - 100.00% INR - - - - - - - - - - - - 14 C-Square Info-Solutions Private Limited 01.03.2019 INR 1.78 44.51 57.96 11.67 4.80 20.44 1.09 (0.58) 1.67 0.02 1.69 - 89.45% 15 Dadha Pharma Distribution Private Limited 18.08.2020 INR 0.81 13.70 64.72 50.21 6.00 190.08 6.20 1.57 4.63 0.06 4.69 - 100.00% 16 Dronagiri Bokadvira East Infra Limited 28.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 17 Dronagiri Bokadvira North Infra Limited 24.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 18 Dronagiri Bokadvira South Infra Limited 24.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 19 Dronagiri Bokadvira West Infra Limited 24.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 20 Dronagiri Dongri East Infra Limited 31.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 21 Dronagiri Dongri North Infra Limited 24.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 22 Dronagiri Dongri South Infra Limited 24.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 23 Dronagiri Dongri West Infra Limited 04.02.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 24 Dronagiri Funde East Infra Limited 28.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 25 Dronagiri Funde North Infra Limited 31.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 26 Dronagiri Funde South Infra Limited 24.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 27 Dronagiri Funde West Infra Limited 31.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 28 Dronagiri Navghar East Infra Limited 04.02.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 29 Dronagiri Navghar North First Infra Limited 29.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 30 Dronagiri Navghar North Infra Limited 30.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 31 Dronagiri Navghar North Second Infra Limited 01.02.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 32 Dronagiri Navghar South First Infra Limited 01.02.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 33 Dronagiri Navghar South Infra Limited 29.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 34 Dronagiri Navghar South Second Infra Limited 01.02.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 35 Dronagiri Navghar West Infra Limited 29.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 36 Dronagiri Pagote East Infra Limited 16.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 37 Dronagiri Pagote North First Infra Limited 01.02.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 38 Dronagiri Pagote North Infra Limited 24.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 39 Dronagiri Pagote North Second Infra Limited 01.02.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% (` in crore)  Foreign Currencies in Million Sr.  No.
Name of Subsidiary Company The date since which Subsidiary was  acquired Reporting Currency Equity  Share  Capital Other  Equity $ Total  Assets Total  Liabilities Investments Total  Income Profit  Before  Taxation Provision  for  Taxation Profit  After  Taxation Other  Compre-  hensive  Income Total  Compre-  hensive  Income Proposed   Dividend % of  Share- holding # 40 Dronagiri Pagote South First Infra Limited 01.02.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 41 Dronagiri Pagote South Infra Limited 29.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 42 Dronagiri Pagote West Infra Limited 24.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 43 Dronagiri Panje East Infra Limited 31.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 44 Dronagiri Panje North Infra Limited 28.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 45 Dronagiri Panje South Infra Limited 28.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 46 Dronagiri Panje West Infra Limited 04.02.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 47 Enercent Technologies Private Limited 23.11.2021 INR 0.16 4.92 6.22 1.14 - 2.66 (0.44) (0.01) (0.43) - (0.43) - 59.18% 48 Faradion Limited 04.01.2022 GBP 0.00 25.90 27.20 1.30 1.53 0.63 (6.45) - (6.45) - (6.45) - 92.01% INR 0.00 257.59 270.52 12.93 15.22 6.27 (64.15) - (64.15) - (64.15) - 49 Faradion UG 04.01.2022 EUR 0.00 0.05 0.07 0.02 - 2.82 0.05 0.00 0.05 - 0.05 - 100.00% INR 0.00 0.40 0.57 0.17 - 23.73 0.44 0.03 0.41 - 0.41 - 50 Foodhall Franchises Limited 20.01.2022 INR 0.01 (0.01) 0.01 0.01 - - (0.01) - (0.01) - (0.01) - 100.00% 51 Football Sports Development Limited 28.12.2020 INR 2.29 166.29 450.88 282.30 125.81 393.78 (46.30) - (46.30) (0.02) (46.32) - 65.00% 52 Future Lifestyles Franchisee Limited 02.02.2022 INR 0.01 (0.01) 0.01 0.01 - - (0.01) - (0.01) - (0.01) - 100.00% 53 Genesis Colors Limited 07.09.2018 INR 12.57 33.10 160.18 114.51 52.56 28.00 (18.34) - (18.34) 0.06 (18.28) - 72.73% 54 Genesis La Mode Private Limited 07.09.2018 INR 12.00 42.56 187.87 133.31 - 208.87 15.96 4.27 11.69 0.04 11.73 - 100.00% 55 GLB Body Care Private Limited 07.09.2018 INR 1.57 (1.24) 0.35 0.02 - 0.02 0.01 - 0.01 - 0.01 - 100.00% 56 GLF Lifestyle Brands Private Limited 07.09.2018 INR 89.94 0.40 149.26 58.92 59.59 100.96 9.32 2.78 6.54 0.01 6.55 - 100.00% 57 GML India Fashion Private Limited 07.09.2018 INR 4.99 9.55 102.55 88.01 - 74.81 2.07 0.58 1.49 - 1.49 - 100.00% 58 Grab A Grub Services Private Limited 07.03.2019 INR 0.06 63.79 201.05 137.20 17.50 799.68 5.24 1.07 4.17 0.37 4.54 - 82.41% 59 Hamleys (Franchising) Limited * 16.07.2019 GBP 0.00 16.82 20.50 3.68 - 5.21 3.17 0.90 2.27 - 2.27 - 100.00% INR 0.00 168.91 205.87 36.96 - 52.32 31.83 9.04 22.79 - 22.79 - 60 Hamleys Asia Limited * 16.07.2019 HKD 0.00 (0.30) 0.83 1.13 - 4.88 (0.12) - (0.12) - (0.12) - 100.00% INR 0.00 (0.29) 0.79 1.08 - 4.65 (0.11) - (0.11) - (0.11) - 61 Hamleys of London Limited * 16.07.2019 GBP 2.00 (22.43) 122.73 143.16 - 33.88 (7.64) (2.93) (4.71) - (4.71) - 100.00% INR 20.08 (225.25) 1,232.49 1,437.66 - 340.23 (76.72) (29.42) (47.30) - (47.30) - 62 Hamleys Toys (Ireland) Limited * 16.07.2019 EUR 0.00 (8.30) 3.46 11.76 - - (0.67) - (0.67) - (0.67) - 100.00% INR 0.00 (69.90) 29.14 99.04 - - (5.64) - (5.64) - (5.64) - 63 Indiavidual Learning Limited 11.06.2018 INR 0.54 83.53 1,571.05 1,486.98 - 3.67 (0.36) (0.69) 0.33 - 0.33 - 85.38% 64 Indiawin Sports Private Limited 07.04.2010 INR 2.65 345.37 400.86 52.84 293.55 322.29 37.26 9.61 27.65 - 27.65 - 100.00% 65 Intimi India Private Limited 11.11.2021 INR 6.52 (2.82) 12.61 8.91 - 19.46 (0.65) - (0.65) - (0.65) - 100.00% 66 Jaisuryas Retail Ventures Private Limited 02.11.2021 INR 13.74 (13.33) 40.50 40.09 - 72.02 (63.59) (0.80) (62.79) 0.34 (62.45) - 100.00% 67 JD International Pte.
Ltd. 01.09.2021 SGD 0.05 (0.04) 0.01 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% INR 0.28 (0.22) 0.06 - - - - - - - - - 68 Jio Estonia OÜ * 22.11.2018 EUR 0.05 0.11 0.21 0.05 - 0.59 0.04 - 0.04 - 0.04 - 100.00% INR 0.42 0.93 1.80 0.45 - 4.93 0.32 - 0.32 - 0.32 - 69 Jio Haptik Technologies Limited 22.09.2014 INR 49.13 260.48 365.55 55.94 - 37.08 (11.58) (17.92) 6.34 0.07 6.41 - 100.00% 70 Jio Information Aggregator Services Limited 09.11.2020 INR 0.05 (0.02) 0.03 - - - (0.01) - (0.01) - (0.01) - 100.00% 71 Jio Infrastructure Management  Services Limited 04.09.2017 INR 0.06 0.86 2.01 1.09 - 4.02 0.41 0.10 0.31 - 0.31 - 100.00% 72 Jio Limited 15.11.2019 INR 0.01 (0.02) 0.00 0.01 - - (0.01) - (0.01) - (0.01) - 100.00% 73 Jio Media Limited 11.11.2020 INR 5.00 442.73 454.47 6.74 3.46 0.27 0.02 - 0.02 (0.04) (0.02) - 100.00% 74 Jio Platforms Limited 15.11.2019 INR 8,939.03 1,98,156.72 2,09,182.82 2,087.07 1,89,489.39 4,251.50 817.89 207.81 610.08 212.52 822.60 - 66.43% 75 Jio Satellite Communications Limited 21.10.2021 INR 10.00 (1.79) 8.49 0.28 3.53 0.04 (1.79) - (1.79) - (1.79) - 100.00% 76 Jio Space Technology Limited 23.10.2021 INR 3.01 (2.62) 0.60 0.21 - - (2.62) - (2.62) - (2.62) - 100.00% 77 Jio Things Limited 18.11.2020 INR 1.00 (0.33) 14.41 13.74 0.80 4.08 (0.30) - (0.30) - (0.30) - 100.00% 78 Just Dial Inc. 01.09.2021 USD 0.00 0.11 0.11 - - 0.02 (0.01) - (0.01) - (0.01) - 100.00% INR 0.00 0.83 0.83 - - 0.15 (0.08) - (0.08) - (0.08) - As on 31.12.2021 1 USD=74.3350, 1 GBP=100.4225, 1 EUR=84.2150, 1 SGD=55.1000, 1 HKD=9.5350, 1 MYR=17.8425, 1 CNY=11.7025, 1 AUD=54.0375, 1 AED=20.2375, 100 LKR=37.5000, 1 THB=2.2425, 1 SEK=8.2150, 100 JPY=64.5750, 1 NOK=8.4375 As on 31.03.2022 1 USD=75.7925, 1 GBP=99.4550, 1 EUR=84.2200, 1 SGD=55.9700, 1 HKD=9.6800, 1 MYR=18.0250, 1 CNY=11.9375, 1 AUD=56.7425, 1 AED=20.6350, 100 LKR=22.5930, 1 THB=2.2800, 1 SEK=8.1400, 100 JPY=62.1525, 1 NOK=8.6900 # Representing aggregate % of voting power held by the Company and / or its subsidiaries.
* Company having 31st December as reporting date.
$ Includes Reserves and Surplus.
As on 31.12.2021 1 USD=74.3350, 1 GBP=100.4225, 1 EUR=84.2150, 1 SGD=55.1000, 1 HKD=9.5350, 1 MYR=17.8425, 1 CNY=11.7025, 1 AUD=54.0375, 1 AED=20.2375, 100 LKR=37.5000, 1 THB=2.2425, 1 SEK=8.2150, 100 JPY=64.5750, 1 NOK=8.4375 As on 31.03.2022 1 USD=75.7925, 1 GBP=99.4550, 1 EUR=84.2200, 1 SGD=55.9700, 1 HKD=9.6800, 1 MYR=18.0250, 1 CNY=11.9375, 1 AUD=56.7425, 1 AED=20.6350, 100 LKR=22.5930, 1 THB=2.2800, 1 SEK=8.1400, 100 JPY=62.1525, 1 NOK=8.6900 # Representing aggregate % of voting power held by the Company and / or its subsidiaries.
* Company having 31st December as reporting date.
$ Includes Reserves and Surplus.
Annexure “A” 480 481 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Financial   Statements (` in crore)  Foreign Currencies in Million Sr.  No.
Name of Subsidiary Company The date since which Subsidiary was  acquired Reporting Currency Equity  Share  Capital Other  Equity $ Total  Assets Total  Liabilities Investments Total  Income Profit  Before  Taxation Provision  for  Taxation Profit  After  Taxation Other  Compre-  hensive  Income Total  Compre-  hensive  Income Proposed   Dividend % of  Share- holding # 79 Just Dial Limited 01.09.2021 INR 83.61 3,402.47 4,032.83 546.75 3,798.30 769.11 83.40 12.46 70.94 (1.77) 69.17 - 66.96% 80 Kalamboli East Infra Limited 24.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 81 Kalamboli North First Infra Limited 25.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 82 Kalamboli North Infra Limited 24.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 83 Kalamboli North Second Infra Limited 25.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 84 Kalamboli North Third Infra Limited 25.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 85 Kalamboli South First Infra Limited 24.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 86 Kalamboli South Infra Limited 01.02.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 87 Kalamboli West Infra Limited 21.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 88 Kalanikethan Fashions Private Limited 25.11.2021 INR 10.00 (15.04) 240.39 245.43 2.52 213.18 (24.62) 0.54 (25.16) 0.04 (25.12) - 100.00% 89 Kalanikethan Silks Private Limited 25.11.2021 INR 16.00 52.23 142.92 74.69 33.48 106.71 (40.79) 1.45 (42.24) 0.20 (42.04) - 100.00% 90 Kutch New Energy Projects Limited (Formerly  known as Reliance Solar Projects Limited) 17.06.2021 INR 0.01 - 0.01 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 91 M Entertainments Private Limited 17.04.2018 INR 0.01 0.12 0.15 0.02 - 0.01 - - - - - - 100.00% 92 MAS Brands Exports (Private) Limited * 11.11.2021 USD 11.61 (11.41) 1.44 1.24 - 3.14 (1.24) - (1.24) 0.01 (1.23) - 100.00% INR 86.30 (84.82) 10.70 9.22 - 23.34 (9.22) - (9.22) 0.07 (9.15) - 93 MAS Brands Lanka (Private) Limited * 11.11.2021 LKR 2,761.31 (1,572.21) 1,305.10 116.00 - 446.16 28.28 - 28.28 4.16 32.44 - 100.00% INR 103.55 (58.96) 48.94 4.35 - 16.73 1.06 - 1.06 0.16 1.22 - 94 Mesindus Ventures Limited (Formerly known  as Mesindus Ventures Private Limited) 18.08.2020 INR 0.06 38.40 41.87 3.41 3.02 0.04 - - - - - - 83.33% 95 Mindex 1 Limited 21.05.2018 GBP 0.00 18.12 18.28 0.16 - 0.54 0.52 0.07 0.45 - 0.45 - 100.00% INR 0.02 180.20 181.83 1.61 - 5.37 5.14 0.67 4.47 - 4.47 - 96 Model Economic Township Limited 09.10.2006 INR 97.00  6,362.61  7,532.70  1,073.09 69.42  346.77  49.93  0.51  49.42  0.03  49.45 - 100.00% 97 MYJD Private Limited 01.09.2021 INR 0.00 (0.03) 0.00 0.03 - - (0.01) - (0.01) - (0.01) - 100.00% 98 Netmeds Marketplace Limited 18.08.2020 INR 9.29 20.32 82.73 53.12 24.72 111.49 10.58 - 10.58 0.22 10.80 - 100.00% 99 New Emerging World of Journalism Limited 26.11.2018 INR 0.04 45.40 47.58 2.14 0.97 4.38 0.05 (2.44) 2.49 0.07 2.56 - 75.00% 100 Nilgiris Stores Limited 19.01.2022 INR 0.01 (0.01) 0.01 0.01 - - (0.01) - (0.01) - (0.01) - 100.00% 101 NowFloats Technologies Private Limited 11.12.2019 INR 0.20 33.19 58.53 25.14 19.15 24.78 2.09 - 2.09 0.01 2.10 - 88.33% 102 Radisys B.V. * 11.12.2018 EUR 0.03 0.67 0.85 0.15 0.03 0.71 0.05 0.01 0.04 - 0.04 - 100.00% INR 0.25 5.65 7.18 1.28 0.22 5.95 0.39 0.09 0.30 - 0.30 - 103 Radisys Canada Inc. * 11.12.2018 USD 0.00 3.77 3.98 0.21 - 0.97 0.09 0.04 0.05 - 0.05 - 100.00% INR 0.00 28.04 29.60 1.56 - 7.21 0.66 0.32 0.34 - 0.34 - 104 Radisys Cayman Limited * 11.12.2018 USD 0.00 0.01 0.01 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% INR 0.02 0.05 0.07 - - - - - - - - - 105 Radisys Convedia (Ireland) Limited * 11.12.2018 USD 0.00 0.05 0.43 0.38 0.42 - (0.06) - (0.06) - (0.06) - 100.00% INR 0.00 0.39 3.21 2.82 3.12 - (0.44) - (0.44) - (0.44) - 106 Radisys Corporation * 11.12.2018 USD 75.00 (99.56) 101.31 125.87 6.15 105.88 3.36 3.02 0.34 - 0.34 - 100.00% INR 557.51 (740.04) 753.07 935.60 45.69 787.07 24.97 22.47 2.50 - 2.50 - 107 Radisys GmbH * 11.12.2018 EUR 0.03 0.63 0.92 0.26 - 0.74 0.06 0.02 0.04 - 0.04 - 100.00% INR 0.22 5.35 7.73 2.16 - 6.24 0.49 0.21 0.28 - 0.28 - 108 Radisys India Limited (Formerly known as  Radisys India Private Limited) 24.12.2018 INR 0.21 188.34 393.24 204.69 - 550.03 35.57 9.23 26.34 (0.64) 25.70 - 100.00% 109 Radisys International LLC * 11.12.2018 USD 5.51 (5.20) 0.31 - 0.00 - - - - - - - 100.00% INR 40.95 (38.63) 2.32 - 0.03 - - - - - - - 110 Radisys International Singapore Pte.
Ltd. * 11.12.2018 SGD 0.00 0.10 0.30 0.20 - 0.02 (0.00) 0.00 - - - - 100.00% INR 0.00 0.56 1.64 1.08 - 0.09 (0.02) 0.01 (0.03) - (0.03) - 111 Radisys Spain S.L.U.
* 11.12.2018 EUR 0.00 0.16 0.20 0.04 - 0.22 0.02 0.01 0.01 - 0.01 - 100.00% INR 0.03 1.37 1.72 0.32 - 1.89 0.14 0.06 0.08 - 0.08 - (` in crore)  Foreign Currencies in Million Sr.  No.
Name of Subsidiary Company The date since which Subsidiary was  acquired Reporting Currency Equity  Share  Capital Other  Equity $ Total  Assets Total  Liabilities Investments Total  Income Profit  Before  Taxation Provision  for  Taxation Profit  After  Taxation Other  Compre-  hensive  Income Total  Compre-  hensive  Income Proposed   Dividend % of  Share- holding # 112 Radisys Systems Equipment Trading  (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. * 11.12.2018 CNY 3.48 7.96 11.48 0.04 - 0.00 (0.36) - (0.36) - (0.36) - 100.00% INR 4.07 9.31 13.44 0.06 - - (0.43) - (0.43) - (0.43) - 113 Radisys Technologies (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd. * 11.12.2018 CNY 41.28 (48.77) 72.71 80.20 - 8.14 (1.73) 0.09 (1.82) - (1.82) - 100.00% INR 48.31 (57.07) 85.09 93.85 - 9.53 (2.03) 0.11 (2.14) - (2.14) - 114 Radisys UK Limited * 11.12.2018 GBP 0.19 0.75 1.06 0.12 - 0.41 0.01 0.00 0.01 - 0.01 - 100.00% INR 1.91 7.52 10.60 1.17 - 4.13 0.15 0.02 0.13 - 0.13 - 115 RBML Solutions India Limited 16.03.2021 INR 260.00 3.38 349.95 86.57 281.78 314.73 5.66 2.12 3.54 - 3.54 - 100.00% 116 REC Americas LLC * 01.12.2021 USD 0.00 99.01 127.42 28.41 - 320.46 69.76 18.08 51.68 - 51.68 - 100.00% INR 0.00 735.98 947.18 211.20 - 2,382.17 518.55 134.40 384.15 - 384.15 - 117 REC ScanModule Sweden AB * 01.12.2021 SEK 0.06 33.78 83.55 49.71 - 0.71 0.37 0.09 0.28 - 0.28 - 100.00% INR 0.05 27.75 68.64 40.84 - 0.58 0.30 0.08 0.22 - 0.22 - 118 REC Solar (Japan) Co., Ltd. * 01.12.2021 JPY 60.00 239.73 336.45 36.72 - 659.68 15.29 2.29 13.00 - 13.00 - 100.00% INR 3.87 15.48 21.73 2.38 - 42.60 0.99 0.15 0.84 - 0.84 - 119 REC Solar EMEA GmbH * 01.12.2021 EUR 0.05 9.31 10.54 1.18 - 68.72 0.82 0.00 0.82 - 0.82 - 100.00% INR 0.42 78.38 88.75 9.95 - 578.71 6.91 0.01 6.90 - 6.90 - 120 REC Solar France SAS * 01.12.2021 EUR 0.05 (0.26) 2.94 3.15 - - (0.03) - (0.03) - (0.03) - 100.00% INR 0.42 (2.18) 24.73 26.49 - - (0.28) - (0.28) - (0.28) - 121 REC Solar Holdings AS * 01.12.2021 USD 450.41 (532.95) 120.49 203.03 102.51 8.84 (328.56) - (328.56) - (328.56) - 100.00% INR 3,348.09 (3,961.66) 895.65 1,509.22 762.01 65.72 (2,442.36) - (2,442.36) - (2,442.36) - 122 REC Solar Norway AS * 01.12.2021 NOK 992.32 (375.14) 865.85 248.67 - 57.78 (2,358.35) - (2,358.35) - (2,358.35) - 100.00% INR 837.27 (316.53) 730.56 209.82 - 48.75 (1,989.86) - (1,989.86) - (1,989.86) - 123 REC Solar Pte.
Ltd. * 01.12.2021 USD 328.81 (224.81) 817.41 713.41 0.31 386.70 (135.49) - (135.49) - (135.49) - 100.00% INR 2,444.19 (1,671.10) 6,076.22 5,303.13 2.27 2,874.52 (1,007.16) - (1,007.16) - (1,007.16) - 124 REC Systems (Thailand) Co., Ltd. * 01.12.2021 THB 12.00 (8.95) 3.47 0.42 - 3.00 0.14 0.03 0.11 - 0.11 - 99.99% INR 2.69 (2.01) 0.78 0.10 - 0.67 0.03 0.01 0.02 - 0.02 - 125 REC Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. * 01.12.2021 CNY 1.57 3.82 21.03 15.64 - 80.11 3.72 0.93 2.79 - 2.79 - 100.00% INR 1.84 4.47 24.61 18.30 - 93.75 4.35 1.09 3.26 - 3.26 - 126 REC US Holdings, Inc. * 01.12.2021 USD 0.00 - 0.00 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% INR 0.00 - 0.00 - - - - - - - - - 127 Recron (Malaysia) Sdn.
Bhd.
* 20.07.2007 MYR 542.99 307.78 1,514.31 663.54 - 3,317.53 206.94 55.89 151.05 27.74 178.79 83.66 100.00% INR 968.83 549.16 2,701.91 1,183.92 - 5,919.31 369.24 99.71 269.53 49.50 319.03 149.27 128 Reliance 4IR Realty Development Limited 15.04.2019 INR 100.00 28,543.13 31,529.83 2,886.70 22,546.99 518.65 26.06 7.22 18.84 - 18.84 - 100.00% 129 Reliance Ambit Trade Private Limited 31.03.2009 INR 1.00 914.43 916.50 1.07 135.59 6.85 1.65 - 1.65 - 1.65 - 100.00% 130 Reliance BP Mobility Limited 23.03.2015 INR 0.10 1,830.13 4,202.11 2,371.88 594.33 42,280.10 472.78 136.29 336.49 (2.33) 334.16 (450.00) 51.00% 131 Reliance Brands Holding UK Limited * 26.06.2019 GBP 80.96 (3.49) 77.48 0.01 72.01 - (0.08) (0.02) (0.06) - (0.06) - 100.00% INR 813.02 (35.05) 778.07 0.10 723.14 - (0.80) (0.20) (0.60) - (0.60) - 132 Reliance Brands Limited 12.10.2007 INR 101.08 (496.92) 4,011.10 4,406.94 1,861.83 1,279.32 (273.74) (59.97) (213.77) 0.49 (213.28) - 80.00% 133 Reliance Brands Luxury Fashion Private Limited 07.09.2018 INR 17.50 148.51 303.78 137.77 69.20 230.43 12.16 8.28 3.88 0.30 4.18 - 99.69% 134 Reliance Carbon Fibre Cylinder Limited 29.07.2021 INR 0.01 - 0.01 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 135 Reliance Clothing India Private Limited 26.09.2013 INR 0.05 (84.75) 47.64 132.34 - 20.69 (16.54) - (16.54) 0.02 (16.52) - 100.00% 136 Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited 10.01.2017 INR 15.00 1,657.26  1,804.14  131.88 50.17 596.93 0.80 0.25 0.55 (0.28)  0.27 - 100.00% 137 Reliance Comtrade Private Limited 31.03.2009 INR 1.00 116.87 118.09 0.22 - - (0.05) - (0.05) - (0.05) - 100.00% 138 Reliance Content Distribution Limited 04.09.2017 INR 0.05 5,907.96 5,908.02 0.01 5,907.00 0.05 (0.03) - (0.03) - (0.03) - 100.00% 139 Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited 30.03.2009 INR 238.00 20,839.70 30,579.54 9,501.84 - 3,639.59 170.39 55.64 114.75 (0.88) 113.87 - 100.00% 140 Reliance Digital Health Limited (Formerly  known as Kanhatech Solutions Limited) 01.08.2008 INR 75.00 11.42 94.34 7.92 74.14 8.77 2.93 0.92 2.01 - 2.01 - 100.00% 141 Reliance Digital Health USA Inc. * 26.03.2012 USD 0.01 0.65 0.92 0.26 0.03 0.97 0.02 - 0.02 - 0.02 - 100.00% INR 0.07 4.86 6.82 1.89 0.22 7.19 0.17 - 0.17 - 0.17 - 142 Reliance Eagleford Upstream GP LLC * 17.06.2010 USD 0.34 (0.30) 0.04 - - 0.03 0.03 - 0.03 - 0.03 - 100.00% INR 2.52 (2.22) 0.31 0.01 - 0.24 0.24 - 0.24 - 0.24 - As on 31.12.2021 1 USD=74.3350, 1 GBP=100.4225, 1 EUR=84.2150, 1 SGD=55.1000, 1 HKD=9.5350, 1 MYR=17.8425, 1 CNY=11.7025, 1 AUD=54.0375, 1 AED=20.2375, 100 LKR=37.5000, 1 THB=2.2425, 1 SEK=8.2150, 100 JPY=64.5750, 1 NOK=8.4375 As on 31.03.2022 1 USD=75.7925, 1 GBP=99.4550, 1 EUR=84.2200, 1 SGD=55.9700, 1 HKD=9.6800, 1 MYR=18.0250, 1 CNY=11.9375, 1 AUD=56.7425, 1 AED=20.6350, 100 LKR=22.5930, 1 THB=2.2800, 1 SEK=8.1400, 100 JPY=62.1525, 1 NOK=8.6900 # Representing aggregate % of voting power held by the Company and / or its subsidiaries.
* Company having 31st December as reporting date.
$ Includes Reserves and Surplus.
As on 31.12.2021 1 USD=74.3350, 1 GBP=100.4225, 1 EUR=84.2150, 1 SGD=55.1000, 1 HKD=9.5350, 1 MYR=17.8425, 1 CNY=11.7025, 1 AUD=54.0375, 1 AED=20.2375, 100 LKR=37.5000, 1 THB=2.2425, 1 SEK=8.2150, 100 JPY=64.5750, 1 NOK=8.4375 As on 31.03.2022 1 USD=75.7925, 1 GBP=99.4550, 1 EUR=84.2200, 1 SGD=55.9700, 1 HKD=9.6800, 1 MYR=18.0250, 1 CNY=11.9375, 1 AUD=56.7425, 1 AED=20.6350, 100 LKR=22.5930, 1 THB=2.2800, 1 SEK=8.1400, 100 JPY=62.1525, 1 NOK=8.6900 # Representing aggregate % of voting power held by the Company and / or its subsidiaries.
* Company having 31st December as reporting date.
$ Includes Reserves and Surplus.
Annexure “A” 482 483 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Financial   Statements (` in crore)  Foreign Currencies in Million Sr.  No.
Name of Subsidiary Company The date since which Subsidiary was  acquired Reporting Currency Equity  Share  Capital Other  Equity $ Total  Assets Total  Liabilities Investments Total  Income Profit  Before  Taxation Provision  for  Taxation Profit  After  Taxation Other  Compre-  hensive  Income Total  Compre-  hensive  Income Proposed   Dividend % of  Share- holding # 143 Reliance Eagleford Upstream Holding LP * 17.06.2010 USD 3,203.82 (3,197.85) 7.69 1.72 - 146.00 365.81 - 365.81 - 365.81 - 100.00% INR 23,815.58 (23,771.22) 57.13 12.77 - 1,085.28 2,719.28 - 2,719.28 - 2,719.28 - 144 Reliance Eagleford Upstream LLC * 16.06.2010 USD 3,392.55 (3,392.55) - - - - - - - - - - 100.00% INR 25,218.56 (25,218.56) - - - - - - - - - - 145 Reliance Eminent Trading & Commercial  Private Limited 31.03.2009 INR 10.00 3,816.31 4,432.17 605.86 50.00 48.68 (2.33) - (2.33) - (2.33) - 100.00% 146 Reliance Ethane Holding Pte Limited 04.09.2014 USD 155.67 9.09 164.77 0.01 155.62 3.30 3.28 - 3.28 - 3.28 - 100.00% INR 1,179.88 68.89 1,248.83 0.06 1,179.49 24.99 24.88 - 24.88 - 24.88 - 147 Reliance Ethane Pipeline Limited 18.06.2019 INR 50.00 459.26 2,338.12 1,828.86 45.98 659.69 162.11 41.28 120.83 (0.02) 120.81 - 100.00% 148 Reliance Exploration & Production DMCC * 06.12.2006 USD 47.99 298.98 346.99 0.02 - 132.35 126.25 - 126.25 - 126.25 - 100.00% INR 356.70 2,222.48 2,579.39 0.21 - 983.84 938.47 - 938.47 - 938.47 - 149 Reliance GAS Lifestyle India Private Limited 09.08.2017 INR 100.00 3.36 149.89 46.53 8.45 61.72 4.56 (0.19) 4.75 0.02 4.77 - 51.00% 150 Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited 26.11.2012 INR 261.10 247.15 916.97 408.72 23.84 93.77 (24.66) (9.54) (15.12) 0.10 (15.02) - 100.00% 151 Reliance Global Energy Services  (Singapore) Pte.
Limited 18.08.2008 USD 1.18 84.38 940.94 855.38 - 10,049.76 10.38 0.57 9.81 - 9.81 - 100.00% INR 8.91 639.50 7,131.59 6,483.18 - 76,169.61 78.67 4.32 74.35 - 74.35 - 152 Reliance Global Energy Services Limited 20.06.2008 GBP 3.00 1.65 21.11 16.46 18.45 2.30 0.25 0.00 0.25 - 0.25 - 100.00% INR 29.84 16.41 209.92 163.67 183.51 22.92 2.52 0.01 2.51 - 2.51 - 153 Reliance Hydrogen Electrolysis Limited 29.09.2021 INR 0.01 - 0.01 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 154 Reliance Hydrogen Fuel Cell Limited 29.09.2021 INR 0.01 - 0.01 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 155 Reliance Industrial Investments and  Holdings Limited 30.12.1988 INR 219.89 25,964.49 37,693.77 11,509.39 28,773.48 3,670.90 362.99 68.80 294.19 - 294.19 (28.35) 100.00% 156 Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC * 11.05.2005 USD 207.13 (134.91) 523.13 450.91 397.19 242.82 (117.29) - (117.29) - (117.29) - 100.00% INR 1,539.70 (1,002.87) 3,888.68 3,351.85 2,952.49 1,804.97 (871.87) - (871.87) - (871.87) - 157 Reliance Industries Uruguay Petroquimica S.A.  (En Liquidacion) * ^ 21.08.2017 USD - - - - - - - - - - - - 100.00% INR - - - - - - - - - - - - 158 Reliance Innovative Building Solutions  Private Limited 30.03.2015 INR 64.69 (57.34) 20.40 13.05 - 0.53 (0.50) - (0.50) - (0.50) - 100.00% 159 Reliance International Limited 16.06.2021 USD 25.00 2.19 502.29 475.10 - 3,873.50 2.19 - 2.19 - 2.19 - 100.00% INR 189.48 16.60 3,806.98 3,600.90 - 29,358.22 16.60 - 16.60 - 16.60 - 160 Reliance Jio Global Resources LLC * 15.01.2015 USD 0.00 5.52 6.31 0.79 - 11.32 0.75 3.26 (2.51) - (2.51) - 100.00% INR 0.00 41.00 46.93 5.93 - 84.14 5.58 24.25 (18.67) - (18.67) - 161 Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited 17.06.2010 INR 45,000.00 1,52,790.18 3,18,489.18 1,20,699.00 1,663.27 77,204.64 19,865.07 5,047.75 14,817.32 0.26 14,817.58 - 100.00% 162 Reliance Jio Infocomm Pte.
Ltd. * 01.02.2013 USD 129.40 21.80 286.43 135.23 - 90.75 14.28 2.57 11.71 - 11.71 - 100.00% INR 961.89 162.05 2,129.18 1,005.24 - 674.59 106.15 19.10 87.05 - 87.05 - 163 Reliance Jio Infocomm UK Limited * 30.07.2013 GBP 6.00 0.61 9.40 2.79 - 15.41 0.10 0.07 0.03 - 0.03 - 100.00% INR 60.25 6.13 94.40 28.02 - 154.75 1.00 0.70 0.30 - 0.30 - 164 Reliance Jio Infocomm USA Inc. * 05.06.2013 USD 38.55 (9.46) 32.43 3.34 12.89 20.42 0.58 4.65 (4.07) (4.43) (8.50) - 100.00% INR 286.56 (70.32) 241.07 24.83 95.82 151.79 4.31 34.57 (30.26) (32.93) (63.19) - 165 Reliance Jio Media Limited 02.01.2015 INR 86.01 (3.39) 106.92 24.30 - - (0.11) - (0.11) - (0.11) - 100.00% 166 Reliance Jio Messaging Services Limited 12.09.2013 INR 97.33 (11.38) 86.02 0.07 0.39 0.10 (0.11) - (0.11) - (0.11) - 100.00% 167 Reliance Lifestyle Products Private Limited 05.10.2020 INR 17.49 (10.29) 15.15 7.95 - 16.54 1.83 0.03 1.80 0.01 1.81 - 100.00% 168 Reliance Marcellus II LLC * 28.06.2010 USD 530.11 (530.11) - - - - - - - - - - 100.00% INR 3,940.61 (3,940.61) - - - - - - - - - - 169 Reliance Marcellus LLC * 29.03.2010 USD 4,396.23 (4,466.06) 13.50 83.33 3.63 23.62 211.72 - 211.72 - 211.72 - 100.00% INR 32,679.36 (33,198.47) 100.33 619.44 26.97 175.58 1,573.80 - 1,573.80 - 1,573.80 - 170 Reliance New Energy Carbon Fibre  Cylinder Limited 24.06.2021 INR 0.01 - 0.01 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 171 Reliance New Energy Hydrogen  Electrolysis Limited 02.07.2021 INR 0.01 - 0.01 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% (` in crore)  Foreign Currencies in Million Sr.  No.
Name of Subsidiary Company The date since which Subsidiary was  acquired Reporting Currency Equity  Share  Capital Other  Equity $ Total  Assets Total  Liabilities Investments Total  Income Profit  Before  Taxation Provision  for  Taxation Profit  After  Taxation Other  Compre-  hensive  Income Total  Compre-  hensive  Income Proposed   Dividend % of  Share- holding # 172 Reliance New Energy Hydrogen  Fuel Cell Limited 05.08.2021 INR 0.01 - 0.01 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 173 Reliance New Energy Limited (Formerly known  as Reliance New Energy Solar Limited) 07.06.2021 INR 5,549.00 225.00 5,774.28 0.28 5,711.31 - - - - - - - 100.00% 174 Reliance New Energy Power Electronics Limited 14.07.2021 INR 0.01 - 0.01 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 175 Reliance New Energy Storage Limited 15.06.2021 INR 0.01 - 0.01 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 176 Reliance New Solar Energy Limited 07.06.2021 INR 0.11 - 0.12 0.01 - - - - - - - - 100.00% 177 Reliance O2C Limited 24.01.2019 INR 0.05 31.44 331.28 299.79 40.95 4,878.20 31.77 0.27 31.50 - 31.50 - 100.00% 178 Reliance Payment Solutions Limited 07.09.2007 INR 115.00 75.59 223.62 33.03 18.43 38.95 (10.76) - (10.76) (0.01) (10.77) - 100.00% 179 Reliance Petro Marketing Limited 31.03.2009 INR 0.05 391.10 710.00 318.85 481.89 733.42 12.24 2.16 10.08 12.40 22.48 - 100.00% 180 Reliance Petroleum Retail Limited 21.06.2019 INR 0.01 (0.01) - - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 181 Reliance Power Electronics Limited 29.07.2021 INR 0.01 - 0.01 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 182 Reliance Progressive Traders Private Limited 31.03.2009 INR 10.00 3,944.30 4,925.07 970.77 - 60.75 16.44 - 16.44 - 16.44 - 100.00% 183 Reliance Projects & Property Management  Services Limited 19.06.2019 INR 100.00 24,234.30 83,171.41 58,837.11 11.54  44,387.95 300.86 - 300.86 (15.66) 285.20 - 100.00% 184 Reliance Prolific Commercial Private Limited 31.03.2009 INR 1.00 635.07 636.66 0.59 - 9.71 3.48 - 3.48 - 3.48 - 100.00% 185 Reliance Prolific Traders Private Limited 31.03.2009 INR 10.00 2,799.03 2,881.58 72.55 - 32.59 0.08 - 0.08 - 0.08 - 100.00% 186 Reliance Retail and Fashion Lifestyle Limited 11.08.2020 INR 1.00 51.38 53.31 0.93 51.92 3.39 0.51 0.13 0.38 - 0.38 - 100.00% 187 Reliance Retail Finance Limited 20.02.2007 INR 68.12 3,598.06 3,667.05 0.87 3,543.54 20.06 30.87 3.91 26.96 - 26.96 - 100.00% 188 Reliance Retail Insurance Broking Limited 20.11.2006 INR 4.00 0.22 18.13 13.91 - 40.19 9.25 2.42 6.83 (0.11) 6.72 (30.00) 100.00% 189 Reliance Retail Limited 20.11.2006 INR 4,990.42 25,264.34 88,124.65 57,869.89 716.39 1,69,409.93 6,579.92 1,645.27 4,934.65 (2.10) 4,932.55 - 99.94% 190 Reliance Retail Ventures Limited 24.04.2007 INR 6,863.54 61,387.71 88,494.83 20,243.58 35,245.60 8,077.27 3,143.67 788.94 2,354.73 47.04 2,401.77 - 85.06% 191 Reliance Ritu Kumar Private Limited (Formerly  known as Ritika Private Limited) 14.10.2021 INR 2.01 108.38 328.84 218.45 6.05 253.06 (34.74) - (34.74) (0.34) (35.08) - 52.21% 192 Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited 21.02.2012 INR 2,354.53 1.13 5,415.37 3,059.71 23.06 - (0.19) (0.05) (0.14) - (0.14) - 74.90% 193 Reliance SMSL Limited 27.11.2007 INR 0.05 37.35 719.83 682.43 - 3,578.13 14.09 (8.82) 22.91 4.00 26.91 - 100.00% 194 Reliance Storage Limited 19.06.2021 INR 0.01 - 0.01 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 195 Reliance Strategic Business Ventures Limited 21.06.2019 INR 100.00 12,831.87 20,145.37 7,213.50 10,857.66 1,478.12 233.39 53.58 179.81 875.36 1,055.17 - 100.00% 196 Reliance Strategic Investments Limited 28.12.2001 INR 2.02 2,226.01 2,228.12 0.09 180.90 184.26 176.87 8.83 168.04 - 168.04 - 88.24% 197 Reliance Syngas Limited 01.11.2021 INR 0.10  3,431.55  34,038.14  30,606.49 - - - - - - - - 100.00% 198 Reliance Universal Traders Private Limited 31.03.2009 INR 10.00 1,717.63 1,730.02 2.39 - 4.14 1.54 (0.02) 1.56 - 1.56 - 100.00% 199 Reliance Vantage Retail Limited 27.12.2007 INR 0.56 157.45 163.09 5.08 - 4.35 2.13 0.11 2.02 - 2.02 - 100.00% 200 Reliance Ventures Limited 07.10.1999 INR 2.69 4,588.97 4,629.84 38.18 1,632.44 544.32 473.74 98.98 374.76 - 374.76 - 100.00% 201 Reliance-GrandOptical Private Limited 17.03.2008 INR 0.05 (0.06) 0.04 0.05 - - (0.02) - (0.02) - (0.02) - 100.00% 202 Reverie Language Technologies Limited 22.03.2019 INR 0.02 86.83 95.48 8.63 1.26 20.35 2.70 - 2.70 0.02 2.72 - 83.94% 203 RIL USA, Inc. * 26.02.2009 USD 3.00 137.60 291.31 150.71 - 1,035.40 2.25 0.60 1.65 - 1.65 - 100.00% INR 22.30 1,022.88 2,165.43 1,120.25 - 7,696.67 16.74 4.49 12.25 - 12.25 - 204 RISE Worldwide Limited 28.12.2020 INR 106.72 106.42  225.09  11.95 168.90  101.21 12.61 - 12.61 0.14 12.75 - 100.00% 205 Ritu Kumar ME (FZE) (Formerly known as Ritu  Kumar ME (FZC)) 14.10.2021 AED 0.15 (4.95) 1.03 5.83 - 1.08 (0.50) - (0.50) - (0.50) - 100.00% INR 0.31 (10.21) 2.13 12.03 - 2.23 (1.03) - (1.03) - (1.03) - 206 RP Chemicals (Malaysia) Sdn.
Bhd.
* 11.02.2016 MYR 1,574.14 (1,046.80) 586.02 58.68 - 289.22 13.23 3.47 9.76 - 9.76 - 100.00% INR 2,808.67 (1,867.75) 1,045.61 104.69 - 516.05 23.61 6.18 17.43 - 17.43 - 207 Saavn Inc. 05.04.2018 USD 0.00 19.59 19.59 - 19.59 11.11 11.11 - 11.11 - 11.11 - 100.00% INR 0.00 148.49 148.49 - 148.49 84.24 84.24 - 84.24 - 84.24 - 208 Saavn LLC 05.04.2018 USD 198.91 (192.14) 8.94 2.17 - 13.08 1.48 1.48 - - - - 100.00% INR 1,507.58 (1,456.25) 67.77 16.44 - 99.10 11.23 11.22 0.01 - 0.01 - 209 Saavn Media Limited 05.04.2018 INR 0.08 8,221.90 8,325.60 103.62 1,774.08 1.88 0.46 - 0.46 0.00 0.46 - 87.15% 210 SankhyaSutra Labs Limited 12.03.2019 INR 0.11 69.69 74.31 4.51 6.31 2.11 0.52 0.19 0.33 0.05 0.38 - 85.62% 211 Shopsense Retail Technologies Limited  (Formerly known as Shopsense Retail  Technologies Private Limited) 13.08.2019 INR 1.82 104.42 161.80 55.56 0.03 121.55 - (0.22) 0.22 (0.67) (0.45) - 86.69% As on 31.12.2021 1 USD=74.3350, 1 GBP=100.4225, 1 EUR=84.2150, 1 SGD=55.1000, 1 HKD=9.5350, 1 MYR=17.8425, 1 CNY=11.7025, 1 AUD=54.0375, 1 AED=20.2375, 100 LKR=37.5000, 1 THB=2.2425, 1 SEK=8.2150, 100 JPY=64.5750, 1 NOK=8.4375 As on 31.03.2022 1 USD=75.7925, 1 GBP=99.4550, 1 EUR=84.2200, 1 SGD=55.9700, 1 HKD=9.6800, 1 MYR=18.0250, 1 CNY=11.9375, 1 AUD=56.7425, 1 AED=20.6350, 100 LKR=22.5930, 1 THB=2.2800, 1 SEK=8.1400, 100 JPY=62.1525, 1 NOK=8.6900 # Representing aggregate % of voting power held by the Company and / or its subsidiaries.
* Company having 31st December as reporting date.
^ The Company is under Liquidation.
$ Includes Reserves and Surplus.
As on 31.12.2021 1 USD=74.3350, 1 GBP=100.4225, 1 EUR=84.2150, 1 SGD=55.1000, 1 HKD=9.5350, 1 MYR=17.8425, 1 CNY=11.7025, 1 AUD=54.0375, 1 AED=20.2375, 100 LKR=37.5000, 1 THB=2.2425, 1 SEK=8.2150, 100 JPY=64.5750, 1 NOK=8.4375 As on 31.03.2022 1 USD=75.7925, 1 GBP=99.4550, 1 EUR=84.2200, 1 SGD=55.9700, 1 HKD=9.6800, 1 MYR=18.0250, 1 CNY=11.9375, 1 AUD=56.7425, 1 AED=20.6350, 100 LKR=22.5930, 1 THB=2.2800, 1 SEK=8.1400, 100 JPY=62.1525, 1 NOK=8.6900 # Representing aggregate % of voting power held by the Company and / or its subsidiaries.
* Company having 31st December as reporting date.
$ Includes Reserves and Surplus.
Annexure “A” 484 485 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Reliance Industries Limited Consolidated Governance Management   Review Corporate  Overview Financial   Statements (` in crore)  Foreign Currencies in Million Sr.  No.
Name of Subsidiary Company The date since which Subsidiary was  acquired Reporting Currency Equity  Share  Capital Other  Equity $ Total  Assets Total  Liabilities Investments Total  Income Profit  Before  Taxation Provision  for  Taxation Profit  After  Taxation Other  Compre-  hensive  Income Total  Compre-  hensive  Income Proposed   Dividend % of  Share- holding # 212 Shri Kannan Departmental Store  Limited (Formerly known as Shri Kannan  Departmental Store Private Limited) 03.03.2020 INR 8.49 88.38 275.20 178.33 8.42 276.75 (44.21) 0.01 (44.22) 0.15 (44.07) - 100.00% 213 skyTran Inc. * 26.02.2021 USD 0.00 16.83 18.40 1.57 - 0.24 (8.53) 0.00 (8.53) - (8.53) - 54.46% INR 0.00 125.08 136.78 11.70 - 1.77 (63.40) 0.01 (63.41) - (63.41) - 214 skyTran Israel Ltd. * ^ 26.02.2021 USD - - - - - - - - - - - - 100.00% INR - - - - - - - - - - - - 215 Stoke Park Limited * 22.04.2021 GBP 0.00 31.78 81.96 50.18 - 32.01 0.02 - 0.02 - 0.02 - 100.00% INR 0.01 319.11 823.08 503.96 - 321.44 0.17 - 0.17 - 0.17 - 216 Strand Life Sciences Private Limited 06.09.2021 INR 23.47 66.73 110.96 20.76 70.70 102.78 58.95 (0.69) 59.64 (0.20) 59.44 - 81.79% 217 Surajya Services Limited (Formerly known as  Surajya Services Private Limited) 09.05.2019 INR 0.03 27.56 30.61 3.02 - 1.71 (1.49) (0.39) (1.10) (0.00) (1.10) - 68.48% 218 Surela Investment And Trading Limited 07.05.2012 INR 0.05 (1.43) 21.25 22.63 5.27 0.50 (0.34) - (0.34) - (0.34) - 100.00% 219 Tesseract Imaging Limited 07.05.2019 INR 0.01 8.59 50.04 41.44 2.11 0.06 0.06 - 0.06 - 0.06 - 90.00% 220 The Indian Film Combine Private Limited 17.04.2018 INR 6.90 2,177.28 3,277.54 1,093.36 53.83 51.44 (22.67) 15.95 (38.62) 1.19 (37.43) - 83.17% 221 Tira Beauty Limited 01.12.2021 INR 0.01 (0.01) 0.01 0.01 - - (0.01) - (0.01) - (0.01) - 100.00% 222 Tresara Health Limited (Formerly known as  Tresara Health Private Limited) 18.08.2020 INR 4.12 (30.20) 65.60 91.68 22.38 233.68 (4.47) 0.11 (4.58) - (4.58) - 100.00% 223 Ulwe East Infra Limited 04.02.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 224 Ulwe North Infra Limited 28.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 225 Ulwe South Infra Limited 28.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 226 Ulwe Waterfront East Infra Limited 29.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 227 Ulwe Waterfront North Infra Limited 29.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 228 Ulwe Waterfront South Infra Limited 15.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 229 Ulwe Waterfront West Infra Limited 30.01.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 230 Ulwe West Infra Limited 04.02.2019 INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.04 - - - - - - - - - 100.00% 231 Urban Ladder Home Décor Solutions Limited  (Formerly known as Urban Ladder Home  Décor Solutions Private Limited) 13.11.2020 INR 25.07 (4.82) 98.59 78.34 16.95 229.71 9.63 - 9.63 0.75 10.38 - 99.99% 232 VasyERP Solutions Private Limited 10.08.2021 INR 0.57 8.21 9.00 0.22 - 0.68 (1.26) (0.28) (0.98) - (0.98) - 82.35% 233 Vitalic Health Private Limited 18.08.2020 INR 16.73 21.62 47.79 9.44 4.50 57.38 2.51 0.36 2.15 0.80 2.95 - 70.56% As on 31.12.2021 1 USD=74.3350, 1 GBP=100.4225, 1 EUR=84.2150, 1 SGD=55.1000, 1 HKD=9.5350, 1 MYR=17.8425, 1 CNY=11.7025, 1 AUD=54.0375, 1 AED=20.2375, 100 LKR=37.5000, 1 THB=2.2425, 1 SEK=8.2150, 100 JPY=64.5750, 1 NOK=8.4375 As on 31.03.2022 1 USD=75.7925, 1 GBP=99.4550, 1 EUR=84.2200, 1 SGD=55.9700, 1 HKD=9.6800, 1 MYR=18.0250, 1 CNY=11.9375, 1 AUD=56.7425, 1 AED=20.6350, 100 LKR=22.5930, 1 THB=2.2800, 1 SEK=8.1400, 100 JPY=62.1525, 1 NOK=8.6900 # Representing aggregate % of voting power held by the Company and / or its subsidiaries.
* Company having 31st December as reporting date.
^ The Company is under Liquidation.
$ Includes Reserves and Surplus.
The above statement also indicates performance and financial position of each of the subsidiaries.
Sr. No.
Name of the Company 1 Dronagiri Bokadvira East Infra Limited 2 Dronagiri Bokadvira North Infra Limited 3 Dronagiri Bokadvira South Infra Limited 4 Dronagiri Bokadvira West Infra Limited 5 Dronagiri Dongri East Infra Limited 6 Dronagiri Dongri North Infra Limited 7 Dronagiri Dongri South Infra Limited 8 Dronagiri Dongri West Infra Limited 9 Dronagiri Funde East Infra Limited 10 Dronagiri Funde North Infra Limited 11 Dronagiri Funde South Infra Limited 12 Dronagiri Funde West Infra Limited 13 Dronagiri Navghar East Infra Limited 14 Dronagiri Navghar North First Infra Limited 15 Dronagiri Navghar North Infra Limited 16 Dronagiri Navghar North Second Infra Limited 17 Dronagiri Navghar South First Infra Limited 18 Dronagiri Navghar South Infra Limited 19 Dronagiri Navghar South Second Infra Limited 20 Dronagiri Navghar West Infra Limited 21 Dronagiri Pagote East Infra Limited 22 Dronagiri Pagote North First Infra Limited 23 Dronagiri Pagote North Infra Limited 24 Dronagiri Pagote North Second Infra Limited 25 Dronagiri Pagote South First Infra Limited 26 Dronagiri Pagote South Infra Limited 27 Dronagiri Pagote West Infra Limited 28 Dronagiri Panje East Infra Limited 29 Dronagiri Panje North Infra Limited 30 Dronagiri Panje South Infra Limited 31 Dronagiri Panje West Infra Limited 32 Foodhall Franchises Limited 33 Future Lifestyles Franchisee Limited 34 JD International Pte.
Ltd. 35 Jio Information Aggregator Services Limited 36 Jio Limited Sr. No.
Name of the Company 37 Jio Satellite Communications Limited 38 Jio Space Technology Limited 39 Kalamboli East Infra Limited 40 Kalamboli North First Infra Limited 41 Kalamboli North Infra Limited 42 Kalamboli North Second Infra Limited 43 Kalamboli North Third Infra Limited 44 Kalamboli South First Infra Limited 45 Kalamboli South Infra Limited 46 Kalamboli West Infra Limited 47 Kutch New Energy Projects Limited (formerly known as  Reliance Solar Projects Limited) 48 MYJD Private Limited 49 Nilgiris Stores Limited 50 Reliance Carbon Fibre Cylinder Limited 51 Reliance Hydrogen Electrolysis Limited 52 Reliance Hydrogen Fuel Cell Limited 53 Reliance New Energy Carbon Fibre Cylinder Limited 54 Reliance New Energy Hydrogen Electrolysis Limited 55 Reliance New Energy Hydrogen Fuel Cell Limited 56 Reliance New Energy Power Electronics Limited 57 Reliance New Energy Storage Limited 58 Reliance New Solar Energy Limited 59 Reliance Petroleum Retail Limited 60 Reliance Power Electronics Limited 61 Reliance Storage Limited 62 Tira Beauty Limited 63 Ulwe East Infra Limited 64 Ulwe North Infra Limited 65 Ulwe South Infra Limited 66 Ulwe Waterfront East Infra Limited 67 Ulwe Waterfront North Infra Limited 68 Ulwe Waterfront South Infra Limited 69 Ulwe Waterfront West Infra Limited 70 Ulwe West Infra Limited Name of Subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations- Name of the Subsidiaries which have ceased to be subsidiary / liquidated / sold / merged during the year- Sr. No.
Name of the Company 1 eDreams Edusoft Private Limited * 2 Hamleys Global Holdings Limited # 3 Luvley Limited # Sr. No.
Name of the Company 4 Radisys Poland sp.
zo.o # 5 Scrumpalicious Limited # 6 The Hamleys Group Limited # * Merged with Indiavidual Learning Limited.
# Dissolved / Liquidated.
Annexure “A” 486 Reliance Industries Limited Part “B”: Associates and Joint Ventures Statement pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013 related to Associates and Joint Ventures Sr.  No.
Name of Associates /   Joint Ventures Latest  Audited  Balance  Sheet  Date The  date on  which the  Associate  or Joint  Venture  was  associated  or  acquired Share of Associate / Joint Venture held  by the company on the year end Net worth  attributable  to  shareholding  as per latest  Audited  Balance  Sheet # (` in crore) Profit / Loss for the year Description  of how  there is  Significant  Influence Reason why  Associate /  Joint Venture  is not  consolidatedNo.
Amount of  Investment  in Associate  / Joint  Venture  (` in crore) Extent  of  Holding  % * Considered in  consolidation  (` in crore) Not  Considered in  Consolidation Associates & Joint Ventures 1 Alok Industries Limited 31.03.2022 28.02.2020 1,98,65,33,333 268.81 40.01 (7,164.71) (83.46) - Note-A - 2 Gujarat Chemical Port Limited 31.03.2021 01.04.2006 64,29,20,000 64.29 41.80 501.86 109.92 - Note-A - 3 India Gas Solutions Private Limited 31.03.2022 26.08.2019 2,25,00,000 22.50 50.00 119.26 109.86 - Note-A - 4 Indian Vaccines Corporation Limited 31.03.2021 27.03.1989 62,63,125 0.61 33.33 2.75 (0.01) - Note-A - 5 Pipeline Management Services  Private Limited 31.03.2021 29.03.2019 5,00,000 0.50 50.00 3.50 1.70 - Note-A - 6 Reliance Europe Limited 31.12.2021 10.06.1993 11,08,500 3.93 50.00 67.33 0.79 - Note-A - 7 Reliance Industrial  Infrastructure Limited 31.03.2022 19.05.1994 68,60,064 16.30 45.43 197.58 3.79 - Note-A - 8 Vadodara Enviro Channel Limited 31.03.2021 01.04.2019 14,302 0.01 28.57 10.90 (1.02) - Note-A - 9 Jio Payments Bank Limited 31.03.2022 10.11.2016 18,45,20,000 184.52 70.00 86.34  (23.75)  - Note-A  -    10 Balaji Telefilms Limited 31.03.2021 22.08.2017 2,52,00,000 178.79 24.92 142.90 - - - Note-B 11 Jio Digital Fibre Private Limited 31.03.2022 31.03.2019 2,49,54,43,333 249.54 48.46 57,835.76 - - - Note-B 12 Jamnagar Utilities & Power  Private Limited 31.03.2021 07.05.2018 52,00,000 0.40 26.00 0.52 - - - Note-C * Representing aggregate % of voting power held by the Company.
# Includes other comprehensive income.
Notes: A.
There is significant influence due to percentage(%) of voting power.
B.
Accounted as per requirement of Ind AS 109- Financial Instruments.
C.  The Company holds 26% of Equity Shares with Voting Rights, with No Right to Dividend and No Right to Participate in the Surplus Assets of the  Company.
The above statement also indicates performance and financial position of each of the associates and joint ventures.
Name of the Associate or Joint Venture which is yet to commence operations - Nil Name of the Associate or Joint Venture which have ceased to be Associate or Joint Venture / liquidated / sold / merged during  the year  - Nil For and on behalf of the Board M.D.
Ambani Chairman and   Managing Director N.R.
Meswani Executive DirectorsH.R.
Meswani P.M.S.
Prasad P. K. Kapil Nita M. Ambani Non-Executive   Directors Prof. Dipak C. Jain Dr. R.A. Mashelkar Adil Zainulbhai Raminder Singh Gujral Dr. Shumeet Banerji Arundhati Bhattacharya His Excellency Yasir Othman H. Al Rumayyan K.V.
Chowdary As per our Report of even date For D T S & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
142412W/ W100595) For S R B C & CO LLP Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
324982E/E300003) T P Ostwal Partner   Membership No.
030848 Vikas Kumar Pansari Partner   Membership No.
093649 Date: May 06, 2022 Alok Agarwal Chief Financial Officer Srikanth Venkatachari Joint Chief Financial Officer Savithri Parekh Company Secretary Members’  Feedback Form  2021-22 CIN: L17110MH1973PLC019786 Registered Office: 3rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV, 222, Nariman Point, Mumbai – 400 021 Website: www.ril.com; e-mail: investor .relations@ril.com; Tel.
: +91 22 3555 5000; Fax: +91 22 2204 2268 Name : ..................................................................................................................e-mail id :  ..............................................................................................................................
Address : ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... DP ID.
:  ....................................................................................................................Client ID.
:   .............................................................................................................................. Folio No.
:  ..............................................................................................................Mobile no.
:  ..........................................................................................................................   (in case of physical holding) No.
of equity shares held : ..................................................................................... Signature of Member Excellent Very Good Good Satisfactory Unsatisfactory Annual Report Management’s Discussion and  Analysis Report Contents Presentation Integrated approach to  sustainable growth Contents  Presentation  Business Responsibility Report  (available on website) Contents  Presentation  Report on Corporate Social  Responsibility (available on website) Contents Presentation Corporate Governance Report Contents Presentation Board’s Report Contents Presentation Quality of financial and non- financial information in the Annual  Report Contents Presentation Information on Company’s  Website Contents Presentation Investor Services  Turnaround time for response to  shareholder’s query Quality of response Timely receipt of Annual Report Conduct of Annual General Meeting Timely receipt of dividend Overall Rating Views / Suggestions, if any, for improvement:  Members are requested to send this feedback form to the address given overleaf.
Company Information Board of Directors  Chairman and  Managing Director Mukesh D. Ambani Non-Executive Directors Adil Zainulbhai Raminder Singh Gujral Dr. Shumeet Banerji Arundhati Bhattacharya His Excellency Yasir  Othman H. Al Rumayyan K. V. Chowdary Nita M. Ambani Executive Directors Nikhil R. Meswani Hital R. Meswani P. M. S. Prasad Pawan Kumar Kapil Chief Financial Officer Alok Agarwal Joint Chief Financial Officer Srikanth Venkatachari Company Secretary and  Compliance Officer  Savithri Parekh Auditors D T S & Associates LLP  S R B C & CO LLP Registered office 3rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV,   222, Nariman Point,    Mumbai – 400 021 Tel:  +91 22 3555 5000 Fax: +91 22 2204 2268  e-mail: investor.relations@ril.com Website: www.ril.com Committees  Audit Committee Raminder Singh Gujral (Chairman) Adil Zainulbhai  K. V. Chowdary Stakeholders’ Relationship  Committee K. V. Chowdary (Chairman) Nikhil R. Meswani Hital R. Meswani Arundhati Bhattacharya Risk Management Committee Adil Zainulbhai (Chairman) Dr. Shumeet Banerji K. V. Chowdary Hital R. Meswani P. M. S. Prasad Alok Agarwal Srikanth Venkatachari Finance Committee Mukesh D. Ambani (Chairman)  Nikhil R. Meswani Hital R. Meswani Human Resources, Nomination  and Remuneration Committee Adil Zainulbhai (Chairman) Raminder Singh Gujral Dr. Shumeet Banerji K. V. Chowdary Corporate Social Responsibility  and Governance Committee Dr. Shumeet Banerji (Chairman) K. V. Chowdary Nikhil R. Meswani Health, Safety and Environment  Committee Hital R. Meswani (Chairman) Arundhati Bhattacharya P. M. S. Prasad Pawan Kumar Kapil Bankers Bank of America N.A.
Bank of Baroda  Bank of India Canara Bank Central Bank of India  Citibank Credit Agricole Corporate   and Investment Bank  Deutsche Bank The Hong Kong and Shanghai   Banking Corporation Limited  HDFC Bank Limited ICICI Bank Limited IDBI Bank Limited Indian Bank Punjab National Bank  Standard Chartered Bank  State Bank of India Union Bank of India Registrar & Transfer Agent KFin Technologies Limited Selenium Tower B,  Plot 31-32, Gachibowli, Financial  District, Nanakramguda,  Hyderabad – 500 032   Toll Free No.
: 1800 309 401  (From 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.)   Fax: +91 40 6716 1680  e-mail: rilinvestor@kfintech.com  Website: www.kfintech.com BUSINESS REPLY INLAND LETTER Postage will   be paid   by the   Addressee No postage  stamp   necessary   if posted in  INDIA To,  Savithri Parekh Company Secretary and Compliance Officer Reliance Industries Limited C/o.
KFin Technologies Limited  (formerly known as KFin Technologies Private Limited) Selenium Tower B, Plot No.
31-32, Gachibowli,   Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad - 500 032 Fold BUSINESS REPLY PERMIT NO.
HDC/B-1282 MANNU POST OFFICE GACHIBOWLI, HYDERABAD - 500 032