Annual Report 2013-2014Annual Report 2013-2014 Keeping Energy in Synergy With Future Annual Report 2013-2014Annual Report 2013-2014 Jeevan Bharati, Tower-II, 124 Indira Chowk, New Delhi-110001, Tel: 011- 23310156, Fax: 011-23316413, E-mail: secretariat@ongc.co.in  Website: www.ongcindia.com,       facebook.com/ONGCLimited CIN: L74899DL1993GOI054155  is on a mission  To find more energy and to deliver energy for national growth.
The challenges are many.
But we have the Courage, the Knowledge, the Vision and the alchemy to transform  uncertainty into value.
It has been a journey marked by uncommon grit, resilience and the power to turn adversity  into opportunity.
Starting from scratch, we have put India on the world energy map.
With our energy footprint in 16 countries, we are geared to anchor India’s energy security.
Chairman’s Message Dear Shareholder, On behalf of the Board of Directors of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd., the Most Valuable Indian Public  Enterprise with a ` 4 trillion market capitalization, it is my proud privilege to present an account of your  Company's operating and financial results for the financial year 2013-14.
A team of around 34,000 engineers,  scientists and managers of the India's National Oil Company, working 24x7 in challenging E&P coordinates in  India and 16 countries to deliver energy that is crucial for economic development of India, home to over 17 per  cent of the world population, join me in greeting you.
ONGC – currently the world's number 3 Exploration & Production Company (Platts 2013) - has posted  consistently impressive corporate results, notwithstanding enduring challenges in the global economic  framework.
Apart from reinforcing our position as India's Most Admired Energy Company (Fortune's listing)  again, ONGC has achieved an optimised mix of consistent upstream growth and expansion in sustainable  development footprints.
Such structural strength has enabled us to build long-term wealth formation  capabilities and deliver outstanding value to our shareholders.
The holistic value creation touches all our  stakeholders; many of our stakeholders do not have ONGC shares, but are nevertheless heavily invested in  the progress of ONGC.
Your Company strengthened its focus on operational  performance, juxtaposing safety and environmental  management.
ONGC notched up significant scores  on key performance indices during FY-14.
During the  year, your Company made 14 oil and gas discoveries.
These efforts added 84.99 Million Tonnes of Oil  Equivalent (MTOE) of Ultimate Reserves (89.76  MTOE including our share in joint ventures), the  highest in last 23 years.
Our Reserve Replacement  th Ratio of 1.87 marks the 9  consecutive fiscal it has  exceeded 100%.
ONGC remained the largest producer of crude oil and  natural gas in India.
Notwithstanding a 7 per cent  natural decline in matured Basins across the globe,  your Company maintained its production levels from  ONGC-operated domestic fields at 45.53 MTOE.
The  total Oil plus Oil Equivalent Gas (O+OEG) production  ONGC Group in FY-14(including ONGC Videsh and  ONGC's share in Production Sharing Contracts-Joint  Ventures) has been 59.2 MTOE.
Calibrated capital  and technology infusion for best-in-class reservoir  management maintained production in 15 major  fields, contributing 70 per cent of ONGC's crude  production.
This positions ONGC in the league of the  world's best brownfield managers.
Over 70 per cent of the major producing Indian fields  of ONGC, like their global counterparts, are into their  natural decline phase.
ONGC has arrested the decline  in these fields through significant success in  technology-enabled Improved Oil Recovery (IOR)  and Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR) projects.
The  current recovery factors in ONGC's matured fields are  in the range 25-33 per cent.
ONGC is increasingly  pursuing the agenda to improve recovery factor  through capital-intensive technology interventions,  and aims to increase the average recovery factor to  40 per cent by 2020.
On the Earnings front, there are generous upsides  from current levels.
The average gross price for  ONGC's crude during FY-14 was US$106.72/barrel  (3.6 per cent lower than US$110.74/barrel in FY-12).
The net realized price in FY-14, however, was  US$40.97/barrel, 14.4 per cent lower than  US$47.85/barrel in FY-13.
This was due to discount of  US$ 65.75/barrel on crude sold to Oil Marketing  Companies (US$ 62.89/barrel in FY-13), as per  government instructions.
With the buoyancy in  international crude prices and greenback strength  (our revenue is US Dollar-denominated) expected to  continue, there are substantive growth potential in  your Company's Earnings in the near-term.
With more  remunerative pricing of our natural gas and with  subsidy rationalization, significant value remains to  be unlocked for your trusted shareholdings.
Despite weak global economic fundamentals, your  Company registered the highest-ever Revenue at  ` 842.01 billion, a growth of 1.1 per cent from  ` 832.90 billion in FY-13.
The ONGC Group Revenue  of ` 1,658.49 billion was also the highest-ever.
We  posted a higher Profit-Af ter-Tax (Earnings) of  ` 220.95 billion (up 5.6 per cent from FY-13), after  sharing the highest-ever under-recovery of ` 563.84  billion (an increase of ` 69.63 billion i.e.
14.1 per cent  over FY-13).
We are recommending an investor- cheering dividend (190 per cent) payout ratio of 43.04  per cent (including dividend tax).
It gives me immense  pleasure to inform you that the Company, for many  years running, has been the highest dividend payer in  India.
Over the past 6 fiscals, we distributed over  ` 473.67 billion in dividends to shareholders,  excluding dividend tax.
Our strong cash flow generation model provides  capacity for this robust shareholder distribution,  along with a fiscal comfort to pursue attractive  business opportunities.
An aggressive investment  profile, with a 5-year Capex CAGR of over 8 per cent,  positions your business for enduring earnings  growth.
Over the past decade, we had de-leveraged  the balance sheet and we are almost a zero-debt  company.
This has been achieved by strong cash  generation, though, of late, the subsidy burdens have  consumed some of the cash reserves painstakingly  built up in the past decade.
With domestic hydrocarbon prospectivity limited by  geological endowments, ONGC's wholly-owned  subsidiary ONGC Videsh Limited (ONGC Videsh) is  on full-throttle to secure overseas oil and gas equity.
In the last 10 years, ONGC Videsh has strengthened  its E&P foothold in diverse geologies.
In this  completed fiscal, ONGC acquired blocks in  Mozambique, Brazil, Bangladesh and Myanmar.
ONGC Videsh now has a balanced portfolio of 33  hydrocarbon properties worth over USD 15 billion  across the globe in 16 countries in 4 continents.
Thirteen of these are producing assets, spread  across 10 countries.
We are thankful to the diplomatic  support from the Indian government for catalysing  this expansion, establishing OVL as India's biggest  E&P multinational.
Despite punctuated production from Syrian and  South Sudan assets, ONGC Videsh achieved a  production of 8.36 million tonnes, up 15 per cent from  FY=13, along with the highest-ever Profit-after-Tax of  ` 44.45 billion, up 13 per cent over ` 39.29 billion in  FY-13.
ONGC has built up a robust presence in most of the  emerging low-carbon grow th corridors like  renewables and unconventional gas.
Already into  Coal Bed Methane (CBM) and Underground Coal  Gasification (UCG) prospecting in a big way, your  Company was the first to establish Shale gas  presence in India.
Environmental impacts of fracking  are the issues being dealt by us with technology- enabled mitigation techniques with global partners  experienced in shale play.
Keeping in view India's  increasing trend in gas imports, ONGC has taken up  positions in LNG regasification terminals at one of the  most strategic locations - Mangalore.
Under our long- term plan, we want to emerge as a key LNG player in  India by building a LNG capacity of 9 MMTpa by 2030.
We are positioning Sustainable Development with a  key focus on Environment Management in our long- term Perspective Plan 2030.
This sustainable value  creation spreads beyond our financial balance sheet  to our community and environment balance sheets.
Our ONGC Tripura Power  Company (OTPC) 726.6 MW gas-based power  project, the first unit of which has started commercial  production, will   registered with United  Nations Climate body as one of the biggest Clean  Development Mechanism (CDM) projects in the  world.
ONGC has improved its Newsweek Green  rd Ranking to 217 from 386 (in 2012), becoming the 3   among Indian companies in environmental  performance.
We have made significant strides in engaging our  operational communities through our structured  Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programmes.
We are graduating to deliver high-impact technology- enabled outreach projects to enhance connectivity  with communities around our operational pockets.
Your Company continues to feature among the top- ranked performers among global peers.
We  st  advanced to 21 in Forbes Global 2000 list 2012 of  world's biggest Oil and Gas companies,  .
We were again featured in Fortune's  'Most Admired Indian Companies' list of 2014, the only  Indian energy company in the 'Mining, Crude Oil  Production' category.
Economic Times-Brand  th Equitylisted ONGC as 14  most valued brand, placing  The fifth 'Corporate Sustainability Report' of ONGC  has been released.
A number of well-designed  initiatives like Water Foot-printing, Global Methane  Initiative, Carbon Foot-printing and UN-registered  Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) projects are  being administered.
mitigate over 1.6 million tons of  Carbon-dioxide emissions per year for the next 10  years.
The project has been up 2 notches  from last year ONGC as the most valued brand among non-banking  public enterprises.
To sustain growth in the emerging business  paradigm, your Company has chalked out an  ambitious 'Perspective Plan 2030', mapping the  long-term growth model of ONGC as an integrated  energy major.
Under this Plan, we target to double  production to over 130 MTOE by 2030, with 50 per  cent overseas contribution.
ONGC intends to invest  Rs.
11 trillion over 2013-2030 against ` 2.65 trillion  th under the 12  5-year Plan (FY13-17).
We are eyeing a  six-fold increase in production of our overseas  subsidiary ONGC Videsh Limited by 2030, to 60  MTOE.
We would also strengthen our downstream  linkages in alternate ener gy, LNG and  petrochemicals, targeting 30 per cent of group  revenue from non-E&P verticals.
For reaching these  2030 goal posts, we need to grow at 4 per cent against  our historic figure of 2 per cent.
We are building  systems to ensure that we remain on track to reach  the targets.
In ONGC, one of our key business objectives is to  engage our stakeholders with best-in-class Corporate  governance practices.
This is amply reflected through  the efforts illustrated in the Corporate Governance  Report which forms part of the Annual Report.
Your  continued confidence in your Company is one of our  greatest strengths.
Our steadfast commitment to  deliver enduring value is one of the potent  opportunities to enrich our shareholders.
I thank and the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas all  shareholders for understanding various compulsions  of the energy major and yet reposing sustained  confidence and trust in its management.
In the last five  fiscals, our stock has returned much more than  benchmark indices.
With its structural spread of high- end E&P capabilities, progressive count of quality  hydrocarbon properties, a collaborative business  ecosystem and consequent generous upsides in  revenue vectors, there is far superior sustainable  wealth to be mined from a whole-hearted investment  in your Company.
Dinesh K Sarraf Chairman & Managing Director     VisionTo be the global leader  integrated energy business  through sustainable growth.
knowldege excellence and  exemplary governance  practices.
World Class l Dedicated to excellence by leveraging competitive advantages in R&D and technology with involved people.
l Imbibe high standards of business ethics and organizational values.
l Abiding commitment to safety, health and environment to enrich quality of community life.
l Foster culture of trust, openness and mutual concern to make working a stimulating and Challenging experience for our people.
l Strive for customer delight through quality products and services.
Integrated In Energy Business l Focus on domestic and international oil and gas exploration and production business opportunities.
l Provide value linkages in other sector of energy business.
l Create growth opportunities and maximize shareholder value.
Dominant Indian Leadership l Retain dominant position in Indian Petroleum sector and enhance India’s energy availability.
Mission C o n t e n t s DIRECTORS’ REPORT 48 ANNEXURES  TO DIRECTORS REPORT 81 COMMENTS OF C&AG 93 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 14 NOTICE 23 PERFORMANCE AT A GLANCE 34 MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 117 AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 141 97 ONGC’s first oil well (Lunej-1) in Cambay Basin, Gujarat BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 144 SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT 172 DETAILS OF SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES 174 AUDITORS’ REPORT - STAND ALONE 178 BALANCE SHEET & STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS 184 CASH FLOW STATEMENT 186 NOTES TO ACCOUNTS 188 - STAND ALONE - STAND ALONE - STAND ALONE STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 212 240 GROUP PERFORMANCE AT A GLANCE 242 AUDITORS’ REPORT - ONGC GROUP 248 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT OF ONGC GROUP 252 ENERGY OF INDIA Board of Directors Notice Performance at a Glance Annual Report 2013-14 Operational Highlights FY’14 12 Highest Ultimate Reserve Accretion in last 23 years  Reserve Accretion (Mtoe) In place (Mtoe) Ultimate (Mtoe) Gas Production (BCM) VAP Production (KT) 25.60 ONGC ONGC’s share in PSC JVs Oil & Gas Reserves (3P) 1,2901,288 1,331 Wells Drilled (Nos.)
Oil Production (MMT) MTOE 26.46 27.28 26.92 OIL (MMT) Gas (BCM) Exploratory Development ONGC ONGC’s share in PSC JVs 25.9926.12 24.8525.3325.5125.32 1,212 1,175 381 389 322377 415 Financial Highlights FY’14 13 Dividend (` Million) CAGR : 2.86% Capex (` Million) Net Worth (` Million) Contribution of exchequer (` Million) Sales Income (` Million) Net Profit (` Million) CAGR : 6.75% CAGR : 5.67% CAGR : 6.63% CAGR : 9.43%  CAGR : 7.63% Board of Directorsth As on 15  August, 2014 14 R K Singh P Uma Shankar  O P Bhatt S K Barua S P Garg Ashok Varma T K Sengupta A K Banerjee   D K Sarraf   Shashi Shanker N K Verma D D Misra S C Khuntia A Giridhar K N Murthy S Ravi 15 Annual Report 2013-14 16 Mr. D K Sarraf, 56, is the Chairman & Managing Director of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation  Ltd (ONGC), India's most valuable Maharatna public sector enterprise and one of the most  premier E&P companies in the world.
ONGC is the highest Profit making and one of the  most valuable company of India as well as one of the Fortune's Most Admired Companies in  the world.
He is also the Chairman of ONGC Videsh Limited (ONGC Videsh) which is operating across  16 countries.
He is also Chairman of Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd (MRPL)  and five other ONGC Group companies (OPaL- ONGC Petro-additions Ltd, OMPL - ONGC  Mangalore Petrochemicals Ltd, MSEZ- Mangalore SEZ Ltd, OTPC- ONGC Tripura Power  Company Ltd and OMEL- ONGC Mittal Energy Ltd).
Mr. Sarraf graduated in Commerce from the prestigious Shri Ram College of Commerce,  Delhi University and holds a post graduate degree in Commerce from the same University.
He is an associate member of the Institute of Cost and Works Accountants of India and the  Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
He has experience of over three decades in the oil and gas industry, having started his oil  and gas career in India's second largest upstream oil company - Oil India Limited and  worked there till 1991 where he inculcated the experience in various facets of E&P at oil field level.
He joined ONGC in 1991 and handled  various key assignments at corporate offices.He was elevated to the post of Director (Finance) in ONGC Videsh in February 2005 where  he served till December 2007.
During this period, ONGC Videsh made significant acquisitions in Syria, Brazil, Colombia, Venezuela,  Cuba, Egypt and Myanmar.
In December 2007, he joined back ONGC as Director (Finance).
In September 2011 once again Mr. Sarraf  went back to ONGC Videsh assuming the charge of its Managing Director.
In March, 2014, he joined back ONGC once again and took  over as its Chairman & Managing Director In recognition of his excellence in financial management and contributions, he has been conferred with several accolades including the  Best CFO Award in Oil & Gas sector in India by CNBC in 2009 and 2011.
Shri Aloke Kumar Banerjee  is the Director (Finance) of your Company.
He holds a Master's degree in Commerce  from University of Calcutta.
He is a Fellow Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, Associate  Member of the Institute of Company Secretaries of India and Associate Member of Institute of Cost & Works  Accountant of India.
He has 32 years of diversified experience to his credit and rich knowledge in Financial  Management and Strategic Planning in upstream Oil & Gas Industry with specialization in Corporate Accounts,  Corporate Budget, Cost Management, Risk Analysis & Financial Planning, Procurement & Contracts, Performance  Benchmarking & Evaluation, Audit, Corporate Governance, Insurance, etc.
He had introduced & implemented  Financial Benchmarking Concept and Zero-base Budgeting in ONGC.
Chairman and Managing Director th as on 15  August, 2014Brief Profiles of the Board of Directors Functional Directors Shri Shashi Shanker is Director (T&FS) of your Company.
He has more than 31 years of experience in Oil  Industry.
He holds a B.Tech degree in Petroleum Engineering from Indian School of Mines, Dhanbad and MBA  with specialization in Financial Management from IGNOU.
He undertook General Management Training from IIM,  Lucknow and Leadership Development Programme at ISB, Hyderabad under "Shangsaptak" programme.
Annual Report 2013-14 Shri Narendra Kumar Verma  is Director (Exploration) of your Company.
He has more than 31 years of  experience.
He holds a Masters Degree in Applied Geology, an M. Tech degree in Petroleum Exploration and  MBA in Finance.
He has also completed One Year Global Manager's Program at IIM, Kolkata.
Recipient of many national awards and international commendations, the crowning moment of his technical  career came with the prestigious 'National Mineral Award', the highest recognition by the Government of India in  the field of geosciences, mining and allied areas, that was conferred upon him for his outstanding contribution to  Petroleum Exploration in Mumbai Offshore.
Shri N K Verma has demonstrated remarkable competence in challenging roles in the domain of 'Exploration' and  technological research, ranging from management of overseas exploration and Business Development as  Director(Exploration), ONGC Videsh Limited; Management of exploration activities in Frontier Basin, Mumbai  Offshore and Assam-Arakan Basin; and Head of Interpretation Group at the prestigious Geodata  Processing  and Interpretation Centre (GEOPIC) of ONGC.
Tapas Kumar Sengupta st  is Director (Offshore) of your Company and joined the Board of the Company on 1   February, 2014.
He holds a first-class B.Tech degree in Chemical engineering from Jadavpur University,  Calcutta, and also commands a Diploma in Management from Indira Gandhi National Open University.
Prior  to becoming Director(Offshore), he was Chief of Well Services looking after operations, technological needs  apart from manpower and material support for all Onshore and Offshore assets in respect of Well Services  and  Deepwater projects of Eastern Coast of India.
Tapas Kumar Sengupta is one of the select club of production engineers who has a balanced exposure to both  onshore and offshore oilfields operation.
His onshore experience portfolio comprises of Well Services in  Gujarat and Assam for 11 long years and 4 years in Sudan as part of ONGC Videsh.
His 4 years overseas  tenure at Sudan as a General Manager in Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Company, saw an increase of the  oil production through innovative engineering interventions.
Of his 18 years in Offshore fields off Mumbai, he served for 12 years in Mumbai High in Well Services, successfully handling a number of production- enhancement assignments.
He was the Project Coordinator for New Technology jobs like Water Shut-Off & Gas Shut-Off in difficult wells of Mumbai  high in 1992-94.
Sengupta was also instrumental in improving performances of ONGC's offshore sick well inventory.
He was the recipient of the CMD  award for Best Production Engineer in 1996 & Best Professional Engineer in 2001 for the same.
Shri T. K. Sengupta has been a silent catalyst in many of ONGC's organizational turning points.
He was associated with Organisational Transformation  Project (OTP – precursor of CRC) launched in 1997 as a part of first Multi-Disciplinary Team member in the Neelam Pilot on Arabian Sea.
Mr Ashok Varma is the Director (Onshore) of your Company  and joined the Board of the Company on th 19  June, 2014.
A graduate in Petroleum Engineering from Indian School of Mines, Dhanbad.
Prior to his joining as  Director (Onshore), he was heading the Eastern Offshore Asset at Kakinanda, where he was  instrumental in putting the Eastern Offshore Asset on production.
Mr Varma joined ONGC in 1978 as  Assistant Engineer at Assam.
During his early years at ONGC, he was actively engaged in design and  engineering of offshore platforms in western offshore.
Subsequently, he served in Western Onshore at  Ankleshwar where he extensively worked on water injections leading to initiation of pressure  maintenance in Gandhar field.
Mr. Varma steered the Imperial Energy in Russia, a subsidiary of the  ONGC Videsh Limited, as the Chief Executive Officer.
Mr. Varma pursued the hydrocarbon  opportunities abroad as a part of senior management of ONGC Videsh Ltd between 1996 and 2006.
He  was instrumental in acquiring 20% participating interest in Sakhalin-1 project in Russia by ONGC  Videsh in 2001.
He also headed ONGC's Assam operations as Asset Manager from 2008 to 2009.
17 18 Dr Subhash C Khuntia, Additional Secretary & Financial Advisor, Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas, st Govt of India, joined the ONGC Board as a Government Nominee Director on 1  May, 2014.
Dr. Khuntia (IAS Karnataka cadre 1981) is an M.Tech in Computer Science, M.Sc.
in Physics, M.A.
in  Economics, Sociology and Political Science and Ph.D. in Economics.
Before joining Petroleum Ministry,  he was Principal Secretary to the Govt.
of Karnataka.
Dr. Khuntia has handled various key assignments  including District administration, Land revenue management, Rural Development, Urban Development,  Finance and Public Works and Ports in the Karnataka State Government as well as in the Ministries of  Agriculture, Railways, Finance and Human Resource Development in the Central Government.
Independent Directors Government Nominee Directors Prof. Samir Kumar Barua, aged 62 years, an Independent Director of your Company, joined the ONGC Board on  14th December; 2011.
He holds a Master's degree in Industrial Engineering and Operations Research and holds a  Doctorate degree in Management.
He joined the faculty of Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad in 1980.
His  specific areas of interest include Capital Market, International Finance, Operations Research, Decision Support  System and Corporate Financial Management.
He is a visiting professor to academic institutions in USA,  Netherlands, Singapore & Cyprus.
He has authored a number of books and case studies in Management.
He is a  consultant to many public and private organizations in the manufacturing, banking, and financial services sectors.
He has handled various assignments as advisor to Reserve Bank of India, FICCI and the Bombay and National  Stock Exchanges.
Shri A. Giridhar, Joined the ONGC Board as a Government Nominee Director.
He Holds a Bachelor's  degree in Civil Engineering and a Master's degree in Industrial Management and Economics.
Belonging to  1988 Batch of IAS (AP Cadre) he was Sub Divisional Magistrate, Gadwal (1990-92), Project Officer,  Integrated Tribal Development Agency, Seetampet (1992-94), Additional District Magistrate & District  Development Officer, Nizamabad (1994-95), Additional District Magistrate, Nellore (1995-96), Additional  District Magistrate, Kadapa (1996-97), State Project Director, Primary Education Programme, (1997-98),  DM, Khamman (1998-2002), Transport Commissioner, Govt of Andhra Pradesh (2002-2003), DM,  Chittoor (2003-04), Secretary to Govt.
of Andhra Pradesh, Finance Deptt (2004-07), Managing Director,  A  P State Financial Corporation (2007-09), Executive Director, Insurance Regulatory and Development  Authority, Hyderabad (2009-12).
Shri Desh Deepak Misra  is the Director (Human Resource) of your Company and joined the Board of the st Company on 1  August 2014.
He holds a Master's Degree in Public Administration (MPA) from University of Lucknow.
Prior to his appointment as Director (HR), ONGC he was Head Corporate Administration at ONGC Dehradun.
Starting his career as Graduate Trainee, Mr. Misra has left his imprint in diverse assignments given to him in three  decades with the company.
Despite holding high pressure assignments, Mr. Misra has always found time to nurture his other interests,  particularly his passion for wildlife photography.
His maiden Coffee Table photo book "The Karjat diaries" profiling  bio-diversity of Western Ghats was launched in January-2014 at Petrotech.
Annual Report 2013-14 Shri Om Prakash Bhatt, aged 63 years, an Independent Director of your Company, joined the ONGC Board th on 14  December, 2011.
He started his career as a probationary officer with SBI in 1972.
During his career  span of 36 years with SBI, he has held several important assignments in India and abroad including stints at  the Bank's London and Washington offices.
Under the leadership of Shri Bhatt, SBI steadily improved its  global ranking in the list of Fortune 500 companies.
Shri Bhatt made rapid strides arresting falling market th share, rapid branch expansion with the bank opening11,000  branch under him, the first Indian bank and only  the second in the world to do so, and entering a number of new businesses.
Shri K. Narasimha Murthy, aged 57 years, an Independent Director of your Company, joined the ONGC Board  st on 21  March, 2013.
He has a brilliant academic record, getting ranks in both CA & ICWA courses.
He entered  the Profession of Cost & Management Accountancy in 1983.
He is associated with the development of Cost &  Management Information Systems for more than 150 Companies covering more than 45 Industries.
In  addition, he is closely associated with turning around of many large Corporates, focusing on systems  improvement with Cost Reduction approach.
He is closely involved with several National level Financial Institutions and is on the Board of various  companies.
Shri P. Uma Shankar, aged 61 years, an Independent Director of your Company, joined the ONGC Board th on 29  November, 2013.
He holds a Masters Degree of Science in Mathematics from IIT, Madras and M.Sc  in Social Policy and Planning in Developing Countries from London School of Economics.
Belonging to  IAS of 1976 batch (UP Cadre), he has 33 years of leadership experience in Government spanning  revenue, law and order, development work, rural infrastructure, finance, housing & urban development,  industries, municipal affairs and relief.
He has during his long and distinguished career served as Power  Secretary to the Govt of India, MD, UP State Sugar Corporation, C&MD, Rural Electrification Corporation  Limited, MD, National Cooperative Development Corporation, Joint Secretary (Sugar & Sugar  Administration), Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Govt.
of India.
He also served as Additional Chief Executive  Officer of Greater NOIDA.
He also served as Chairman, Indian Potash Limited, REC Power Distribution  Company Limited and REC Transmission Projects Company Limited, (subsidiaries of REC).
He was also  associated as a Non Executive Director with Indian Energy Exchange Limited.
Shri S. Ravi, aged 55 years, an Independent Director of your Company, joined the ONGC Board on 29th  November, 2013.
He is a Fellow Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and holds a  Master's Degree in Commerce.
He is a Senior Partner of Ravi Rajan& Co. Chartered Accountants  having vast experience in the profession.
He has handled various assignments in the field of  Restructuring & Rehabilitation of companies, Takeover, Mergers & Acquisitions and Business and  Brand valuation.
He has specialised in the fields of Accounting & Audit, Financial & Management  Consulting, Business Valuations, Mergers & Acquisitions and Business Advisory Services.
19 20 Special Invitee Shri R. K. Singh, aged 60 years, an Independent Director of your Company, joined the ONGC Board on rd 23 May, 2014.
He holds a B.Tech (Hon) degree in Mechanical Engineering from Banaras Hindu University,  India.
He has 38 years of experience including 35 years in Petroleum Sector.
He was associated with Bharat  Petroleum Corporation of India for 36 years and held Board level Position of Chairman & Managing Director  and Director Refineries in BPCL.
Directors whose term ceased since last Annual General Meeting  Shri Shaktikanta Das had joined ONGC Board as a Government Nominee Director on August 28, 2012.
He  resigned from the Board of ONGC w.e.f 29.12.2013.He holds Masters Degree from St. Stephen's College, Delhi  University.
Belonging to 1980 batch of IAS, he held various positions in the Govt of Tamil Nadu including Secretary,  Commercial Taxes Department, Secretary, Social Welfare Department, Secretary, Revenue Department,  Secretary, Industries Department, Special Commissioner and Commissioner of Revenue Administration.
Further he  held the positions of Joint Secretary, Ministry of Finance, Department of Expenditure, Govt of India, Joint  Secretary(Budget), Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs, Govt of India Shri P K Borthakur Ex-Director (Offshore), ONGC superannuated from the services of ONGC on 31st January,  2014 on reaching the age of superannuation.
He had wide experience of about 36 years in various fields in Oil  Industry such as monetization of marginal assets in Western Offshore.
Shri Sudhir Vasudeva, Ex-Chairman & Managing Director, ONGC superannuated from the services of ONGC on  28th February 2014 on reaching the age of superannuation.
He had joined ONGC in 1976.
He is a Gold Medallist  Chemical Engineer from National Institute of Technology, Raipur & has over three and half decades of experience in  the entire gamut of upstream oil and gas business.
Mr. Satpal Garg has over 30 years' experience in Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited Mr. Garg is a  Commerce Graduate from prestigious University of Delhi and a Fellow Chartered Accountant from the Institute of  Chartered Accountants of India, Fellow Company Secretary from the Institute of Company Secretaries of India  and Associate Member of the Institute of Cost Accountants of India.
He assumed the responsibility of Director  (Finance) in ONGC Videsh Limited in 2008.
From March 2014, he has shouldered the additional charge of  Managing Director, ONGC Videsh.
Mr. Garg has made significant contributions in streamlining and strengthening  internal controls, accounting, budgetary control and business development activities of the company.
Before  joining ONGC Videsh, he was working in ONGC handling various assignments in Corporate Accounts, Direct and  Indirect taxes, Internal Audit and as Regional Finance Head.
He also worked as Company Secretary, ONGC for  about a year.
Mr Garg has rich experience in domestic and overseas aspects of oil and gas industry.
Dr. D. Chandrasekharam, an Independent Director of your Company, joined ONGC Board on  March11, 2011.
The tenure of Dr. D. Chandrasekharam ended on 10.03.2014.
He holds a  Bachelor's degree in Geology, a Master's degree in Applied Geology and a Doctor of Philosophy in  Volcanology and Geochemistry from the Indian Institute of Technology, Mumbai.
He had over  32 years of research and teaching experience in the field of Earth Sciences, including, inter alia,  officiating as the Head of the Department of Earth Sciences, Head, Centre of Studies in Resource  Engineering at the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, Mumbai.
Prof. Deepak Nayyar, an Independent Director of your Company, joined ONGC Board on June 20, 2011.
The tenure of Prof. Deepak Nayyar ended on 19.06.2014.
He holds a Master's degree in Economics from  Delhi University and a doctorate of Philosophy in Economics from Oxford University.
Earlier, he had taught at  the University of Oxford, the University of Sussex, the Indian Institute of Management, Calcutta and the New  School for Social Research, New York.
Professor Nayyar was Vice Chancellor of the University of Delhi from  2000 to 2005.
He also served as Chief Economic Adviser to the Government of India and Secretary in the  Ministry of Finance.
Shri Arun Ramanathan, an Independent Director of your Company, joined ONGC Board on  June 20, 2011.
The tenure of Shri Arun Ramanathan ended on19.06.2014.
He holds a Master's degree in  Nuclear Physics, Business Administration and Development Economics.
He is also an  Associate Member of the Institute of Cost and Works Accountants of India.
He joined the IAS in  July 1973 where he held several assignments in Industry, Finance, Food, Consumer Protection, Transport  and General Administration.
In the GOI, he was Secretary (Chemicals & Petrochemicals), Secretary  (Financial Services)and finally the Union Finance Secretary.
Shri Ramanathan was the Finance Secretary  at the time of the global financial crisis and was nominated by the Prime Minister to Chair the  Group of Secretaries to recommend measures needed to counter the meltdown in the financial and  industrial sectors.
Shri K. S. Jamestin, Ex-Director (Human Resource), ONGC superannuated from the services of ONGC on 31st  July 2014 on reaching the age of superannuation.
He holds a Bachelors' degree in Electronics and  Telecommunications Engineering from University of Kerala, MBA in Finance, Diploma in Operations Management  and is a Certified Project Management Professional.
He has 37 years of experience to his credit in the petroleum  and natural gas sector.
Chief Vigilance Officer Dr Akhilesh Kumar Ambasht, an IFS officer of cadre AGMUT - 1987, has taken over as ONGC's Chief Vigilance  Officer on April 1, 2014.
Dr Ambasht holds a Master's degree in Botany from the Gorakhpur University and was  awarded a Ph.D. in Botany (Ecology) from Banaras Hindu University.
Prior to joining ONGC, Dr Ambasht has held important assignments as CVO of Delhi Jal Board, Member Secretary,  Delhi Pollution Control Committee and Assessor & Collector of Municipal Corporation of Delhi.
He has a wide  ranging experience in various assignments of Ministry of Human Resources and various departments of  Government of Goa.
Dr Ambasht is also M.Sc.
in Forestry and has an in-depth knowledge of forestry.
He has  published around 14 Research papers in various National & International journals.
21 Annual Report 2013-14 22 Registered Office Tower II, Jeevan Bharati Building 124, Indira Chowk, New Delhi - 110 001 Statutory Auditors M/s Varma & Varma, Chennai M/s S. Bhandari & Co. Mumbai M/s Ray & Ray, Kolkata M/s Mehra Goel & Co., New Delhi M/s GD Apte & Co. Mumbai Bankers State Bank of India Subsidiaries ONGC Videsh Ltd. Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. Registrar & Share Transfer Agent M/s Karvy Computershare Private Ltd.
Plot No.
17-24, Vittal Rao Nagar, Madhapur, Hyderabad - 500081 Company Secretary N. K. Sinha Corporate Office Tel Bhavan, Dehradun - 248 003 Uttarakhand Cost Auditors Listed at Bombay Stock Exchange Ltd. National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. M/s ABK &  Associates, Mumbai M/s N. D. Birla & Co., Ahmedabad M/s Rao Murthy & Associates, Chennai M/s Bandyopadhyaya Bhaumik & Co., Kolkata  M/s A. C. Dutta & Co., Kolkata M/s.
R Nanabhoy & Co. Mumbai  M/s.
R J Goel & Co., Delhi Depositories National Securities Depository Ltd. Central Depository Services (India) Ltd. st  Notice is hereby given that the 21 Annual General Meeting  of the Members of OIL AND NATURAL GAS  th CORPORATION LIMITED will be held on Friday, the 19   September, 2014 at 10:00 hrs.
at NDMC Indoor Stadium,  Talkatora Garden, New Delhi, to transact the following  business: ORDINARY BUSINESS: 1.
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Financial  Statement of the Company for the Financial Year  st ended 31  March, 2014, together with the Reports of  the Directors and the Auditors' thereon and comments  of the Comptroller & Auditor General of India, in terms  of Section 143(6) of the Companies Act, 2013.
2.
To confirm the payment of two interim dividends and  declare final dividend on equity shares for the year  2013-14.
3.
To appoint a Director in place of Shri A K Banerjee  (DIN-05287459) who retires by rotation and being  eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
4.
To authorise Board of Directors of the Company to fix  the remuneration of the Joint Statutory Auditors of the  Company for the Financial Year 2014-15, in terms of  the provisions of section 139(5) read with section 142  of the Companies Act, 2013 and to pass the following  resolution, with or without modification(s), as  Ordinary Resolution: “RESOLVED THAT the Board of Directors of the  Company be and are hereby authorised to decide and  fix the remuneration of the Joint Statutory Auditors of  the Company for the Financial Year 2014-15, as may  be deemed fit by the Board”.
SPECIAL BUSINESS: ITEM No.
5 To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without  modification(s), the following resolution as an  Ordinary Resolution: “RESOLVED THAT Shri Tapas Kumar Sengupta  (DIN-06802877) who was appointed as an  Additional Director and designated as Director  (Offshore) under Section 161 of the Companies  st Act, 2013, effective 1  February, 2014 and holds  st office upto the date of the 21 Annual General  Meeting and the Company having received a  notice in writing, under Section 160 of the  Companies Act, 2013, from Shri T K Sengupta,  proposing his candidature for the office of  director, be and is hereby appointed as a Director  of the Company, liable to retire by rotation.” ITEM No.
6 To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without  modification(s), the following resolution as an  Ordinary Resolution: “RESOLVED THAT Shri Dinesh Kumar Sarraf  (DIN-00147870) who was appointed as an  Additional Director and designated as Chairman &  Managing Director under Section 161 of the  st Companies Act, 2013, effective 1  March, 2014 and  st holds office upto the date of the 21  Annual  General Meeting and the Company having  received a notice in writing, under Section 160 of  the Companies Act, 2013, from Shri D K Sarraf,  proposing his candidature for the office of  director, be and is hereby appointed as a Director  of the Company not liable to retire by rotation.” ITEM No.
7 To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without  modification(s), the following resolution as an  Ordinary Resolution: “RESOLVED THAT Dr. Subhash C. Khuntia  (DIN-05344972) who was appointed as an Additional  Director (Govt Director) under Section 161 of the  st Companies Act, 2013, effective 1  May, 2014 and  st  holds office upto the date of the 21 Annual General  Meeting and the Company having received a notice  in writing, under Section 160 of the Companies Act,  2013, from a member, proposing his candidature for  the office of director, be and is hereby appointed as  a Director of the Company, liable to retire by  rotation.” NOTICE OIL AND NATURAL GAS CORPORATION LIMITED  CIN: L74899DL1993GOI054155 Reg.
office: JEEVAN BHARATI, 124 INDIRA CHOWK, NEW DELHI- 110001 Website: www.ongcindia.com  email: secretariat@ongc.co.in Tel: 011-23301277/1299 23 Annual Report 2013-14 24 ITEM No.
8 To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without  modification(s), the following resolution as an  Ordinary Resolution: “ R E S O LV E D  T H AT  S h r i  A s h o k  V a r m a   (DIN-06909494) who was appointed as an  Additional Director and designated as Director  (Onshore) under Section 161 of the Companies  th Act, 2013, effective 19  June, 2014 and holds  st  office upto the date of the 21 Annual General  Meeting and the Company having received a  notice in writing, under Section 160 of the  Companies Act, 2013, from Shri Ashok Varma  proposing his candidature for the office of  director, be and is hereby appointed as a Director  of the Company, liable to retire by rotation.” ITEM No.
9 To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without  modification(s), the following resolution as an  Ordinary Resolution: “RESOLVED THAT Shri Desh Deepak Misra  (DIN-06926783) who was appointed as an  Additional Director and designated as Director  (HR) under Section 161 of the Companies Act,  st 2013, effective 1  August, 2014 and holds office  st upto the date of the 21 Annual General Meeting  and the Company having received a notice in  writing, under Section 160 of the Companies Act,  2013, from Shri Desh Deepak Misra proposing his  candidature for the office of director, be and is  hereby appointed as a Director of the Company,  liable to retire by rotation.” ITEM No.
10 To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without  modifications, the following resolution as an  Ordinary Resolution:  “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of  Section 148 and  other applicable provisions of the  Companies Act, 2013 and rule 14(a)(ii) of the  Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014  [including any statutory modification(s) or  re-enactment thereof, for the time being in force],  the aggregate remuneration of `19.50 lakhs plus  applicable taxes and out of pocket expenses  payable to  the six Joint Cost Auditors appointed  by the Board of Directors of the Company, to  conduct the audit of the cost records of the various  units of the Company for the financial year ending  March 31, 2015, be and is hereby ratified.” Regd.
Office: Jeevan Bharti Building Tower II, 124 Indira Chowk, New Delhi  - 110 001 (N K SINHA) Company Secretary th 8  August 2014 By Order of the Board of Directors For Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. 25 NOTES: 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is  entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote instead  of himself and the proxy need not be a member of the  company.
The proxy form in order to valid and  effective should be deposited at the registered office  of the company not less than forty-eight hours (48  hrs.)
before the time of commencement of the  meeting.
Blank proxy form is attached.
In terms of section 105 of the Companies Act, 2013,  and rules thereunder, a person can act as a proxy on  behalf of members not exceeding fifty and holding in  the aggregate not more than ten percent of the total  share capital of the company.
A member holding  more than ten percent of the total share capital of the  company may appoint a single person as proxy and  such person shall not act as a proxy for any other  person or member.
Proxies submitted on behalf of  limited companies, societies etc must be supported  by appropriate resolution/ authority, as applicable.
2.
Relevant Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section  102(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, in respect of  Special Business to be transacted, as set out above,  is annexed hereto.
3.
Brief profile of the Directors seeking appointment/ re- appointment, as mandated under Clause 49 of the  Listing Agreement with the Stock Exchanges, forms  part of the Notice.
None of the Directors of the  Company are in any way related to each other.
4.
The Register of Members and Share Transfer Books  of the Company will remain closed from Saturday,  th th the 13  September, 2014 to Friday, the 19   September, 2014 (both days inclusive).
5.
The Board had recommended a final Dividend of  `0.25 per equity share of `5/- each fully paid up, in its  th meeting held on 29  May, 2014.
The dividend, if  approved by the Members at the said Annual General  th Meeting, will be paid before 18  October, 2014 to the  members whose names appear on the Register of  Members of the Company after giving effect to all  valid share transfers in physical form lodged with  th the Company on or before Friday, the 12   September, 2014, and the respective Beneficial  Owners as at the close of business hours on  th Friday, the 12  September, 2014, as per details  thereof to be furnished by the depositories.
6.
Share transfer documents and all correspondence  relating thereto, should be addressed to the Registrar  and Transfer Agent of the Company – M/s.
Karvy  Computershare Private Ltd. (Karvy), Plot No.
17-24,  Vittal Rao Nagar, Madhapur, HYDERABAD – 500 081  Phone Nos.
040-23420818, Fax No.
040-23420814; e- mail: einward.ris@karvy.com.
Karvy is also the  depository interface of the Company with both NSDL  and CDSL.
However, keeping in view the convenience of the  Shareholders, documents relating to shares will  continue to be accepted at Karvy Computershare  rd  Private Ltd. 305, 3 Floor, New Delhi House, 27,  Barakhamba Road, Connaught Place, New Delhi- 110001, Phone Nos.
011-43681700 Fax 43681710; e- mail: delhi@karvy.com and at the Registered Office  th of the Company at 8  Floor, Jeevan Bharati,  Tower-II, 124, Indira Chowk, New Delhi- 110001,  Phone No.011-23301277/23301299; e-mail:  secretariat@ongc.co.in .
7.
The Company has designated an exclusive e-mail ID  called secretariat@ongc.co.in for redressal of  shareholders'/investors' complaints/grievances.
In  case you have any queries/complaints or grievances,  then please write to us at the above e-mail address.
8.
Members holding shares in electronic form may  please note that the bank account details and 9-digit  MICR Code of their Bankers, as noted in the records of  their depository, shall be used for the purpose of  remittance of dividend through Electronic Clearing  Service (ECS), or for printing on dividend warrants,  wherever applicable.
Members are, therefore,  requested to update their bank account particulars,  change of address and other details with their  respective Depository Participants for shares held in  demat mode and write to the Registrar and Share  Transfer Agent for shares held in physical form.
9.
Non-Resident Indian members are requested to  inform the RTA, M/s Karvy Computershare Private  Limited, Hyderabad immediately about : i) Change in their residential status on return to India for permanent settlement.
ii) Particulars of their bank account maintained in India with complete name, branch, account type, account number and address of the bank with pin code number, if not furnished earlier.
10.
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI)  has mandated the submission of Permanent Account  Number (PAN) by every participant in securities  market failing which the demat account / folio no.
Annual Report 2013-14 would be suspended for trading.
Members holding  shares in electronic form are, therefore, requested to  submit the PAN to their Depository Participants with  whom they are maintaining their demat accounts.
Members holding shares in physical form can submit  their PAN details to the Company or its RTA.
11.
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is providing ECS/NECS  facility for payment of dividend in select cities.
Members holding shares in physical form are advised  to submit particulars of their bank account, viz.,  names and address of the branch of the bank, 9 digit  MICR code of the branch, type of account and  account number latest by 12 September, 2014 to M/s  Karvy Computershare Private Ltd. 12.
Pursuant to section 205A and 205C of the Companies  Act, 1956, the Company has transferred the unpaid/  th  unclaimed amount of final dividend declared on 19 September, 2006 for the financial year 2005-06 and  th  interim dividend declared on 28 December, 2006 for  the financial year 2006-07, to the Investor Education  and Protection Fund of the Central Government.
The  unpaid/ unclaimed amount of Final Dividend declared  on 19.09.2007 and Interim Dividend declared on  22.12.2007 will be transferred to the Investor Education  and Protection Fund (IEPF) of the Central Government  th st  by 18 October, 2014 and 21 January, 2015  respectively.
Members who have not encashed their  dividend warrants pertaining to the said years may  approach the Company or its Registrar & Share  Transfer Agent for obtaining payment thereof.
13.
In order to avoid the incidence of fraudulent  encashment of dividend warrants, the Members  holding shares in physical form are requested to  provide their Bank Account Number, Name and  Address of the Bank/ Branch to the Company or  Karvy to enable them to incorporate the same in the  dividend warrant.
14.
Members desirous of obtaining any information on  any item of business of this meeting are requested to  forward the same at least 10 days before the date of  the Annual General Meeting to Company Secretary at  the Registered Office of the Company, so that the  same may be attended to appropriately.
Relevant  documents referred to in the accompanying notice  are open for inspection by the members at the  Registered Office of the Company on all working days  i.e.
Monday to Friday, between 10:30 a.m. and 12:30  p.m. upto the date of the Annual General Meeting.
15.
Members who have not encashed their dividend  warrants within its validity period may write to the  Company at its Registered Office or M/s Karvy  Computershare Private Limited, Registrar & Share  Transfer Agent of the Company, for revalidating  the warrants or payment in lieu of such warrants in  the form of demand draft.
16.
Pursuant to section 101 and 136 of the Companies Act,  2013 read with Companies (Management and  Administration) Rules, 2014, Annual Report of the  Company is being sent through email to those  members whose email ID is registered with the  Company / Depository.
In case any member wants a  physical copy of the Annual Report, he may send a  request to the Company Secretary at the Registered  office/RTA.
Those members who have not registered  their email ID are requested to write to the RTA/their  Depository Participant for registering the same.
Facility for E-Voting 17.
In compliance with the provisions of section 108 of the  Act and the Rules framed thereunder, the Members  are provided with the facility to cast their vote  electronically, through the e-voting services provided  by M/s Karvy Computershare Pvt.
Ltd. (KCPL) on all  resolutions set forth in this Notice.
The instructions for e-voting are as under: a) Details of the process and manner of e-voting along with the User ID and Password are being sent to the members along with the notice:  - By email to those members whose email ID is registered with the Company / Depository Participants.
- By Registered post to those members whose email ID is not registered with the Company / Depository Participant.
b) The instructions and other information relating to e-voting are as under: i.
Launch internet browser by typing the URL: https://evoting.karvy.com.
ii.
Enter the login credentials (i.e.
User ID and Password mentioned in the notice).
However, if you are already registered with Karvy for e voting, you can use your existing User ID and password for logging in.
The Annual Report 2013-14 as circulated to the  members of the Company is also available on the  website of the Company  www.ongcindia.com  26 iii.
After entering these details appropriately, Click on “LOGIN”.
iv.
You will now reach password change Menu  wherein you are required to mandatorily  change your password.
The new password  shall comprise of minimum 8 characters with  at least one upper case (A-Z), one lower case  (a-z), one numeric value (0-9) and a special  character (@,#,$, etc.).
The system will  prompt you to change your password and  update your contact details like mobile  number, email ID, etc.
on first login.
You may  also enter a secret question and answer of  your choice to retrieve your password in case  you forget it.
It is strongly recommended that  you do not share your password with any  other person and that you take utmost care to  keep your password confidential.
v. You need to login again with the new  password.
vi.
On successful login, the system will prompt  you to select the “EVENT” i.e.
Oil and Natural  Gas Corporation Limited.
vii.
On the voting page, enter the number of  shares (which represents the number of votes  as on the Cut off date) under “FOR / AGAINST/  ABSTAIN” or alternatively, you may partially  enter any number of votes in “FOR” and  partially in “AGAINST” such that the total  number of votes cast “FOR / AGAINST” taken  together should not exceed your total  shareholding.
In case you do not wish to cast  your vote you may choose the option  “ABSTAIN”.
viii.
Voting has to be done for each item of the  Notice separately.
In case you do not cast your  vote on any specific item it will be treated as  abstained.
ix.
Members holding multiple demat accounts /  folios shall choose the voting process  separately for each demat account / folio.
x.
You may then cast your vote by selecting an  appropriate option and click on “Submit”.
xi.
A confirmation box will be displayed.
Click  “OK” to confirm else “CANCEL” to modify.
Once you confirm, you will not be allowed to  modify your vote.
During the voting period,  members can login any number of times till  they have voted on the Resolution(s).
xii.
Corporate / Institutional members are  required to send scanned certified true copy  (PDF Format) of the Board Resolution/  Authority Letter, etc.
together with attested  specimen signature(s) of the duly authorized  representative(s), to the Scrutinizer at email  ID: an_kukreja@rediffmail.com with a copy  marked to evoting@karvy.com.
c) The e-voting period commences on Saturday,  September 13, 2014 at 9:30 A.M. and ends on  Monday, September 15, 2014 at 05.30 P. M. During  this period, the members of the Company as on  th the cut-off date, being 8  August, 2014, may cast  their vote by electronic means in the manner and  process set out herein above.
The e-voting  module shall be disabled for voting thereafter.
Once the vote on a resolution is cast, the member  shall not be allowed to change it subsequently.
Further, the members who have cast their vote  electronically shall not be able to vote at the Annual  General Meeting in case poll is held at the meeting.
d) In case of any query pertaining to e-voting,  please v i s i t  Help & FAQ's section of  https://evoting.kar v y.com.
e) The voting rights of the members shall be in  proportion to their shares of the paid up equity  share capital of the Company, as on the cut-off  th date, being Friday, 8  August, 2014. f) The Board of Directors has appointed Shri A N  Kukreja of M/s A N Kukreja & Co. a practicing  Company Secretary, as Scrutinizer to scrutinize the  e-voting process in a fair and transparent manner.
g) The Scrutinizer shall within a period not exceeding  3 (three) working days from the conclusion of the  e-voting period unblock the votes in the presence  of at least 2 (two) witnesses not in the employment  of the Company and will make a Scrutinizer's  Report of the votes cast in favour or against, if any,  forthwith to the Chairman of the Company or any  other officer authorized by Chairman.
h) The Results on resolutions shall be declared on or  after the AGM of the Company and the resolutions  will be deemed to be passed on the AGM date  subject to receipt of the requisite number of votes  in favour of the Resolutions.
I) The Results declared along with the Scrutinizer's  27 Annual Report 2013-14 28 Report(s) will be available on the website of the  Company (www.ongcindia.com) and on Service  Provider's website (https://evoting.karvy.com)  within 2 (two) days of the passing of the  st th resolutions at the 21  AGM of the Company on 19   September, 2014 and would also be  communicated to the BSE Limited and the  National Stock Exchange of India Limited where  the shares of the Company are listed.
18.
Members, holding shares in physical form, may avail  of the facility of nomination in terms of Section 72 of  the Companies Act, 2013 by nominating in the Form- SH 13 as prescribed in the Companies (Share Capital  & Debentures) Rule, 2014, any person to whom their  shares in the Company shall vest on occurrence of  events stated in the Form.
Those holding shares in  physical form may obtain Form-SH 13 from, and send  the same in duplicate to, the RTA.
In case of shares  held in dematerialized form, the nomination has to be  lodged with the respective DP.
19.
Members holding physical shares in multiple folios in  identical names are requested to send their share  certificates to Company's Registrar and Share  Transfer Agent, M/s Karvy Computershare Private  Ltd. for consolidation.
20.
Pursuant to Section 139(5) read with Section 142 of  the Companies Act, 2013, the Auditors of a  Government Company are appointed or re- appointed by the Comptroller & Auditor General  (C&AG) of India and their remuneration is to be fixed  by the Company in the Annual General Meeting.
The  members may authorise the Board to fix up an  appropriate remuneration of Auditors for the year  2014-15 after taking into consideration the increase in  volume of work and prevailing inflation etc.
21.
Members are requested: i) to bring their copies of Annual Report and  Attendance Slip duly completed and signed at the  meeting.
ii) to quote their Folio/DP & Client identification No.
in  all correspondence.
iii) Not to bring brief case, bags, eatables, cell phone  etc.
as they are prohibited inside the meeting hall  for security reasons.
iv) to notify immediately any change of their address  and bank particulars to the Company or its Share  Transfer Agent, in case shares are held in physical form.
AND In case their shares are held in dematerialised  form, information should be passed on directly to  their respective Depository Participants and not to  the Company/Share Transfer Agent, without any  delay.
v) to note that no gift will be distributed at the  meeting.
Group Gathering Station (GGS), Gandhar, Western Onshore, Gujarat EXPLANATORY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION  102 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 Item No.5 APPOINTMENT OF SHRI TAPAS KUMAR SENGUPTA  Shri Tapas Kumar Sengupta was appointed as an Additional  Director and designated as Director (Offshore) on the st Board of ONGC effective 1   February , 2014.In terms of  Section 161 of the Companies Act, 2013,he holds office st upto the date of the 21  Annual General Meeting of the  Company.
The Company has received a notice in writing  from Shri T K Sengupta pursuant to the provisions of Section  160 of the Companies Act, 2013, signifying intention to  propose himself as candidate for the office of Director.
Shri  Tapas Kumar Sengupta, if appointed, will be liable to retire  by rotation under Sections 152 of the Companies Act, 2013  and in terms of provisions under the Articles of Association  of the Company.
Born on 27th December, 1957, Mr. T K Sengupta is a first  class graduate in Chemical engineering from Jadavpur  University and a Diploma in Management from Indira  Gandhi National Open University, India.
Mr. T K Sengupta has 33 years of experience in Oil Industry.
Prior to becoming Director (Offshore), he was Chief of Well  Services looking after operations, technological needs  apart from manpower and material support for all Onshore  and Offshore assets in respect of Well Services and  Deepwater projects of Eastern Coast of India.
He has  worked extensively in Well services in both onshore &  offshore in India and his passion for introduction of new  technology in operational areas of ONGC has added value  in reduction of cost & time and resolved many complex  technical issues.
Recent use of expandable sand screens  for sand control in offshore wells, tractor technology for  taking coiled tubing upto the toe of the horizontal well &  intelligent completion of high angle long drift wells are some  of the first time implementations in offshore wells of ONGC  under his astute leadership.
Mr. Sengupta was the recipient of ONGC Chairman's award  as the 'Best Production Engineer' in 1996 and Chairman's  award as the 'Best Professional Engineer' in 2001.
He has  also been the recipient of the SPE 'Distinguished Member  Award' in 2012.
Shri Tapas Kumar Sengupta holds Directorship on the  Board of M/s Pawan Hans Ltd and M/s ONGC Petro- additions Ltd.
He is a member in the Audit Committee of  ONGC Petro-additions Ltd.
He and his dependents hold 3672 equity shares of ` 5 each  in ONGC.
The Board of Directors considers that in view of the  background and experience of Shri Tapas Kumar Sengupta,  it would be in the interest of the Company to appoint him as a  Director of the Company.
The Board recommends the  resolution for your approval.
Except Shri Tapas Kumar Sengupta, none of the Directors,  Key Managerial Personnel and their relatives is interested or  concerned in the resolution.
Item No.6 APPOINTMENT OF SHRI DINESH KUMAR SARRAF  Shri Dinesh Kumar Sarraf was appointed as an Additional  Director and designated as Chairman & Managing Director st on the Board of ONGC effective 1  March, 2014.In terms of  Section 161 of the Companies Act, 2013, he holds office st upto the date of the 21  Annual General Meeting of the  Company.
The Company has received a notice in writing  from Shri D K Sarraf pursuant to the provisions of Section  160 of the Companies Act, 2013, signifying intention to  propose himself as candidate for the office of Director.
Shri  Dinesh Kumar Sarraf, if appointed, will not be liable to retire  by rotation under Sections 152 the Companies Act, 2013  and in terms of provisions under the Articles of Association  of the Company.
rd Born on 3  September, 1957, Mr. Sarraf is an Associate  Member of Institute of Cost  Accountants of India and  Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
He has  experience of over three decades in the oil and gas industry,  having started his oil and gas career in India's second  largest upstream oil company - Oil India Limited and worked  there till 1991 where he inculcated the experience in various  facets of E&P at oil field level.
He joined ONGC in 1991 and  handled various key assignments at corporate offices.
These included, restructuring ONGC from a statutory  commission into a commercial corporation, including its  financial restructuring and valuation.
Mr. Sarraf assumed the  charge of Managing Director and CEO of ONGC Videsh  Limited in September 2011.
As MD & CEO, ONGC Videsh  Limited, he institutionalized systems and processes to  ensure attainment of the committed targets.
He has  introduced 'zero-based risk review' mechanism for risk  assessment in major acquisitions and mitigation of the risks.
He laid emphasis on capability building and creating  systems-based approach to activities of ONGC Videsh in  general and business development in particular.
To  accomplish this daunting task, he actively participated in the  financial due diligence and price negotiations for company's  major acquisitions, like Block BC-10 Brazil, NEMED Block  Egypt, AFPC Project Syria, MECL Project Columbia,  Rovuma Area I Block in Mozambique offshore etc.
; and  guided the negotiating team for other acquisitions, resulting  in substantial savings.
He was awarded the CEPM-PMA  fellowship on December 2, 2013 by the Project Management  Associates - India (PMA - India).Mr.
Sarraf earlier worked in  ONGC Videsh Limited as Director (Finance) during  February 2005 to December 2007.
During this period,  ONGC Videsh made significant acquisitions in Syria, Brazil,  Colombia, Venezuela, Cuba, Egypt and Myanmar.
Mr Sarraf  played key roles in negotiation and conclusion of these  transactions.
During this period, the Company saw  29 Annual Report 2013-14 significant increase in its activities, production, revenue and  profits.
In December 2007, he joined ONGC as Director  (Finance).
In recognition of his achievements, he was given  the Best CFO Award in Oil & Gas sector in India by CNBC in  2009 and 2011.
Shri Dinesh Kumar Sarraf is Chairman of the following  companies: (1) ONGC Videsh Limited (2) Mangalore  Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (3) ONGC Petro- additions Limited (4) ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals  Limited (5) Mangalore SEZ Ltd.(6) ONGC Tripura Power   Company Limited (7) ONGC Mittal Energy Limited.
Shri D K  Sarraf is a director on the Board of Petronet LNG Limited.
He  does not hold any membership / chairmanship in the  Committees of the aforesaid companies.
He and his dependents hold 3192 equity shares of ` 5 each  in ONGC.
The Board of Directors considers that in view of the  background, qualification and vast experience of Shri  Dinesh Kumar Sarraf, it would be in the interest of the  Company to appoint him as a Director of the Company.
The  Board recommends the resolution for your approval.
Except Shri Dinesh Kumar Sarraf, none of the Directors, Key  Managerial Personnel and their relatives is interested or  concerned in the resolution.
Item No.7 APPOINTMENT OF DR. SUBHASH C KHUNTIA  Dr. Subhash C Khuntia was appointed as an Additional  Director (Govt.
Director )on the Board of ONGC effective 1st  May, 2014.
In terms of Section 161 of the Companies Act, st 2013, he holds office upto the date of the 21  Annual  General Meeting of the Company.
The Company has  received a notice in writing from a member pursuant to the  provisions of Section 160 of the Companies Act, 2013,  signifying intention to propose him as a candidate for the  office of Director.
Dr. Subhash C Khuntia, if appointed, will be  liable to retire by rotation under Sections 152 of the  Companies Act, 2013 and in terms of provisions under the  Articles of Association of the Company.
Born on 21st November, 1957, Dr. Subhash Chandra  Khuntia (IAS Karnataka cadre 1981) is an M.Tech in  Computer Science, M.Sc.
in Physics, M.A.
in Economics,  Sociology and Political Science and Ph.D. in Economics.
Before joining Petroleum Ministry as Additional Secretary &  Financial Advisor, he was Principal Secretary to the Govt.
of  Karnataka.
Dr. Khuntia has handled various key  assignments including District administration, Land revenue  management, Rural Development, Urban Development,  Finance and Public Works and Ports in the Karnataka State  Government as well as in the Ministries of Agriculture,  Railways, Finance and Human Resource Development in  the Central Government.
Dr. Subhash C Khuntia holds directorship on the Boards of  Indian Oil Corporation Ltd, Hindustan Petroleum  Corporation Ltd & Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserves Ltd.
He does not hold any membership / chairmanship in the  Committees of the aforesaid companies.
He holds Nil equity shares in ONGC.
The Board of Directors considers that in view of the  background and experience of Dr. Subhash C Khuntia, it  would be in the interest of the Company to appoint him as a  Director of the Company.
The Board recommends the  resolution for your approval.
Except Dr. Subhash C Khuntia, none of the Directors, Key  Managerial Personnel and their relatives is interested or  concerned in the resolution.
Item No.8 APPOINTMENT OF SHRI ASHOK VARMA  Shri Ashok Varma was appointed as an Additional Director  and designated as Director (Onshore) on the Board of th ONGC effective 19  June, 2014.In terms of Section 161 of  the Companies Act, 2013, he holds office upto the date of st  the 21 Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The  Company has received a notice in writing from Shri Ashok  Varma pursuant to the provisions of Section 160 of the  Companies Act, 2013, signifying intention to propose  himself as candidate for the office of Director.
Shri Ashok  Varma, if appointed, will be liable to retire by rotation under  Sections 152 of the Companies Act, 2013 and in terms of  provisions under the Articles of Association of the Company.
th Born on 27 July, 1955, Mr Ashok Varma is a graduate in  Petroleum Engineering from Indian School of Mines,  Dhanbad.
Prior to his joining as Director (Onshore), he was  heading the Eastern Offshore Asset at Kakinanda, where he  was instrumental in putting the Eastern Offshore Asset on  production.
Mr Varma joined ONGC in 1978 as Assistant  Engineer at Assam.
During his early years at ONGC, he was  actively engaged in design and engineering of offshore  platforms in western offshore.
Subsequently, he served in  Western Onshore at Ankleshwar where he extensively  worked on water injections leading to initiation of pressure  maintenance in Gandhar field.
Mr. Varma steered the  Imperial Energy in Russia, a subsidiary of the ONGC Videsh  Limited, as the Chief Executive Officer.
Mr. Varma pursued  the hydrocarbon opportunities abroad as a part of senior  management of ONGC Videsh Ltd between 1996 and 2006.
He was instrumental in acquiring 20% participating interest  in Sakhalin-1 project in Russia by ONGC Videsh in 2001.
He  also headed ONGC's Assam operations as Asset Manager  from 2008 to 2009.
Shri Ashok Varma does not hold any directorship.
He holds Nil equity shares in ONGC.
The Board of Directors considers that in view of the  background and experience of Shri Ashok Varma, it would  be in the interest of the Company to appoint him as a  Director of the Company.
The Board recommends the  resolution for your approval.
30 Except Shri Ashok Varma, none of the Directors, Key  Managerial Personnel and their relatives is interested or  concerned in the resolution.
Item No.9 APPOINTMENT OF SHRI DESH DEEPAK MISRA  Shri Desh Deepak Misra was appointed as an Additional  Director and designated as Director (HR) on the Board of st ONGC effective 1  August, 2014.In terms of Section 161 of  the Companies Act, 2013,he holds office upto the date of the st 21 Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Company  has received a notice in writing from Shri Desh Deepak  Misra pursuant to the provisions of Section 160 of the  Companies Act, 2013, signifying intention to propose  himself as candidate for the office of Director.
Shri Desh  Deepak Misra, if appointed, will be liable to retire by rotation  under Sections 152 of the Companies Act, 2013 and in terms  of provisions under the Articles of Association of the  Company.
st Born on 1  July, 1958, Shri Desh Deepak Misra holds a  Masters in Public Administration from the University of  Lucknow, He joined ONGC in January 1985 at Baroda.
His  result-driven and self-motivated approach at work was  noticed soon and led to his relocation to Dehradun as  Executive Assistant to the then Member (Personnel) of the  ONGC Board.
The rich exposure in this assignment was  buttressed with experience gained in leading HR teams in  various regions of ONGC – Assam, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra  and Uttarakhand.
He is the recipient of the 'Young Executive  of the Year' award and has been instrumental in ONGC  securing the 'Earth Care Award - 2008' for mitigating  Greenhouse Gas Emissions.
Known for his out-of-box  creativity and amicable nature, extra-curricular passions  run deep in Mr. Misra's DNA.
A suave gentleman, his prime  passion is wildlife photography.
His lens has captured a  number of endangered animal species, very closely; the  Komodo Dragons of Indonesia is one recent example.
His  profiling of the bio-diversity of Karjat hills of Maharashtra has  been published as a coffee table book 'Karjat Diaries'.
He  piloted a number of Community Development programmes  during his tenure at Uran Plant in Raigarh district of  Maharashtra and at Uttarakhand as General Manager –  Head Corporate Administration, to align the communities  with ONGC's business.
He has a rare distinction of being a  part of the 'Support Team' of the first Indian civilian  expedition to Kanchenjunga Peak in 1988.
He was the  Deputy Leader of the 'Trans-Desert Safari 1995' - a 14-day  joint venture between ONGC and BSF, which crossed Thar  Desert on camels along Indo-Pak border.
Mr. Misra strongly  believes in the power of engagement in aligning the  employees' interests with the vision of the organization.
As  Director (HR) of ONGC, his chief agenda would be to  professionally steer the 33,000 plus geoscientists,  engineers and managers manning the energy company,  under a formidable national mandate given to ONGC.
Shri Desh Deepak Misra does not hold any directorship.
Regd.
Office: Jeevan Bharti Building Tower II, 124 Indira Chowk,                                                                                                                                               New Delhi  - 110 001 th  8 August, 2014 (N K SINHA) Company Secretary He and his dependents hold 3100 equity shares of ` 5 each  in ONGC.
The Board of Directors considers that in view of the  background and experience of Shri Desh Deepak Misra, it  would be in the interest of the Company to appoint him as a  Director of the Company.
The Board recommends the  resolution for your approval.
Except Shri Desh Deepak Misra, none of the Directors, Key  Managerial Personnel and their relatives is interested or  concerned in the resolution.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and their  relatives is interested or concerned in the resolution.
The Board of Directors recommends the resolution for  your approval.
Item No.10 RATIFICATION OF REMUNERATION OF COST  AUDITORS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2014-15 The Board of Directors of the Company on the  recommendations of the Audit, Ethics & Financial  Management Committee have approved appointment of  the following Cost Auditors of ONGC for the year 2014-15 at  a remuneration of ` 3.25 Lakh (Rupees Three Lakh twenty  five thousand only) per Cost Auditor plus applicable service  tax and out-of-pocket expense, as per entitlement: 1.
M/s Rao Murthy & Associates, Bangalore 2.
M/s R. Nanabhoy & Co., Mumbai  3.
M/s R J Goel & Co., Delhi 4.
M/s Shome & Banerjee, Kolkata  5.
M/s Rohit & Associates, Mumbai  6.
M/s Dhananjay V. Joshi & Associates, Pune By Order of the Board of Directors For Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. 31 Annual Report 2013-14 Brief Resume and other Information in Respect of Director st Seeking Re-election at the 21  AGM Shri A K Banerjee th  13 April, 1955  and 59 years nd 22  May, 2012 Name Date of Birth & Age (as on  08/07/2014) Date of Appointment Qualifications No.
of Shares held Experience in Specific  Functional Areas Directorship  held in other Public companies Chairmanship/  Membership of  Committees  across all Public  companies 1.
Master's degree in  Commerce  from university  of calcutta.
2.
Fellow Member  of Institute of  Chartered   Accountants of  India 3.
Associate  Member of  Institute of  Company  Secretaries of  India.
4.
Associate  Member of  Institute of  Cost  Accountants of India.
3172 He has 32 years of  diversified experience to his  credit and rich knowledge in  financial Management and  Strategic Planning in  upstream Oil & Gas Industry  with specialization in  Corporate Accounts,  Corporate Budget, Cost  Management, Risk Analysis  & Financial Planning,  Procurement & Contracts,  Performance Benchmarking  & Evaluation, Audit,  Corporate Governance,  Insurance, etc.
1.
ONGC  Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited 2.
ONGC  Tripura Power Company Limited NIL NIL 33 Dear Shareholder,  With a view to reduce the carbon foot print, your company being a responsible Corporate Citizen had continuously  undertaking the Green initiatives could save around printing of more than 2.31 lac Annual Reports of 2012-13 consisting of  316 pages .During the year, your company has already taken the following steps in furtherance of its resolve to Go Green: (i) All public notices to Shareholders contain a request to the shareholders to register their email id with their respective  Depository Participant / M/s Karvy, RTA of the Company.
(ii) Individual emails are being sent to those shareholders, who have registered their E-mail ID providing them with a link  (URL) to the website of ONGC and Karvy for downloading of the Annual Report for 2013-14.
Those Members, who have not registered their e-mail ID may download the copy of Annual Report from Company's website  i.e.
www.ongcindia.com.
In case you have not yet registered your email id, we urge you to kindly furnish your e-mail id to M/s Karvy Computershare  Pvt Ltd (R&T Agent of ONGC) at their address indicated in Reference page or email at einward.ris@karvy.com.
Please  ensure that you have indicated your Folio No.
/ DP & client ID No as well as your consent to receive future communications  from ONGC including Annual Reports etc through email at your registered email address.
Please help us to save the environment.
(N. K. Sinha) Company Secretary  Green Initiative in Corporate Governance 32 Green belt development at Balol Main Insitu Combustion Plant Annual Report 2013-14  PHYSICAL  PHYSICAL   Quantity Sold (Other than Trading)  Quantity Sold (Other than Trading)   - Crude Oil (MMT)  23.61  23.69  23.09  22.94  - Crude Oil (MMT)  22.33  22.88  24.08  24.42  22.45  24.09   - Natural Gas (MMM3)  19,633  20,160  20,202  20,288  - Natural Gas (MMM3)  20,598  20,534  20,432  20,306  20,500  20,644   - LPG       (000'Tonnes)  1,073  1,005  1,033  1,057  - LPG       (000'Tonnes)  1,108  1,029  1,037  1,033  1,084  1,086   - Naptha/ARN    (000'Tonnes)  1,379  1,520  1,557  1,600  - Naptha/ARN      (000'Tonnes)  1,598  1,545  1,442  1,442  1,578  1,567   - Ethane/Propane  (000'Tonnes)  428  425  461  387  - Ethane/Propane  (000'Tonnes)  533  497  520  548  535  528   - Superior Kerosene Oil (000'Tonnes)  85  106  79  118  - Superior Kerosene Oil (000'Tonnes)  166  153  168  156  176  177   Quantity Sold (Trading)  Quantity Sold (Trading)   - Superior Kerosene Oil (000'KL) -  -    -    -    - Superior Kerosene Oil (000'KL)  -    441  308  563  432  970   - HSD (000'KL) -  -    -    3  - HSD (000'KL)  4  1,742  1,539  1,394  874  1,538   - Motor Spirit (000'KL)  1  1  1  1  - Motor Spirit (000'KL)  1  273  232  121  110  262   FINANCIAL  FINANCIAL   Revenue from Operations   842,028  833,090  768,871  686,488  Income from Operations (Turnover)  619,832  650,494  615,426  590,575  494,397  472,454   Other Non Operating Income  67,132  54,367  44,529  34,069  Statutory Levies  121,841  118,013  129,768  122,516  99,738  103,258   Total Revenues  909,160  887,457  813,400  720,557  Operating Expenses  126,297  123,812  106,823  102,016  76,762  71,397   Statutory Levies  229,607  223,615  169,902  142,368  Exchange Loss/(Gain)  (4,033)  3,819  (1,070)  177  (172)  2   Operating Expenses  167,583  173,925  139,812  142,379  Purchases (Trading)  139  85,166  65,115  59,401  34,338  51,013   Exploration Costs written off#  78,357  100,431  93,334  82,490  Profit Before Interest, Depreciation & Tax (PBIDT)  375,588  319,684  314,790  306,465  283,731  246,784   Purchases  32  31  25  138  Recouped Costs  146,588  120,849  97,979  94,994  84,573  62,016   Profit Before Interest, Depreciation &  Tax (PBIDT)  433,582  389,455  410,327  353,182  Operating Income (PBIT)  229,000  198,835  216,811  211,471  199,158  184,768   Depreciation, Depletion, Amortisation  and Impairment  109,259  83,736  74,959  76,767  Interest(Net)  (20,839)  (40,314)  (35,535)  (20,480)  (12,808)  (11,887)  Profit Before Interest & Tax (PBIT)  324,323  305,720  335,368  276,415  Profit before Tax and Extraordinary Items  249,839  239,149  252,346  231,951  211,966  196,655   Interest Payments  4  276  348  251  Extraordinary Items  -    658  -    4,751  6,405  -     Profit before Tax and Exceptional Items  324,319  305,443  335,020  276,164  Profit before Tax   249,839  239,807  252,346  236,702  218,371  196,655   Exceptional items   31,405  -    Corporate Tax  82,163  78,544  85,330  80,273  74,063  66,825   Profit before Tax   324,319  305,443  366,425  276,164  Net Profit (PAT)  167,676  161,263  167,016  156,429  144,308  129,830   Corporate Tax  103,371  96,186  115,196  86,924  Dividend  70,583  68,444  68,444  66,305  64,167  57,037   Net Profit (PAT)  220,948  209,257  251,229  189,240  Tax on Dividend  11,616  11,632  11,632  10,125  9,000  7,763   Dividend  81,277  81,277  83,416  74,861  Share Capital  21,389  21,389  21,389  21,389  14,259  14,259   Tax on Dividend  13,807  13,012  13,286  12,156  Net Worth   864,413  780,848  699,435  614,099  535,934  463,142   Share Capital  42,778  42,778  42,777  42,777  Borrowings  50  267  369  696  1,069  1,490   Reserve & Surplus  1,324,472  1,201,755  1,086,790  932,267  Working Capital  342,714  334,949  322,248  304,021  265,664  212,895   Net Worth (Equity)  1,356,311  1,229,674  1,117,841  967,084  Capital Employed  738,014  640,583  604,844  540,744  493,763  419,926   Borrowings  -    -    -    -    Internal Resources Generation  228,068  172,449  185,158  242,253  142,847  117,120   Working Capital  104,061  124,714  97,739  65,392  Plan Expenditure  235,591  218,201  176,510  133,050  114,210  106,813   Capital Employed  1,094,412  1,017,636  908,848  796,972  Contribution to Exchequer   280,983  280,496  300,200  286,596  234,086  228,117   Internal Resources Generation  327,545  217,402  352,088  311,191  Expenditure on Employees  57,191  47,396  60,484  48,833  30,147  27,465   Plan Expenditure  324,695  295,079  292,466  282,755  Number of Employees  32,826  33,035  32,996  33,810  34,722  36,185   Contribution to Exchequer   405,750  408,806  382,874  317,759   Expenditure on Employees  104,051  103,302  67,960  67,282  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE RATIOS   Number of Employees  33,988  32,923  32,909  33,273  PBIDT to Turnover (%)  60.6  49.1  51.2  51.9  57.4  52.2   PBDT to Turnover (%)  64.0  55.3  56.9  55.4  60.0  54.8   FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE RATIOS  Profit Margin(%)  27.1  24.8  27.1  26.5  29.2  27.5   PBIDT to Turnover (%)  51.5  46.7  53.4  51.4  Contribution to Exchequer to Turnover (%)  45.3  43.1  48.8  48.5  47.3  48.3   PBDT to Turnover (%)  51.5  46.7  53.3  51.4  ROCE(PBIDT to Capital Employed) (%)  50.9  49.9  52.0  56.7  57.5  58.8   Profit Margin(%)- incl.
exceptional item  26.2  25.1  32.7  27.6  Net Profit to Equity (%)   19.4  20.7  23.9  25.5  26.9  28.0   Contribution to Exchequer to Turnover (%)  48.2  49.1  49.8  46.3   ROCE(PBIDT to Capital Employed) (%)  39.6  38.3  45.1  44.3   Net Profit to Equity (%)- incl.
exceptional item  16.3  17.0  22.5  19.6  BALANCE SHEET RATIOS    Current Ratio  2.38:1  2.26:1  2.47:1  2.77:1  3.08:1  2.62:1   BALANCE SHEET RATIOS  Debt Equity Ratio  0.00006:1  0.0003:1  0.001:1  0.001:1  0.002:1  0.003:1   Current Ratio  1.55:1  1.72:1  1.41:1  1.34:1  Debtors Turnover Ratio(Days)  19  23  26  17  27  29   Debt Equity Ratio  -    -    -    -     Debtors Turnover Ratio(Days)  33  30  30  21  PER SHARE DATA   Earning Per Share (`)- before extraordinary items(Restated)**  19.60  18.80  19.52  17.92  16.37  15.18   PER SHARE DATA  Earning Per Share (`)- after extraordinary items(Restated)**  19.60  18.85  19.52  18.29  16.87  15.18   Earning Per Share (`)  25.83  24.46  29.36  22.12  Dividend (%)  330  320  320  310*  450  400   Dividend (%)  190  190  195  175  Book Value Per Share(`)(Restated)**  101  91  82  72  63  54   Book Value Per Share(`)  159  144  131  113  Performance at a Glance  (` in million unless otherwise stated) 2013-14 2012-13 2011-12 2010-11 34 In  view of the Notification no.
S.O 447(E) dated 28.02.2011, issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the Balance sheet of the Company is mandatorily required to be prepared in Revised Schedule VI   w.e.f 1st April 2011 onwards.
Accordingly, the figures of FY 2013-14, 2012-13, 2011-12 and FY 2010-11 are given as per the requirement of Revised Schedule VI and earlier years figures are as per Old Schedule VI.
# Exploration Costs written off towards Survey & Dry Wells have been regrouped from Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization and shown as a separate item  2009-10  2008-09  2007-08  2006-07  2005-06  2004-05  35 ** Post Bonus & Split Annual Report 2013-14 REVENUES REVENUES Sales Sales  Crude Oil(Including Condensate)  525,734  533,269  507,873  448,645 Crude Oil  445,053  391,718  386,805  372,090  317,357  311,824    Natural Gas (incl.
Gas Marketing Margin)  183,291  165,400  141,397  127,544 Natural Gas  73,797  75,528  71,780  72,113  66,701  53,206   Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG)- Domestic Market  30,145  31,484  23,711  18,369 LPG  21,924  22,752  20,168  14,866  16,293  12,066   Eathane/Propane (C2-C3)  14,837  13,440  12,741  8,796 Naphtha/Aromatic Rich Naphtha  47,137  48,406  43,849  37,907  35,679  29,260    Naphtha  75,743  76,804  72,167  56,342 Ethane/Propane  10,249  9,890  9,291  9,095  7,401  5,705   Kerosene (SKO)  2,779  3,686  1,520  679 Superior Kerosene Oil  3,256  16,701  10,775  15,754  10,605  16,896   HSD  522  170  100  -   HSD  156  61,910  48,621  42,037  23,403  29,277   LSHS (Low sulpher heavy stock)/RCO  (Residual Crude oil)  1,295  1,063  1,250  473 Motor Spirit  27  11,062  9,159  4,530  3,797  6,846  Aviation Turbine Fuel  220  318  436  527 Others  463  1,526  925  634  617  1,434   Others  87  38  62  3 Price Revision Arrears  -    -    -    11  156  584  Sub-Total 834,653 825,671 761,257 661,378 Sub-Total 602,062 639,493 601,373 569,037 482,009 467,098  Sale of Traded Products 44 43 34 171 Pipeline Revenue  1,078  2,329  1,522  82  15  23  Other Operating Income  7,331  7,375  7,580  24,939 Other Receipts  15,512  7,861  11,390  21,653  10,257  5,034  Accretion / (Decretion)  in stock  1,180  811  1,141  (197)  2,116  299  Total Income from Operations  619,832  650,494  615,426  590,575  494,397  472,454  Revenue from Operations 842,028 833,090 768,871 686,488 COST & EXPENSES Operating, Selling & General Other Non Operating Income  67,132  54,367  44,529 34069 (a) Royalty  54,832  44,934  60,707  53,428  46,181  37,911  Total Revenues  909,160  887,457  813,400  720,557 (b) Cess/ Excise Duty  56,752  59,174  61,106  62,024  44,302  46,498   EXPENSES (c) Natural Calamity Contingent Duty  1,062  1,081  1,127  1,149  1,081  1,138  Royalty  114,890  108,094  97,745  71,373 (d) Sales Tax  2,990  6,910  772  1,380  5,727  14,580    Cess  99,734  99,971  57,831  56,963 (e) Education Cess *  1,719  1,784  1,861  1,303  Motor Spirit Cess  3  -   - - Natural Calamity Contingent Duty  1,097  1,101  1,097  1,114 (f) Octroi & Port Trust Charges  4,486  4,130  4,195  3,232  2,447  3,131  Excise Duty  3,076  3,093  3,599  3,228 Sub-Total (a to f)  121,841  118,013  129,768  122,516  99,738  103,258  Sales Tax  3,123 3,834 3,339 3,113 Pipeline Operations (Excluding Depreciation)  7,975  6,963  7,318  6,460  5,907  8,982  Service Tax 439  353  236  227 Other Operational Costs  118,322  116,849  99,505  95,556  70,855  62,415  Education cess  2,348  3,111  1,871  1,828 Exchange Loss  (4,033)  3,819  (1,070)  177  (172)  2  Octroi and Port Trust Charges  4,897  4,057  4,184  4,522 Purchases  139  85,166  65,115  59,401  34,338  51,013  Sub-Total  229,607  223,615  169,902  142,368 Recouped Costs Operating Expensess  165,833  153,839  134,110 136058 (a) Depletion  45,302  42,148  36,776  33,849  29,702  24,851  Exchange Loss  1,021  922  3,613  -   (b) Depreciation  12,312  14,491  14,060  16,249  23,759  5,437  Purchases  32  31  25  138 (c) Amortisation  89,407  67,320  47,580  43,167  31,437  31,588  (Accretion) / Decretion  in stock  1,043  (230)  (913)  (129) (d) Impairment  (433)  (3,110)  (437)  1,729  (325)  140  Exploration Costs written off# Sub-Total (a to d)  146,588  120,849  97,979  94,994  84,573  62,016    -Survey Costs  15,912  15,668  12,409  16,675 Total Cost & Expenses  390,832  451,659  398,615  379,104  295,239  287,686    -Exploratory well Costs  62,445  84,763  80,925  65,815 Operating Income Before Interest &Tax  229,000  198,835  216,811  211,471  199,158  184,768  Depreciation, Depletion, Amortisation and Impairment  109,259 83,736 74,959 76,767 Interest Provisions and Write-offs  2,189 18,863 3,097 6,114 -Payments  686  1,190  590  215  470  377   Prior Period Expenses (Net)  (2,502)  531  (95)  336 -Receipts  21,525  41,504  36,125  20,695  13,278  12,264   Total  Expenses  584,837  581,737  478,032  444,142 -Net  (20,839)  (40,314)  (35,535)  (20,480)  (12,808)  (11,887) Operating Income Before Interest & Tax 324,323 305,720 335,368 276,415 Profit before Tax and Extraordinary Items  249,839  239,149  252,346  231,951  211,966  196,655  Interest Payments 4  276  348  251 Extraordinary Items  -    658  -    4,751  6,405  -    Profit before Tax and Exceptional Items  324,319  305,443  335,020  276,164 Profit before Tax  249,839  239,807  252,346  236,702  218,371  196,655  Exceptional items  -    -    31,405  -   Corporate Tax ( Net)  82,163  78,544  85,330  80,273  74,063  66,825   Profit before Tax  324,319  305,443  366,425  276,164 Net Profit  167,676  161,263  167,016  156,429  144,308  129,830  Corporate Tax (Net)  103,371  96,186  115,196  86,924 Dividend  70,583  68,444  68,444  66,305  64,167  57,037  Profit after Tax  220,948 209257 251229 189240 Tax on Dividend  11,616  11,632  11,632  10,125  9,000  7,763  Dividend  81,277  81,277  83,416  74,861 Retained Earnings For The Year  85,477  81,187  86,940  79,999  71,141  65,030  Tax on Dividend  13,807  13,012  13,286  12,156  Retained Earnings For The Year  125,864  114,968  154,527  102,223  *  Upto 2005-06, education cess is included in respective heads of levies.
# Exploration Costs written off towards Survey & Dry Wells have been regrouped from Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization  and shown as a separate item.
In  view of the Notification no.
S.O 447(E) dated 28.02.2011, issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the Balance sheet of the Company is mandatorily required to be prepared in Revised Schedule VI   w.e.f 1st April 2011 onwards.
Accordingly, the figures of FY 2013-14, 2012-13, 2011-12 and FY 2010-11 are given as per the requirement of Revised Schedule VI and earlier years figures are as per Old Schedule VI.
36 2013-14 2012-13 2011-12 2010-11 Statement of Income and Retained Earnings (` in million unless otherwise stated) REVENUES REVENUES Sales Sales  Crude Oil(Including Condensate)  525,734  533,269  507,873  448,645 Crude Oil  445,053  391,718  386,805  372,090  317,357  311,824    Natural Gas (incl.
Gas Marketing Margin)  183,291  165,400  141,397  127,544 Natural Gas  73,797  75,528  71,780  72,113  66,701  53,206   Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG)- Domestic Market  30,145  31,484  23,711  18,369 LPG  21,924  22,752  20,168  14,866  16,293  12,066   Eathane/Propane (C2-C3)  14,837  13,440  12,741  8,796 Naphtha/Aromatic Rich Naphtha  47,137  48,406  43,849  37,907  35,679  29,260    Naphtha  75,743  76,804  72,167  56,342 Ethane/Propane  10,249  9,890  9,291  9,095  7,401  5,705   Kerosene (SKO)  2,779  3,686  1,520  679 Superior Kerosene Oil  3,256  16,701  10,775  15,754  10,605  16,896   HSD  522  170  100  -   HSD  156  61,910  48,621  42,037  23,403  29,277   LSHS (Low sulpher heavy stock)/RCO  (Residual Crude oil)  1,295  1,063  1,250  473 Motor Spirit  27  11,062  9,159  4,530  3,797  6,846  Aviation Turbine Fuel  220  318  436  527 Others  463  1,526  925  634  617  1,434   Others  87  38  62  3 Price Revision Arrears  -    -    -    11  156  584  Sub-Total 834,653 825,671 761,257 661,378 Sub-Total 602,062 639,493 601,373 569,037 482,009 467,098  Sale of Traded Products 44 43 34 171 Pipeline Revenue  1,078  2,329  1,522  82  15  23  Other Operating Income  7,331  7,375  7,580  24,939 Other Receipts  15,512  7,861  11,390  21,653  10,257  5,034  Accretion / (Decretion)  in stock  1,180  811  1,141  (197)  2,116  299  Total Income from Operations  619,832  650,494  615,426  590,575  494,397  472,454  Revenue from Operations 842,028 833,090 768,871 686,488 COST & EXPENSES Operating, Selling & General Other Non Operating Income  67,132  54,367  44,529 34069 (a) Royalty  54,832  44,934  60,707  53,428  46,181  37,911  Total Revenues  909,160  887,457  813,400  720,557 (b) Cess/ Excise Duty  56,752  59,174  61,106  62,024  44,302  46,498   EXPENSES (c) Natural Calamity Contingent Duty  1,062  1,081  1,127  1,149  1,081  1,138  Royalty  114,890  108,094  97,745  71,373 (d) Sales Tax  2,990  6,910  772  1,380  5,727  14,580    Cess  99,734  99,971  57,831  56,963 (e) Education Cess *  1,719  1,784  1,861  1,303  Motor Spirit Cess  3  -   - - Natural Calamity Contingent Duty  1,097  1,101  1,097  1,114 (f) Octroi & Port Trust Charges  4,486  4,130  4,195  3,232  2,447  3,131  Excise Duty  3,076  3,093  3,599  3,228 Sub-Total (a to f)  121,841  118,013  129,768  122,516  99,738  103,258  Sales Tax  3,123 3,834 3,339 3,113 Pipeline Operations (Excluding Depreciation)  7,975  6,963  7,318  6,460  5,907  8,982  Service Tax 439  353  236  227 Other Operational Costs  118,322  116,849  99,505  95,556  70,855  62,415  Education cess  2,348  3,111  1,871  1,828 Exchange Loss  (4,033)  3,819  (1,070)  177  (172)  2  Octroi and Port Trust Charges  4,897  4,057  4,184  4,522 Purchases  139  85,166  65,115  59,401  34,338  51,013  Sub-Total  229,607  223,615  169,902  142,368 Recouped Costs Operating Expensess  165,833  153,839  134,110 136058 (a) Depletion  45,302  42,148  36,776  33,849  29,702  24,851  Exchange Loss  1,021  922  3,613  -   (b) Depreciation  12,312  14,491  14,060  16,249  23,759  5,437  Purchases  32  31  25  138 (c) Amortisation  89,407  67,320  47,580  43,167  31,437  31,588  (Accretion) / Decretion  in stock  1,043  (230)  (913)  (129) (d) Impairment  (433)  (3,110)  (437)  1,729  (325)  140  Exploration Costs written off# Sub-Total (a to d)  146,588  120,849  97,979  94,994  84,573  62,016    -Survey Costs  15,912  15,668  12,409  16,675 Total Cost & Expenses  390,832  451,659  398,615  379,104  295,239  287,686    -Exploratory well Costs  62,445  84,763  80,925  65,815 Operating Income Before Interest &Tax  229,000  198,835  216,811  211,471  199,158  184,768  Depreciation, Depletion, Amortisation and Impairment  109,259 83,736 74,959 76,767 Interest Provisions and Write-offs  2,189 18,863 3,097 6,114 -Payments  686  1,190  590  215  470  377   Prior Period Expenses (Net)  (2,502)  531  (95)  336 -Receipts  21,525  41,504  36,125  20,695  13,278  12,264   Total  Expenses  584,837  581,737  478,032  444,142 -Net  (20,839)  (40,314)  (35,535)  (20,480)  (12,808)  (11,887) Operating Income Before Interest & Tax 324,323 305,720 335,368 276,415 Profit before Tax and Extraordinary Items  249,839  239,149  252,346  231,951  211,966  196,655  Interest Payments 4  276  348  251 Extraordinary Items  -    658  -    4,751  6,405  -    Profit before Tax and Exceptional Items  324,319  305,443  335,020  276,164 Profit before Tax  249,839  239,807  252,346  236,702  218,371  196,655  Exceptional items  -    -    31,405  -   Corporate Tax ( Net)  82,163  78,544  85,330  80,273  74,063  66,825   Profit before Tax  324,319  305,443  366,425  276,164 Net Profit  167,676  161,263  167,016  156,429  144,308  129,830  Corporate Tax (Net)  103,371  96,186  115,196  86,924 Dividend  70,583  68,444  68,444  66,305  64,167  57,037  Profit after Tax  220,948 209257 251229 189240 Tax on Dividend  11,616  11,632  11,632  10,125  9,000  7,763  Dividend  81,277  81,277  83,416  74,861 Retained Earnings For The Year  85,477  81,187  86,940  79,999  71,141  65,030  Tax on Dividend  13,807  13,012  13,286  12,156  Retained Earnings For The Year  125,864  114,968  154,527  102,223  *  Upto 2005-06, education cess is included in respective heads of levies.
# Exploration Costs written off towards Survey & Dry Wells have been regrouped from Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization  and shown as a separate item.
In  view of the Notification no.
S.O 447(E) dated 28.02.2011, issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the Balance sheet of the Company is mandatorily required to be prepared in Revised Schedule VI   w.e.f 1st April 2011 onwards.
Accordingly, the figures of FY 2013-14, 2012-13, 2011-12 and FY 2010-11 are given as per the requirement of Revised Schedule VI and earlier years figures are as per Old Schedule VI.
2009-10  2008-09  2007-08  2006-07  2005-06  2004-05  37 Annual Report 2013-14 RESOURCES RESOURCES A.
Own A.
Own 1.
Net Worth 1.
Net Worth      (a) Equity     (a) Equity       i) Share Capital  42,778  42,778  42,777  42,777       i) Share Capital  21,389  21,389  21,389  21,389  14,259  14,259        ii) Reserves & Surplus  1,324,472  1,201,755  1,086,790  932,267      ii) Reserves & Surplus  851,437  765,965  684,785  597,851  525,338  454,195  Sub-Total (a)  1,367,250  1,244,532  1,129,567  975,044 Sub-Total  872,826  787,354  706,174  619,240  539,597  468,454       (b) Less Deferred Revenue Expenditure  10,939  14,859  11,726  7,960 (b) Less : Deferred Revenue Expenditure  8,413  6,506  6,739  5,141  3,663  5,312  Net Worth (a)-(b)  1,356,311  1,229,674  1,117,841  967,084 Net Worth  864,413  780,848  699,435  614,099  535,934  463,142       2.
Long Term Liabilities B.
Deferred Tax Liability  165,787  128,880  111,979  99,504 Deferred Tax Liability  89,182  78,023  73,708  65,227  63,551  54,438        Total Own Funds ( 1 + 2 )  953,595  858,871  773,143  679,326  599,485  517,580   TOTAL RESOURCES ( A+ B )  1,522,098  1,358,553  1,229,820  1,066,588 B.
Outside      Unsecured Loans DISPOSITION OF RESOURCES a) Indian Loans  -    -    -    202  404  607   A. Non-current assets b) Foreign Loans  50  267  369  494  665  883     1) Block Capital Total Outside Resources  50  267  369  696  1,069  1,490  a).
Fixed Assets (Net)  302,792  274,835  216,801  186,395 TOTAL RESOURCES ( A+ B )  953,645  859,138  773,512  680,022  600,554  519,070  b).
Producing Properties (Net)  657,833  524,407  463,768  435,757 DISPOSITION OF RESOURCES  Total Block Capital  960,625  799,242  680,569  622,152 A.
Block Capital    2) Long-term loans and advances  181,718  221,454  254,482  239,392 1.
Fixed Assets  156,485  104,144  105,180  88,391  78,422  58,365     3) Deposit under Site Restoration 113,102  101,331  91,826  81,155 2.
Producing Properties (Net)  402,822  361,580  301,874  295,685  275,833  229,607      4) Other non-current assets (excl.
DRE)  3,956  4,011  2,983  2,941 less: Liability for Abandonment Cost  164,007  160,090  124,458  147,353  126,156  80,941  Subtotal (A)  1,259,401  1,126,037  1,029,860  945,640 Total Block Capital  395,300  305,634  282,596  236,723  228,099  207,031   B. Non-current Liabilities B.
Working Capital    1)  Long-term provisions: a) Current Assets       a) Provision for Abandonment  228,022  177,052  176,477  175,608 I) Inventories  46,786  40,607  34,806  30,338  30,385  25,692         b) Other Long Term provisions  29,178  44,823  36,654  32,627 ii) Debtors (Net of Provision)  30,586  40,838  43,604  27,594  37,043  37,293      2) Other Non-current liabilities  11,850  11,242  5,620  5,825 iii) Cash & Bank Balances  108,279  121,405  160,143  136,704  42,792  58,488  Sub-Total (B) 269,050  233,116  218,751  214,060 iv) Deposit with Bank Under Site Restoration Fund Scheme #   74,031  69,557  64,033  56,103  45,336  36,181     v) Loans & Advances and Others  278,031  273,593  195,745  193,214  216,059  164,004  C. Net Non Current Assets (A)-(B)  990,351  892,921  811,109  731,580 Sub-Total  537,713  546,000  498,331  443,953  371,615  321,658       Less: D. Working Capital (b)   Current Liabilities and  Provisions and Short Term Loans a) Current Assets   (excl.
Abandonment & Impairment)  194,999  211,051  176,083  139,932  105,951  108,763  i) Inventories  58,825  57,044  51,654  41,190 Working Capital  342,714  334,949  322,248  304,021  265,664  212,895  ii) Trade receivables  81,657  68,637  61,948  39,947 C. CAPITAL EMPLOYED  738,014  640,583  604,844  540,744  493,763  419,926  iii) Cash and Cash Equivalents  107,989  132,186  201,246  144,811 D. INVESTMENTS  57,720  50,903  58,995  57,021  48,885  40,367    iv) Short-term loans and advances  43,670  37,021  31,237  26,734 E. CAPITAL WORKS IN PROGRESS  102,414  116,965  70,745  48,251  28,303  41,419  v) Other current assets (excl.
DRE)  2,718  4,565  8,633  4,276 F.  EXPLORATORY/DEVELOPMENT     WELLS IN PROGRESS  55,497  50,687  38,928  34,006  29,603  17,358  Sub-Total (a)  294,859  299,453  354,718  256,958 TOTAL DISPOSITION (C+D+E+F)  953,645  859,138  773,512  680,022  600,554  519,070  b) Current liabilities i) Short-term borrowings  -    -    45,000  -    ii) Trade payables  63,725  53,410  52,612  52,253  iii) Other current liabilities  119,262  112,227  136,941  130,055  iv) Short-term provisions  7,811  9,102  22,426  9,258  Sub-Total (b)  190,798  174,739  256,979  191,566  Working Capital (D )= (a)-(b)  104,061  124,714  97,739  65,392  E. CAPITAL EMPLOYED (C+D)  1,094,412  1,017,636  908,848  796,972  F. Investments  i) Current investments  -    -    8,519  1   ii)  Non-current investments  172,043  91,731  43,644  51,827  G. Capital work-in-progress (incl, capital advances)  116,516  144,429  182,997  140,316  H. Exploratory/Development Wells in Progress  139,128  104,759  85,812  77,472  TOTAL DISPOSITION (E+F+G+H)  1,522,098  1,358,553  1,229,820  1,066,588  (excl, capital advances) Fund Scheme #  Excluded for Current Ratio.
Statement of Financial Position (` in million unless otherwise stated) As atst March 31 , 2013  As atst March 31 , 2012 As atst March 31 , 2011  As atst March 31 , 2014  In  view of the Notification no.
S.O 447(E) dated 28.02.2011, issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the Balance sheet of the Company is mandatorily required to be prepared in Revised Schedule VI   w.e.f 1st April 2011 onwards.
Accordingly, the figures of FY 2013-14, 2012-13, 2011-12 and FY 2010-11 are given as per the requirement of Revised Schedule VI and earlier years figures are as per Old Schedule VI.
38 As atst March 31 , 2010 As atst March 31 , 2007 As atst March 31 , 2009 As atst March 31 , 2006 As atst March 31 , 2008 As atst March 31 , 2005 39 Annual Report 2013-14 DETAILS OF DEPRECIATION ALLOCATED TO: Survey 448 567  756  1,052  1,181  1,555  1,029  863  722 575 Exploratory Drilling 2,506 1,335  4,844  5,415  4,842  3,005  2,151  1,672  1,885 1,503 Development 66,628 62,584  52,782  41,734  34,098  24,426  21,924  14,251  13,605 10,623   Profit & Loss Account 20,518 14,620  13,395  19,993  12,201  14,434  13,984  16,094  22,226 5,435 Others 162 114  16  156  105  136  70  48  89 106 Total 90,262 79,220 71,793 68,350 52,427 43,556 39,158 32,928 38,527 18,242 CONTRIBUTION TO EXCHEQUER CENTRAL 1.
Excise Duty 3,076  3,093  3,599  3,228  2,214  3,386  2,887  2,768  2,707  3,445 2.
OID Cess 99,740  99,993  57,852  57,005  54,545  55,799  58,216  59,260  41,595  43,056   3.
Natural Calamity Contingent Duty 1,097  1,101  1,098  1,115  1,062  1,082  1,127  1,149  1,081  1,138 4.
Royalty 41,965  39,407  36,144  36,519  32,190  31,394  30,631  27,920  23,056  21,811 5.
Education Cess * 2,349  3,112  1,872  1,830  1,719  1,784  1,863  1,303  6.
Corporate Tax       a) On ONGC's Account 67,646  79,285  102,722  76,628  71,203  79,770  80,720  78,403  64,025  69,817  b) For Foreign Contractors 36  11  73  27  7  277  32  34  3  23  7. Dividend 56,153  56,268  60,372  55,502  52,330  50,744  50,744  49,159  47,573  42,287  8.
Tax on Dividend 13,807  13,012  13,286  12,156  11,616  11,632  11,632  10,125  8,999  7,763  9.
Customs Duties 87  75  96  44  125  354  815  1,441  888  2,423  10.
Mumbai Port Trust Charges 884  923  855  891  793  657  742  691  710  2,999  Sub Total 286,840 296,280 277,969 244,945 227,803 236,879 239,409 232,253 190,637 194,762  STATE 1.
Sales Tax/VAT 41,344  40,144  39,393  33,711  26,355  26,258  26,899  25,998  18,263  14,581 2.
Royalty 72,971  68,699  61,648  34,890  22,649  13,551  30,078  25,513  23,126  16,103  3.
Octroi Duties etc.
4,592  3,683  3,863  4,213  4,176  3,808  3,814  2,832  2,060  2,671  4.
Motor Sprit -CESS 3 - - - - Sub Total 118,910 112,526 104,904 72,814 53,180 43,617 60,791 54,343 43,449 33,355  Grand Total 405,750 408,806 382,873 317,759 280,983 280,496 300,200 286,596 234,086 228,117  2013-14 2012-13 2011-12 2010-11 2009-10 Depreciation and Contribution to Exchequer * For the FY 2004-05 & 2005-06, education cess is included in respective heads of levies.
(` in million unless otherwise stated) 40 2008-09 2007-08 2006-07 2005-06 2004-05 41 Annual Report 2013-14 Glossary of Energy & Financial Terms A.
Energy Terms Appraisal Well: A well drilled as part of an appraisal drilling  programme, which is carried out to determine the physical  extent of oil and gas reserves & characteristics thereof and  the quantity of recoverable Petroleum therein.
Condensates: Liquid hydrocarbons produced with natural  gas, separated by cooling and other means.
Development: Following discovery, drilling and related  activities necessary to begin production of oil or natural  gas.
Development Well: A well drilled within the proved area of  an Oil and Gas reservoir to the depth of a horizon known to  be productive.
Enhanced Recovery: Techniques used to increase or  prolong production from oil and natural gas fields.
Exploration: Searching for oil and/or natural gas, including  topographical surveys, geologic studies, geophysical  surveys, seismic surveys and drilling wells.
Exploratory Well: A well that is not a development well, a  service well, or a stratigraphic test well i.e.
well drilled not in  a proved area for the purpose of obtaining information  pertaining to a specific geologic condition.
Heavy Cut: These are heavier hydrocarbons obtained in  fractionation unit of Kerosene Recovery Process, where  NGL is processed to yield Aromatic Rich Naphtha and  Superior Kerosene Oil.
Integrated Petroleum Company: A company engaged in  all aspects of the industry from exploration and production  of crude oil and natural gas (upstream) to refining,  marketing and transportation products (downstream).
Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG): Gas that is liquefied under  extremely cold temperatures and high pressure to facilitate  storage or transportation in specially designed vessels.
Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG): Light gases, such as  butane and propane that can be maintained as liquids while  under pressure.
Mining Lease: The license issued for offshore and onshore  properties for conducting development and production  activity.
Natural Gas Liquids (NGL): Separated from natural gas,  these include ethane, propane, butane and natural  gasoline.
Oil Equivalent Gas (OEG): The volume of natural gas that  can be burnt to give the same amount of heat as a barrel of  oil (6,000 cubic feet of gas equals one barrel of oil).
Petroleum Exploration License: The license issued for  of fshore and onshore proper ties for conducting  exploration activity.
Producing Property: These may be defined as the value  assigned to crude oil or gas reserves which can be  produced from existing facilities.
Reserves: Oil and Natural Gas contained in underground  rock formations called reservoirs.
Proved reserves are the  estimated quantities that geologic and engineering data  demonstrate can be produced with reasonable certainty  from known reservoirs under existing economic and  operating conditions.
Reserve estimates change as  additional information becomes available.
Recoverable  reserves are those that can be produced using all known  primary and enhanced recovery methods.
Unit Of Production Method: The method of depreciation  (depletion) under which depreciation (depletion) is  calculated on the basis of the number of production or  similar units expected to be obtained from the asset by the  enterprise.
Work-Over: Remedial work to the equipment within a well,  the well pipe work or relating to attempts to increase the rate  of flow.
B.
Financial Terms Accounting Policies: The specific accounting principles  and the methods of applying those principles adopted by an  enterprise in the preparation and presentation of financial  statements.
Accrual Basis of Accounting: The method of recording  transactions by which revenues, expenses, assets and  liabilities are reflected in the accounts in the period in which  they accrue.
The 'accrual basis of accounting' includes  considerations relating to deferrals, allocations,  depreciation and amortization.
This basis is also referred to  as mercantile basis of accounting.
Acquisition Costs: These cover all costs incurred to  purchase, lease or otherwise acquire a property or mineral  right proved or unproved.
These include lease/ signature  bonus, brokers' fees, legal costs, cost of temporary  occupation of the land including crop compensation paid to  farmers, consideration for farm-in arrangements and all other  costs incurred in acquiring these rights.
Acquisition Costs are  recognized in the accounts note no.2.e.2 on Significant  Accounting Policies under Notes to Financial Statements.
Abandonment Cost: Abandonment costs are the costs  incurred on discontinuation of all operations and  surrendering the property back to the owner.
These costs  relate to plugging and abandoning of wells, dismantling of  wellheads, production and transport facilities and   restoration of producing areas.
Abandonment Cost is  recognized in the accounts note no.2.k on Significant  Accounting Policies under Notes to Financial Statements.
42 Absorption Costing: A method whereby the cost is  determined so as to include the appropriate share of both  variable and fixed costs.
Balance Sheet: A statement of the financial position of an  enterprise as at a given date, which exhibits its assets,  liabilities, capital, reserves and other account balances at  their respective book values.
Book Value: The amount at which an item appears in the  books of account or financial statements.
It does not refer to  any particular basis on which the amount is determined e.g.
cost, replacement value etc.
Capital Commitment: Future liabilit y for capital  expenditure in respect of which contracts have been made.
Capital Employed: The finances deployed by an enterprise  in its net fixed assets, investments and working capital.
Capital employed in an operation may, however, exclude  investments made outside that operation.
Capital Reserve: A reserve of a corporate enterprise which  is not available for distribution as dividend.
Contingent Asset: An asset the existence, ownership or  value of which may be known or determined only on the  occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain  future events.
Contingent Liability: An obligation relating to an existing  condition or situation which may arise in future depending  on the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more  uncertain future events.
Current Asset: An asset shall be classified as current when  it satisfies any of the following criteria:  (a) it is expected to be realized in, or is intended for sale or consumption in, the company's normal operating cycle;  (b) it is held primarily for the purpose of being traded, (c) it is expected to be realized within twelve months after the reporting date, or  (d) it is cash or cash equivalent unless it is restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least twelve months after the reporting date.
Current Liability: A liability shall be classified as current  when it satisfies any of the following criteria:  (a) it is expected to be settled in the company's normal operating cycle;  (b) it is held primarily for the purpose of being traded, (c) it is due to be settled within twelve months after the reporting date, or (d) the company does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the reporting date.
Cess: It is a levy imposed under The Oil Industry  (Development) Act, 1974 on Crude oil acknowledged &  received in the refinery and payable to the Central  Government.
Development Costs: Costs incurred in preparing proved  reserves for production i.e.
costs incurred to obtain access  to prove reserves and to provide facilities for extracting,  treating, gathering and storing oil and gas.
Diminishing Balance Method: It is a method under which  the periodic charge for depreciation of an asset is computed  by applying a fixed percentage to its historical cost or  substituted amount less accumulated depreciation (net  book value).
This is also referred to as written down value  method.
Dividend: A distribution to shareholders out of profits or  reserves available for this purpose.
Earnings Per Share: The earnings in monetary terms  attributable to each equity share, based on net profit for the  period, before taking into account prior period items,  extraordinary items and adjustments resulting from  changes in accounting policies but after deducting tax  appropriate thereto and preference dividends, divided by  the number of equity shares issued and ranking for  dividends in respect of that period.
Expenditure: Incurring a liability, disbursement of cash or  transfer of property for the purpose of obtaining assets,  goods and services.
Expense: A cost relating to the operations of an accounting  period or to the revenue earned during the period or the  benefits of which do not extend beyond that period.
Extraordinary Item: Gain or loss which arises from events  or transactions that are distinct from ordinary activities of  the enterprise and which are both material and expected not  to recur frequently or regularly.
This would also include  material adjustments necessitated by circumstances,  which, though related to previous periods, are determined  in the current period.
Exploration Costs: Costs incurred in exploring property.
Exploration involves identifying areas that may warrant  examination and examining specific areas, including drilling  exploratory wells.
Exploration Costs written off: It refers to the Survey  expenditure and Dry wells expensed in the accounts in line  with note no.2.e.3 and 2.e.4.1 on Significant Accounting  Policies under Notes to Financial Statements.
First In, First Out (FIFO): Computation of the cost of items  sold or consumed during a period as though they were sold  or consumed in order of their acquisition.
Fixed Assets: Assets held for the purpose of providing or  producing goods or services and that is not held for resale  in the normal course of business 43 Annual Report 2013-14 d) Amortization: It refers to the amount amortized in  respect of Intangible Assets in line with note no.2.p.6 on  Significant Accounting Policies under Notes to  Financial Statements.
Statement of Profit and Loss: A financial statement  which presents the revenues and expenses of an  enterprise for an accounting period and shown the  excess of revenues over expenses (or vice versa).
It is  also known as Statement of Profit and Loss.
Straight Line Method: The method under which the  periodic charge for depreciation is computed by  dividing the depreciable amount of a depreciable asset  by the estimated number of years of its useful life.
Trade Receivable: A Receivable is classified as "Trade  Receivable" if it is in respect of amount due for goods  sold or services rendered in the normal course of  business.
Trade Payable: A payable is classified as "trade  payable" if it is in respect of amount due on account of  goods purchased or services received in normal  course of business.
Useful life: Life which is either (i) the period over which  a depreciable asset is expected to be used by the  enterprise; or (ii) the number of production or similar  units expected to be obtained from the use of the asset  by the enterprise.
Wasting Asset: Natural resource which is subject to  depletion through the process of extraction or use e.g.
mines, quarries.
Working Capital: The funds available for conducting  day-to-day operations of an enterprise.
Also it is  represented by the excess of current assets over  current liabilities including short-term loans.
Work in Process: Work in Process includes all  materials which have undergone manufacturing or  processing operations, but upon which further  operations are necessary before the product is ready  for sale.
45 Multi Support Vessel - L.J.
Johnson: the essence of essential supplies for our offshore operations.
Fixed Cost: The cost of production which, by its very  nature, remains relatively unaffected in a defined period of  time by variations in the volume of production.
Fundamental Accounting Assumptions: Basic  accounting assumption which underline the preparation  and presentation of financial statements.
They are going  concern, consistency and accrual.
Usually, they are not  specifically stated because their acceptance and use are  assumed.
Disclosure is necessary if they are not followed.
Inventory: Tangible property held for sale in the ordinary  course of business, or in the process of production for such  sale, or for consumption in the production of goods or  services for sale, including maintenance supplies and  consumables other than machinery spares.
Investment: Expenditure on assets held to earn interest,  income, profit or other benefits.
Materiality: An accounting concept according to which all  relatively important and relevant items, i.e., items the  knowledge of which might influence the decisions of the  user of the financial statements are disclosed in the  financial statements.
Net Assets: The excess of the book value of assets of an  enterprise over its liabilities.
This is also referred to as net  worth or shareholders' funds.
Net Profit: The excess of revenue over expenses during a  particular accounting period.
When the result of this  computation is negative, it is referred to as net loss.
The net  profit may be shown before or after tax.
Net Realisable Value: The actual/ estimated selling price  of an asset in the ordinary course of the business less cost  of completion and cost necessarily to be incurred in order  to make the sale.
Non Current Asset: All assets other than Current assets  are classified as Non Current asset.
Non Current Liability: All liabilities other than Current  liabilities are classified as non-current liability.
Net Present Value: NPV is the present (discounted) value  of future cash inflows minus the present value of the cash  outflows.
Obsolescence: Diminution in the value of an asset by  reason of its becoming out-of-date or less useful due to  technological changes, improvement in production  methods, change in market demand for the product or  service output of the asset, or legal or other restrictions.
Operating Cycle: An Operating cycle is the time between  the acquisition of assets for processing and their realization  in cash or Cash equivalents.
Prior Period Item: A material charge or credit which arises  in the current period as a result of errors or omissions in the  preparation of the financial statements of one or more prior  periods.
Provision: An amount written off or retained by way of  providing for depreciation or diminution in value of assets or  retained by way of providing for any known liability the  amount of which cannot be determined with substantial  accuracy.
Provisions for Doubtful Debts: A provision made for debts  considered doubtful of recovery.
Participating Interest: The share expressed as a  percentage in the rights and obligations of each party to a  Production Sharing Contract (PSC).
Production Costs: Costs incurred in lifting the oil and gas  to the surface and in gathering, treating and storing the oil  and gas.
Royalty: It is a levy imposed under The Petroleum and  Natural Gas Rules, 1959 payable to the respective State or  Central Government granting the lease (Central  Government in case of offshore) on crude oil and natural  gas.
Recouped Cost: It refers to Depreciation, Depletion,  Impairment and Amortization charged in accounts.
These  are non-cash costs.
a) Depreciation: A measure of the wearing out, consumption or other loss of value of a depreciable asset arising from use, efflux of time or obsolescence through technology and market changes.
It is provided for and allocated as mentioned in note no.
2.p on Significant Accounting Policies under Notes to Financial Statements.
b) Depletion: A measure of exhaustion of a wasting asset  (Producing Properties) represented by periodic write  off of cost.
It is computed with reference to the  amortization base by taking the related capital cost  incurred divided by hydrocarbon reserves and  multiplied by production.
c) Impairment: An impairment loss is the amount by  which the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its  recoverable amount.
Impairment Loss is recognized in  the accounts as per note no.
2.j on Significant  Accounting Policies under Notes to Financial  Statements.
44 Annual Report 2013-14 Director’s Report   Annexures to Director’s Report   Comments of C&AG  ENERGY OF INDIA reaching the target depth of 7725 m. The well KG- DWN-2005/1-D-1 drilled by the Rig DDKG1 has set  two records – firstly, the world record of well at the  deepest water depth of 3174m and secondly, drilling  the deepest offshore well of 7725m.
• The fiscal saw your company completing and  successfully putting on production its first deep  water sub-sea well G1-11 in Eastern Offshore  through an Early Production System (EPS).
This has  been accomplished by your company ensuring that  the production volume from the well got realized  within shortest possible time after its completion by  connecting it with existing facilities of Odalarevu GCS  near Kakinada temporarily through 2x10” subsea  pipelines.
• For the first time, your company has adopted easy  cost planning for workover operation on Pan-India  basis in SAP system throughout ONGC.
• Your Company accreted 84.99 MMToe of ultimate  reserves in the domestic fields (ONGC operated); the  highest in the last twenty three years.
• For the 9th consecutive year your company  maintained the Reserve Replacement Ratio (RRR) of  more than 1.
RRR during the year has been 1.87.
• The Turnover of the Company stood at ` 842,028  million, the highest-ever.
The turnover of the ONGC  Group at ` 1,782,051 million has also been the  highest-ever.
• Your Company recorded a Net Profit of ` 220,948  million during the year under review, 5.6% higher  than 2012-13 (` 209,257 million).
• ONGC Videsh Limited (ONGC Videsh), wholly owned  subsidiary of your Company, which had in the recent  past shown downward production volume realization  owing to extraneous geo-political situations in Sudan  & Syria, has recorded a 26% increase in crude oil  production this fiscal mainly on account of  resumption of production from Sudan and also new  production stream from ACG, Azerbaijan and  acquisition of additional 12% PI in Block BC-10 in  Brazil.
• ONGC Videsh recorded highest-ever Net Profit of  `44,453 million.
• Your company’s subsidiary Mangalore Refinery and  Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL), has been upgraded  to Schedule-A Category-1 Mini-Ratna Company by  the Department of Public Enterprises (DPE),  Government of India (GOI), thereby giving MRPL  enhanced administrative and financial autonomy.
• MRPL recorded the highest-ever thru’put of 14.6  MMT against an MoU target of 14.5 MMT, thus  securing ‘Excellent’ rating in achievement of its MOU  targets.
• MRPL has posted a net profit of `6010 million, an  increase of 179% from last fiscal’s loss of ` 7569  millions.
• Pursuant to the decision of the Government of India to  divest 10% of the equity share capital of Indian Oil  Corporation Ltd, ONGC acquired 5% equity shares of  Indian Oil Corporation Limited amounting to  121,397,624 equity shares of ` 10 each @ ` 220/- per  share.
The consideration amount of ` 26,707 million  has been paid to the Government of India.
Necessary  disclosures in this regard have been submitted to  Stock Exchanges.
During 2013-14, your company had to share the  highest-ever contribution of ` 563,843 million (an  increase of ` 69,636 million i.e 14% over the previous  year) towards the under-recoveries of OMCs.
This  has impacted your Company’s Profit Before Tax by  ` 477,561 million and Profit after Tax by ` 315,238  million.
However, your Company has been able to  achieve Net Profit of ` 220,948 million during 2013-14,  which is 5.6% higher than the profit of 2012-13.
Global Recognition You will be pleased to know that your Company has been  th ranked at 176  in the 2014 Forbes Global 2000 list of  world’s biggest companies.
As per the Platts 2013  rd rankings, your Company is ranked 3  largest listed  E&P Company in the world and ranked 22nd Energy  Company of the world based on Asset, Revenue, Profit &  ROCE.
Your company has been adjudged one of the  Fortune World’s most Admired Companies of 2014  as per CNN Money.
There are only two companies from  India in the list and your company is the only PSU in that  coveted list.
CNN Money has further ranked your  th company 369  in its Fortune Global 500 (2013) list by  Revenue among global 500 companies.
Adding to our  global credentials is the fact that this year also your  company has been awarded ‘Randstad Award 2013’ for  49 Directors’ Report Dear Shareholders, It gives me great pleasure to present, on behalf of the  Board of Directors of your Company, the 21st Annual  Report on the business and operations of Oil And Natural  Gas Corporation Ltd. (ONGC) and its Audited  Statements of Accounts for the year ended March  31, 2014, together with the Auditors’ Report and  Comments on the Accounts by the Comptroller and  Auditor General (CAG) of India.
Your company along with its group companies has  witnessed yet another year of sustained performance,  success and growth not only in its core activities of  Exploration and Production (E&P) of crude oil and  natural gas but also in other areas where we have  engaged ourselves significantly.
Your company registered an increase of 5.6% in its PAT  despite allowing highest ever discount towards under- recoveries of Oil marketing company (OMCs) at  ` 563,843 million.
The domestic production by ONGC including its share in  JV-PSC during FY’14 was 50.86 MMToe which is about  1% lower than FY’13 production (51.47 MMToe).
Your  company has been making all efforts to arrest the  decline in the production from its matured fields through  various measures like IOR and EOR.
The company has  made commendable performance in the core area of  exploration by registering Reserve Replacement Ratio of  1.87.
All efforts are being made to bring various marginal  fields to production to ensure sustained production  performance.
A brief recap of the main achievements during this fiscal  are: • ONGC Deepwater drilling group set a world record of  drilling deepest ultra-deepwater well by successfully  48  The new prospect discover y in NELP Block  KGOSN041NANL #1  (Shallow Water)  is important  because this will help in augmenting hydrocarbon volumes  established through four earlier discoveries namely  Chandrika South, Alankari, Saveri & NANL-2 in the block.
This will add to ONGC’s efforts towards attaining critical  hydrocarbon volumes for viability of a possible ‘cluster  based development’ of these discoveries.
Similarly,  discovery MBOS51NAA#1 in NELP block NB-OSN-2005/1  is in close vicinity of C-37/ C-39, B-9 areas that will enhance  the overall gas potential of the area.
Mandapeta South # 1  (MDS-AA) discovery south of main Mandapeta field has  indicated for the first time possible production potential of  tight reservoirs found in the area through hydro-fracturing.
The discovery NW-B173A-8 in South & East Bassein PML  area in Mukta formation has huge upsides to the production  potential of producing field B-173A.
New pool discoveries GK-28 # 9 and GK-42 # 3 in GK-28  PML block in Kutch Shallow Water has a good potential to  add value to GK-28/GK-42 areas which ONGC plans to put  on production.
Besides, this discovery has potential to add  a new basin to the list of producing basins in the country.
Similarly, the new oil & gas pool discovery Gandhar # 686 in  Gandhar Extension VI PML area has shown first occurrence  of oil in sand GS-11 in the South Western part of Gandhar  field which will help in opening the sector for further growth  of this field.
The discovery SB#300 (SBCG) in Kalol formation South  East of main Sobhasan field, in a separate fault block on the  plunge of Sobhasan structure is the first gas discovery in  KS-IV Sub pay and hence it  will lead to adding a new gas  play to the area.
The discovery of Khubal#7 (KHBJ)  in a  separate fault block in NELP block AA-ONN-2001/1 in  Assam & Arakan basin is likely to add volumes to the already  established in-place gas in the block and thereby help our  fertiliser business that is planned through gas from Khubal  area.
The dominance of oil in Northern Discovery Area (NDA)  which has been  established through the earlier notified  KG98/2NA-A#2 discovery  is further confirmed by the new  pool discovery KG98/2NA-M#3 this year which has  potential to take the in-place oil volumes to more than 100  MMt.
Current estimated Oil & Gas (O+OEG) volumes in  NDA stand at 190 MMToe as on 01-04-2013 and are likely to  grow to the order of 290 MMToe with the addition from this  M#3 discovery.
Reserve accretion & Reserve Replacement Ratio (RRR) Continuing exploration in challenging and frontier areas,  your company has accreted 255.56 million metric tonnes of  oil equivalent (MMToe) of In-place volume of hydrocarbon in  the domestic basins (operated by ONGC).
As on  31.03.2014, the in-place Reserves of ONGC as a group  stands at 2,004.15 MMToe; up 14% from FY’13 figure of  1,759.43 MMToe.
The ultimate reserves accretion by ONGC  in domestic area during FY’14 has been 84.99 MMToe, the  highest in last 23 years.
Total reserve accretion in domestic  basins including ONGC’s share in PSC JVs stands at 89.76  MMToe.
With a Reserve Replacement Ratio (RRR) of 1.87  (with 3P Reserves) for its domestic basins, it was the 9th  consecutive year that your Company has maintained an  RRR of more than one.
Voluntary disclosures in respect of Oil & Gas Reserves,  conforming to SPE classification 1994 and US Financial  Accounting Standards Board (FASB-69) have been made  by your Company.
Following is the reserve accretion details which your  company has been pursuing with great vigour & conviction:  8 GK-42 # 3 Gas Kutch (Shallow Western Offshore Nomination; Pool 9 Gandhar # 686 Oil & Gas Western Onshore Nomination; Gandhar Extension VI PML Pool 10 SB#300   (SBCG) Gas Western Onshore Nomination; Geratpur PML Pool 11 Gedanapalli#3 (GLAC) Oil KG Onshore Nomination; Godavari onland PML Pool 12 KG982NA-M#3 Oil & Gas KG Deep Offshore NELP; NDA of KG-DWN-98/2 Pool 13 Khubal#7  (KHBJ) Gas A&AA NELP; AA-ONN-2001/1 Pool 14 Nandasan-111 (NNBC) Oil Western Onshore Nomination; Nandasan Extn-I PML Pool Water); GK-28 PML 51 Most Attractive employer in the Energy Sector in India.
As a fitting acknowledgment of your Company’s green  credentials, you will be pleased to learn that ONGC has  registered one of the largest Clean Development  Mechanism (CDM) projects in the world when it got  “the ONGC Tripura Power Company Limited (OTPC)”  registered with the United Nations Framework  Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).
This 726.6  MW gas-based power generation plant in Tripura is a  fuel-substitution project, which would mitigate over 1.6  million tons of Carbon-dioxide emissions per year for the  next 10 years.
In addition, your company has registered  th its 11  CDM project - the Green Building Project at  Kolkata, with the UNFCCC.
The project, like its two  predecessors (Green Building Projects at Mumbai and  Dehradun), has been registered for 21 years and once  commissioned, will fetch 1861 credits per annum.
Performance: 2013-14 Exploration During the year, your Company made 14 oil and gas  discoveries in domestic fields (operated by ONGC).
Out of  14, 7 discoveries are in offshore and 7 in onshore; 6  discoveries were made in the new prospects whereas 8  were new pool discoveries.
5 discoveries were made in  NELP blocks and 9 in nomination blocks.
Out of the  discoveries made this year, 2 are oil bearing, 9 are gas  bearing and 3 are both oil & gas bearing.
In addition to these discoveries, 32 more exploratory wells  drilled for delineation/appraisal of known pays in existing  fields were hydrocarbon bearing and have resulted in field  growth.
14 new oil & gas discoveries  • 7 Onshore and 7 Offshore • 2 oil bearing + 3 oil & gas bearing + 9 gas  bearing.
• 6 discoveries in the new prospects + 8 new pool  discoveries.
• 5 discoveries in NELP blocks + 9 in nomination  PML block Out of 7 on-land discoveries made during 2013-14, 4  discoveries (Gandhar-686, Sobhasan-300, Nandasan-111  & Geddanapalli-3) have already been put on production  and efforts are on for bringing the other discoveries on  production as early as possible.
Five discoveries in NELP blocks (one onland and four  offshore) are governed by the PSC guidelines and  appraisal/development activities will be taken up keeping in  view the time lines of the respective blocks.
Details of the  discoveries are as under: Sl.
Name of the well Hydro-  Basin Block Type & Block Name Pool/ New Prospects Discovery New Pool Discovery No carbon Prospect Type 1 KGOSN041NANL #1 Gas KG  (Shallow Water) NELP ; KG-OSN-2004/1 Prospect 2 KGOSN041NANL#2 Gas KG (Shallow Water) NELP ; KG-OSN-2004/1 Prospect 3 Seripalem-1(SRM-AA) Gas KG  Onshore Nomination; Godavari On-land PML Prospect 4 MBOS51NAA#1 Gas Western Offshore NELP;  NB-OSN-2005/1 Prospect 5 Mandapeta South # 1 (MDS-AA) Gas KG Onshore Nomination;  Godavari on-land PML Prospect 6 NW-B173A-8 Oil & gas Western Offshore Nomination; South & East Bassein PML Prospect 7 GK-28 # 9 Gas Kutch (Shallow Western Offshore Pool Water); GK-28 PML 50 Annual Report 2013-14 Statement of Reserve Recognition Accounting (RRA) Reserve Recognition Accounting is a statutory compliance  towards recognizing income at the point of discovery of  reserves and seeks to demonstrate the intrinsic strength of  an organization engaged in exploration and production of  hydrocarbons with reference to its future earning capacity  in terms of current prices for income as well as expenditure.
This information is based on the estimated net proved  reserves (developed and undeveloped) as determined by  the Reserves Estimates Committee of the Company.
As per FASB-69 on disclosure about Oil and Gas producing  activities, publicly traded enterprises that have significant  Oil and Gas producing activities, are to disclose with  complete set of annual financial statements, the following  supplemental information: a) Proved Oil and Gas reserve quantities b) Capitalized costs relating to Oil and Gas producing  activities c) Cost incurred for property acquisition, exploration  and  development activities d) Results of operations  for Oil and Gas producing  activities e) A standardized measure of discounted future net cash  flows relating to proved Oil and Gas reserve quantities Your Company has disclosed information in respect of (a) to  (d) above in the Annual Financial Statements.
Your Company has also made voluntary disclosure on  standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows  relating to proved oil and gas reserve at Annexure-‘A’ to this  report as statement of Reserve Recognition Accounting  (RRA).
Unconventional sources of energy ONGC plans to continue its endeavour for exploration and  development of Unconventional & other resources like  Shale Gas, CBM, HP/HT, Fractured Basement plays with  the following initiatives:  a. Shale Gas and Oil ONGC has the distinction of establishing the first flow of  shale gas in the country at Durgapur.
Shale gas exploration  and production is one of the key elements of ONGC’s  Perspective Plan 2030 wherein an accretion potential of 850  to 1150 MMToe and production potential of 80 to 140  MMToe have been envisaged by the year 2030.
ONGC is  planning to explore for shale gas in Cambay, Krishna- Godavari, Cauvery and Assam Shelf and basins.
Government of India notified the New Shale Gas Policy for  the NOCs on 14.10.2013 and according to it, ONGC and OIL  will initiate shale gas and oil exploration activities in their  nomination blocks in a phased manner.
ONGC has  identified 50 nomination blocks, of which 28 blocks are in  Cambay basin, 10 in KG basin, 9 in Cauvery basin and 3 in  Assam Shelf.
Following the notification of the policy, ONGC has already  drilled its first pilot Shale gas well JMSGA(DD-3305 m) in the  Cambay basin.
Extensive coring (139 m) was carried out in  this well and studies on cores and analysis of wire line logs  are in progress which will help in assessing the shale gas  and oil potential of Cambay Shale, main source rock in the  basin.
Identification of prospective shale gas blocks in  different basins has been completed and ONGC plans to  take up shale gas activities aggressively in these basins.
Around 20 similar pilot wells are planned to be drilled in  Cambay, KG, Cauvery and A&AA basins in 2014-15.
Success in these envisaged Shale Gas pilot programme will  help in unlocking unconventional shale gas and oil reserves  in different basins.
Ultimate Reserve (3P) accretion O+OEG                            (in MMToe) Year Domestic Assets (1)  (2) (5)=(3)+(4) 2008-09 68.90 2.82 71.72 135.08 206.80 2009-10 82.98 4.39 87.37 0.35 87.72 2010-11 83.56 0.29 83.85  46.23  130.08 2011-12 84.13 1.31 85.44 - 0.31 85.13 2012-13 84.84 4.24 89.08 14.16 103.24 2013-14 84.99 4.77 89.76 212.59 302.35 ONGC's share in Total ONGC VIDESH's Total Domestic Jvs  Domestic Share in Reserve Foreign Assets (3)=(1)+(2) (4) 52 b.
Coal Bed Methane(CBM) ONGC has taken concrete steps to discover Coal Bed  Methane (CBM) in the country and is currently operating in  four CBM Blocks i.e., Jharia, Bokaro, North Karanpura and  Raniganj.
The Development Plans for all the four blocks has  been submit ted and approved by the Steering  Committees.
Nearly 400 wells and 2000 hydro-fracturing  jobs would be carried out in the coming 4-5 years as per  timelines of the CBM Contract.
In view of the mammoth and  time bound task, ONGC has decided to farm-in experienced  partners to execute field operations, process for acquisition  of which is in an advanced stage.
ONGC has  started selling incidentally produced CBM gas  from existing wells at Parbatpur of Jharia Block at an  approved price of $5.1 per MMBTU i.e.
` 9.75 per SCM  approx.
The cumulative gas sale as on 31st March 2014 is  11.41 MSCM.
The Commercial CBM production in ONGC  blocks is yet to start.
c. Underground Coal Gasification(UCG) ONGC has selected Vastan Mine block in Surat district,  Gujarat for UCG Pilot project.
All the ground work and inputs  for pilot construction have been finalized for  implementation.
Gazette notification from GoI for UCG  block allocation in the form of Notice Inviting Application  (NIA) had been issued on 29th July, 2013.
According to the  NIA the block shall be allocated to state PSU located in  Gujarat.
GIPCL, Gujarat being partner in ONGC’s UCG  venture, submitted a fresh application on 21st August,2013.
The issue of Mining Lease for the block is awaited.
The Pilot  construction and erection of surface facilities shall be taken  up only after the allocation of the Vastan Mine block.
Further, a number of sites have been jointly identified by  ONGC & Neyveli Lignite Corporation Limited (NLC) for  studying their suitability to UCG.
These are Tadkeshwar in  Gujarat and Hodu-Sindhari& East Kurla in Rajasthan.
One  more site was jointly identified by ONGC & GMDC at Surkha  in Bhavnagar district, Gujarat.
The data of all the fields have  been analysed for evaluating the suitability of these sites for  UCG.
All sites have been found suitable for UCG  exploration.
Oil & Gas production During FY ’14, like earlier years, your company being the  largest producer of oil and gas in the country, was able to  maintain its relevance by contributing 69 per cent of oil and  62 per cent of natural gas production of the country from its  domestic operations.
Oil & Gas production of ONGC Group, including PSC-JVs  and from overseas Assets for FY’14 has been 59.21 MMToe  (against 58.71 MMToe during FY’13).
The upward volume  came from our overseas asset at Ajerbaijan and also from  resumption of production in Sudan &  South Sudan where  production was suspended owing to geopolitical situations.
However, when compared to 2011-12, the production is  slighlty lower owing to unrest in Syria and still inadequate  production from Sudan & South Sudan and the natural  decline in overseas matured fields in Sakhalin-1, Russia,  San Cristobal Project, Venezuela and BC-10, Brazil,  besides the natural production decline in domestic mature  fields.
The fall in production was offset through IOR & EOR  efforts.
Out of the total production of 31.49 MMT of crude oil, 70.6  per cent production came from ONGC operated domestic  fields, 17.4 per cent from the overseas assets and balance  12 per cent from domestic joint ventures.
As far as natural  gas production is concerned, majority of production (84 per  cent) came from ONGC operated domestic fields, 10.4 per  cent from overseas assets and 5.6 per cent from domestic  joint ventures.
Crude Oil & Gas Production FY'14 (Standalone + Group) (* Crude Oil figure Including Gas Condensate) 53 Oli (MMT)                Gas (BCM)              0+OEG (MMToe) ONGC JV OVL Total 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 22.25 23.28 45.53 3.75 1.57 5.32 5.49 2.87 8.36 31.49 27.72 59.21 ONGC 71% JV 12% OVL 17% Crude Oil Production (MMT)  FY'14 Annual Report 2013-14 Production from overseas assets ONGC Videsh, has thirteen (13) producing assets in eight  countries – Venezuela (1), Brazil (1), Colombia (1), Sudan  (1), South Sudan (2), Syria (1), Vietnam (1), , Mayanmar (2),  Russia (2) and Azerbaijan (1).
Total production from these overseas assets during  FY’14 has been 8.36 MMToe of O+OEG (Crude oil: 5.49  MMT & Gas: 2.87BCM).
Ajerbaijan has contributed 12% as compared to around  0.1% last year.
Resumption of operations in South Sudan &  Sudan has also contributed to this year’s increased volume  contributing 13.2% this year as compared to 8.2% last year.
Russia & Vietnam continued to be the biggest contributor to  overseas production volume with 29.4% and 23%  respectively followed by Venzuela with 10.8%.
NEW PROJECTS The following new projects are under implementation: lIntegrated Development of Vasihita and S1 Fields -  The project envisages gas production of 15.96 BCM  within 9 years from completion with an investment of  `41243 million.
lDevelopment Plan for lower pays in NBP- 14 Block of  NBP field – This project envisages an investment of  `4291 million for drilling and completion of 6  development wells.
lAdditional development  of Vasai East field The  Capex of this project is `24770 million and envisages  installation of 2 well platforms (VSEB & VSEC) and  drilling of 20 wells with cumulative incremental oil & gas  production of 1.83 MMt and 1.971 BCM by 2029-2030. lMudline completion – Development of three shallow  water wells GS-15-9, GS-15-E1 & GS-48-1 through Sub- Sea mud-line tree in Eastern Offshore.
The project  envisages gas production of 1.1 MMSCMD, gradually  reducing to 0.36 MMSCMD in 10 years with an  investment of `2848 million.
54 Natural Gas Production (BCM) FY’14 OVL 10% JV 6% ONGC 84% OVL 10%JV 6% ONGC 84% Sudan &  S. Sudan  13.2% Syria 0.0% Colombia  7.3% Venezuela 10.8% Brazil 2.8% Azerbaijan  12.0%Mynamar  1.50% Vietnam 23.0% Russia 29.4% Overall Production and Sales Performance Presented below are the highlights of production and sales of Crude Oil, Natural Gas and Value Added Products (VAP): Production QtyUnit Sales Qty Value  (` in millions) FY'14 FY'13 FY'14 FY'13 FY'14 FY'13 Direct Crude Oil (MMT) 25.99 26.13 23.61 23.69 525,734 533,268 Natural Gas (BCM) 24.85 25.34 19.63 20.16 183,291 165,400 Ethane/Propane 000 MT 430 428 428 425 14,837 13,440 LPG 000 MT 1,067 1,006 1,073 1,005 30,145 31,484 Naphtha 000 MT 1,358 1,534 1,379 1,520 75,743 76,804 SKO 000 MT 84 108 85 106 2,779 3,686 Others    2,124 1,589 Sub Total    834,653 825,671 Trading  Motor Spirit 000 KL 0.54 0.56 41 42 HSD 000 KL 0.05 0.02 3 1 Others Sub Total     44 43 Total     834,697 825,714 1.
Financial Results During the year, your Company has earned a Profit After Tax (PAT) of  220,948 million up 5.6% over FY 2012-13 ` (`209,257 million) lGross Revenue : ` 842,028 million Profit After Tax (PAT) :  220,948 million Contribution to Exchequer :  405,750 million Return on Capital Employed :      39.62% Debt-Equity Ratio : 0.00 Earnings Per Share ( ) : 25.83 Book Value Per Share ( ) : 159 l ` l ` l l l ` l ` Highlights 55 Annual Report 2013-14 Previous year figures have been regrouped wherever  necessary.
The increase in Profit during FY 13 -14 as compared to FY  12-13 is mainly due to lower write off towards dry wells and  appreciation in US$ against INR.
This is inspite of  contribution of record ` 563,843 Million by ONGC towards  under-recoveries of Oil Marketing companies.
2. Dividend Your Company paid interim dividend of `9.25 per share  (185 per cent) in two phases (`5.00 and `4.25).
The  Board of Directors has recommended a final dividend  of ` 0.25 per share (5 per cent) making the aggregate  dividend at ` 9.50 per share (190 per cent) for FY 13-14  i.e.
same as compared to dividend for the year 2012-13.
The total dividend will be `81,277 million, besides  `13,807 million as tax on dividend amounting to 43.03  per cent of PAT.
3.
Management Discussion and Analysis Report As per the terms of Clause 49(IV)(F) of the Listing  Agreement with the Stock Exchanges, the  Management Discussion and Analysis Report (MDAR)  has been included and forms part of the Annual Report  of the Company.
4.
Financial Accounting The Financial Statements have been prepared in  accordance with the Generally Accepted Accounting  Principles (GAAP) and in compliance with all  applicable Accounting Standards (AS-1 to AS-29) and  Successful Efforts Method of accounting as per the  Revised Guidance Note on Accounting for Oil & Gas  Producing Activities issued by The Institute of  Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) effective from  01.04.2013 and provisions of the Companies Act, 1956.
Further, as per Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA)  notification, the financial statements have been  prepared under the Revised Schedule VI format of the  Companies Act, 1956.
It may be noted that the  provisions of Companies Act, 2013 with regard to  preparation of Annual Accounts shall become  applicable from the financial years commencing on or  after 1st April, 2014.
5.
Subsidiaries I ONGC Videsh Limited (ONGC Videsh) ONGC Videsh, the wholly-owned subsidiary of your  Company for E&P activities outside India, has  participation in 33 projects in 16 countries e.g.
Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Brazil, Colombia, Iraq,  Kazakhstan, Libya, Mozambique, Myanmar, Russia,  South Sudan, Sudan, Syria, Venezuela and Vietnam.
Out of 33 projects, 13 are producing, 4 are  discovered/under development, 14 are exploratory  and remaining 2 are pipeline projects.
ONGC Videsh is currently producing about 169  thousand barrels of oil and oil equivalent gas per day  and has total oil and gas reserves of about 637 MMToe  as on 31st March 2014.
It has achieved the highest- ever profit (PAT) of `44,453 Million during FY’ 14, an  increase of 13%  as compared to the PAT of ` 39,291  Million during FY’13.
The increase in profit can be  attributed mainly to increase in production / sale  quantity and appreciation of US$ against the INR.
ONGC Videsh’s share in production of oil and oil  equivalent gas (O+OEG) of ONGC group, together  with its wholly-owned subsidiaries, ONGC Nile Ganga  (` in million) Particulars 2013-14 2012-13 Revenue from operations 842,028 833,090 Other Income 67,132 54,367 Total Revenues 909,160 887,457 Profit Before Interest Depreciation & Tax (PBIDT) 433,582 389,455 Profit Before Tax (PBT) 324,319 305,443 Profit After Tax (PAT) 220,948 209,257 APPROPRIATION Interim Dividend 79,138 76,999 Proposed Final Dividend 2,139 4,278 Tax on Dividend 13,807 13,012 Transfer to General Reserve 125,864 114,968 TOTAL 220,948 209,257 Previous year figures have been regrouped wherever necessary.
56 B.V., ONGC Amazon Alaknanda Limited, Imperial  Energy Limited and Carabobo One AB, was 8.357  MMToe during FY’14 as compared to 7.260 MMToe  during FY’ 13.
The oil production increased from 4.343  MMT during FY’13 to 5.486 MMT during FY’14 (26.3%  higher) primarily due to new production stream from  ACG, Azerbaijan; acquisition of additional 12% PI in  Block BC-10, Brazil; higher production from Sudan and  South Sudan.
Significant Acquisitions, Alliances and Operations  highlights of ONGC Videsh during FY’14 are as follows: i) ONGC Videsh with Oil India Limited (OIL) has  acquired 10% (ONGC Videsh - 6% and OIL - 4%) PI  in the Rovuma Area 1 Offshore Block in  Mozambique (Area 1) at purchase consideration  of USD 2511 Million on 7th January, 2014 by  acquiring the share of Videocon Mozambique  Rovuma 1 Limited.
Your Company has also acquired 10% PI in the  same area from Anadarko Moçambique Area 1  Limitada at purchase consideration of USD 2640  Million on 28th February, 2014.
Area 1 covers approximately 2.6 million acres in  the deep-water Rovuma Basin of f shore  Mozambique and represents the largest gas  discovery in offshore East Africa with estimated  recoverable reserves of 50 to 70 trillion cubic feet.
ii) ONGC Videsh, through its subsidiaries, has  acquired an additional 12% Participating Interest  (PI) in Block BC-10, a deep-water offshore block  in Campos Basin, Bra zil at purchase  consideration of USD 561 million, taking its total PI  in the block to 27%.
The Company had earlier  acquired 15% PI in Block BC-10 in 2006.The  transaction for 12% stake in the block was  completed in December, 2013. iii) ONGC Videsh in partnership with OIL on 17th  February, 2014, has signed Production Sharing  Contract (PSC) for t wo shallow water  exploration blocks SS-09 & SS-04 in the Bay of  Bengal of Bangladesh.
ONGC Videsh and Oil  India Limited (OIL) formed a consortium (50:50)  and participated in the Bangladesh Offshore  Bidding Round 2012, launched by Bangladesh  Government during December 2012 and was  officially notified as the winner of the mentioned  blocks on August 20th 2013.
ONGC Videsh has  45% PI in each of the Blocks with operatorship,  45% PI is held by Oil India Ltd and remaining 10%  PI is held by Bangladesh Petroleum and  Exploration Company Limited.
iv) On 10th October 2013, the Company was  awarded two onshore exploratory blocks namely  B2 (Zebyutaung-Nandaw) and EP-3 (Thegon- Shwegu) in the Myanmar Onshore Bidding Round  2013.
Block B-2, having an area of 16995 sq.
kms  is located in Northern Myanmar, bordering state of  Manipur in India and Block EP-3 having an area of  1650 sq.
kms is located in Central Myanmar.
ONGC Videsh was one of the 7 Indian companies  which were shortlisted as Pre-qualified bidders by  Government of Myanmar for their Onshore 2nd  Bid Round -2013 for 18 blocks.
v) During FY’14, ONGC Videsh has signed the  following MoUs: a) MoU with Petrovietnam - On November 20, 2013,  in furtherance to earlier MoU signed on October  2011 to promote joint cooperation in hydrocarbon  sector in Vietnam, India and other countries was  signed.
Under the MOU, Petrovietnam has offered  5 blocks to ONGC Videsh.
ONGC Videsh would  assess these blocks and if these are of interest, it  would make a proposal to PetroVietnam.
b) MOU with Coordinating Ministry for Strategic  Sectors of Ecuador on 9th December 2013  over  sharing of information regarding oil and gas  projects in Ecuador, which ONGC Videsh would  evaluate to identify projects of its interest and  could propose participation in such project(s)  through specific definitive agreements.
c) MOU with PDVSA - On 9th October 2013 for  strategic cooperation and participation in the  exploration and production of hydrocarbon  resources in the oil-rich Faja area of Venezuela  and in other areas as well in joint collaboration  thereby enhancing ONGC Videsh's interest in  Venezuela.
vi) ONGC Videsh commenced first commercial  production of gas from Block A3 and Block A1  in Offshore Myanmar on 15th July 2013 and 10th  January 2014 respectively.
The combined  production from these blocks is currently 8.7  MMSCMD and is expected to reach a peak level of  14.20 MMSCMD in Q1 of 2015.
ONGC Videsh has  17% PI in these blocks.
vii) ONGC Videsh has commissioned the Onshore  Pipeline Gas Transpor tation project in  Myanmar in November 2013.
The Contractual  Transportation Date has been notified as 1st  December, 2013.
The onshore gas pipeline is  currently under operation and is transporting gas  to both the Export and Domestic buyers.
viii) In Block BC-10, Brazil, the Phase II of the  Project has also come on stream in October  2013 with an expected peak production of about  35,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day (boepd) in  2014.
The current oil production from the block  has reached 58,000 boepd at JV level.
Phase-III of  the project has also started with drilling of wells  and first - oil is expected by April, 2016 with  expected peak production of about 28000 boepd  in 2017.
The production from all the phases is  expected to be about 75,000 boepd in 2017. ix) After acquisition of 2.72% stake in ACG project in  Azerbaijan, additional oil production has  57 Annual Report 2013-14 th commenced from West Chirag field on 28   January, 2014.
The current production from the  project is 678,000 bopd.
x) The current geo-political situation in Syria  including EU sanctions and the resulting  restrictions on contractors continues which has  adversely af fected Syrian operations since  December 2011. xi) The operations in South Sudan projects are  temporarily under shutdown after internal conflicts  and adverse security situation in the country since  22nd December, 2013.
However, a Ceasefire  Agreement has been signed on 9th May, 2014 by  the warring parties and negotiations are being  carried out under the mediation of the African  Union and Inter-governmental Authority on  Development (IGAD).
Operations in South Sudan  shall resume once security situation improves.
Direct Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures of  ONGC Videsh i. ONGC Nile Ganga B.V. (ONGBV) ONGBV, a subsidiary of ONGC Videsh,  is engaged in E&P activities in Sudan,  South Sudan, Syria, Venezuela, Brazil  and Myanmar.
ONGBV holds 25 per  cent Participating Interest (PI) in Greater  Nile Oil Project (GNOP), Sudan with its share of oil  production of about 0.741 MMT during 2013-14.
ONGBV also holds 25 per cent PI in Greater Pioneer  Operating Company (GPOC), South Sudan.
Due to  adverse geo-political conditions, ONGC Videsh  could produce only 0.218 MMT oil in GPOC, South  Sudan during FY’14.
ONGBV holds 16.66 per cent to 18.75 per cent PI in  four Production Sharing Contracts in Al Furat  Project (AFPC), Syria.
Due to geo-political  situations in Syria, ONGC Videsh could not  produce any oil in AFPC project during FY’14.
ONGBV holds 40 per cent PI in San Cristobal  Project in Venezuela through its wholly owned  subsidiary ONGC Nile Ganga (San Cristobal) BV  with its share of oil production of about 0.854 MMT  during FY’ 14.
ONGBV holds 27 per cent PI in BC- 10 Project in Brazil through its wholly owned  subsidiary ONGC Campos Ltda with its share of oil  and gas production of about 0.331MMToe during  FY’ 14.
ONGBV also holds 25% PI in Block BM- SEAL-4 located in deep-water offshore, Brazil  through its wholly owned subsidiary ONGC  Campos Ltda.
ONGBV also holds 8.347per cent PI  in South East Asia Gas Pipeline Co. Ltd., (SEAGP)  for Pipeline project, Myanmar through its wholly  owned subsidiary ONGC Caspian E&P B.V. ii.
ONGC Narmada Limited (ONL)    ONL has been retained for acquisition         of future E&P projects in Nigeria.
iii.
ONGC Amazon Alaknanda Limited (OAAL) OAAL, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ONGC  Videsh, holds stake in E&P projects in Colombia,  through Mansarovar Energy Colombia Limited  (MECL), a 50:50 joint venture company with  Sinopec of China.
During FY’ 14, ONGC Videsh’s  share of oil and gas production in MECL was about  0.604MMToe.
iv.
Imperial Energy Limited (Erstwhile Jarpeno  Limited) Imperial Energy Limited  (Name changed from  Jarpeno Limited with effect  from April 19th 2013), a  wholly-owned subsidiary of ONGC Videsh  incorporated in Cyprus, has its main activities in  the Tomsk region of Western Siberia, Russia.
During FY’ 14, Imperial Energy’s oil and gas  production was about 0.423MMToe.
v. Carabobo One AB Carabobo One AB, a wholly-owned subsidiary of  ONGC Videsh incorporated in Sweden, indirectly  holds 11 per cent PI in Carabobo-1 Project,  Venezuela.
The early production has already  started from first well (CGO005) on 27th December  2012 @ 300 bopd.
During FY’ 14, Carabobo’s oil  and gas production was about 0.022MMToe.
vi.
ONGC (BTC) Limited : ONGC (BTC) Limited holding 2.36 per cent  interest in the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan Pipeline  (“BTC”) owns and operates 1,768 km oil pipeline  running through Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey.
The pipeline mainly carries crude from the ACG  fields from Azerbaijan to the Mediterranean Sea.
vii.
ONGC Mittal Energy Limited (OMEL) ONGC Videsh along with Mittal  I n v e s t m e n t s  S a r l  ( M I S )   promoted OMEL, a joint venture  company incorporated in  Cyprus.
ONGC VIDESH and MIS together hold 98  per cent equity shares of OMEL in the ratio of 49.98  per cent (ONGC Videsh) and 48.02 per cent (MIS)  with the balance 2 per cent shares held by SBI  Capital Markets Ltd. OMEL held 45.5 per cent PI in  exploration block OPL 279, Nigeria and holds  64.33 per cent PI in exploration Block OPL 285,  Nigeria.
OMEL also holds 1.11 per cent of the  issued share capital of ONGBV by way of Class-C  shares issued by ONGBV exclusively for AFPC  Syrian Assets; such investment being financed by  Class-C Preference Shares issued by OMEL in the  ratio of 51:49 to ONGC Videsh and MIS respectively.
II Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals  Limited (MRPL) Your Company continues to hold 71.62  per cent equity stake in MRPL, a  Schedule ‘A’ Mini Ratna, which is a  single location 15 MMTPA Refinery on  the West coast.
58 Imperial Energy Annual Report 2013-14 Berkut (“Golden Eagle”) Russia’s largest platform operating in Sakhalin Performance Highlights FY 2013-14 • MRPL achieved the highest-ever thru’put of 14.97 and  it produced 14.59 MMT of petroleum products in  FY’14, the highest-ever.
• FY’14 saw MRPL registering a handsome profit (PAT)  of `6010 Million against a net loss of `7,569.10 million  that MRPL witnessed during FY’13 owing to reduced  gross margins and foreign exchange fluctuation  during FY’13.
• Despite profit, however, Board of Directors of MRPL  has not recommended any Dividend payout for the  financial year 2013-14 considering the working capital  requirement, past losses and project expenditure.
• MRPL exported 6.727 MMT of products against 6.838  MMT in the previous year.
The Export turnover rose to  `353,920 million in FY'14 with 6.15% higher than  previous FY.
• Crude sourcing (Receipts): 14.971 MMT; Iran (28.91  per cent), Saudi Arabia (22.51 per cent), ADNOC  (17.09 per cent), Kuwait (9.77 per cent), Mumbai High  (9.27 per cent), Nile Blend (1.06 per cent) & Spot  (11.39 per cent).
Marketing & Retail Operations  The Company (MRPL) embarked into bulk sales of  HSD after the introduction of dual pricing for HSD.
The  turnover of Direct Marketing stood at `22, 910 Million  in FY-14 as compared to `25,830 Million in FY-13.
The  Company could establish a good market reach for  sale of Petcoke after commissioning of Delayed Coker  unit in April 2014.
The Company’s Joint Venture (Shell  MRPL Aviation Fuel services Limited) for marketing  ATF has performed well and has increased its turnover  by 34% in FY14 as compared to last year.
Phase III - Brownfield expansion Project & SPM MRPL’s Phase III up-gradation and expansion project  has achieved an overall progress of 99.68% as on  15.5.2014.
The Company has already commissioned  the SPM facility in August 2013.
During the month of  April/ May 2014 the Delayed Coker Unit and Coker  Hydro Treater Unit and one SRU unit have been  commissioned.
PFCC and two trains of SRU shall be  commissioned shortly.
The physical progress of  Polypropylene unit is 95.6% and is expected to be  commissioned shortly.
The total capital expenditure  incurred for all these projects so far is `130,050 Million.
6.
Exemption in respect of Annual Report of  Subsidiaries and Consolidated Financial  Statement In accordance with Ministry of Corporate Affairs  (MCA) circular dated 8th February, 2011 and  clarification dated 21st February, 2011, your Board  has accorded necessary approval for not attaching  the Balance Sheet and Profit & Loss Account of its  subsidiaries (i) ONGC Videsh and (ii) Mangalore  Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL).
Full Annual  Report of ONGC including its subsidiaries will be  made available to any shareholder, if he/she desires.
60 Mega Downstream Petrochemical integrated project - OPal at Dahej SEZ Further, Annual Reports of MRPL and ONGC Videsh  are also available on website www.mrpl.co.in and  www.ongcvidesh.com respectively.
In accordance with the Accounting Standard (AS)–21  on “Consolidated Financial Statements” read with AS- 23 on “Accounting for Investments in Associates” and  AS-27 on “Financial Reporting of Interests in Joint  Ventures”, audited Consolidated Financial  Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2014 of the  Company and its subsidiaries form part of the Annual  Report.
7.
Joint Ventures/ Associates i. ONGC Petro-additions Limited (OPaL) ONGC Petro-additions Limited (OPaL), has  been promoted by your company as a  Joint Venture (JV) Company, with  envisaged equity stake of 26% along with  GAIL (15.5%) and GSPC (5%).
The balance  equity of 53.5% is to be tied up with Strategic Partners/  FIs / IPO.
OPaL is a mega downstream petrochemical  integrated project at Dahej SEZ for utilizing in-house  production of C2-C3 and Naphtha from various units  of ONGC.
Recently on August 23rd, 2013, your company signed  a Product Sale Agreements with OPaL for supply of  feed-stocks, thereby enabling OPal’s lenders to  release funds for implementation of the project.
Present status • Overall Cumulative progress is 89.84 %.
• Total cumulative expenditure as on 31st March 2014 is  `181,557 million.
Approved project cost is `213,960   million.
• Debt closure has been attained for approved project  cost of `213,960 million with the execution of Rupee  Term Loan agreement, for ` 149,770 million, including  ECB of USD 300 million.
• Based on the current project progress, expected  completion schedule of the Project is Jan, 2015.  ii.
ONGC Tripura Power Company Ltd (OTPC) Your Company has promoted OTPC  with an envisaged stake of 50% along  with Govt.
of Tripura (0.5%) and  IL&FS Energy Development Co. Ltd. (IEDCL - an  IL&FS subsidiary) (26%); the balance 23.5% is  proposed to be tied up through IPO / Strategic /  Financial Investor.
OTPC is setting up a 726.6 MW (2 X 363.3 MW) gas  based Combined Cycle Power Plant (CCCP) at  Palatana, Tripura.
The basic objective of the project  has been to monetize idle gas assets of ONGC in land- locked Tripura state and to boost exploratory efforts in  the region.
61 Annual Report 2013-14 63 iv.
Dahej SEZ Ltd (DSL)    Your company as Lead Promoter is  developing a multi-product SEZ at  Dahej in coastal Gujarat to facilitate  your company’s endeavours at C2- C3 Extraction and value-chain integration project –  OPaL.
Your company has 23% equity in the project  with GIDC having 26% and balance 51% is proposed  to be tied up through IPO / Strategic / Financial  Investor.
Present status:  • SEZ is already operational and units in SEZ have  clocked export of `14,200 million in FY 2012-13 and  `19,740 million in FY 2013-14.
• 92% of the leasable land has already been allotted  and the remaining land is expected to be leased in the  next two years.
• Exper t Appraisal Commit tee of Ministr y of  Environment and Forest (MoEF) has recommended  CRZ clearance for 123.42 ha of land in Dahej SEZ.
Formal approval is awaited.
v. Mangalore Special Economic Zone Limited (MSEZ)    With an envisaged equity stake of 26%  along with KIADB (23%), IL&FS (50%),  OMPL (0.96%) and KCCI (0.04%),  ONGC is setting up MSEZ to serve as site for  development of necessary infrastructure to facilitate  and locate ONGC/MRPL’s Aromatic complex being  promoted by ONGC.
Present status: • 65% of the leasable land has already been allotted.
• Pipeline Corridor development - MoEF clearance is  awaited for construction works at Reach 2 (~ 1.8 km).
Pursuant to presentations to Expert Committee of  MoEF and clarifications, recommendations have  been submitted to MoEF, Delhi.
Final clearance is  awaited.
However, interim arrangement for laying of  OMPL pipelines in this reach has been made, thereby  facilitating OMPL to utilize the corridor.
• Land acquisition issues at Reach 3 (~1.5 kms) –  Gazette notification has been issued.
Price fixation  meeting was held on 23rd Oct’13 although resolution  would take one more round of discussions.
However,  due to Lok Sabha elections and the model code of  A towering presence in Petrochemicals.
ONGC’s mega complex in Dahej SEZ  Present Status OTPC’s first unit (Unit-1) was dedicated to the Nation  by the Hon’ble President of India on 21st June, 2013.
However, commercial operation of its first unit (363.3  MW) effectively got started from 4th January 2014 in  presence of representatives of beneficiary states.
The  second unit is expected to be commissioned in the  second quarter of financial year 2014-15.
• The unit has been granted provisional tariff by Central  Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC).
The  Ministry of Power has allocated more than 86% of  power from the project (two units) to the NER  beneficiary states while 98 MW is allocated to OTPC  for merchant sales.
The OTPC has already signed a  gas sale and purchase agreement (GSPA) with ONGC  for supplying Daily contracted Quantity of 2.65  MMSCMD of gas.
• The 663 KM long 400 KV double circuit transmission  network Palatana-Bongaigaon transmission has  been commissioned up to Byrnihat by North-East  Transmission Company Limited (NETCL), a joint  venture of Power Grid Corporation, OTPC and  Governments of the North-Eastern states.
This  development is helping in evacuating power from  Unit-1 and enables partial evacuation from unit II.
For  complete evacuation of Unit-II power, the remaining  Byrnihat-Bongaigaon section of the line requires to be  completed and its completion is expected to coincide  with Unit II commissioning, subject to timely resolution  of certain forest clearance issues.
• The total expenditure incurred on the project till 31st  March, 2014 is `34,560 million against the total  estimated cost of `40,470 million.
• State Bank of India is funding the entire debt for the  project at a Debt: Equity ratio of 75:25. iii.
ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited (OMPL)    Your company has promoted OMPL as a  value-chain integration project for  manufacturing Para-Xylene and Benzene  from the Aromatic streams of MRPL with an  envisaged equity participation of 46%  along with MRPL (3%), with balance 51% to be tied up  through IPO / Strategic / Financial Investor  Present status: • Overall Cumulative progress is 98.5% as on 31st  March 2014 • Total cumulative expenditure on the project is `51700  million.
Approved project cost is `57500 million.
• The commercial operation date (COD) is August 2014.
62 The power to create development .
ONGC’s power plant at Tripura, the single largest investment in the North East.
Annual Report 2013-14 estimated to be `50,000 million.
Government of  Tripura will have 10 per cent equity in the venture.
9.
Alliances & Partnerships for Business Growth a. MoU with Mitsui  th ONGC on 24  January, 2014 signed an MoU with  Mitsui for Exploration and Production of conventional  and unconventional petroleum and natural gas  opportunities in India and in third countries, including  the possibility of laying, building, operating or  expanding natural gas pipelines along mutually  identified routes.
b. MoU with RIL  th ONGC on July 27 , 2013 has signed an MoU with RIL  to explore the possibility of sharing RIL’s infrastructural  facilities in the East Coast, thereby helping ONGC  minimize its initial Capex and expedite early  monetization of its deep-water fields adjacent to the  fields of RIL.
c. Summary of Understanding with EIL th ONGC on June 6 , 2013 has entered into a Summary  of Understanding with EIL to set up a 500 KTPA  Propane-de-hydrogenation (PDH) based integrated  Facility in the Domestic Tariff Area (DTA)/ Mangalore  SEZ Area, by creating a Joint Venture (JV) Company.
d. Product Sale Agreements with OPaL  rd ONGC on August 23 , 2013 has entered into a Product  Sale Agreement with OPaL for supply of feed-stocks,  thereby enabling OPal’s lenders to release funds for  implementation of the project.
e. MoU between ONGC, BPCL, Mitsui and NMPT ONGC along its consortium partners BPCL and  Japanese conglomerate Mitsui signed a MoU with the th New Mangalore Port trust (NMPT) on March 18 ,  2013.
The MoU documents Port’s No-Objection to  carry out feasibility studies and intention to extend all  cooperation to the consortium in this regard.
The  consortium has carried out the pre-feasibility study of  the project and formal allocation of Land and jetty site  is awaited from NMPT.
f. MoU for setting up a Special Purpose Vehicle  (SPV) for implementing Renewable Energy  projects Your company is likely to be a lead partner in a Joint  Venture Company being set up through Special  Purpose Vehicle (SPV) for implementing large scale  grid-connected solar, wind and other renewable  energy (including hybrid) power projects.
th An MOU for creating such a JVC was signed on 25   February 2014 between the Ministry of New &  Renewable Energy and Ministry of Petroleum &  Natural Gas, Govt of India.
This JVC shall be for grid connected renewable  energy and would be led by ONGC as the lead partner  with likely 26% equity and other Oil upstream  companies like OIL and GAIL along with EIL, IREDA  and SECI as partners, equity percentage of each one  of them to be decided later.
EIL has been assigned the  responsibility of the feasibility study for the projects at  various locations in India.
10.
Information Technology Considering the need to ensure implementation of  cutting edge technology in all areas of operations and  to ensure data integrity and security, ONGC has  deployed state-of-the–art IT tools and technologies.
In a knowledge-driven and technology-intensive  industry such as oil & gas E&P, information  technology establishes the vital synergy across the  company’s many locations and varied workforce,  essentially serving as its operations’ lifeline.
Many of  the IT achievements of the Company are regarded as  benchmarks in the industr y in terms of  implementation of widespread systems integration  and process automation.
Some of the highlights for  FY’14 are: • System Availabilit y: Achieved over 99%  system availabilit y for organization-wide IT  network connectivity through effective design &  configuration.
• IT Infrastructure Upgradation: To upgrade the  exiting ageing IT Infrastructure and make it ready to  ef fectively support present and upcoming IT  applications, consultancy services were hired from  PricewaterhouseCoopers Pvt.
Ltd. Their final report  has been submitted and recommended projects are  being taken up for implementation.
• Video Conferencing: To enhance communication  capabilities for faster decision making, enterprise  video conferencing system with multiparty video  conferencing capability has been implemented.
The  system has also been integrated with    Desktop  Video Conferencing system, based on “IBM  Sametime”.
This shall facilitate executives to  participate in multiparty video conferencing session,  enabled by Polycom Multiparty Conferencing Unit,  from his/ her desktop.
The system shall also enable  Project ICE (Information Consolidation  for Efficiency) of ONGC is a landmark  example of 'Business Process  Re-Engineering' in India.
It is also  SAP AG's largest Project in India 65 conduct, further discussions could not take place.
Interim arrangement for laying of OMPL pipelines in  this reach has also been made, thereby facilitating  OMPL to utilize the corridor.
• River Water infrastructure: Supply to MRPL and OMPL  has commenced.
Water Agreement has been  initialled with OMPL and is under finalization with  MRPL.
vi.
ONGC TERI Biotech Limited (OTBL)     ONGC TERI Biotech Limited (OTBL) which was  incorporated on 26th March,  2007 is a Joint-venture  C o m p a n y  o f  O N G C  i n   association  with The Energy  Research Institute (TERI), with shareholding of  49.98% & 48.02%, respectively.
Balance 2% is held by  FIs.
Through the ef forts of joint research of ONGC &  TERI over the years, OTBL is offering below  mentioned technologies and providing various  Biotechnical Solutions to Oil and Gas Industry, both in  India and abroad: I) Oilzapper Technology (Bioremediation)- used to  eliminate & tackle Oil Spills, Oily Sludge, and  hazardous hydro carbon waste; ii) Paraffin Degrading Bacteria (PDB)-  used to prevent  Paraffin Deposition in Oil well Tubing; iii) Wax Deposition Prevention (WDP)- used to prevent  Paraffin Deposition in surface and sub-surface flow  lines; iv) Microbial Enhanced Oil Recovery (MeOR)- used for  Enhanced Oil Recovery by mobilizing crude oil  trapped in pores of Oil Reservoirs.
During 2013-14 the turnover of OTBL was `154.4  Million  with  Profit after Tax  of `44.8 Million as against   turnover of  `136.61 Million and  Profit after Tax of `40.05 Million in  the previous year.
vii.
Petronet MHB Limited (PMHBL) • PMHBL is a JV company  wherein your company has  an equity stake of 28.766%  along with HPCL (28.7%)  and PIL (7.898%) with  balance 34.57 per cent of equity being held by leading  banks.
• PMHBL owns and operates a multi–product pipeline to  transport MRPL’s products to the hinterland of  Karnataka.
• In FY’14 PMHBL pipeline has transported a  throughput of 3.07 MMT against total throughput of  2.82 MMT last year.
As per un-audited results for the  year 2013-14, the turnover and PAT of PMHBL are  `1295 million and `510 million respectively.
viii.
Petronet LNG Limited (PLL)         ONGC has 12.5 per cent equity stake  in PLL, identical to stakes held by  other Oil PSU co-promoters viz.,  IOCL, GAIL and BPCL.
Dahej LNG  terminal of PLL having a capacity of  10 MMTPA is currently meeting nearly 20 per cent of  the total gas demand of the country.
A new LNG  terminal of capacity 5 MMTPA has been set up at  Kochi and was dedicated to the Nation by Hon'ble  Prime Minister of India on 4th January, 2014.
The  Company is also planning to set up an LNG terminal of  capacity 5 MMTPA at Gangavaram, Andhra Pradesh.
The turnover of PLL during 2013-14 is `377,476 million  (previous year `314,674 million) and net profit is  `7,119 million (previous year `11,493 million).
ix.
Pawan Hans Limited (PHL)      ONGC has 49 per cent equity  stake in PHL (previously known  as Pawan Hans Helicopters  Limited).
Balance 51 per cent  equity is held by the Government of India.
PHL is one  of Asia’s largest helicopter operators having a well- balanced operational fleet of 40 helicopters.
It  provides helicopter support for ONGC’s offshore  operations.
PHL was successful in providing all the 12  Dauphin N and N3 helicopters fully compliant with AS- 4 as per the new contract with ONGC.
The accounts of  PHL for 2013-14 are under finalisation.
8.
Other New Projects/ Business initiatives a. C2-C3-C4 Extraction Plant Your company has set up a C2-C3-C4 extraction plant  at Dahej with LNG from Petronet LNG Limited (PLL) as  the feed stock.
Commissioning of the Plant is  expected to commence by July 2014.
Ministry of  Finance, Govt of India, vide its notification dated 17th  Feb 2014 has resolved Taxation issues.
Ministry of  Petroleum & Natural Gas has allocated domestic gas  for commissioning of the plant on 11th April 2014. b. Urea Fertilizer Business ONGC signed a Memorandum of Understanding  (MoU) with M/s Chambal Fertilizers and Chemicals  Ltd. (CFCL) and the Government of Tripura for setting  up a 1.3 MMTPA capacity urea fertilizer plant in  Tripura.
MoU was signed on April 9th, 2013.
Feedstock for the proposed plant (Natural gas) will be  supplied from Khubal field in AA-ONN-2001/1 block  where substantial gas reser ves have been  established.
Gas requirement for the plant is  estimated to be 2.4 mmscmd.
The project cost is  64 Annual Report 2013-14 of Environment & Forest (MoEF) in Oil and Gas  Exploration, Development and Production in  Offshore/Onshore areas and Petroleum refining  industry.
ONGC has undertaken Ringal plantation (Hill  bamboo) in Joshimath and Kedarnath forest areas of  Upper Himalayas to strengthen fragile Himalayan  eco-system.
Plantation of 7.0 Lakh ringal in Upper  Himalayas has been completed in an area of 280  Hectares.
The Next Phase of ringal plantation is  under progress for planting 3.75 Lakh plants in 150  Hectares.
A project on mangrove plantation along the shores of  Dhadar River on West Coast has been taken up by  ONGC to protect erosion of the shoreline.
Phase 1 of  the project, more than 17 lakh mangroves have been  planted in the soil erosion-prone area along the coast  of the Dhadar River at Ankleshwar.
With a view to seek environmental friendly options for  the disposal and treatment of accidental oil spillages  and the tank bottom sludge generated during the  r outine operations, ONGC explor ed the  biotechnological option i.e.
bioremediation wherein  indigenous micro-organisms are isolated and  enriched and harnessed on mass scale for application  in the field.
In the year 2013-14, 25000 MT of oily waste  was treated through this technique in ONGC.
12.
Sustainability Development ONGC, one of the premier energy majors of the world  and the highest profit earning PSU of India, realises its  responsibilities in ensuring sustained development  through protection of the ecological system.
It  therefore strives to position itself as a leading  organisation in sustainable management and is  greenhouse gas from operations.
It is an  organizational objective for us to progressively  reduce our carbon footprint, by working towards  reduction in both direct and indirect energy  consumption.
The Company proposes to make a comprehensive,  organization-wide GHG inventory that covers both  direct and indirect energy over the next two to three  years.
This would provide the overall carbon footprint  of the organization and help identify mitigation  opportunities.
A pilot exercise to assess GHG  footprint of our representative operating units has  already been completed.
This pilot is now being  scaled up into a pan ONGC GHG accounting exercise  to assess our organisational carbon footprint and  importantly to undertake a rigorous study for  identification of all feasible GHG mitigation  opportunities.
ONGC Corporate Sustainability  Report for 2012-13, developed as  per globally accepted GRI-G3  guidelines, accorded A+ level by the  assurance agency 67 aiming to achieve sustainable development through a  holistic approach to carbon management.
We believe  that focused carbon management efforts are an ideal  route to cover the elements of our business specific  sustainable development issues across the  environmental dimension.
A critical area of  environmental sustainability is mitigation of global  ONGC’s Green initiative  Mangrove plantation in Coastal Gujarat executives to share documents from their desktops  while par ticipating in the multipar t y video  conferencing.
Executives on the move can also  participate in multiparty video conferencing through  their smart phone device.
• Lotus Connections: To create an environment that  facilitates collaboration and innovation, ONGC Blog  site based on Lotus Connections has been launched  where users can share information online using  technologies like blogs, wikis, and activity streams.
Employees have started using the platform to share  knowledge & opinion.
• Cyber security Crisis management team – To  strengthen information security management with  focus on cyber security, proposal for Cyber Security  Crisis Management team has been initiated.
• Project IT- psruk% Under “IT Skill & Proficiency  Development Programme through Project IT- psruk”  continued for the year 2013-14 also.
• HIS (Healthcare Information System): Standardized  version of HIS - which was developed to bring in  uniformity in working of ONGC health-centers and  Hospitals across the organization, has been rolled- out across 20 work-centers.
• IT Service Management (ITSM): To improve  performance of IT service management across the  enterprise and for better alignment of IT services &  business strategy, all IT helpdesk sites have been  taken up for ISO 20000 Certification.
Six sites at Delhi  & Mumbai, which were already certified for ISO  20000, the certification has been upgraded to the  latest version.
• Broadband Wireless Access for remotes: To  improve IT applications performance & voice  connectivity at remote installations, the contract for  Point-to-Multipoint “Broadband Wireless Access  (BWA) Radio System” for remote sites at North East &  Southern Assets of ONGC was awarded on turnkey  basis.
The project is under execution.
• Satcom Upgradation: For voice & data  communication connectivity, remote installations at  offshore are primarily dependent on Satcom (Satellite  communications).
This also provides primary  connectivity to many onshore installations and  secondary connectivity to other installations at  onshore.
Satcom infrastructure equipment has  become old and lived its useful life.
The project for  Upgradation of Satcom Infrastructure has been taken  up.
• Microwave backbone: Work for setting up onshore  to offshore high capacity microwave backbone  communication link between Uran-Neelam-B193- BPA Offshore Complex, is awarded and shall be in  service by August 2014.
This is the first high capacity  microwave communication link from base to offshore  installations 11.
Health, Safet y and Envir onment(HSE)  accreditations  Safety, Occupational health and protection of  environment in and around its working areas are  prime concerns of ONGC.
ONGC has implemented  globally recognized QHSE Management System  conforming to requirements of QHSE Certifications  ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and ISO 18001 (OHSAS) at  ONGC facilities and certified by reputed certification  agencies at all its operational units.
As on date, 412  Nos of working units have third party certified  integrated QHSE Management System.
ONGC  follows the internationally accepted practices with  regard to incident reporting, investigation and  monitoring of recommendations.
A few highlights of HSE during 2013-14 are: • Regular QHSE internal audits  • Fire safety measures including regular fire and  earthquake mock drills,  • Training on HSE related topics,  • Environmental analysis  • PME of employees and Health Awareness programs  • Water and electricity conservation, Noise and  pollution reduction measures,  • Material Safety Data Sheets(MSDS),  • Personal protective Equipment’s(PPE),  • Solid waste management and Developing E- waste  disposal procedure,  • Jatr opha gar den and identification and  implementation of Environment Management  Programmes (EMP) and Occupation Health  &  Safety(OHS) programs as per need of the unit,  • Energy conservation awareness through display and  communication,   • Accident, near miss and Governance, Risk &  Compliance (GRC) reporting.
ONGC is now an Accredited Environment Impact  Assessment (EIA) Consultant organization by Ministry  66 HSE Quotient Snapshot: lAccredited Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Consultant Ringal Bamboo Plantation in 280 hectares in Upper Himalayas l Annual Report 2013-14 The following efforts undertaken by ONGC illustrate  its commitment to sustainable development: a.
Sustainable Water Management (SWM) Water  Mapping: Water mapping study was completed for Ankleshwar  and Rajamundry Assets and Hazira Plants.
Based on  the mapping, following projects have been identified  for consideration under SWM umbrella: Reuse and Recycle: The concept was implemented as a pilot project,   an  STP of 50 KLD capacity was installed in the CISF  Colony at Mehsana.
The Project was executed in  February 2014.
In association with Mehsana Asset under SWM  program, the following gains have accrued: • Mud Recycled upto 2013-14 =30128 M3 • Fresh Water Saved by Mud Recycling=22596 M3  upto 2013-14, • Fresh Water Saved by Use of Treated  Effulent=212059 M3  • Total Fresh Water Saved=234655 M3 (Upto 2013- 14) starting from 2009-10.
Desalination: A 20 MLD Desalination plant has been  proposed for Uran Plant.
Rain water Harvesting Rain water harvesting projects at various assets,  Basins and plants are in various stages of  implementation.
This year harvesting has been  conceived at Tripura and Ahmedabad Asset which are  being implemented.
Besides, har vesting at  Rajahmundry Asset has also been conceptualized  which will be implemented next year.
Rain water  harvesting at Vadodara has already started and is  recharging ground water.
More wells are being  conceptualized to expand the programme.
b.
Carbon Dioxide mitigation and low carbon  initiatives ONGC has also collaborated with Cleen, Finland in the  area of carbon capture and joined its program.
c. Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) ONGC commenced its CDM journey in 2006.
Till date,  ONGC has registered 11 CDM projects with UNFCCC.
About 3 new CDM projects have been registered and  other 3 registered projects have been successfully  verified for issuance of 182529 CERs (Carbon credits).
These CDM projects are listed below: Registration of new CDM projects 1.
Gas Flaring Reduction at Neelam&Heera Asset 2.
Natural gas based combined cycle power plant in  Tripura 3.
Green Building project at Kolkata Issuance of Registered CDM projects 1.
Waste heat recover y from Process Gas  Compressors Mumbai high south (offshore platform) 2.
51 MW wind power project of ONGC at Surajbari 3.
Amine Circulation Pumps Energy Efficiency at  Hazira Plant, ONGC  d. Carbon Foot Print Comprehensive companywide GHG accounting has  been completed.
With this exercise, potential area of  carbon management has been identified to reduce  carbon footprints of ONGC.
e. 3G Bio-refinery ONGC is planning to setup a 3G bio-refinery to meet  the government mandate of E95 (blending of 5%  ethanol to gasoline).
f. Solar power CSP-ST technology CM&SG is in talk with Rippaso Energy for establishing  a 3MW pilot solar power project at Gamnewala,  Jaisalmer.
g. Carbon neutral PETROTECH 2014:  PETROTECH 2014, a biennial international event has  been declared carbon neutral.
Total 3000 VERs were  exchanged to make the event carbon neutral.
This is  second event of its kind that was made carbon neutral  by CM&SG.
h. Global Methane Initiative (GMI) Fugitive emission Identification & Quantification (IQ)  jobs have been completed as per PC targets.
Ahmedabad Asset and BPA& BPB of fshore  installations were mapped for fugitive emissions.
The  reports have been submitted to respective heads to  take corrective actions.
ONGC has provided IQ services to GAIL and Gail  Vijapur plant was mapped for fugitive emission and  thereby earning revenue for the company.
13. Business Responsibility Report – 2013-14 Securities & Exchange Board of India has introduced  Clause 55 to the Listing Agreement with the Stock  Exchanges, which states that Listed entities shall  submit, as part of their Annual Report, Business  Responsibility Report, describing the initiatives taken  by them from an environmental, social and  governance perspective.
Accordingly, the second  Business Responsibility Report – 2013-14 has been  drawn up and forms part of the Annual Report for  2013-14.
14.
Internal Control System Your Company has a well-established and efficient  internal control system and procedure.
The Company  68 has a well-defined delegation of financial powers to its  various executives through the Book of Delegated  Powers (BDP).
The Integrated BDP is updated from  time-to-time in line with the needs of the organisation  as well as to bring further delegation.
The Company  has in-house Internal Audit Depar tment  commensurate with its size of operations.
Audit  observations are periodically reviewed by the Audit,  Ethics & Financial Management Committee of the  Board and necessary directions are issued whenever  required.
15.
R&D EFFORTS THROUGH ONGC ENERGY  CENTRE TRUST (OECT) Your company has taken steps to evaluate various  forms of energy to fulfil the country’s growing energy  needs.
Towards this end, your company has  established an ONGC Energy Centre Trust (OECT),  which is mandated to undertake or assist in programs  / projects of fundamental and applied research for  improving and developing commercially viable  energy mediums and sources beyond hydrocarbons,  especially in clean and/or renewable energy options.
ONGC Energy Centre (OEC) has been set-up under  the aegis of the OEC Trust to work on various clean  energy options.
Your company through ONGC Energy Centre has  been implementing several Research Projects on new  and alternative sources of energy.
These Projects are  in advanced stages of implementation, in  collaboration with various national and international  academic, research and industrial organizations.
The  projects where your company is currently engaged in  are:  a) Hydrogen Generation through Thermo-chemical  Processes b) Exploration for Uranium c) Bioconversion of lignite to Methane d) Bioconversion of Oil to Methane  e) Kinetic Hydro Power  f) Geothermal Energy g) Solar Thermal Project These apart, during 2013-14, ONGC Energy Centre  has also evaluated many new options to expand the  research and technology development activities and  also to focus on optimum utilization of resources  available with ONGC.
These efforts have been  described in detail in the Annexure C on Energy  Conservation.
16.
Human Resources ONGC cares and values its human resource which is  the bedrock of the ONGC’s success story.
To keep the  employees’ morale high, your Company extends  several welfare benefits to them and their families by  way of comprehensive medical care, education,  housing and social security.
During the year 2013-14,  your Company implemented 30 Policy Revisions for  further welfare  of its employees.
17.
Human Resource Development st 33,988 ONGCians (as on 31  March, 2014) dedicated  themselves and contributed their efforts towards the  excellent performance of your company.
The  workforce intake strategy pursued by your Company  caters to meeting the demands of maintaining a  69 ONGC Academy - A Training Institute par excellence Annual Report 2013-14 70 steady flow of talent, in a business which is  characterized by high risks and uncertainties,  enormous costs, fast changing level of technology,  physically challenging work environment, fluctuating  product prices and growing competition.
Your  Company has drawn up a scientific manpower  induction plan aligned to the business plans as well as  factoring the manpower profile of the Company.
During the year, HR ensured that adequate numbers  with requisite skills-sets were inducted to meet the  requirements of the Company as well as replenish the  manpower loss on account of superannuation.
Your company believes that continuous development  of its human resource fosters engagement and drives  competitive advantage.
One such initiative towards  that end was the innovatively designed and highly  popular ‘Business Games’, an organization-wide  contest that puts to test and further hones the  managerial and business acumen of the executives.
During the year 2013-14, a total of 167 teams and 668  executives participated in the event.
Fun Team Games (FTGs) were organized for E0 and  staff level employees to inculcate MDT (Multi- disciplinary Team) concept and a spirit of camaraderie  and belongingness to the organization, which was  very well received by the participants.
During the year  72 teams and 188 employees participated in FTGs.
Your Company also conducted the Assessment  Development Centre (ADC) for 294 E-6 (DGM) level  executives and provided them developmental inputs.
Your Company has partnered with global HR  consulting firms to create a pool of accredited  mentors in the organization.
These mentors will  support organization’s effort to hone young minds to  successfully respond to the emerging business  needs of your Company.
As part of this Initiative, in the  year 2013-14, 865 mentors were trained and 1376  Mentees were mentored and developed.
Training Skill up-gradation is a vital component for driving  excellence through Human Resource.
ONGC has  branded the spectrum of its training activities as  ‘EXPONENT’, a comprehensive programme which is  nurturing the energy leaders of tomorrow.
The growth  of an ONGCian to an Exponent of energy business is  facilitated by the ONGC Academy, Regional Training  Institutes (RTIs), other in-house Institutes in  association with globally recognized trainers.
Training  Institutes of ONGC organize training in all dimensions  - Technical as well as non-technical and Managerial  that is relevant to Petroleum Industry.
During the year, ONGC training Institutes have  organized various training Programmes for skill  development and enhancing the competency level of  employees for self-development and enhanced  output.
A total 15898 executives and 4564 non- executives were imparted appropriate training,  spanning 213304 training man-days, during 2013-14,  Mandatory Safety training - a precursor to ONGC’s operations which includes five batches of 746 Graduate Trainees,  who were imparted induction training.
In order to  keep the executives abreast with the latest  advancements in cutting-edge concepts and  technologies in oil and gas exploration and  production, 80 programmes were organized during  2013-14, including foreign faculty programmes.
Around 296 senior level executives were exposed to  advanced programmes on Management with  overseas learning component through tie-ups with  leading B-schools of the country.
As a Global player, it is imperative to benchmark our  strengths with the world’s best.
To achieve this we  organize International Cer tification Programs  benchmarked to global standards viz.
Offshore  Installation Manager (OIMs) Certification through  OPITO, Project Management Professionals (PMP)  Certification from PMI, USA, CIPM from PMA and  IPMA from Switzerland.
During the year 2013-14,  Academy has organized 14 OIMs Programmes in  which 62 OIMs participated, 450 executives attended  CIPM Programmes, 120 executives attended PMP of  PMI, USA and 50 executives attended IPMA level-D.   18.
EMPLOYEE WELFARE  Your Company continues to extend welfare benefits to  the employees and their dependants by way of  comprehensive medical care, education, housing,  and social security.
Your Company continues to align  company policies with changing economy and  business environment.
Some of the key facets of  ONGC’s employee welfare model are as below: (i) Employee Welfare Trusts Your Company has established the following major  Trusts for welfare of employees: • Employees Contributory Provident Fund (ECPF)  Trust manages Provident Fund accounts of  employees of your Company.
• The Post Retirement Benefit Scheme(PRBS) Trust:  The scheme underwent a major transformation from  defined benefit to defined contribution during the past  year.
In the converted Defined Contribution Scheme,  the corpus in the individual employee account shall  include employer/ employee contributions and  interest thereon.
The benefits under the Scheme are  dependent on corpus in the individual employee  account and accordingly, would be market  determined which depends on interest rate, annuity  price.
• The Composite Social Security Scheme(CSSS): It  provides an assured ex-gratia payment in the event of  unfortunate death or permanent disability of an  employee in service.
• Gratuity Fund Trust: This has been created to take  care of payment of gratuity as per the provisions of the  Gratuity Act.
• Sahayog Trust: Your Company’s ‘Sahayog Yojana’  instituted under this Trust provides ex-gratia financial  grant for sustenance, medical assistance, treatment,  rehabilitation, education, marriage of female  dependent and alleviation of any hardship or distress  to secure the welfare of the secondary workforce and  their kin, who do not have adequate means of  support.
Under the scheme, an amount of ?
20.6  million was disbursed by the Trust during the year.
• Extension of Benefits under the Agrani Samman  Scheme to retired employees:  The Scheme aims to  provide succour to the ex-employees who separated  from the service of ONGC on account of premature  retirement due to disability or medical deficiency  suffered while on duty.
• Extension of Benefits under the Asha Kiran  Scheme to retired employees:-    During the year, your Company launched Asha Kiran  Scheme to meet the emergency needs of the ex- employees retired prior to 01.01.2007, who are  passing through distressful situation.
The scheme  was launched as per DPE guidelines by creating a  corpus of 1.5% of PBT.
During the year, under this  scheme financial assistance of Rs 1352 million was  provided to 12964 ex-employees.
(ii) Implementation of Govt.
Directives for Priority  Section Your Company complies with the Government  directives for Priority Section of the society.
The  percentage of Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled  Tribe (ST) employees were 15.4 % percent and  9.1%  percent respectively as on 31st March, 2014.
Your Company is fully committed for the welfare of SC  and ST communities.
The following welfare activities  are carried out by your Company for their upliftment in  and around its operational areas:- • Annual Component Plan Under Annual Component Plan for SC/ST, each year  an allocation of `200 million is made.
Out of this, `60  million is distributed amongst all the Work centres of  ONGC for taking up activities for welfare of SC/ST  Communities in and around the areas of our  operations.
In addition, `140 million is managed  centrally, and is earmarked for Special  projects/proposals/schemes for the welfare of  areas/persons belonging to SC/ST communities The  amount under component plan is utilized for taking up  various welfare measures for the welfare and  uplif tment of the needy people of SC/ST  Communities.
This fund is especially meant for  71 Annual Report 2013-14 providing help and support in Education and Training,  Community Development and Medical and Health  Care.
• Scholarship to SC/ST meritorious students for  pursuing higher professional courses at different  Institutes and Universities in the country.
Your Company has recently enhanced scholarships  for meritorious SC & ST students from 100 to 500 for  pursuing higher professional courses at different  Institutes and Universities across the country in  Graduate, Engineering, MBBS, PG courses of Geo- Sciences and MBA.
The major feature of the scheme  is that the scholarships have been divided equally for  both male and female students and the  allotted amount of scholarship per student is `4,000/-  per month subject to the conditions of the  scheme.
The annual budget for the scheme,  considering its total implementation, is `76 million per  annum.
19.
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS During the year your Company maintained  harmonious Industrial Relations.
Mandays loss due  to internal industrial action was reported as ‘NIL’ for the  year 2013-14.
Your Company has adopted pre-emptive and  responsive IR policies that resulted in signing of Long  Term settlements covering the Post Retirement  Benefit Scheme, under the Defined Contribution  methodology and adoption of Group Leave  Encashment Scheme of the LIC.
Implementation of the ‘Fair Wage Policy’ initiated in  Aug 2012, has been steadily reported from all work- centers across the country.
More than 2500 contract  labourers have been covered under the Fair Wage  Policy, while more are due to be covered shortly.
The  policy enjoins the Contractors to pay 35% higher  wages as compared to minimum wage.
This will also  have a salutary effect on all statutory liabilities  towards various social security schemes.
The policy  also provides that the contractors will obtain Group  Gratuity cover and Group Insurance cover from LIC  for the labour deployed in ONGC operations.
20.
Women Empowerment Women employees constituted over 6 percent of your  Company’s workforce.
During the year, programmes  on women empowerment and development,  including programmes on gender sensitization were  organized.
Your Company actively supported and  nominated its lady employees for participating in  programmes organized by reputed agencies.
21.
GRIEVANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (GMS) : Your Company provides an easily accessible  mechanism to the employees for redressal of their  grievances, either through an informal channel (open  hearing day) or through a formal channel.
Public Grievance Management System  All Key Executives of your Company have designated  a publicized time slot thrice in a week to meet public  representatives in order to speedily redress their  grievances.
22.
IMPLEMENTATION UNDER THE RIGHT TO  INFORMATION ACT  An elaborate mechanism has been set up throughout  the organization to deal with the requests received  under RTI Act, 2005.
Central Public Information  72 Empowering W-power.
ONGC has over 6 per cent women in its workforce.
Officers (CPIO) have been appointed at every work  centre of the Company to redress the issues under  RTI Act.
126 applications received in March, 2013  were carried forwarded to the year 2013-14.
1743  applications were received during the year; making a  total of   1869 applications.
In addition, 50 first  appeals were carried forward and 361 were received  during the year.
All the aforesaid 411 first appeals were  disposed off by the appellate authority of ONGC and  orders passed by the authority were complied within a  stipulated time frame.
23.
IMPLEMENTATION OF OFFICIAL LANGUAGE  POLICY Your Company makes concerted efforts to spread  and promote the Official Language.
Some of the  important steps taken in this regard during the year  were:  • Company has introduced Unicode Hindi software  in all our offices.
• Hindi workshops are conducted at regular  intervals • Hindi seminars and ‘Kavi Gosthies’ were  organized at Dehradun and Delhi.
• ONGC actively contributed in publishing bilingual  Petroleum Terminology Directory, initiated by  MO&PNG.
• Hindi Teaching Scheme of Govt.
of India is  effectively implemented at all regional work centres.
24.
IMPROVEMENT IN LIVING AND WORKING  CONDITIONS As a testimony to its commitment for a cleaner  tomorrow, your Company has undertaken the ‘Green  Building’ initiative for its upcoming offices at Chennai,  Dehradun, Delhi, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Mumbai.
Work-Life Balance Your Company continued in its endeavours to ensure  work-life balance of its employees.
The townships at  many work-centres were provided facilities like  gymnasiums and music rooms.
Outbound  programmes with families were also organized at  various work-centres.
Plays on the importance of  ‘Work-Life Balance’ were staged to create awareness  amongst the employees.
In addition, cultural  programmes involving employees and their families  were also conducted.
Mahila Samitis and Resident  Welfare Associations (RWAs) were involved in the  organization of these cultural  programs.
Your  Company  has an adventure wing named ONGC  Himalayan Association that organizes adventure  programmes like mountaineering, trekking, white  water rafting, snow skiing, desert Safari and Aero  73 A home away from home - ONGC’s state of the art Geophysical camp  Annual Report 2013-14 sports, which contributes toward morale, engagement,  team spirit, camaraderie, stress management and  spirit to explore the unknown among the employees.
25.
SPORTS ONGC continued its support for development of  sports in the country in the form of job offers &  scholarships to deser ving spor tspersons.
Sponsorships to various sports associations /  federations / sports bodies to organise sports events  as well as develop infra-structure were also extended.
The welfare measures for the sportspersons which  includes sponsored trips for training / coaching stints  & tournament participation both within India &  abroad, kits & liveries and playing equipment as per  norms have been provided in 23 game disciplines.
There are 177 players on the rolls and 167 players on  scholarship benefitting from the welfare measures of  ONGC.
The support has aided many sportspersons  to deliver elite performances and bring laurels for the  Nation and the Company.
Sports achievements  during the year are detailed in Annexure-B.
Such elite  performances have been rewarded with cash  incentives as per Policy.
Head Sports of your company has taken charge as  Secretary, Petroleum Sports Promotion Board  (PSPB), which is recognition of your company’s  immense contribution towards promotion of sport in  the country.
26.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Your company is fully engaged in ensuring equitable  and sustainable growth of society in and around the  area of its operations besides complying with  government directives to discharge its social  responsibility as a leading Indian corporate.
CSR  activities are essentially guided by project based  approach in line with the guidelines issued by the  Department of Public Enterprises (DPE) and Ministry  of Corporate Affairs (MCA) of the Government of India.
Seeking to herald an inclusive business paradigm,  ONGC has CSR interventions that are based on  social, environmental, and economic considerations  and are well-integrated into the decision-making  structures and processes of the organization.
In the  last 7 years, your company has contributed  `13,270 Million towards its well-structured and  well-focussed CSR activities.
Out of the CSR Budget of `4185 million, ONGC spent  an amount of `3413 million in FY 2013-14.
This  translates to overall utilization of 86 % of the CSR  Budget.
74 ONGC Sporting Heroes - Medal winners in 2014 Commonwealth Games Reason for non-utilization of full CSR budget: One of the major CSR & Sustainability Development  projects undertaken during the year was setting up of  102 MW Wind Power Plant in Jaisalmer District (a back  ward district of Rajasthan).
The scheduled work on  this project during the period 2013-14 was delayed  because of the issues related to land acquisition at the  site.
As a result, expenditure towards activities  completed in April’14, which were originally planned  for 2013-14 amounting to `1247 million was released  in May, 2014.
Had the activities been completed as  per schedule, ONGC would have exceeded the target  amount CSR efforts are primarily focused on protection of  environment; providing infrastructure support in our  operational areas, water management, women  empowerment, initiatives for physically and mentally  challenged people, protection and preservation of  our heritage, arts and culture, promotion of sports,  entrepreneurship building and sponsorship of  seminars, conferences and workshops.
During 2013-14, some of the landmark CSR  initiatives undertaken by your Company include: (a) Healthcare: (i) Assam Medical College, Dibrugarh:  Support of `70 million has been provided to establish  Catheterization Laboratory and facilities for open  Heart Surgery in Assam Medical College, Dibrugarh  for providing quality health services.
(ii)  Community Hospital in Lakhimpur-Kheri, Uttar  Pradesh: The project is unique in terms of using the PPP model  in CSR with full Capex of `45 million contribution by  ONGC and Opex borne by the Operating Partner.
This  26 bedded Community Hospital would cater to  Primary and Secondary Health Service Requirements  from BPL, Economically Backward Class families.
Healthcare services are being provided at 50% less  cost than the existing CGHS rates.
75 1.
Education 2.
Women Empowerment 3.
Health Care 4.
Entrepreneurship Development 5.
Infrastructure Development 6.
Care for Differently Abled 7.
Water Management 8.
Environment Protection 9.
Promotion of Artisans 10.
Promoting Sports CSR Focus Areas There is always a remedy after pain Treatment of children suffering from Thalessemia  Annual Report 2013-14 ii) Apparel training programme in Chhindwara ( MP): This project in association with Apparel Training &  Design Centre (ATDC), Gurgaon, aims to train 180  boys and girls of poor families located in tribal areas of  Chhindwara district, M.P, to conduct Six Diploma/  Certified training courses, which shall be sponsored  by ONGC at a cost of `5 million.
The project  guarantees at least 70% placements.
iii) Training on agricultural sector and animal  husbandry: Under this project started in October 2013 in  association with Shrimad Dayanand Vedarsh  Mahavidyalaya Trust, New Delhi, one tractor with  accessories along with hybrid/ disease resistant  seeds, different manures and fertilizers was procured  with the grant provided by ONGC.
Presently the  students of Gurukul are undergoing training as well as  education in modern practices of agriculture and  animal husbandry at the Gurukul.
iv) Auto Loans in Chikkaballapur, Karnataka:  The project envisages distribution of auto loans to 200  poor and needy beneficiaries; 100 each from  Chikkaballapur and Bangalore (Rural) districts of  Karnataka.
The loan is distributed through Canara  Bank.
ONGC has provided financial assistance of ` 6  million towards margin money @15% for these loans.
The project would be of immense help for the poor  and needy beneficiaries to become self employed  and earn livelihood for their families.
v) Udaan:  This is a special Initiative taken up by the Ministry of  Home Affairs, Govt.
of India for the educated youth of  Jammu & Kashmir in association with National Skill  Development Corporation (NSDC).
The project aims  to train Graduates/Post Graduates from J&K to  improve their technical knowledge and soft skills and  enhance their scope for employability.
ONGC has  extended support of ` 91 million towards the project.
(e) Development of Backward Districts: The sustainable development project is being  implemented in Jaisalmer, a backward district in  Rajasthan.
Project involves setting up of 49 Wind  Turbine Generators each of capacity of 2.1 MW with  total capacity of 102.9 MW in association with M/S  Suzlon Energy Ltd. ONGC contribution towards the  project is ` 5620 million.
22 nos.
of WTG have been  installed so far.
(f) Other CSR Initiatives: i) Hortoki Water Supply Scheme: The project aims to  create a sustainable source of safe drinking water to  the people of Hortoki Village, Kolasib District,  Mizoram.
It will supply more than 40 lpcd of water till  2043.
ONGC has extended support of ` 9 million for  the project.
ii) Rajeev Gandhi International Sports Complex,  Dehradun: ONGC in association with Govt.
of  Uttarakhand is working towards  building a Cricket  stadium-cum-sports complex with a capacity of  30,000 people extendable to additional seats in  future, car parking, a sports academy, a club house or  Gymnasium, restaurant and other auxiliary facilities.
ONGC has extended financial support of ` 500 million  towards the project.
The project is expected to be  completed in two years.
77 Ashadeep-Shiksha ki Jyoti : Education to the girl child 76 (iii)  King George Hospital, Vizag: The CSR Initiative involving financial support of `150  million from ONGC aims to construct new 2+9 storied  building, medical infrastructure and equipment to  enable the Hospital to deliver quality health services  to poor patients and also strengthen the present  Oncology Department to make cancer treatment a  reality.
(iv) District Government Hospital, Chikkaballapur,  Karnataka: A support of ` 18 million by ONGC has been provided  for upgradation of facilities in the Hospital to improve  the general healthcare services at the government  Hospital which is the primary source of healthcare for  people belonging to the most economically deprived  sections of the society.
(v) Government General Hospital (GGH), Kakinada: ONGC has given financial assistance of ` 19 million to  construct a separate building for blood bank and to  equip the hospital with additional equipment for blood  bank, general surgery and general medicine  departments.
This will immensely benefit people of  East Godavari District where ONGC has a substantial  operational presence.
(vi) ONGC Mission Ujala:  The project envisages eye screening of 50,000  children in Government Schools in NCR under  National Blindness Control Programme of Govt.
of  India in collaboration with reputed NGO PRAANI.
Provisions of spectacles to 3,000 children detected  with refractive errors along with medicines were  provided under this project in FY 2013-14.
(b) Education & Vocational courses: i) Shirdi Sai Baba School in Mahoba, UP:  ONGC has joined hands with Shirdi Sai Baba Temple  Society for construction and setting up of school for  providing absolutely free education with food,  clothing, study material and healthcare to under- privileged children in the backward region of Mahoba  District under CSR initiative.
Out of total estimated  cost of ` 21 million, a part funding of ` 9.5 million has  been extended by ONGC.
ii) ONGC- The Akshaya Patra Foundation:  A centralized fully automated mechanized kitchen with  a capacity to provide mid-day meals to two lakh  school going children (enrolled in Govt.
schools)  per  day in the District  of Surat is being set up.
Presently  75,000 students are being fed from an interim kitchen.
iii) English medium residential school in Patna, Bihar: ONGC in association with Soshit Seva Sangh has  under taken a CSR initiative for suppor ting  construction of free English medium residential  school in Patna, Bihar for the poor Mushahar  community which is one of the most deprived  communities with estimated population of approx.
4 million.
Out of total estimated cost of ` 120 million,  part funding of ` 5 million has been extended by  ONGC.
With wider objective of resolving interlinked  problems of poverty, unemployment, social injustice,  crime and naxalism by means of providing inclusive  and affordable education; the project is one of the key  initiatives of ONGC in the education sector.
iv) Community School at Sitapur, Uttar Pradesh: The project is unique in terms of using the PPP model  in CSR with full Capex of ` 27 million contribution by  ONGC and Opex borne by the Operating Partner- Shanti Devi Memorial Charitable Trust.
(c) Projects for Physically and Mentally challenged i) Aids & Appliances to the physically challenged:  This flagship Project was undertaken with financial  implication of `250 million which covered 45,000  beneficiaries from 39 ONGC operational area Districts  and 61 Backward Districts in Phase-1 in collaboration  with Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation of  India (ALIMCO) to cater to the needs of Orthopedic,  hearing and visually challenged people by providing  suitable Aids and Appliances.
ii) ONGC Centre for vocational rehabilitation for the  differently abled:  A financial support of `13 million has been provided to  Tamana School of  Hope , Vasant Vihar  , New Delhi for  setting up of Autism Centre and provide vocational  training for the mentally challenged young adults and  children working for their economic rehabilitation by  teaching relevant vocational skills to them.
(d) Self help and livelihood generation schemes: i) Mokshagundam Visvesvaraya Centre for training  Master Trainers in Skill Development (MVCTMTSD): Society for Bharat Ratna Sir M Visvesvaraya National  Training Facility for Skills for All (BMV NTFSA) in  association with ONGC and other partnering  agencies such as Government of Karnataka,  Government of India, GAIL, JSW, BEML, Volvo,  BOSCH, L&T, Nationalised Banks has undertaken to  set up Mokshagundam Visvesvaraya Centre for  training Master Trainers in Skill Development  (MVCTMTSD).
The main objective of the programme  is to create Master Trainers in India and to scale-up the  skill of the technician workforce in the country.
Nearly  27,000 Master Trainers are expected to be trained in  the next 10 years.
Annual Report 2013-14 79 1956, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and  for preventing and detecting fraud and other  irregularities; and (iv) The Directors have prepared the annual accounts of  the Company on a ‘going concern’ basis.
29.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  Your Company has taken structured initiatives  towards Corporate Governance and its practices are  valued by various stakeholders.
The practices  emanate from the need to position multi-layered  checks and balances at various levels to ensure  transparency of its operations in the decision making  process.
In terms of Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement, a  report on Corporate Governance for the year ended  March 31, 2014, supported by a certificate from the  Company ’s Statutor y Auditors confirming  compliance of conditions, forms part of this Report.
ONGC has implemented the mandatory Guidelines of  Department of Public Enterprises (DPE), Government  of India, on Corporate Governance to the maximum  extent possible.
Your Company has voluntarily got its Secretarial  Compliance Audit conducted for the financial year  ended 31st March, 2014 from M/s A.N.
Kukreja& Co.,  Company Secretaries in whole-time practice; their  report forms part of this Annual Report.
In line with global practices, your Company has made  available all information, required by investors, on the  Company’s corporate website www.ongcindia.com Apart from the mandatory measures required to be  implemented as a part of Corporate Governance,  ONGC has gone the extra mile in this regard for the  benefit of its stakeholders: i. Whistle Blower Policy: A total of 27 Protected  Disclosures till date have been processed through the  Whistle Blower mechanism of ONGC which was  implemented from December 01, 2009.
The policy  ensures that a genuine Whistle Blower is granted due  protection from any victimization.
The Policy is  applicable to all employees of the Company and has  been uploaded on the intranet of the Company.
ii.
MCA Voluntar y Guidelines on Corporate  Governance: ONGC has implemented the voluntary  guidelines on Corporate Governance issued by  Ministry of Corporate Affairs to the extent feasible and  within the competency domain of the management.
iii.
Enterprise-wide Risk Management (ERM)  framework: In line with the requirements of Clause 49  (of the Listing Agreement), your Company has  developed and rolled out a comprehensive  Enterprise-wide Risk Management (ERM) Policy  throughout the organization.
The Audit, Ethics &  Financial Management Committee periodically  reviews the risk assessment and minimization  process in ONGC.
iv.
Lead Independent Director: Shri.
Arun Ramanathan  was the Lead Independent Director till conclusion of  his term on 19.06.2014.
The election of next Lead  Independent Director shall be decided by the  Independent Directors.
v. Me eting of Independent Dir ectors: The  Independent Directors met once during 2013-14.
30.
STATUTORY DISCLOSURES Section 274(1)(g) of the Companies Act, 1956 is not  applicable to the Government Companies.
Your  Directors have made necessary disclosures, as  required under various provisions of the Act and  Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement.
Particulars of Employees As per Notification No.
GSR 289(E) dated March 31,  2011 issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs,  amending provisions of the Companies (Particulars of  Employees) Rules, 1975 issued in terms of section  217(2A) of the Companies Act, 1956, it is not  necessary for Government companies to include the  particulars of employees drawing salaries of `6 million  or more per annum, employed throughout the  financial year or, `0.5 million per month, if employed  for part of the financial year.
As your company is a  Government company, the information has not been  included as a part of the Directors’ Report.
31.
ENERGY CONSERVATION The information required under section 217(1)(e) of  the Companies Act, 1956, read with  the Companies  (Disclosure of Particulars in the Report of Board of  Directors) Rules, 1988, is annexed as Annexure – ‘C’.
32.
AUDITORS The Statutory Auditors of your Company are  appointed by the Comptroller & Auditor General of  India (C&AG).
M/s Mehra Goel & Co, M/s S Bhandari &  Co, M/s Ray & Ray, M/s Varma & Varma and M/s G D  Apte & Co., Chartered Accountants were appointed  as joint Statutory Auditors for the financial year  2013-14.
The Statutory Auditors have been paid a  remuneration of `22.92 million (previous year `20.21  million) towards audit fee and certification of  Corporate Governance Report.
The above fees are  exclusive of applicable ser vice ta x and  reimbursement of reasonable travelling and out of  pocket expenses actually incurred.
33.
Auditors’ Report on the Accounts The Comments of Comptroller & Auditor General of  India (C&AG) form part of this Report as per  iii) Dashrath Stadium at Agartala: The project aims to  create an Indoor sports complex in association with  DDO Directorate of Youth Af fairs.
ONGC has  extended support of ` 243 million for the project.
iv) IIIT, Agartala: ONGC has extended support of ` 30  million for setting up a new IIIT in Agartala.
v) Chief Minister's Relief Fund: Uttarakhand: ONGC  has extended support of ` 20 million towards  rehabilitation of flood af fected regions in  Uttarakhand.
In addition to above new CSR initiatives undertaken in  2013-14, ONGC has continued to support the major  CSR interventions initiated in previous years.
Some  of the continued CSR initiatives are (i) Varisthajana  Swasthya Sewa Abhiyan – provision of health care  support to elderly through Mobile Medicare Units.
(ii)  ONGC-GICEIT Computer Centre- Employment  related computer training to under-privileged youth  (iii) ONGC-Eastern Swamp Deer Conservation  Project in Kaziranga National Park (iv) Harit Moksha –  Green cremation system to reduce wood  consumption during traditional cremations.
As a testimony to our CSR efforts, your company has  won many laurels such as:  1.
Golden Peacock Award 2013 for CSR during 8th   International Conference on Corporate Social  Responsibility-2014 2.
‘Global CSR Excellence and Leadership Awards’ for  best CSR Practices in areas of health 3.
P L Roy CSR Award on ‘International Day of Older  Persons’ for support to the elderly through its CSR  initiative ‘Varishthajana Swasthya Sewa Abhiyan’ 4.
SCOPE Meritorious Award for CSR & Responsiveness  for the year 2011-12 on the occasion of Public Sector  Day 27.
ACCOLADES Consistent with the trend in preceding years, your  Company, its various operating units and its senior  management have been recipients of various awards  and recognitions.
Details of such accolades are  placed at Annexure – ‘B’.
28.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT   Pursuant to the requirement under Section 217(2AA)  of the Companies Act, 1956, with respect to Directors’  Responsibility Statement, it is hereby confirmed that:  (i) In the preparation of the annual accounts, the  applicable accounting standards have been followed  and  there are no material  departures from the same; (ii) The Directors have selected such accounting policies  and applied them consistently and made judgements  and estimates that are reasonable and prudent, so as   to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the  Company as at 31st March, 2014 and of the profit of  the Company for the year ended on  that date; (iii) The Directors have taken proper and sufficient care for  the maintenance of adequate accounting records in  accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act,  78 Amulya Dharohar - a project to conserve and beautify the architectural marvels  Annual Report 2013-14 Place : New Delhith Date : 8  August 2014       80 On behalf of the Board of Director (Dinesh Kumar Sarraf) Chairman & Managing Director   Annexure-‘D’.
There is no qualification in the Auditors  Report and there are no supplementary comments by  C&AG under section 619(4) of the Companies Act,  1956.
Notes to the Accounts referred to in the Auditors  Report are self-explanatory and therefore do not call  for any further comments.
You would be pleased to know that your Company has  received Nil comments from C&AG and Statutory  Auditors for the year 2013-14.
This is the eighth year in  a row that the organization has received Nil comments.
34.
COST AUDIT  Seven firms of Cost Accountants were appointed as  Cost Auditors for auditing the cost accounts of your  Company for the year ended 31st March, 2014 by the  Board of Directors.
The Cost Audit Report for the year  2012-13 has been filed under XBRL mode within the  due date of filing.
35.
DIRECTORS Since the 20th Annual General Meeting held on  25.09.2013, Shri Shaktikanta Das, Government  Nominee Director resigned on 29.12.2013, Shri P K  Borthakur Director (Offshore) superannuated on  31.01.2014, Shri Sudhir Vasudeva, Chairman &  Managing Director superannuated on 28.02.2014.
The term of Dr. D. Chandrasekharam concluded on  10.03.2014 and that of Prof Deepak Nayyar and Shri  Arun Ramanathan concluded on 19.06.2014.
Shri K S  Jamestin, Director (HR) superannuated on  31.07.2014.
Shri T K Sengupta took over as Director (Offshore) on  01.02.2014.
Shri Dinesh Kumar Sarraf assumed  charge of the post of Chairman & Managing Director  on 01.03.2014.
Dr. Subhash Chandra Khuntia,  Additional Secretary & FA, Ministry of Petroleum &  Natural Gas, joined the Board as Government  nominee Director on 01.05.2014.
Shri Ashok Varma  took over the charge of Director (Onshore) on  19.06.2014 and Shri Desh Deepak Misra assumed the  charge of Director (HR) on 01.08.2014.
Shri P Umashankar and Shri S Ravi joined the Board  on 29.11.2013 and Shri R K Singh joined the Board on  23.05.2014 as non-official part-time directors  The Board places on record its deep appreciation for  the excellent contributions made by Shri Shaktikanta  Das, Shri P K Borthakur, Shri Sudhir Vasudeva, Dr. D.  Chandrasekharam, Prof. Deepak Nayyar, Shri Arun  Ramanathan and Shri K S Jamestin during their  tenure.
The strength of the Board of Directors of ONGC as on  August 5, 2014 is 15, comprising 7 Executive Directors  (Functional Directors including CMD) and 8 Non- Executive Directors, out of which two are Government  nominees and six are Independent Directors.
Ministry  of Petroleum & Natural Gas has been requested to  appoint requisite number of Independent Directors to  comply with the Listing Agreement.
36.
Acknowledgement  Your Directors are highly grateful for all the help,  guidance and support received from the Ministry of  Petroleum and Natural Gas, Ministry of Finance, DPE,  MCA, MEA, and other agencies in Central and State  Governments.
Your Directors acknowledge the  constructive suggestions received from Statutory  Auditors and Comptroller & Auditor General of India  and are grateful for their continued support and  cooperation.
Your Directors thank all share-owners, business  partners and members of the ONGC Family for their  faith, trust and confidence reposed in ONGC.
Your Directors wish to place on record their sincere  appreciation for the unstinting efforts and dedicated  contributions put in by the ONGCians at all levels, to  ensure that the Company continues to grow and  excel.
Annexure A Statement of Reserve Recognition Accounting 81 REVENUES OIL 7,734,063.16 8,365,018.68 3,910,315.59 3,802,873.44  GAS 2,873,072.70 2,562,165.68 1,542,824.81 1,061,892.70  Total Revenues 10,607,135.86 10,927,184.36 5,453,140.40 4,864,766.14  COSTS Operating, Selling & General 5,939,970.51 5,923,512.72 3,005,596.27 2,630,041.15  Corporate Tax 1,096,766.14 1,216,293.82 629,125.12 506,371.04  Sub Total 7,036,736.65 7,139,806.54 3,634,721.39 3,136,412.19  Evaluated Cost of Acquisition of  Assets,Development and  Abandonment a) Assets 276,898.40 541,735.26 115,933.69 364,859.94  b) Development 603,392.56 340,930.56 241,397.33 235,196.37  c) Abandonment 228,439.19 177,454.45 14,400.67 6,314.56  Sub Total 1,108,730.15 1,060,120.27 371,731.69 606,370.87  Total Cost 8,145,466.80 8,199,926.81 4,006,453.08 3,742,783.06  Net future earnings from Proved  Reserves 2,461,669.06 2,727,257.55 1,446,687.32 1,121,983.08  Standardised measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserve quantities as on st 31  March, 2014.
Particulars Gross Value as at Present value  (Discounted at 10%) as at st 31  March, 2014 st 31  March, 2013 st 31  March, 2014 st 31  March, 2013 Notes 1) The Revenues on account of crude oil & gas have been worked out on the basis of average price (net of profit  Petroleum) for the year 2013-14.
The average price for crude oil  is net of Discount.
2) Expenditure on Development, Acquisition of capital assets, Abandonment costs and Operating Expenditure have  been considered at current costs i.e as on on 31.03.2014.
Taxes and Levies have been considered at prevailing rates  as on 31.03.2014.
3) The reserves  have been estimated by ONGC's Reserve Estimates Committee following  the standard international  reservoir  engineering practices.
4) Only Proved Reserves of ONGC share have been considered.
Probable or Possible reserves have not been  considered.
5) Both revenues and costs have been discounted  to present value using 10% discounting factor.
The Net future  earnings, therefore, represent  the net expected future cash inflows  from production of recoverable reserves of  crude oil and gas.
6) However, neither  the estimated net reserves nor the related  present value should be taken  as a forecast of future  cash flows or value of these reserves  because (a) future estimated production schedules used in the valuation  process are subject to change, (b) up-gradation of Probable and Possible reserves would significantly affect the  gross and net present value of the expected  future cash inflows, (c) future crude oil and natural gas prices  are  subject to change and (d) future expenditure  on production (operating), development, acquisition cost of capital  assets, abandonment costs and rates  of taxes and levies, which  may be at  variance  from those assumed herein.
(` in millions) Annual Report 2013-14 Awards, Recognitions and Accreditions CMD ONGC, Mr D K Sarraf receiving the Bureaucracy Today- Star PSU Excellence Award, 2014 from  Dr Jeetendra Singh, Minister of State for Science, Technology & Earth Sciences (all independent charge).
ONGC won the coveted award for 'Excellence in Market Capitalization' among the  Maharatna and Navratna companies of India.
ONGC bagged the Oil Industry Safety Directorate award for "Best Overall Safety Performance of Oil and  Gas Onshore Assets" and "Most Consistent Safety Performer Award" for the year 2011-12.
CMD ONGC along  with Directors on Board of ONGC received the award from the Hon'ble Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas Dr  M Veerappa Moily in New Delhi at Hotel Le Meridian on 19th July, 2013 82 Annexure - B Awards, Recognitions and Accreditions Awards in Corporate Category rd 1.
Platts Top 250: ONGC retains 3  rank in E&P  Companies list ONGC maintained its Third position globally in the  industry category “Oil and Gas Exploration and  Production” and retained its overall ranking of nd 22  position in the Platts Top 250 Global Energy nd Company Rankings.
ONGC is also ranked 2  Highest  among all Energy Companies in India and has obtained th the 7  rank in the Asia/Pacific region.
The annual survey  of global energy companies by Platts measures the  financial performance using four key metrics: asset  worth, revenues, profits and return on invested capital.
All  the companies in the list have assets greater than US $5 bn.
2.
ONGC 14th most valued brand amongst Best Indian  Brands 2013 Economic Times-Brand Equity, a premier publication  on brands and advertising, has listed ONGC as  14th most valued brand in its exclusive study done  together with Inter-brand.
The study places ONGC as  the most valued brand amongst non-banking PSU and  has ranked above several popular brands like Maruti,  ITC, Axis Bank.
3.
ONGC Videsh bags 'Best PSU' award in the oil and  gas sector ONGC Videsh bagged the best PSU award in the oil  and gas sector at the Dainik Bhaskar India Pride  Awards on December 19, 2013.
4.
ONGC Videsh the most internationalized Indian  Company as per ISB Survey ONGC Videsh Ltd. has been ranked as the top Indian  company with the most global exposure, as per a  survey conducted by the Indian School of Business  (ISB) in collaboration with Brazil's Fundacao Dom  Cabral.
It replaces Tata Steel from the top slot.
In the list  of 15 most internationalized Indian companies,  predominated by private sector business concerns,  ONGC Videsh is the only public sector enterprise.
5.
ONGC bags Human Resource Management  Excellence Award 2013 ONGC was conferred with Human Resource  Management Excellence Award in the Navratna and  Maharatna category at the ICC PSE Excellence Awards  2013 on December 16, 2013.
The award for HR  Management Excellence was based on parameters  such as company's performance management system,  number of training days per employee, training  expenses as percentage of total employee cost,  succession planning, gender mix and innovative  practices to improve HR management.
6.
ONGC is the 'Best Employer' and 'Voice of Employee'  : Aon Hewitt Best Employer 2.0 India study  ONGC bagged the 'Best Employer' award and 'Voice of  Employee' award at the Aon Hewitt Best Employers  –India 2013 award function held at New Delhi on  January 15, 2014.
Aon Hewitt Best Employer 2.0 India  study was conducted across several organizations to  benchmark against the best employers across the  country, region and globe.
The study aimed at  identifying the best employers and their innovative  practices.
7.
ONGC bags 'Best Enterprise Award' for Excellence  in Women Empowerment  ONGC bagged the 'Best Enterprise Award' in the  Maharatna and Navratna category at WIPS Award of  excellence held on February 11, 2014 at Kolkata as a  part of the 24th National Convention, Forum of Women  in Public Sector (WIPS).
ONGC bagged this award  third time in a row.
8.
ONGC – Best Employer Brand : National Energy  Excellence Awards ONGC was presented the coveted award of the 'Best  Employer Brand Organization in Asia Oil & Gas Sector'  by the Asia Oil & Gas Congress at the prestigious  'National Energy Excellence Awards' held at Mumbai  on February 13, 2014.
The event was coordinated by  the Institute of Public Enterprises, Hyderabad.
9.
ONGC, ONGC Videsh and MRPL bestowed with  “Excellent” Rating for the Year 2012-13 for  Corporate Governance by DPE ONGC received “Excellent” Rating for the year 2012-13  for Compliance of Guidelines on Corporate  Governance, issued by Department of Public  Enterprises (DPE) for Central Public Sector Enterprises  (CPSEs).
ONGC has secured 100% Score in this  regard and is the only Maharatna to achieve this feat.
ONGC Videsh and MRPL have also been awarded with  “Excellent” Rating for Corporate Governance for the  year 2012-13.
10.
11.
CSR Excellence Award for ONGC for best CSR  Practices in areas of health ONGC was conferred with the 'Global CSR Excellence  and Leadership Awards' on February 17, 2014 at  ONGC Videsh gets Corporate Excellence award  both in Individual & Organisational category ONGC Videsh was conferred the Corporate Excellence  Award in Oil, Gas & Natural Resources Sector at Mumbai  on June 29, 2013.
The award has been instituted by the  Institute of Public Enterprises, Hyderabad.
Mr. D K Sarraf,  erstwhile MD-ONGC Videsh was presented the  Corporate Excellence Award for excellent corporate  governance and Mr. S P Garg, Director (Finance), ONGC  Videsh was presented Corporate Excellence in Finance  & Financial management.
83 Annual Report 2013-14 Mumbai.
ONGC was the solitary winner in the category  of 'Best CSR Practices in the Areas of Health'.
12.
ONGC secured 4 awards in “PSU Champions  Awards 2013” ONGC secured 4 awards in the categories of Asset  Utilization, and runners-up in Strategic Performance,  Human Resource Utilization and Strategic Turnaround  in the PSU Champions Awards 2013, organized by  leading magazine Governance Now.
13.
ONGC bags two OISD Awards for the year 2011-12 ONGC's Rajahmundry Asset bagged the Oil Industry  Safety Directorate (OISD)'s “Best Overall Safety  Performance of Oil and Gas Onshore Assets” and  “Most Consistent Safety Performer Award” for the year  2011-12.
In addition, JV operation at Panna gas field  between ONGC, BG and Reliance, operated by BG  India won the OISD award for “Best Production  Platform – Pvt/JV Companies” for the year 2011-12.
14.
Greentech Safety Award in Gold Category Awarded  to ONGC Corporate Fire Services  In the 12th Annual Greentech Occupational Health  Safety & Fire Conference on September 4, 2013,  ONGC Fire Services received the 12th Greentech  Safety Award in Gold category under the Petroleum  Exploration Sector for its outstanding performance.
15.
ONGC bags OGCF-13 Award ONGC won the Oil & Gas Conservation Award for Best  Overall Performance among the Upstream Sector oil  companies for the Oil & Gas Conservation campaign  efforts during OGCF-2013.
The award was given  during the inaugural function of Oil and Gas  Conservation Fortnight 2014 held on January 16, 2014  at New Delhi.
16.
ONGC secures Golden Peacock Award 2013 for  Corporate Social Responsibility ONGC received Golden Peacock Award for Corporate  Social Responsibility for 2013.
The award was given in  Bangalore during the '8th International Conference on  Corporate Social responsibility-2014', on 17th January, 2014.
17.
ONGC conferred with P L Roy CSR Award ONGC received the prestigious P L Roy CSR Award on  'International Day of Older Persons' i.e.
October 1,  2013, for its continuous support to the elderly through  its CSR initiative 'Varishthajana Swasthya Sewa  Abhiyan' in association with HelpAge India.
The P L Roy  CSR Award is given to the Corporate Houses engaged  in active and continuous CSR Support for activities  through HelpAge India in memory of the long term  contribution to HelpAge India by Mr P. L. Roy, who was a  dedicated and committed Board member of the  HelpAge India.
84 ONGC receives the HRM Excellence Award at the ICC PSE Excellence Awards 2013 18.
ONGC conferred FICCI “India's Best Sports  Promoting Company”  FICCI conferred their prestigious - India's 'Best Sports  Promoting Company' award for a second consecutive  year on ONGC.
It is the first time that FICCI has  conferred its award on the same organization in  successive years.
19.
ONGC awarded 'Most Admired Organization in Oil &  Gas Sector' by Institute of Public Enterprises.
ONGC was awarded the coveted award of the 'Most  Admired Organization in Oil & Gas Sector' by National  Energy Excellence Awards, organized  by the Institute  of Public Enterprises, Hyderabad,  held at Mumbai on  October 21, 2013.
20.
ONGC declared as the winner of the “Commendation  Certificate” of SCOPE award for Excellence and  Outstanding contribution to the Public Sector  Management – Institutional Category.
ONGC has been declare winner of the “Commendation  Certificate” of SCOPE award for Excellence and  Outstanding contribution to the Public Sector  Management – Institutional Category.
Individual Awards Shri Sudhir Vasudeva, Former CMD & Chairman ONGC  Group of companies lFeatured among the '50 Top National Oil Company  Executives 2014' published by World Oil and Gas  (TerraPinn) recently.
lConferred 'CEO of the Year' as well as 'Super Boss of the  Year' awards in the Oil & Gas Sector, by National Energy  Excellence Awards, co-ordinated by the Institute of  Public Enterprises, Hyderabad.
lConferred with the prestigious “CEO with HR  Orientation” at the IPE Asia Pacific HRM Congress  Awards at an event was organized in association with  the Institute of Public Enterprises, Hyderabad.
lDeclared winner of SCOPE Award for Excellence and  Outstanding Contribution to the Public Sector  Management –Individual Leadership Category.
l'Outstanding Leadership Award' by the Asia Oil & Gas  Congress in a ceremony held on 13.02.2014  coordinated by the Institute of Public Enterprises,  Hyderabad.
lShri Sudhir Vasudeva and Former ONGC Chairmen Col  S P Wahi and Mr B C Bora were conferred the 'Energy  and Environment Foundation Global Excellence  Awards – 2014' in the Petroleum Sector.
The Award was  conferred at the 3rd World Petrocoal Congress held at  New Delhi on February 15, 2014.
Shri D K Sarraf ex-MD, ONGC Videsh was conferred  with CEPM-PMA Fellowship Award 2013 on 02.12.2013  by Project Management Associates (PMA - India),  member of Internal Project Management Association  (IPMA).
Shri K S Jamestin, Ex-Director (HR & I/C BD&JV)  lConferred the prestigious HR Leadership Award at the  Asia Pacific HRM Congress  in September, 2013.
Also  presented Citation for 'Most Powerful HR Professional  of India' and '30 Best HR Leaders in PSUs' in the same  event.
lConferred Level –A Certification , i.e.
Certified Projects  Director by the International Project Management  Association  (IPMA) in January, 2014. lConferred with two prestigious honours  - The JRD Tata  Award for Inspirational Leadership in HR and '50 Most nd Talented Global HR Leaders in Asia', during the 22  th  edition of the World HRD Congress  in Mumbai on 16 February, 2014.
Mr. K L Mehrotra, Head of ONGC Academy was bestowed  with 'Outstanding Contribution to Education in Oil & Gas  Sector' award.
National Honours for ONGC Fire Personnel, on  Independence day, 2013  ONGC Fire Services personnel, Shri Sanjeev Kapoor, Chief  Manager (Fire Services), RO, Mumbai, Mr M K Shami,  Senior Fire Officer, Cauvery Asset, Karaikal and Mr S J  Gharat, Chief Fireman, RO, Mumbai have received the  National Honours for meritorious service announced by the  President of India on the occasion of Independence  Day, 2013.
ONGC Fire Service officers bestowed with Fire  Services Medal Four of ONGC Fire Service officers Shri H.S.
Sahu,  Manager (Fire Service), Shri M.M.
Deb Burma, Senior Fire  Officer, Shri B.S.
Choudhary, Chief Fireman and Shri R.L.
Makwana, Chief Fireman, have been bestowed with Fire  Services Medal for their meritorious services by the  Government of India on the occasion of Republic Day.
Sports Achievements FY'14 1.
Amit Kumar wins Senior Asian Wrestling Championship ONGCian Amit Kumar, backed by his experience of  London Olympics, defeated Kyong II Yang, an  Olympics bronze medallist of North Korea 1-0, 5-2 to  claim the gold medal in the 55kg freestyle category in  Senior Asian Wrestling Championship held at New  Delhi on April 20, 2013.
2.
National Accolades for ONGCians - Four 'Arjuna  Awards'  Four ONGCians, Rupesh Shah (Billiards), Virat Kohli  (Cricket), Amit Kumar Saroha (Athletics) and Rajkumari  Rathore (Shooting), were conferred with the 'Arjuna  Award' for the year 2013, in a traditional ceremony held  85 Annual Report 2013-14 at the Rashtrapathi Bhavan on August 31, 2013.
ONGC  bagged 4 of the 15 awards on offer.
?
Ronjan Sodhi, another ONGCian, was conferred the  Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award for his outstanding  achievements in sports.
3.
Double delight for ONGC Chess Team Koneru Humpy won the recently concluded Tashkent  Grand Prix with back-to back successes.
She also won  the second Women's FIDE Grand Prix and the  Armenian Grand Prix held at Dilijan Armenia.
With the  back to back success in the two grand prix events,  Humpy has enhanced her chances to qualify for the  ultimate world title match.
?
Another ONGCian – 19 year old Grand Master Vidit  Gujarathi  became the first ONGC scholarship player to  win a World Junior Chess Championship medal when  he held eventual champion Yu Yangyi of China to a draw  in the 13th and penultimate round to finish third in  Kocaeli, Turkey on September 26, 2013.
4.
Double Title for Team ONGC in Badminton ONGC Badminton team has recently won both PSPB  and AIPSSPB Badminton tournament hosted by EIL at  Sri Fort stadium (New Delhi) from September 23-27,  2013 and All India Public Sector Sports Promotion  Board (AIPSSPB) Badminton Tournament by LIC at  Green Park Stadium (Kanpur) from October 4-8, 2013.
5.
ONGC lifts AIPSSPB Hockey Trophy ONGC beat IOC in an enthralling Finale of the All India  Public Sector Sports Promotion Board (AIPSSPB)  Hockey Tournament at Amritsar on October 6, 2013  hosted by ONGC and held from October 1-6, 2013 at  the Guru Nanak Dev University Hockey Ground in  Amritsar.
6.
ONGCian Abhijeet Tikkha 'shoots' to fame ONGCian Dr. Abhijeet Tikkha, Manager (MM) won two  Gold medals in Rapid Fire Pistol (Individual) and Center  Fire Pistol (Individual) at the 12th Uttarakhand State  Rifle Championship 2013 organized at the Jaspal Rana  Shooting Range in Dehradun.
7.
ONGCian Alok Kumar dazzles with Silver & Bronze  in the World Billiards Championship, UK ONGCian Alok Kumar put up sterling performance to  bag his first ever Silver medal in the 150 points-up short  format World Billiards championship held at the  Northern Snooker Centre, Leeds, UK from 20-30  October, 2013.
8.
Young ONGC Shooter Excelled at International  Shooting Event Shooter Miss Shriyanka Sadangi, a scholarship player  of ONGC has  shown splendid performance in the   recently held Asian Air Gun Shooting Championship at  Tehran, Iran and won the Bronze medal in the 10 m Air  Rifle (women team event).
She was a part of Junior  Indian Shooting team.
9.
Ace shooter Shagun Chowdhary wins gold at  National Championships Shagun Chowdhary of ONGC won a Gold and Silver  medal in the recently concluded 57th National  Shooting Championship at the Dr Karni Singh Range,  Tughlakabad.
Shagun clinched the National title in the  Single trap event while she finished second in the  Double trap at the premier championships.
10.
ONGC Chess Player Sethuraman wins International  Grand Masters Chess Tournament; Vidit finishes 3rd Grand Master S. P. Sethuraman of ONGC won the  Second International Grand Masters Chess Tournament rd organized at Hyderabad while vidit finished 3 .
11.
ONGC beats National Champion in PSU Volleyball  Hosts ONGC beat Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) to  clinch the Volleyball title in the All India Public Sector  Volleyball tournament (2013-14) held at the Jawaharlal  Nehru Stadium, Chennai.
12.
ONGCians Pankaj Advani (Snooker) and Sourav  Kothari (Billiards) become national champions Pankaj Advani of ONGC beat Kamal Chawla of  Railways to clinch his 6th National Snooker Title on  March 7, 2014.
Earlier, fellow ONGCian Sourav Kothari  won his maiden National Billiards Title defeating  teammate Alok Kumar in a tightly contested final.
13.
ONGCians bring Sporting Glory to ONGC at  National Championship track & field Ms Purnima Sarma bagged Silver medals in 200 mtrs  and 1500 mtrs run and one Bronze medal in 5000 mtrs th run in the 35 National Master's Athletic Championships-  2014 held at Jaipur (Feb 20-23, 2014).
14.
ONGC bags 3rd position at the 38th National  Badminton Championship rd  Mrs. Manjeet Sharma bagged 3 position in women's th  doubles in the 38 Indian Masters National Badminton  Championship organised by Madhya Pradesh  Badminton Association, BHEL & BDBA at Bhopal from  Feb 28- March 2, 2014.
86 Annexure - C A.
ENERGY CONSERVATION  The following measures were taken towards energy  conservation during 2013-14 lProcurement concluded for 2 X 250 KVA Gas Gen Set  for installation at CBM site.
The 1st such set to run with  CBM i.e.
alternate fuel.
The Gas Gen sets are under  commissioning lGas flaring in Onshore Assets has gradually been  reduced from 555 MMSCM in 2001-02 to 126.211  MMSCM in 2013-14 by taking various measures like  creating necessary infrastructure i.e.
pipelines,  compressors direct marketing of isolated low volume  and low pressure gas and adopting innovative  measures such as GTW (Gas to Wire) lBi-fuel Technology successfully inducted as a pilot  project in Rig E-1400-17 in Malleswaram field.
Based on  Malleswaram field gas composition and varying power  pack load, diesel substitution was in the range of  35~45%.
Minimum savings of 30 ltrs~60 ltrs/hr/power  pack operation on Bi fuel Mode  l133 Nos.
of LED based street light fixtures have been  installed to replace 250 W HPSV & 70 W HPSV light  fixtures in KDMIPE l623 no’s of energy efficient light fixtures introduced  (LED Based and 28W T5-Tube light fixtures) in All  New/Renovation/Revamping Electrical works in  KDMIPE lLED based KDMIPE Signage board was installed and  commissioned in place of NEON Signage board lElectrical Load Power Factor has been maintained at  0.99 of Electricity supplied by UPCL at 33 kV Substation  and up to 0.92 of DG Sets through APFC (Automatic  Power Factor Correction) Panel lGEOPIC has taken several measures to induct energy  efficient servers, workstation, thin clients, disk storage  systems and single channel stereoscopic projection lLOI has been placed to replace 20 Nos.
of conventional  street light fittings (150W HPSV) with 90W LED light  fittings lContinued replacement of the existing conventional  fluorescent tube light fittings with energy efficient T-5  type fluorescent fittings with electronic ballasts on  failure and need basis lAll three transformers at IRS are optimally loaded so as  to increase transformer efficiency taking cognizance of  seasonal variation in temperature  lUran Plant upgraded GT-II with new technology  components having better metallurgy, providing  desired benefits on a sustainable basis lUran Plant has installed VAM based AC system of Co- generation Plant instead of conventional AC system  that is in continuous operation and meeting desired  cooling requirements of all sophisticated control  system components of power plant control room.
This  has resulted in saving of 61320 units lHazira Plant has revamped central AC plant of Admn  Building including replacement of 25 years old  reciprocating chiller unit & single screen Air Handling  Units (AHU) with latest technology of Screw Chillers &  Variable Frequency Drive (VFD) controlled Double  Screen l210 energy audits have been carried out against a  target of 195 B. Renewable energy developments:  l2 KW Solar Photo-Voltaic Power Plant for lighting of  garden in front of the main KDMIPE building has been  commissioned lInstallation of 20 Nos.
of Solar Street Light poles with 2 x  11W CFL fittings lInstalled 12 kw Solar power plant for main library at IRS lAll Assets in Onshore are installing solar LED street  lights in colonies and some installations.
8 Nos.
of solar  water heater have been installed in Ankleshwar colony.
Rajahmundry Asset is processing a proposal for  installing 1 MW solar plant   Impact of measures for reduction of energy  consumption and consequent impact on the cost of  production of goods The Energy conservation and renewable energy  development measures have resulted significant  savings.
Further the above measures have resulted in  reduction of significant quantity of fuel consumption  (HSD, Natural Gas and electricity).
C. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT  1.
Specific areas in which R&D was carried out lCBM prospectivity of Purnea Basin, West Bengal and  Bihar was taken up during the year.
Purnea basin has  substantial sub-surface reserves of Gondwana coals.
The project was taken up during 2013-14 in sync with  the ongoing drilling for conventional hydrocarbon in the  basin to assess its CBM potential in terms of resource  and area(s) of interest  lIdentification of suitable chemical methodology for  improving flow assurance of waxy/asphaltic crude oils  in down hole tubular as well as in transportation lines lDesigning of suitable chemical formulations for water  shut-off / profile modification for arresting water  production/ improving sweep efficiency in oil & gas  wells in various Indian oil fields lAnalysis of sub-surface samples to generate PVT  87 Annual Report 2013-14 parameters for reservoir engineering calculation and  prediction lPerformance analysis of different Indian Oil/Gas fields  for optimum exploitation lDetermination of Rock Mechanical parameters on core  samples from fields of KG-PG and A&AA at variable  temperature and pressure.
Change in the velocity with  pressure and temperature and its effect on rock  mechanical parameters were parameters were  observed lField implementation of various MEOR processes  in  huff-n-puff mode in the different fields like Mehsana and  Ankleshwar area of ONGC.
The Jobs includes Paraffin  Degrading Bacterial (PDB) Job in tubular, mitigation of  Wax deposition problem and application of microbial  process in heavy crude oil and core flood experiments  using bacterial consortium lSoftware development using CUDA-GPU Technology lFormulation of drilling fluid for HPHT application with  different weighing   material in line with envisaged  perspective plan -2030 lField support services for framing drilling fluid policies  for Hi-tech wells as and when proposed by different  Asset and Basin lFeasibility study of using oil field effluent for preparation  of mud and brine lIdentification and framing of specification for LTSOBM  additives lEvaluation of mud chemicals in clay free mud system lFormulating suitable mud system for drilling  developmental wells of Malleswaram field, and  formulating an alternative mud system to RL-CL mud  system in use for drilling HTHP wells lOptimization of KCl percentage in KCl-PHPA-Polymer- Polyol mud system lDevising a suitable mud system with lower mud weight  to drill the depleted formation of Gandhar Field to avoid  formation damage as much as possible lOne dimensional geo mechanical model and well bore  stability for C-24 and B-12 cluster fields lBorehole analysis of problematic wells in Tapti-Daman  area, CK and B-170 areas lTo suggest mud weight window for drilling high angle  wells through Raghavapuram shale of Kaikalur and /  Malleshwaram Field lIdentification of suitable technology for drilling true  vertical wells in highly dipping formations of Silchar area lStrategy for implementing cutting edge technology-  Managed Pressure Drilling (MPD) in suitable areas of  Agartala, ONGC for augmenting road map envisaged  in Perspective Plan-2030 lWell Planning for (i) well MNAE (TD-1400m) of  Rajasthan Forward Base (ii) deep exploratory well  KPBC (TD-4500m) of Cauvery Asset (iii) Sidetrack well  BRH # 47 in Borholla field of A&AA Basin (iv) well #  Diamante-1 in RC-10 Block of Colombia Offshore, (TD- 3600m, Water depth-1150m) (v) deep exploratory well  PDAC (TD-4850m) of Cauvery Asset.
(vi) well RGS#17  of Naga Thrust Area of Assam Asset (vi) Well # Rubi-1  in RC-8 Block of Colombia Offshore (TD-2450m, Water  depth-210m).
(vii) well NCAC of Cauvery Asset (viii)  well TAAE (TD-3600m) of Cauvery Asset (ix) Well #  Amatista-1 in RC-8 Block of Colombia Offshore (TD- 3300m, Water depth-410m) (x) un-named location of  Cauvery Asset lDrill Bit Optimization for top hole section in Sarupathar/  Koraghat area of A&AA Basin lSuitable Drill Bit selection for major fields of Assam  Asset Sibsagar lDesigning of cementing system for ISC wells of  Mehsana lRemedial action to avoid annular activity in light of  experience in well no.VJH1_Z lCementation against fractured basement in wells of  Khoraghat lDetailed techno-economic solutions to control total  mud loss for successful liner cementation in D_11 field  lCasing cementation methodology against ultra- shallow gas problem in North Tapti field  lAnalysis of poor CBL/VDL response vs. injectivity at  well ALIABET # 5 lRemedial gel cementing solution for water shut off jobs lBenefits derived as result of above R&D: The R&D projects undertaken by your Company  facilitated speedier and effective E&P activities of the  Company.
lExpenditure on Research & Development  Note: Previous year figure has been regrouped in view of  preparation of accounts under Revised Schedule VI.
88 2012-132013-14 Capital 213.31 118.66 Recurring 5,296.06 5263.16 Total 5,509.37 5381.82 Total R&D  Expenditure as a percentage of Total Turnover 0.66% 0.65% (` in million) D. Technology absorption and adaptation lUltrasound stimulation treatment was implemented in 7  identified wells in Nandasan, North Kadi & Jotana fields  of Mehsana Asset as per Contract agreement with M/S  Quantum Application Hydrocarbon Mumbai, on “no  cure no payment basis”.
Production from all stimulated  wells is under observation for incremental benefits lVFD (Variable Frequency Drive) installed for the 1st time  to control SPM of SRP as per the productivity of well in  place of conventional units where the drive motor runs at  50 cycles/second.
The use of VFD will result in  substantial reduction of power consumption in SRPs  along with reduction in maintenance and consumption  of V-belts lMehsana Asset has initiated an innovative system to  produce heavy viscous crude oil from heavy fields by  injecting chemical at the sand face for improved flow  assurance.
Such sand-face chemical dozing  completions have been completed in 11 wells with  encouraging results & increase in production lIn Ankleshwar Asset, new generation polymer gel  system developed by IRS for high temperature of  Gandhar field was used for water shutoff in well G#681.
Post job the well flowed with oil gain of 55m3/d with  water cut of 0.6%.
lRapid Setting Fluid (RSF pill) Loss control material was  used in well N12#3Z & HG# 6H of Mumbai offshore  that yielded encouraging results.
lSolution to Gassed out in-situ combustion EOR wells of  Mehsana by Polymer cement technology lField implementation of weighted spacer in oil well  cementation was successfully field implemented in  respect of preparation and placement of spacer in well  RODJ of Agartala Asset.
Ready for further field  implementation in SADE E. Information regarding imported technology for the  last five years S.No.
Technology Imported Year of         Import A (i) Latest releases of Landmark/ Hampson Russell/ Jason/ GeoQuest/ Paradigm/ Midland  Valley/ GOCAD/Drill Works/ Petromod/ Kingdom suite/ OpendTect/ PANSYSTEM &  PANMESH Interpretation Software installed Unlimited site specific license of PANSYSTEM s/w for all ONGC offices within corporate  deal and 3 licenses of PANMESH s/w under corporate license from M/s EPS 100% corporate licensing of Geoframe/ Petrel s/w from M/s GeoQuest and corporate  AMC has been finalised 100% corporate licensing of Paradigm interpretation s/w and corporate AMC has been  finalised RokDoc software (1D/ 2D/ 3D / Chronoseis) from M/s ICON SCIENCE has been inducted  in GEOPIC IES Basin Modelling Technology Auto Counting FT system Landmark’s R5000 software was successfully installed in Linux Based workstation Pipe conveyed logging system.
(ii) Continuous Flow Isotope Ratio Mass Spectrometer (CF-IRMS) COREVAL-30 SKUA software from M/s Paradigm Fugro Jason Work Bench Software SATA-II disks based SAN storage systems PERISCOPE (iii) 3D Visualisation Centre The Fluid Eval Induction of CRAM software from M/s Paradigm Induction of Geo-science core system and seismic interpretation module of petrel  software from M/s Geoquest Systems B.V.
Induction of MATLAB Software from M/s Designtech Systems Ltd. l 2009-10 l l l l l l l l l 2010-11 l l l l l l 2011-12 l l l l 89 Annual Report 2013-14 Petrel software for Processing of seismic data from M/s Geoquest Systems B.V. Multi-Component Seismic Survey - 3D – 3C TuffTRAC- a new generation wire line-conveyed tractor, used for carrying out perforations Ultra HP/HT TCP-DST to test wells in very High temperature & Pressure conditions having  temperatures beyond 450°F RF Safe perforating System (iv) Sm-Nd Dating facility to date hard rocks like Igneous and metamorphic.
It is also helpful in  ascertaining the provenance age in sedimentary rocks and correlation of reservoir lithology (v) Radial 3D Saturn Probe-used for pressure measurements, downhole fluid analysis and  fluid sampling in extremely low mobility reservoir sections.
Radial Cutter Torch (RCT) used to  retrieve the 3 ½” tubing which is clamped with ESP  cable in 9 5/8” casing.
The thermal Generator System initiates the RCT tool and directs  the molten plasma for cutting the pipe.
Multi sample porosimeter-Permeameter KEYPHI-used for measurement of petrophysical  parameters at variable confining pressure.
UV-Vis Spectrophotometer Lambda-35 (PerkinElmer) is useful in the genetic correlation,  depositional environment and maturity of crude oils and source sequences.
Thermo Fisher Nicolet iS5 FT-IR Spectrophotometer used for the study of structural  group analysis of complex hydrocarbon mixtures, genetic correlation of crude oils &  bitumens and oil shale &kerogen analysis.
The e-Permit system to Work (PTW):offers the distinct advantage of a standardized PTW  template across the organization and ensures faster permit access to the end user.
Air Hammer Drilling-used for the first time in ONGC in well  Jabera-3, Vindhyan Basin.
The technology is based on the under balanced drilling and has an option for change- over to conventional mud system to meet the operational, safety and testing requirements B Has the technology been fully absorbed?
Yes C If not fully absorbed, areas where this has not taken place, reasons thereof, and future  plans of action applicable l l l l l l 2012-13 l 2013-14 l l l l l l Not F. Information on Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo (` in millions) 2013-14 2012-13 Foreign Exchange Earnings 74,889.85 74,723.38 Foreign Exchange Outgo 1,83,728.64 182,446.11 90 G. Environment Protection and Conservation,  ecological conservation, Renewable energy  developments Alternate sources of energy ONGC, has taken the initiative to evaluate various  forms of energy to fulfill the country’s growing energy  needs.
ONGC, through ONGC Energy Center  (OEC), a trust established by ONGC, is actively  pursuing alternate  energy opportunities.
OECT is  mandated to undertake and assist in programs/  projects of fundamental and applied research for  improving and developing commercially viable energy  mediums and sources beyond hydrocarbons,  especially in clean and/or renewable energy options.
ONGC Energy Centre has been implementing  Research projects in several new and alternative  sources of energy in collaboration with various  national and international academic, research and  industrial organizations.
These Projects are in  advanced stages of implementation.
During 2013- 14, ONGC Energy Centre has evaluated new options  to expand the research and technology development  activities and also to focus on optimum utilization of  resources available with ONGC.
Some of the  significant initiatives in developing alternate sources  of energy are: Generation of Hydrogen through Thermochemical  Processes: OECT is working on development of high  temperature themochemical processes for  decomposition of water, utilizing waste nuclear  and/or solar heat.
From amongst various possible  options, development of closed-loop Copper- Chlorine (Cu-CI) and closed/partially open-loop  iodine-Sulphur (I-S) cycles have been selected,  which require high temperatures (550-900 C) and  water to produce hydrogen.
Currently, as Institute of  Chemical Technology (ICT), Mumbai, is working on  development of laboratory scale engineering  process using a modified Cu-CI cycle to demonstrate  hydrogen generation @ 25 litres per hour.
The initial  design and fabrication of indigenous reactor has  been completed.
The complete close loop process  is likely to be demonstrated shortly.
In addition, proof-of-principle experiments of entire I- S cycle have been completed at IIT, Delhi.
Several  options for modifying the existing routes of I-S cycle  including development of partially open-loop I-S  cycle H2S splitting process are being investigated.
Three International patents on modified Cu-CI cycle,  applicable for six countries (USA, Canada, Japan,  Germany, Korea and China) have been filed jointly by  OEC and ICT-Mumbai.
Geothermal Power Project in Cambay Basin Geothermal energy can be harnessed by extracting  heat from earth by drilling water or steam wells.
OEC  has contemplated a pilot scale Geothermal  collaborative Pilot Project in Cambay Basin, Western  India with M/s.
Talboom, Belgium( as technology  partner).
The subsurface heat modelling  has  estimated high geothermal gradient.
The initial result  of the modelling has also estimated that approx.
2.1MWe geothermal power generation capacity can  be set up in Phase-I.
OEC has started preliminary  work to evaluate feasibility of geothermal power  generation using a single well with a view to utilize  abandoned / non-flowing high temperature wells.
Kinetic Hydro Power Project ONGC Energy Center has  entered into an  agreement with M/S Natural Power Concepts(NPC),  Hawaii, USA  for the project on Kinetic Hydro Power  Generation in Rivers/Water Channels/Tail races of  Dams.
Floating turbines can be used to harness the  kinetic energy of flowing streams or tail race of  existing dams to generate electricity.
NPC has  recently developed in-stream Auger Turbine (IAT) for  trials in Indian conditions.
Performance evaluation of  a 20.5 feet IAT prototype has been completed by  NPC.
Testing has been done at 6 different speeds in  the range of 8.3 Km/hr-12.5 km/hr at 65%  submergence.
The power generation capacity in  reported to be the range of 5 Kw to 14.3 Kw.
During 2013-14 NPC has made further changes for  optimization of the design and a 38 ft IAT has been  deigned, which is capable of giving output power in  120-200 kW range.
OEC team along with NPC  representative has identified a site as the tail race of  Kolkewadi Dam at Pedambe in Maharashtra.
Permissions to conduct the testing at this site has  been obtained from Dam authorities.
In addition, CFD simulation studies have been  conducted by OEC to explore the possibility of  increasing the water velocity in an open water  channel, using an appropriately designed floating  weir structure.
Bioconversion of Coal  to Methane Project  There are many coal/lignite seams, which cannot be  mined due to various reasons.
There are several  types of microbes, acting in tandem (as a consortia),  which can generate methane from such coal/lignite  and oil.
A unique consortium of microbes is required  for each coal seam/oil reservoir.
Research is  underway to identify the specific consortia that can  act on different seams/reservoirs.
OEC had taken the initiative to undertake research  on development of biotechnological process for  conversion of lignite/coal to methane gas and  produce humic acid as a by-product which can act as  a soil nutrient.
A collaborative project with IIT Kharagpur to generate  methane and humic acid from lignite in surface  conditions as well as in-situ has recently concluded.
91 Annual Report 2013-14 The biotechnology for production of methane and  humic acid from lignite has been developed in the  laboratory.
The laboratory experiments have  reported maximum yield of 9.6 L/Kg of biogas with  47% methane content and initial lag of 11-14 days,  with fungal pre-treatment.
At pilot reactor level the  output has been increased to 12.2 L/Kg of lignite  used.
Maximum yield of 27% humic acid was  achieved with fungal strains in incubation period of  15020 days.
Successful field test have been  conducted with Humic acid on Zea mays & Brinjal.
Bioconversion of  Oil to Methane Project  Currently available oil recovery techniques can  extract about 40% of existing oil resources, leaving  the remainder stranded in mature fields.
Therefore, it  is very important to develop technologies to improve  the recovery from the existing oil reservoirs.
Apart  from employing other improved and enhanced  recover y techniques, one of the probable  approaches is to convert the unrecovered reservoir  oil to methane gas in-situ.
In case of reservoirs,  where methane producing microbes (methanogens)  are already present, the process of methane  generation could also possibly be stimulated by  providing suitable nutrients to enhance metabolic  activity of the microorganisms.
In any case  reservoirs devoid of methanogens can always be  seeded with appropriate microbes and nutrients.
It is  not possible to recover all oil from any well.
OEC is currently working on a project to develop  microbial consortium/consortia, which can convert  residual oil to methane under harsh reservoir  conditions, such as high temperature and high  pressure.
Under this project OEC will conduct in  house research to isolate/develop thermophilic,  anaerobic methanogenic bacterial consortium  capable of producing methane gas using oil as  carbon substrate.
Thereafter, it is proposed to  otimize the process of methane gas production form  oil using the isolated/developed methanogenic  bacterial consortium.
This research work is to be  carried out in ONGC laboratories at KDMIPE,  Dehradun.
Solar Thermal Project ONGC Energy Center is currently working on field  performance of Solar Thermal dish stirling Engine  System developed by a US Company.
Three units,  which generate grid quality AC electricity of 230V,  50HZ, are installed & operational at Solar Energy  Center of Ministry of New and renewable Energy at  Gurgaon.
Each Engine along with their linear  alternator is producing upto 2.2 KW peak Power at  solar insolation of around 750 W/m2.
Uranium Exploration Project ONGC Energy Center is currently engaged in a  exploration program for identification of uranium  prospects, suitable for exploitation by “In Situ  Leaching” (ISL).in collaboration with Atomic Minerals  Directorate for Exploration and Research (AMD), the  exploratory arm of Department of Atomic Energy,  Government of India.
OEC has initially identified four  regions, with presence of Uranium in excess of 50  ppm.
ONGC has successfully completed 10  parametric wells in Cauvery and KG basins at  identified locations, cored and logged for Spectral  Gamma Ray for confirmations of the presence of  Uranium.
The cores, recovered from zones of  interest, are analyzed in laboratories through  geological, geochemical and radiological methods,  for determining the actual uranium concentration  and its leachability.
During 2013-14 OEC started a project to drill 7  parametric wells in Suket region in Rajasthan.
Five  wells were completed during the year.
Initial results  indicate Uranium concentration of about 208 ppm at  270 metres depth, with 90% leachability in Jhalawar  High-II and maximum concentration of about 400  ppm at a depth of about 440 m in suket area.
R&D  ef for ts are also underway to develop ISL  methodology for subsequent exploitation of uranium  resources.
92 Annexure D COMMENTS OF THE COMPTROLLER AND AUDITOR GENERAL OF INDIA UNDER SECTION  619 (4) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 1956 ON THE ACCOUNTS OF OIL AND NATURAL GAS  CORPORATION LIMITED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2014 93 The preparation of financial statements of Oil & Natural Gas Corporation Limited for the year ended 31 March 2014 in  accordance with the financial reporting framework prescribed under the Companies Act, 1956 is the responsibility of the  management of the company.
The statutory auditors appointed by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India under  Section 619 (2) of the Companies Act, 1956 are responsible for expressing opinion on these financial statements under  section 227 of the Companies Act, 1956 based on independent audit in accordance with the standards on auditing  prescribed by their professional body the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
This is stated to have been done by  them vide their Audit Report dated 29 May, 2014.
I, on the behalf of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, have conducted a supplementary, audit under section 619  (3) (b) of the Companies Act, 1956 of the financial statements of Oil & Natural Gas Corporation Limited for the year ended  31st March, 2014.
On the basis of my audit nothing significant has come to my knowledge which would give rise to any  comment upon or supplement to Statutory Auditors report under section 619 (4) of the Companies Act, 1956.
For and on the behalf of the Comptroller & Auditor General of India Sd/- Parama Sen Principal Director of Commercial Audit & ex-officio Member, Audit Board - II, Mumbai Place : Mumbai Date : 8 July, 2014 Annual Report 2013-14 ENERGY OF INDIA Management Discussion & Analysis Report Corporate Governance Report Auditor’s Certificate On Corporate Governance A Group Gathering Station : Enhancing production 1.
Global Economy 2013, globally, was a year of recovery, consolidation  and fundamental resilience.
The year and the early  part of 2014 leading upto the first calendar quarter was  marked by decidedly distinctive patterns of economic  growth across the major economic blocks of the globe  that contrasted with the growth trajectories observed  in 2012 and early 2013.
If the world economy post-2008 right until 2012 was  largely characterized by the robust growth in the  emerging economies, achieved in an environment of  economic rehabilitation in the more advanced  countries, then 2013 marked the re-emergence of the  high-income or developed economies as significant  contributors to global growth and the recalibration of  growth prospects of the emerging or developing  economies to more realistic levels.
2014;World Bank Global Economic Prospect June  2014) Looking ahead, global growth is projected to  strengthen from 3 percent in 2013 to 3.6 percent in  2014 and 3.9 percent in 2015.
In advanced economies,  growth is expected to increase to about 2¼ percent in  2014–15, an improvement of about 1 percentage point  compared with 2013 – with the US, EU and Japan set to  expand in sync for the first time since 2010.
(Reference: IMF World Economic Outlook April 2014) Despite their relatively less buoyant and flatter growth  profiles compared to the boom years, the emerging  markets will continue to be the mainstay in terms of  contributing to absolute growth and one of the critical  indicators of global economic health.
Growth in  emerging markets and developing economies is  projected to pick up gradually from 4.7 percent in 2013  to about 5 percent in 2014 and 5¼ percent in 2015,  with growth in emerging Asia remaining the most  robust.
In China, growth is projected to remain at about 7½  percent in 2014 as the authorities seek to rein in credit  and advance reforms while ensuring a gradual  transition to a more balanced and sustainable growth  path.
China has been the lodestar for the global  economy for the better part of the last decade;  however, as we enter a period of more circumspect,  conservative and internally-oriented (private led  consumption instead of state-backed investment)  Chinese economic growth, the outlook for Asian  regional markets, and the world, by extension is likely  to be less-exuberant than it would have been with a  China on surge.
(Reference: IMF World Economic  Outlook April 2014) India, for the second successive year, registered a  below 5 percent GDP growth rate at 4.7 percent in  2013 – just a marginal improvement over the decadal  low growth rate of 4.5 percent from the previous year.
Decelerating growth compounded further by a  depreciating rupee and acute inflationary pressures  have combined to make the country’s fiscal deficit  situation a matter of serious concern.
Since falling to  an all-time low of 68.36 against the US dollar on August  28, 2013 the rupee has, in recent times, retraced to  more manageable levels (at ` 60.12/USD on June 18,  2014) – but the currency is far from trading in a stable  range as global macroeconomic climate, especially  the fiscal and policy situation in the US is still  discovering its right dynamic and balance.
Although the weak currency did benefit exporters, it  was not enough to lift the overall economy.
Also, the  country’s increasing reliance on energy imports,  particularly crude oil, for its domestic energy needs  has widened the current account deficit.
However, the  Management Discussion and Analysis Report The US and the Eurozone provided significant impetus  to the global economy on the back of domestic  demand, improved labour market conditions and  favourable market policies as post-crisis remedial  interventions made their impact on economic health.
The global economy grew at a rate of 3 percent in 2013  backed by a stronger half growth at       percent with  much of the pickup, as already mentioned, being  accounted for by advanced economies especially US  whose economy grew 3¼ percent in the second half of  2013.
In contrast, the economic engines of countries like  China and India decelerated, to an extent, on account  of reshuffling of economic priorities, for the former, and  domestic capacity constraints and an unflattering  investment outlook which led to capital flight, for the  latter.
In emerging markets and developing economies  growth for 2013 was flat at 4.7 percent, marking  the second straight year of sub-5 percent growth.
(Reference: IMF World Economic Outlook April  97 Real GDP Growth (%Y-o-Y) 2012 2013 2014 2015 -2 0 2 4 6 8 10 -2 0 2 4 6 8 10 Real GDP Growth (% Y-o-Y) Emerging Market and Developing  Economies growth is expected to rise in the next couple of years;  5.4 percent in 2014 and 6.4 percent in 2015 – spurred  by the rise in global demand, improvement in domestic  consumption and a greater thrust on reforming and  rejuvenating the country’s business and economic  parameters after two sub-optimal years.
(Reference:  www.rbi.gov.in, IMF World Economic Outlook April  2014) Latin America and Caribbean is expected to register  only moderate economic activity as GDP is anticipated  to weaken to 2.5 percent in 2014 from an already  subdued growth rate of 2.7 percent in 2013 before  recovering to close to 3 percent growth in 2015.
In the  Middle East and North Africa, regional growth is  projected to rise moderately in 2014–15.
Most of the  recovery is due to the oil-exporting economies, where  high public spending contributes to buoyant non-oil  activity in some economies and oil supply difficulties  are expected to be partly alleviated in others.
Near- term and medium term outlook for most of Russia and  the CIS region has been dented by the strong  geopolitical ramifications which were the results of the  Russia-Ukraine stand-off over the annexation of  Crimean region by the former.
(Reference: IMF World  Economic Outlook April 2014) The emerging market economies have also suffered  from the gradual normalization of monetary policies–  most notably the easing of US $85 billion a month bond  buying program in the US –and the waning of the  recessionary strains in the developed markets.
This  has contributed to increased investor restraint in terms  on a surer footing as 2013 ended.
But the optimism  that the economic revival of 2013 fostered was quickly  weighed down by the Crimean crisis and then the  civilian crisis in Iraq, both of which are ongoing  concerns in the global arena.
These events ensured  the presence of strong countervailing geopolitical and  regional forces which have resulted in a bumpy ride for  the economy in 2014.
So, global economic conditions, while looking  healthier on a more broad-based mend, courtesy the  resurgence of the developed economies, will have to  continue to contend with uncertainties and upheavals  of many different stripes.
Also, the flagging growth  rates accompanied by the dampened investment  climates in the emerging economies, which still are  responsible for more than two-thirds of global growth,  continue to weigh the future outlook down with a fair  degree of uncertainty.
As it stands, the road to  complete recovery may be a more protracted one than  may currently seem.
2.
Global Energy Landscape: The global energy landscape too has developed its  own distinctive strains to keep in step with the evolving  patterns of overall economic growth.
Emerging  supply trends, growing centers of demand,  technological revolution and ever-shifting geopolitical  strains have come to define and even affect the energy  landscape of 2013 and 2014.
The industry has entered  a period of increased dynamism even as energy  consumption and production appear comfortably  balanced, and average crude prices continue to settle  sufficiently stably well over the high floor level of  $100/bbl, supported mostly by geopolitical flare-ups,  thus providing increased incentives for oil & gas  companies across the world to bring more volumes to  the global energy basket.
Primary Energy Global primary energy consumption increased by  2.3% in 2013, an increase of 1.8% over 2012.Emerging  economies accounted for 80% of the global increase in  energy consumption – even though consumption  growth in these countries was below average 3.1%.
OECD consumption rose by an above-average 1.2%.
Robust US growth (+2.9%) accounted for all of the net  increase in the OECD and consumption in the EU and  Japan fell by 0.3% and 0.6%, respectively.
Natural gas,  coal, and oil combined to meet 87 percent of global  primary energy demand.
Global gas demand grew  less last year than did demand for competing fuels: it  was up just 1.4% from 2012, while oil demand rose  1.4%, coal was up 3% and renewables were up more  than 4%.
(Reference: BP Statistical Review of World Energy  2014) of capital inflows to the developing markets as  developed markets, as they get on a more assured  recovery path, offer the investment community the  comfort of reasonable returns in markets that are  more business-friendly and have greater political  stability.
Despite the identifiable contrasts in fortunes of the  developed and emerging block of economies  fortunes, the overall global economy appeared to be  98 Exchange Rate - ` Vs US$ 68.36 - Peak Value 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 2/4/2013 US$ vs ` 17/4/2013 2/5/2013 17/5/2013 1/6/2013 16/6/2013 1/7/2013 16/7/2013 31/7/2013 15/8/2013 30/8/2013 14/9/2013 29/9/2013 14/10/2013 29/10/2013 13/11/2013 28/11/2013 13/12/2013 28/12/2013 1/12/2014 27/1/2014 11/2/2014 26/2/2014 13/3/2014 28/3/2014 12/4/2014 27/4/2014 12/5/2014 27/5/2014 11/6/2014 Supported by the now-unsurprising sizeable energy  needs of the emerging block of economies and the  steady improvement of macroeconomic conditions in  key economic nerve centers of the OECD countries,  world primary energy consumption picked up healthily  in 2013, registering a growth of 2.3 percent over 2012,  higher than the 1.8 percent increase in 2012, but below  the 10-year average of 2.5 percent.
However, despite  the slight pickup in demand for the block of developed  countries in the west notwithstanding, the locus of  energy demand has decisively shifted eastward  already with China as the world’s largest energy  consumer, ahead of the US.
The surge in demand from  China is followed in tandem by the likes of India, Japan,  South Korea and Indonesia.
The Middle-East, the  traditional powerhouse and hub for global oil supply,  has also experienced a significant rise in its domestic  energy requirements.
Global Oil Consumption and Production: Global oil consumption grew by 1.4 million barrels per  day, or 1.4% – this is just above the historical average.
Countries outside the OECD now account for the  majority (51%) of global oil consumption and they  once again accounted for all of the net growth in global  consumption.
China’s net imports of oil totalled 7  million barrels per day in 2013 - the largest net imports  in the world, surpassing that of the United States.
OECD consumption declined by 0.4%.
The US  (+400,000 bpd) recorded the largest increment to  global oil consumption in 2013, outpacing Chinese  growth (+390,000 bpd) for the first time since 1999.
Global oil production did not keep pace with the  growth in global consumption, rising by just 560,000  b/d or 0.6%.
The US accounted for nearly all (96%) of  the non-OPEC output increase of 1.2 million b/d (the  strongest since 2002).
Non-OPEC reached a record 50  million b/d.
Increases in Canada (+210,000 bpd) and  Russia (+150,000 bpd) were other notable increases  while Syria, the UK, Norway and Australia registered  declines.
OPEC output fell by 600,000 bpd, the first  decline since 2009.
Declines in Libya (-520,000 bpd),  Iran (-190,000 bpd), Saudi Arabia (-110,000 bpd) and  Nigeria (-100,000 bpd) outweighed an increase in the  UAE (+250,000 bpd).
(Reference: BP Statistical Review of World Energy  2014) But this era of consistent and substantial growth in  energy demand is also one of robust energy supplies.
And on the supply front, there is none more compelling  a development than the remarkable revolution in the  North American supply landscape brought on by the  99 Primary Energy Consumption by Fuel (Mtoe) 4,185 3,827 3,020 856 563 279 Oil Coal Gas Hydro Nuclear Renewable 33% 30% 24% 7% 4% 2% - 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Demand-Supply Balance (in Million Barrels per day) Consumption/Production (in Million Barrels per day) World Consumption & Production Trend Consumption Production Demand-Supply Balance 18.89 10.76 4.55 3.73 3.31 3.07 2.97 2.46 2.38 2.38 2.02 2013: Major Oil Consumers (in mbpd) 11.53 10.79 10.00 4.18 3.95 3.65 3.56 3.14 3.13 2.87 S.Arabia Russia US China Canada UAE Iran Iraq Kuwait Mexico 2013: Major Oil Producers (in mbpd) (Reference: BP Statistical Review of World Energy 2014) Annual Report 2013-14 surge of unconventional oil and gas supplies in the US.
And growing North American hydrocarbon output, in a  period of gradually weakening or flattening local  demand, is indicative of the possibility of strong  exports from the region as well, for which action is  already underway in the form of LNG export hubs in  the US.
Once realised, energy supplies from the  continent has the potential to redefine, or even  significantly alter, the global energy commodity flows.
Global Crude Prices Dated Brent averaged $108.66 per barrel in 2013, a  decline of $3.01 per barrel from the 2012 level.
But they  are likely to edge higher in 2014 as reported record- high levels of Chinese crude oil imports in recent  (Reference: BP Statistical Review of World Energy  2014) The North American unconventional story is expected  to remain strong and booming right through till 2020,  beyond which, however, the tight oil supplies are  expected to plateau.
OPEC, meanwhile, will continue  to remain a fundamental constituent of the global  energy matrix with its abundant reserves of cheap  conventional energy.
Production from Iraq, currently at  around 3.4 mbpd, is estimated to increase to as much  as 8.4 mbpd in 2018 further reinforcing the cartel’s  industry reputation as the ‘swing producer’ the  responsibility of which is now borne singly by the oil- rich kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Coming to global oil supplies, energy markets  currently look well supplied with liquids despite an  anticipated rise of oil demand to 91 mbpd in 2014 from  89 mbpd in 2013.
However, the fact that some of major  producers of the world – Iran, Syria, Libya, Nigeria and,  recently, Iraq – are also hotbeds of geopolitical  instability and civilian turmoil, there is a constant  downside risk to the global supply outlook.
The  tensions associated with these potential supply choke- points exert a strong upward pressure on crude  prices.
This was amply evident in Iraq as crude  breached $115 per barrel cued by the militant  operations of Islamic State of Syria and Iraq (ISIS) anti- state group that posed threats to the country’s energy  infrastructure despite higher production in North  America (US & Canada).
On the other hand, the North  American oil production, along with other high cost  supply sources, has provided a price floor for global oil  prices and has simultaneously prevented oil prices  from rising sharply when there are supply curtailments  from other producers – for example, the removal of  large supply volumes from Iran post.
(Reference:  Wood Mackenzie Energy View to 2030) As fields begin to re-emerge after months of  production shutdown due to civilian violence, there is a  slight recovery in Libyan output from a low of 250,000  bpd but numbers continue to remain below the peak  levels of 1.6 mbpd and production is still highly  susceptible to disruptions.
Syrian volumes continue to  remain at historically low levels under 30,000 bpd as  the ongoing political crisis takes its toll.
However,  supplies from Iran, which were constrained at 1 mbpd  as a result of the Western sanctions, are now expected  to rise and gradually ease into global markets as  relations between the country and the western block  of nations, led by the US, have improved reasonably as  a result of their ongoing negotiations.
(Reference: EIA  Short Term Energy Outlook, June 10 2014) months, the ongoing tensions in Libya and Ukraine  have exerted an upward pressure on Brent Crude  prices.
But it is the eruption of sectarian violence in  OPEC’s second largest producer, Iraq, which poses  the most serious threat to the stability of global crude  prices in 2014 as Brent prices hovered around nine- month high levels post the start of the turmoil in the Gulf  nation.
Although prices since then have weakened, the  threat of sudden spikes remains in the system as the  situation continues to remain uncomfor tably  unpredictable with no foreseeable resolution in the  offing.
WTI, in 2013, continued to trade at a large discount to  Brent ($10.67 per barrel), driven by growing US  production.
However, the discount of WTI crude oil to  Brent crude oil, which averaged more than $13/bbl  from November 2013 through January 2014, has since  fallen to $7/bbl in May on the back of January 2014  start-up of Trans Canada's Marketlink pipeline, moving  crude oil from Cushing to the Gulf Coast, strong  refinery runs and continual declines in the storage hub  at Cushing.
100 Crude Oil Prices ($/bbl) - 2013 - 14 Dated Brent WTI Average 70 80 90 100 110 120 130 US$/bbl 1-Apr-13 11-Apr-13 21-Apr-13 1-May-13 11-May-13 21-May-13 31-May-13 10-Jun-13 20-Jun-13 30-Jun-13 10-Jul-13 20-Jul-13 30-Jul-13 9-Aug-13 19-Aug-13 29-Aug-13 8-Sep-13 18-Sep-13 28-Sep-13 8-Oct-13 18-Oct-13 28-Oct-13 7-Nov-13 17-Nov-13 27-Nov-13 7-Dec-13 17-Dec-13 27-Dec-13 6-Jan-14 16-Jan-14 26-Jan-14 5-Feb-14 15-Feb-14 25-Feb-14 7-Mar-14 17-Mar-14 27-Mar-14 6-Apr-14 16-Apr-14 26-Apr-14 6-May-14 16-May-14 26-May-14 5-Jun-14 15-Jun-14 Global Natural Gas Consumption and Production Natural gas registered a relative slowdown in growth in  2013, growing at 1.4 percent, below the historical  average of 2.6 percent, and accounted for 23.7  percent of world primary energy use in 2013.
The  slowdown can be attributed to the surge in demand for  coal in the power generation sector of European and  Asian economies.
Essentially, in 2013, coal’s cost  competitiveness in a period of rising gas prices in the  global gas market have trumped the environmental  benefits associated with natural gas.
Growth was below average in all regions except Europe  and Eurasia.
The US (+1.3%)remained the world’s  leading producer, but both Russia (+2.4%) and China  (+9.5%) recorded larger growth increments in 2013.
Nigeria (-16.4%), India(-16.3%), and Norway (-5%)  recorded the largest volumetric declines.
Consumption growth was above average in the OECD  countries (+1.8%) and below average outside the  OECD (+1.1%).
China (+10.8%) and the US (+2.4%)  recorded the largest growth increments in the world,  together accounting for 81% of global growth.
India (- 12.2%) recorded the largest volumetric decline in the  world, while EU gas consumption fell to the lowest level  since 1999.
Global natural gas production grew by  1.1%, which was well below the 10-year average of  2.6%.
Growth was below average in all regions except  Europe and Eurasia.
The US (+1.3%) remained the  world’s leading producer, but both Russia (+2.4%)  and China (+9.5%) recorded larger grow th  increments in 2013.
Nigeria (-16.4%), India (-16.3%),  and Norway (-5%) recorded the largest volumetric  declines.
(Reference: BP Statistical Review of World Energy  2014) With growing global consensus, among world leaders,  environmentalists and consumers alike, and emphasis  on shifting consumption to cleaner energy forms,natural  gas, with its cleaner energy profile relative to coal and  crude oil, has found just the right context for growth as a  ‘bridge fuel’ in the interim before the world eventually  manages its transition to green energy.
And, with no  immediate sight of commercially scalable renewable  energy solutions and alternative sources like nuclear  energy still vulnerable to widespread public or  governmental aversion (or both), this ‘interim period’  could well turn out to be an ‘era’ in itself for natural gas.
Besides, the huge impact of shale gas in the Northern  Atlantic region on the back of which the US is estimated  to become ‘energy-independent’ by 2018 and the  continuing discoveries of huge reserves in recent times –  be it the Sichuan Basin of China, Rovuma Offshore fields  of Mozambique or Israel’s Leviathan field –make gas an  exciting and extremely vital energy proposition for the  future.
Of the new discoveries made in the last decade,  gas accounted for 55 percent of the total number of finds.
Global natural gas demand will reach 4,600 bcm in 2030,  making gas the fastest-growing of the conventional  hydrocarbon fuels.
(Reference: Wood Mackenzie  Energy View to 2030) In further extending gas’ reach and penetration across  the map, the global Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG)  industry has played a pivotal role and its participation  in the global gas trade is only set to intensify with the  advent of Australian and American LNG exports –  LNG’s share of global gas trade is expected to grow  from 31.4 percent in 2013 to over 46 percent by 2035.
(Reference: BP Energy Outlook 2035, January 2014) The remarkable growth of gas has also threatened to  upend the domain of gas price as suppliers come  under increasing pressure to respond to market  realities and eliminate oil-indexation in gas contracts.
The prospect of plentiful gas supplies in the form of  LNG, especially American supplies indexed to Henry  Hub prices, has now placed importers in an  advantageous position.
The current tightness in the  LNG markets is expected to eventually give way to  more of a buyer’s market in the long run as installed  capacity looks all set to outweigh demand by as much  as 9 MMT in 2015; this figure will balloon to 128 MMT by  the end of the decade in 2020.
Oil, which sold for as  little as $10 a barrel in the 1990s, when some current  contracts were agreed, now costs over $100 per barrel,  while gas has come under downward pressure, not  least from the development of shale gas in North  America.
(Reference: FG Energy, NY Times Special  Report in Energy) 101 2.4% -0.4% 0.7% 10.8% 0.2% 3.5% 4.0% 7.0% 4.2% -0.6% 4.5% -6.2% 4.9% 2.2% -12.2%-15% -10% -5% 0% 5% 10% 15% Natural Gas Consumption Growth Annual Report 2013-14 The significance and stature of gas in the global energy  narrative has been, in recent memory, further  amplified by the Ukraine-Russia standoff over the  annexation of Crimea and the landmark 30 year gas  deal that China signed  with Russian gas major  Gazprom.
Natural Gas Trade and Prices Global natural gas trade grew by 1.8% in 2013, well  below the historical average of 5.2%.
Pipeline  shipments grew by 2.3%, driven by a 12% increase in  net Russian exports, which offset declines in Algeria (- 17.9%), Norway (-4.5%) and Canada (-5.5%).
Among  importers, growth in Germany (+14%) and China  (+32.4%) more than offset a continued decline in the  US (-10.9%).
Global LNG trade rebounded by 0.6% in  2013.
However, LNG’s share of the global natural gas  trade declined slightly in 2013 to 31.4 percent as LNG  trade grew by just 1.8 percent, below the historical  average of 5.2 percent.
Increased imports in South  Korea (+10.7%), China (+22.9%), and South and  Central American importers (+44.7%) were partially  offset by lower imports in Spain (-35.6%), the UK  (-31.9%) and France (-19.4%).
Qatar remained the  largest LNG exporter (32% of global exports), and  accounted for the largest growth increment (+2.7%).
LNG’s share of global gas trade declined slightly to  31.4% – and international natural gas trade accounted  for 30.9% of global consumption.
Natural gas prices at Henry Hub in 2013 averaged  $3.71/mmBtu, increasing by close to 35 percent over  2012 prices.
This spike in prices, actually, was more a  rationalisation of the unsustainably low gas prices of  2012 which forced operators to move away from dry  gas drilling than a worrying precursor to a trend of  swift increase in gas prices in the US.
Average UK NBP  spot gas prices for 2013 were $10.63/mmBtu, rising by  12.36 percent over 2012 prices.
This was largely due to  an unusually cold weather in early 2013.
Japanese  LNG prices, for the first time in the last 4 years,  registered a drop (3.46% over 2012), averaging  $16.17/mmBtu in 2013.
(Reference: BP Statistical Review of World Energy  2014) The Crimean crisis which started off as a show of  Russian muscle-flexing in its ‘near-abroad’ soon  escalated to a full-blown geopolitical standof f  encompassing the EU and the US by virtue of the  European region’s extreme dependence on Russian  gas imports of which Ukraine is a major conduit.
In  2013, Russia supplied a third of Europe’s gas  requirements, half of which was transited via Ukraine.
Russia, too, is majorly dependent on European export  revenues - the 6.6% rise in total Russian gas exports  (pipeline and LNG) in 2013 to 234 bcm was largely  driven by a significant rise in Russian pipeline exports  to Europe.
(Reference: IHS Energy) If the Crimean crisis has helped reinforce the criticality  of existing relationships and arrangements in the ever- evolving spectrum of energy security, the 30 year $400  billion gas deal between China and Russia, two  behemoths of the global energy order, is a watershed  event in the current era of energy diplomacy and will  most certainly introduce radically new strains in the  global energy narrative.
The deal is a key enabler for  China in terms of its goal to increase the share of  natural gas in the domestic energy mix.
For Russia, this  is part of its overall economic and geopolitical ‘Pivot to  the East’ strategy which is aimed at mitigating the  country’s historically high degree of reliance on  Western markets.
The current period in the oil & gas sector is also witness  to a curious dichotomy.
Most of the oil & gas projects  with meaningful reserves come saddled with high  break-evens and a massive capital expenditure  regime.
While the current reality of sufficiently high  global energy prices does support these promising  capital-intensive projects, investors have also become  more vocal in their demands for greater economic  recovery and they want to see upstream companies  return more cash to the shareholders, in a clear  espousal of a new mantra – “Value over Volume”.
In  such a conflicting scenario, developments of new finds  suffer as returns from frontier exploration (13%) have  lagged those from mature (16%) and emerging basins  (15%) over the past five years.
In response,  major oil companies are curtailing their spending  102 0 5 10 15 20 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 International Gas Prices (US$/MMBTU) growth.Investor wariness aside, spiralling costs, in  combination with operational complexities, have  threatened to derail some of the most talked-about  projects of recent times – be it the huge Kashagan  fields in Kazakhstan or the massive Gorgon LNG  project in Australia.
The mining industry, overall, is struggling with high  costs.
The shift from volume to value means a  rebalancing towards a supply outlook more  appropriate to a world in which demand growth, while  still remarkable in the context of history, is somewhat  softer than was expected only a few years ago.
Needless to say, cost pressures will remain at the  forefront of executive concerns.
However the  expansion of developing markets, the impact of new  techniques and technology on the supply mix, and the  increasingly interconnected character of global  energy trade provide an endless spread of  opportunities for growth over the long term.
3.
India: Oil & Gas Industry Crude Oil & Natural Gas production Crude oil production in FY’2013-14 has remained  almost flat at 37.77 million metric tonnes (MMT)  compared to 37.86 MMT of the previous financial year  on a sectoral basis.
While there was a drop in  production due to the natural decline of the matured  fields, from which the majority of the output accrues,  that ONGC and Oil India Limited (OIL) operate,  production from Pvt Companies/PSC Joint Ventures  saw an increase in output by 3.7 percent.
Natural Gas output in FY’2013-14 was 35.39 billion  cubic metres (BCM), a 13 percent decrease from  FY’2012-13 output of 40.68 BCM.
Output of ONGC and  OIL, compared to the previous fiscal, was largely flat,  with volume decrements of 1.2 percent and 0.5  percent respectively, but significant fall in annual gas  output from the East Coast field operated by a private  consortium contributed to the shortfall in cumulative  gas output of the country.
Consumption of Petroleum Products With a total consumption of 158.20 MMT, the  petroleum industry registered a volume growth of just  0.7 percent, the lowest it has grown for the past 12  years.
Of the three sensitive petroleum products  (products with price controls), only LPG registered a  positive growth in consumption (+4.7 percent) while  SKO consumption decreased by 4.5 percent and HSD  plummeted by a percent over last year’s volumes.
It is  the first time in 10 years that demand for the country’s  most consumed fuel has dropped.
The drop could well  be the combined effect of the periodic price hikes  implemented by the government and the overall drop  in activity of the industrial and commercial sector  where its usage is the maximum, due to slowdown in  103 40.68 35.39 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 FY'13 FY'14 2013-14: Natural Gas Production (BCM) ONGC OIL PSC/JVs 37.86 37.76 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 FY'13 FY'14 2013-14: Crude Oil Production (MMT) ONGC OIL PSC/JVs HSD 43.2% MS 10.8% LPG 10.3% Petroleum  coke 7.4% Naphtha 7.2% SKO 4.5% FO & LSHS 3.9% Others 3.9% ATF 3.5% Bitumen 3.1% Lubricants &  Greases 1.8% LDO 0.2% Consumption of Petroleum Products HSD  43.2% Annual Report 2013-14 economic growth.
However, Motor Spirit or petrol, a  major decontrolled product and the primary fuel in the  private automobile sector, managed a healthy  increment of 8.8 percent in its total volumes over  FY’2012-13.
Import and Export Total crude oil import for FY’2013-14 was 189.24 MMT,  rising by over 2 percentage points over FY’2012-13’s  volumes (184.79 MMT).
This when combined with total  products import of 16.72 MMT (+6.02 percent) and  total products exports of 67.86 MMT (+7.01 percent)  translates to net import volume of 138.1 MMT for FY’  2013-14.
Over the last five years (FY2008-09 to FY2013-14),  product exports have grown from 38.94 MMT to 67.86  MMT (CAGR +11.78 percent) while product imports  have come down from 18.59 MMT to 16.72 MMT  (CAGR -2.10 percent).
Net import bill for crude oil during FY’2013-14 was  `8,710.16 billion (US$ 143.75 billion) against  `7,846.52 billion (US$ 144.29 billion) of FY’2012-13 –  an increase of 11 percent in terms of the Indian Rupee  even as the dollar value of imports registered a  dollar ensured that value of the crude basket actually  increased by 8.59 percent in rupee terms – `6383.96 in  FY’2013-14 against `5878.97 in FY’2012-13.
In fact,  due to the depreciation of rupee value, crude currently,  in rupee terms, is trading at a higher level as compared  to the highest level of crude prices (in dollars) reached  in July 2008 which was US$ 132.37/bbl.
In 2014, the crude oil prices have edged higher  influenced by global geopolitical events, especially in  Iraq and Ukraine.
The international crude oil price of  the Indian basket has averaged above $ 110 a barrel in  the current financial year (till June 2014).
Escalation in  crude prices does not bode well for an energy-hungry  import-dependent country like ours and can seriously  compromise the delicate current account balance  situation as well as the fiscal balance further.
Under Recoveries The Government imposed price-control mechanism  on specific petroleum products – High Speed Diesel  (HSD), Liquefied Petroleum gas (LPG) & Superior  Kerosene Oil (SKO) - has, over the last decade,  resulted in mounting of severe under-recoveries for the  OMCs, who retail these products,on non-realisation of  Trade/Import Parity prices from their sale.
And with the  growing consumption of petroleum products in our  country, the associated under-recoveries on the sale  of the aforementioned sensitive products have grown  exponentially– from `400 billion in FY’2005-06 under- recoveries has grown to ` 1,398.69 billion in the just  concluded fiscal year 2013-14.
However, what is  encouraging is that the under-recoveries figure for last  year has actually bucked the general trend with a 13  percent drop over the value for total under-recoveries  in FY’2012-13 which was `1610.29 billion - this can be  construed as the result of the Government’s decision  to initiate phased-deregulation of diesel, the most  consumed fuel in the country, from early 2013.
Furthermore, to mitigate the impact of this on the  OMCs, the total under-recoveries are shared primarily  amongst the Upstream Companies and the  104 marginal decrease of 0.37 percent; this contrast in  trends is basically the result of Rupee’s steep slide  against the US dollar in FY’2013-14 (from an  average exchange rate of `54.45/US$ in FY’2012-13  the Indian currency depreciated by over 11 percent  in FY’2013-14 to average `60.50 against the dollar).
Crude oil Price: Indian Basket Crude oil price of the Indian basket averaged US$  105.52 per barrel during FY’2013-14 compared to  US$ 107.97 per barrel in the previous fiscal  (FY’2012-13).
Despite the drop in dollar value the  steep depreciation of the rupee against the US  Indian Crude oil Basket price  `.
Per barrel 0 22 44 66 88 110 132 154 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 Crude Oil Price (Rs./bbl) Indian Crude Oil Basket (US$/bbl) US$/bbl Jan-03 May-03 Sep-03 Jan-04 May-04 Sep-04 Jan-05 May-05 Sep-05 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 May-07 Sep-07 Jan-08 May-08 Sep-08 Jan-09 May-09 Sep-09 Jan-10 May-10 Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 Jan-12 May-12 Sep-12 Jan-13 May-13 Sep-13 Jan-14 May-14 Import/Export Volumes (in MMT) Import/Export Value (in Rs billion) 1,409 2,166 2,517 2,983 4,553 6,722 7,847 8,710 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 8,000 9,000 10,000 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 200 2010 -11 2011 -12 2012 -13 2013 -14 Import/Export Volumes and Value Product Import Product Export Crude Import Net Product Export Value Crude Import Value Government of India (GoI) while a small portion is  borne by the OMCs.
However, as under-recoveries  have risen considerably over the past few years, this  under-recoveries sharing mechanism has only  managed to dent the profitability and investment  outlook of all major public sector oil companies more  than cushioning the impact of deficit cashflow on  OMCs.
In fact, ironically, the burden for sharing the  under-recoveries has only increased for the upstream  companies in FY’2013-14 compared to the previous  year even while total under-recoveries registered a  dip– to `670 billion (out of `1398.69 billion or 47.9  percent of total) in FY’2013-14 from `601 billion (out of  `1,610.29 billion or 37.3 percent of total)in FY’2012-13.
The Government’s contribution to sharing of under- recoveries for FY’2013-14 was `708 billion (or 50.61  percent of total under-recoveries compared to `1000  billion and 62.1 percent of the total in FY’2012-13) and  OMC’s contribution was `21 billion (or 1.48percent of  total compared to `10 billion  and 0.64 percent of total  in FY’2012-13).
ONGC shared `563.84 billion towards the reported  under-recoveries of OMCs in FY’2013-14 as per  Government of India (GoI) instructions – an increase of  14.1 percent over its share in FY’2012-13 (`494.21  billion).
This translates to 40.31 percent of the total  under-recoveries and 84.15 percent of the share for  upstream companies.
The average gross price for ONGC’s crude oil during  FY’2013-14 has been US$ 106.72/bbl compared to  US$ 110.74 in FY’2012-13, drop of 3.63 percent.
However, as per the Government instructions  pertaining to the subsidy-sharing mechanism, ONGC  offered an effective discount of US$65.75/bbl (US$  62.89/bbl in FY’2012-13) to OMCs on the sale of crude  oil.
As such, net realized price for every barrel of crude  sold in FY’2013-14 for ONGC has been US$ 40.97, a  decrease of 14 percent compared to FY’2012-13 (US$  47.85) – a situation where discount offered to OMCs  has gone up although the average gross price for a  barrel of ONGC crude oil has swung lower compared  to the previous year.
Diesel Price decontrol In such a mix of fortunes, the government’s  persistence with the periodic diesel price hikes with an  eye on eventual decontrol of the fuel is highly  encouraging.
This welcome initiative should provide  relief to oil companies in the long run while heralding  an era of efficient demand management.
A competitive  pricing scenario will also increase operational  efficiencies and incentivize oil companies to truly  leverage the market forces and hone their core  competitive strengths.
The initiative has already started easing the burden of  under-recoveries, especially diesel under-recoveries,  to a significant extent.
Under-recovery on diesel was  `6.52 per litre on April 1, 2013; this has come down to  `1.62 per litre on June 30, 2014.
OMCs, at the end of  June 2014, were incurring daily under-recovery of  `2.49 billion compared to about `3.49 billion at the  start of April 2013, of on the sale of Diesel, PDS  Kerosene and Domestic LPG.
In addition to the price  hikes, the fact that demand for diesel also decreased in  2013-14, for the first time in 10 years, also contributed  to diesel’s lower contribution to overall under- recoveries.
Minus the price hikes to diesel, the total  under-recoveries, otherwise, would have dealt a body  blow not only to the financials of oil companies but also  the government’s plans to salvage the country’s fiscal  deficit and current account deficit situation.
Besides,  the hikes also send across the right signals to the  global investment and energy community about the  country’s oil & gas sector which, lately, has suffered  from a worrying dearth of external interest.
But, considering the seemingly inter-connected nature  of the global oil & gas business, the plans to  completely deregulate the fuel is also dependent upon  the stability of the global crude prices, to which India’s  retail fuels are pegged.
And there is also the issue of  tackling the under-recoveries associated with LPG and  SKO, which have until now not been accorded  sufficient policy time and bandwidth due to the more  pressing demands concerning diesel.
However, with  results of the diesel price hikes in tow, it is expected  that the government will continue to espouse its  current temperament on minimizing under-recoveries  through effective policy decisions and interventions of  the right kind.
The management of the Company is in  constant dialogue with the Government to reduce the  pressure of under-recovery on your Company.
Revision of Gas Prices As an ongoing issue of relevance to the oil & gas sector  and the national economy at large, no other subject  has raked up as much interest and attracted such  widespread participation as the issue of ‘gas pricing’.
The exercise of the revision of domestic gas prices,  which was initiated by the previous government with  the expiration of the existing gas pricing policy within  sight, under the Rangarajan Committee resulted in the  unveiling of a new formula for gas pricing in the  105 FY'0 4 FY'0 5 FY'0 6 FY'0 7 FY'0 8 FY'0 9 FY'1 0 FY'1 1 FY'1 2 FY'1 3 FY'1 4 Govt.
0 0 115 241 353 713 260 410 835 1000 708 OMCs 62 142 145 48 161 0 56 69 0 10 21 Upstream 31 59 140 205 257 329 144 303 550 600 670 Total 93 201 400 494 771 1042 461 782 1385 1610 1399 93 201 400 494 771 1042 461 782 1385 1610 1399 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 1,400 1,600 1,800 Total Under-Recovery ` Billion Annual Report 2013-14 generation for Indian sedimentary basins has been  launched which, when realised, would smoothen the  switch from the current time-consuming and delay- prone NELP award process to a faster vehicle of  awarding blocks such as Open Acreage Licensing  Policy (OALP) by offering relevant data to the  interested companies to make it convenient for them  to submit their bids/ interest on fast-track.
The creation  of the National Data Repository (NDR), under the  supervision of DGH, is one of the founding blocks of  the intended move towards OALP regime.
Coming back to the approval of additional exploration  in current blocks, this initiative is in alignment with the  proposed Uniform Licensing Framework for the  country’s oil & gas industry which aims at the removal  of the attendant conflicts and discrepancies arising in  the due process of enforcement and execution of  separate contractual regimes (such as NELP and  CBM blocks with overlapping resources), review of  the fiscal frameworks of the current PSC regime and  reinstate the government to its more strategic role of  ensuring energy security through expeditious  development of hydrocarbon resources available in  the country instead of having it micro-monitor projects  to detect operator profligacy in allocating costs as  part of the Cost-recovery model of PSCs.
4.
Operational performance FY’14 saw yet again the improved performance in  bringing the planned and anticipated oil & gas volume  on the surface.
Continuing its dominant position since  all those long years, this year too, your Company has  been the largest producer of oil and gas in the country  (from its domestic operations) contributing 69 per cent  of oil and 70 per cent of natural gas production.
Oil & Gas production of ONGC Group, including PSC- JVs and from overseas Assets for FY’14 has been 59.21  MMToe (against 58.71 MMToe during FY’13).
The major  upsid came from overseas asset at Ajerbaijan and also  from resumption of production from Sudan &  South  Sudan where productions were suspended owing to  geopolitical situations.
Out of the total crude oil production of 31.49 MMT, 70.6  per cent production came from the ONGC operated  domestic fields, 17.4 per cent from the overseas assets  and balance 12 per cent from domestic joint ventures.
As far as natural gas production is concerned majority  of production (84 per cent) came from ONGC operated  domestic fields and of the remaining, 10.4 per cent  came from overseas assets and 5.6 per cent from  domestic joint ventures.
Oil and gas production profile from domestic as well as  overseas assets during last five years are as given  below: 107 Proved Reserves (MMToe) FY’14 FY’13 FY’12 FY’11 Fy’10 Estimated Net Proved O+OEG Reserves 961.91 968.81 963.86 961.27 962.90 ONGC 724.13 741.00 737.36 723.56 737.31 JV share 30.65 31.39 33.12 34.80 39.60 OVL 207.13 196.42 193.38 202.91 185.99 Proved reserves During the year, your Company made 14 oil and gas  discoveries in domestic fields (operated by ONGC).
Out of 14, 7 discoveries are there in Offshore area and  7 in Onshore area.
06 discoveries were made in the  new prospects whereas 08 were new pool  discoveries.
Four discoveries were made in NELP  blocks and ten in the nomination blocks.
Out of the  discoveries made this year, 2 discoveries are oil  bearing, 9 discoveries are gas bearing and 3  discoveries are both oil & gas bearing.
Position of  proved reserves of your company is as below: Oil and gas production FY’14 FY’13 FY’12 FY’11 Fy’10 Crude Oil Production (MMT) 31.49 30.47 33.13 34.04 32.95 ONGC 22.25 22.56 23.71 24.42 24.67 ONGC’s share in JV 3.75 3.57 3.21 2.86 1.79 OVL 5.49 4.34 6.21 6.76 6.49 Natural Gas Production (BCM) 27.72 28.25 28.05 28.01 27.98 ONGC 2.87 23.55 23.32 23.09 23.11 ONGC’s share in JV 1.56 1.78 2.19 2.23 2.49 OVL 23.29 2.92 2.54 2.69 2.38 country.
The formula that incorporated gas pricing  elements of US Henry Hub (for North America), UK’s  National Balancing Point (for continental Europe) and  Japan’s Custom Cleared rate (on netback basis) as  well as costs of Indian LNG imports under long-term  contracts (with removal of charges such as  transportation) envisages new gas prices that are  representative of current market realities in global gas  trade.
The implementation of the new gas price, which was  set to come into effect from April 1 2014, however, has  been deferred as the new government which assumed  power at the Centre is keen on reassessing the  legitimacy of the revised gas prices as well the  potential ramifications of such a price hike on the other  sectors of the economy.
Notwithstanding the final decision on the eventual gas  price, a more accommodative gas pricing policy with  linkages to open market prices will hugely facilitate the  opening up the domestic gas market with build-up of  necessary infrastructure.
Significantly, it will also  incentivize production from new gas finds the  development costs of which have steadily increased  over the years given that most of the promising finds of  recent times, world over, are located in frontier areas.
It  will attract greater investment and participation from  international players for bringing state-of-the-art  technology to aid in the endeavours for exploration  and development of the domestic gas assets.Such a  pricing system can also prepare the industry to move  away from the existing multiple pricing regimes before  it actually transitions to a completely market-linked  uniform pricing regime.
According to a recent report by US-based consultancy  IHS, if rates are allowed to increase to $8.5/mmbtu  from the existing rate of $4.2/mmbtu (for APM gas), as  set out in the gas pricing reforms recommended by  Rangarajan Committee, an additional output of 1.95  Bcf per day could come in 10 years.
Without reforms, at  current prices, the production will stagnate at 3 bcf per  day and India will need to import around 9.7 bcf per  day of LNG to meet demand.
Shale Gas Policy Buoyed by the amazing unconventional revolution in  the US shale industry, India, too, joined a host of  countries in its bid to tap the rich unconventional  resource base with declaration of the Shale Gas and  Oil exploration policy in September 2013.
According to  US Energy Information Administration, India is  estimated to hold as much 96 tcf of recoverable shale  gas reserves, equivalent to about 26 years of the  country's gas demand.
Although potential production  from these reserves is still some distance away due to  the markedly different set of technologies and  expertise that shale oil or gas demands compared to  conventional oil and gas, the policy, nonetheless,  marks a strong start to India’s questfor unconventional  hydrocarbons.
The government's policy initially  permits your Company and Oil India Ltd to explore  shale resources from onland blocks that were allotted  to them on a nomination basis before the advent of the  New Exploration Licensing Policy in 1999 - under  which exploration blocks are offered on a bidding  basis.
As per available data, six basins have been  identified to be the most prospective for shale  exploitation - Cambay (in Gujarat), Assam-Arakan (in  the North-East), Gondwana (in central India), KG  onshore (in Andhra Pradesh), Cauvery onshore and  Indo-Gangetic basins.
Keeping in view the country’s encouraging potential in  shale gas, your company has taken structured  initiatives towards shale gas exploration and  exploitation.
In what can be termed as a positive  development in this front for the country’s incipient  shale gas industry, your Company drilled the first shale  well under the Shale pilot project – Jambusar-55,  under its shale pilot programme in its Gujarat block  (Ankleshwar).
Overall, during FY’2013-14, ONGC  drilled 7 wells and has, in the process, established the  presence of shale gas as well.
Exploration in developed areas and OALP The government, in a move intended to remove delays  associated with processes and permitting that usually  hobble the star t of promising explorator y  opportunities, also formally allowed oil & gas  companies to explore oil and gas within the producing  fields subject to certain conditions.
However, recovery  of costs associated with such new exploratory initiatives  will be deemed feasible only upon establishment of  commerciality of the Mining Lease (ML) area.
This  essentially means that cost of drilling any well that  does not lead to a discovery, or a small find that could  not be independently produced, will not be allowed.
This is an important development not just in terms of  supplementing current production volumes from the  area but also that it enables seamless, continuous and  extensive exploration in the area owned by the  operator considering the uncertainty and variation  associated with geological parameters within a  particular area.
By allowing cost recovery only upon  commerciality it will also preclude not only any  possibility of diminishing the government’s share of  profit due to loading of more costs into cost-recovery  calculations but also restrains operators from  committing to infructuous expenditures.
Greater exploratory work, that the move aims to foster,  will also contribute to augmenting the limited database  on the Indian basins.
On the matter of limited  availability of data for the Indian E&P space, a policy  with exclusive emphasis on geo-scientific data  106 Annual Report 2013-14 108 6.
Opportunities & Threats Despite the intensifying scramble for resources  globally, there still exists a vast spread of  opportunities for oil and gas players to tap into in the  inter-connected arena of world energy.
And Indian oil  & gas Companies, including your Company, is an  active participant in this exciting landscape.
Energy being the prime mover of the economy in  every part of the world, making that energy accessible  to every citizen of the world at affordable prices, in  requisite quantities and acceptable quality for  ensuring their prosperity, development and well-being  is a big challenge.
This presents a big opportunity to  all the players involved with this industry.
5.
Financial performance: ONGC (Standalone)  (` Million) Particulars FY’14 FY’13 % Increase/ (Decrease) Revenue:     Crude Oil 525,734 533,269 (1.41) Natural Gas 183,291 165,400 10.82 Value Added Products 125,672 127,046 (1.08) Other Operating revenue 7,331 7,375 (0.60) Total Revenue from Operations: 842,028 833,090 1.07 Other Income 67,132 54,367 23.48 EBIDTA 433,582 389,455 11.33 PBT 324,319 305,443 6.18 PAT 220,948 209,257 5.59 EPS 25.83 24.46 5.60 Dividend per share 9.50 9.50 NIL Net Worth 1,356,311 1,229,674 10.30 % Return on net worth 16.29 17.02 (4.29) Capital Employed 1,094,412 1,017,636 7.54 % Return on capital employed 39.62 38.27 3.53 Capital Expenditure 324,695 295,079 10.03 ONGC Group Particulars FY’14 FY’13 % Increase/ (Decrease) Revenue:     Crude Oil 654,451 621,576 5.29 Natural Gas 194,172 174,558 11.24 Value Added Products 921,107 852,983 7.98 Other Operating revenue 12,321 9,365 31.56 Total Revenue from Operations: 1,782,051 1,658,482 7.45 Other Income 68,937 54,907 25.55 EBIDTA 566,186 489,892 15.57 PBT 394,134 367,421 7.27 PAT 265,065 242,196 9.44 EPS 30.98 28.31 9.43 Net Worth 1,710,550 1,510,417 13.25 % Return on net worth 15.50 16.04 (3.36) Capital Employed 1,447,992 1,183,203 22.38 % Return on capital employed 39.10 41.40 (5.55) With a projected increase in primary energy demand  by 41% between 2012 and 2035, the opportunity  available can well be understood by all the  stakeholders (Source: IEA database).
The task is huge  for Indian companies and even moresignificant for  your company, ONGC being the flagship company of  this highly strategic and nationally critical sector.
th  India being the 4 largest consumer of energy at  present after USA, China & Japan is projected to  overtake Japan and occupy the third slot in the very  near future given recent trends of India’s energy  demand growth.
The country will require an additional  271 MMT of oil and 97 MMToe of gas per annum by  2030 (as per IEA estimates) if it wishes to have an  average GDP growth rate of 4.6% between 2000 to  2030, the period in which energy consumption  requirement is expected to increase @ 3.5% per  annum.
This huge demand-supply gap offers an  enormous opportunity for all the stakeholders in the  energy sector in India, particularly to your Company.
BP Energy Outlook 2035, in its January 2014 edition,  also brought out the same urgency of demand that the  world, including India, is expected to face in the  coming years.
Interestingly, the energy matrix will  continue to be dominated by fossil fuels in distant  future, giving the business of hydrocarbons an ample  boost and enormous opportunities.
In the 2035  outlook, coal, oil & natural gas together will account for  81% share (each having around 27% share) as  compared to 87% combined share in 2013.
Giving further fillip to the oil and gas opportunities,  global liquid demand (including crude oil, bio-fuels &  other liquids) is expected to rise substantially by 19  mbpd to reach 109 mbpd by 2035, with largest  demand growth coming from rapidly growing non- OECD economies like China, India & Middle East  accounting for nearly all the net global increase in  liquid demand.
The same is true with natural gas which is expected to  grow the fastest among the fossil fuels @1.9% per  annum as compared to growth in oil which stands at  0.8% per annum during the same period of 2012-2035.
Once again, the huge demand in natural gas is  expected to come from non-OECD economies like  India & China.
The facts given above augur well for the oil and gas  industry given their critical role in steering the  economy forward.
Add to this, newer technologies  and innovations have made it possible to scale the  inaccessible, hard to visualize, geologically complex  and challenging frontiers like Deep & ultra-deep- waters, Arctic and the unconventional – such  developments definitely fit well within the optimistic  outlook for the industry in the long term.
Providing greater substance to the opportunity is the  fact that E&P industry continues to offer relatively high  return.
Over the last five years, the industry has  witnessed returns from frontier exploration @13%,  from mature fields @ 16% and from emerging basins  @15%.
Adding to these good returns is the fact that  though world remains oversupplied with liquids, oil  prices remain range-bound – US$ 110-100/bbl thereby  amply reflecting that oil prices are not governed by  supply-demand equation.
The acceptance of high oil  price regime, even by developing nations which rely  mostly on imports, provides a major push for this  trend.
This good price realisation is pushing all major players  for recasting their portfolio with substantial portion of  core E&P reserves and acreages.
As a matter of fact,  “Value over Volume” has emerged as the new mantra  for E&P industries wherein now they are adjusting their  course after the steady march undertaken in last few  years towards high-impact frontiers.
These high- impact frontiers continued to remain a threat in the  sense that break evens for new projects remains very  high.
Around 1/3rd of new oil projects (~3.5 mbpd)  need break-even of US$ 60-80/bbl.
However, some  analysts believe that crude oil price may decrease to a  level of US$80-90/bbl.
In low oil price regime new oil projects may be  vulnerable.
So this shift in paradigm is happening with  all major players in the world.
This adjustment in  portfolio has come due to the pressure from the  investors chasing economic recovery which want to  see upstream companies return more cash to  shareholders.
(Source:  Wood Mackenzie) In this emerging backdrop, industry will see upstream  operators focusing on harvesting value from recent  discoveries and acquisitions through more efficient  operations and the application of new technologies.
Oil & Gas companies that have acquired large- acreage positions are now focused on optimizing  production, streamlining operations and maximizing  the return on their assets.
Natural gas prices have also  firmed over the past year, giving potential sellers  incentive to hold on to their assets and focus on  production.
Having said so, fossil fuels are expected to face good  threat from renewable in medium to long term.
Renewables percentage in total energy supply  continues to rise growing at the rate of 6.4 % per  annum thereby registering a share of 7% by 2035 as  compared to around 2% today.
Nuclear energy will  keep growing @ 1.9% per annum and hydro-electric  growing @ 1.8% per annum.
All these taken together  (39%) will be responsible for much larger contributor of  growth during 2025-35 periods as compared to those  from liquid or natural gas.
As in longer run, this higher  percentage of renewable, owing to continued greener  push, offers a good threat to fossil fuel based  industries like that of ours.
One discerning threat is coming from the emerging  trend wherein the power sector in certain South-East  Asian countries is shifting away from gas to coal to cut  costs to meet soaring electricity needs largely due to  the huge price differential between coal and LNG  favouring coal for generating power -one megawatt of  LNG-fired power is currently around twice as  expensive as coal-fired power in Asia, according to the  IEA.
Power generation capacity in Southeast Asia is  set to rise by 50 per cent during the current decade, of  109 Annual Report 2013-14 which more than half may be coal-fired and only about  a quarter may be gas-fired.
The other engaging factor in recent times, for all  importing nations including India, has been the threat  arising out of resource nationalism in reserve-rich  nations at the same time geopolitics across the globe  has taken a disturbing dimension.
Oil diplomacy will  continue to be a key determinant for oil markets  dynamics.
Though good hydrocarbon assets have been located  in East Coast Africa and Latin America, clarity on key  issues of energy policies, fiscal and regulatory  regimes are yet to evolve there hampering the  investments besides the rise of soft resource  nationalism that is slowly gathering enough  momentum to come in the way of get ting  concessionaire in host nations and this continue to  remain a threat.
Industry is facing substantial threat because of low- volume discoveries in recent times despite huge  spends on conventional exploration & appraisal,  around a record figure of US$94 billion as per one  study conducted by Wood Mackenzie.
Further,  among the limited discoveries being made, it is only  the deep-water discoveries that carry reserves of the  magnitude that merit commercial consideration.
But,in  the absence of technology and innovations at  remunerative prices, converting these deep-water  reserves into production remains a challenge.
Sub-Sahara Africa turned out to be the dominant  region recording 39% of the new resources  discovered in the region during 2013.
Mozambique  again tops the list in terms of resource additions,  followed by Egypt, Nigeria, Angola and Tanzania.
Monetizing reserves found there still hangs in balance  owing to not so supportive policies and regulations.
Further, though LNG offers big opportunity, huge  capacity augmentation that is planned and is coming  on stream, with Asia-Pacific (Australia), leading the  way is rather an area of concern.
The concern is that  LNG capacity may overshoot the demand and prices  of LNG may witness strain if unconventional volumes  rises up and climbs the energy chart.
On study points  out that by 2030 LNG capacity of 663 MMTPA may be  on stream was LNG demand is likely to remain at 468  MMTPA; a surplus capacity of 195 MMTPA.
This  surplus capacity will rather start from the beginning of  2020 where Industry will have surplus capacity of over  128 MMTPA after meeting the expected demand of  353 MMTPA in 2020.
This may not augur well for new  LNG projects which require huge capital investment  and commensurate returns.
Talking specifically for India, huge potential still lies  with Indian oil and gas explorers and producers.
With  more than 28 billion tonnes of prognosticated  reserves, Indian sedimentary basins have good  potential.
However, with 12% areas still unexplored  and 22% areas which are poorly explored, huge pools  of prognosticated resources are waiting to be  converted into in-place volume.
In India, only 7 basins are producing (out of 26) and  exploration is yet to be initiated in 11 basins.
This  provides a huge opportunity for all explorers, like your  Company, to convert these remaining basins into a  producible proposition.
On production front, so far our recovery factor has  been quite low (around 30% or so on average) as  compared to matured fields of similar vintage having  recovery factor around 45% plus.
This offers a huge  opportunity as a lot of oil is still left in those reservoirs.
ONGC is increasingly pursuing the agenda of  improving recovery factor through technology and  capital intensive interventions, and aims to increase  recovery factor to 40% by 2020.
World over, existing  assets are getting a new life.
Majority of global oil  production comes from matured fields; but, the  question remains how much we can invest to extract  that marginal barrel of oil from the existing assets.
Development of new, specific and af fordable  technology is steering this dynamism further forward.
Unconventional like shale gas continues to provide  good opportunity as many nations are pursuing active  programs to replicate shale gas successes of USA.
In  fact, 2014 and 2015 are expected to be the most active  years for international shale drilling.
Though it may be  dif ficult to replicate similar success in other  geographies owing to a host of regulatory and  environmental regulations but it is not impossible and  future may see some more big successes.
Hence, a  big opportunity is waiting to be unlocked.
7.
Risks and Concerns New risks and concerns emerged in the industry  during the year and this has going to have wide  ramifications for the industry players; putting them on  uncomfortable propositions in years to come.
Leading the new risks and concern is the lack of  securing talent ahead of an expected wave of  retirements.
By 2020, significant crew change is  expected in Indian oil & gas sector.
ONGC has also  been witnessing a large number of retirements over  the last few years and significant numbers will be  retiring in next 3-4 years.
And this phenomenon is  being witnessed worldwide.
In USA, as per U.S.  Department of Labour estimates, 50% of the oil and  gas industry’s workforce will be eligible for retirement  within the next five to ten years.
This will lead to  industry facing a shrinking pool of talents who have  expertise in the area, which in turn is leading to  widening of the knowledge gap between new  employees and experienced industry leaders.
This  knowledge gap may affect the efficiency, efficacy and  deliverability for the company.
The fall out of this will be that there will be mad rush for  hiring of expert & skilled talents which will lead to  upward pressure on wages and hence affecting the  profit margins of the company.
Handling this big “shift  change” keeping margins in profitable limits will  continue to remain a big area of concern.
Though it is  very difficult to replace such a huge pool of  experience, your Company has taken it as a challenge  and has been taking all-out efforts to address the  110 situation through redeployment of its manpower and  also through induction of sizeable number of young  executives and training them to take future positions.
The other important concern and risk emerged off-late  is the threat arising out of the cyber-security.
Last few  years have seen many a sabotages in many a  companies across the world on the back of cyber  threats like hacking or making operations standstill.
With such a huge network in which oil & gas  companies are operating and with such a wide and  open technology supply chain  involving so many  players and without much of the checks & balances  w.r.t their credentials & intentions , threat of cyber risk  and hence the cyber-sabotage through hacking etc., is  quite high.
Digitisation becoming order of the day in the industry  to improve upon efficiency, managing this cyber risk  has not only become imperative but costly too.
Normally, companies opt for one-size-fits-all approach  but in practicality it requires shoes of many a sizes to  keep check on varied vulnerabilities that come with  varied business processes.
Another concern area  here will be how to synergise cyber-check measures  with the prevailing governmental regulations and with  the company’s expected profitability.
Though India so  far has been immune from such threat, one cannot rule  out it being a big area of concern in the era of huge  digitisation & automation.
Building upon regulatory confidence continues to be a  big area of concern.
Despite the failed (no  breakthrough) Copenhagen summit of 2009,  Climate change, Green initiatives, sustainability,  environmental issues continue to remain a big area of  concern and a big risk as well in fetching good enough  investment to explore and operate.
In some cases,  these are coming in a big way for survival of the  industry.
BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of  Mexico has rather turned out to be great game changer  leading to enforcing tighter safety and environmental  guidelines which then requires huge investments and  hence a pinch on profit margins.
Adding to our concern is the health, safety and  environmental issues arising out of matured fields  operation which poses significantly good risk and  complex operational challenges.
The frontier areas  like deep-water and ultra-deep-water have its own  risks and concerns because of extreme weather  conditions like hurricanes and tropical storms and  challenging logistics.
Following the regulations and  statutory stipulations in place and ensuring a hundred  percent compliance is turning out to be very costly  propositions thereby slowing down the expansion  plans of several oil and gas players, with your  company not an exception.
Though the world appears to be committed towards  greener options of energy, the cost and affordability in  terms of grid-price parity will continue to be areas of  concern as no path-breaking technologies that offer  mass-solution appear in the pipeline.
Though a lot of  research and development are underway, their  applicability and commercial success will continue to  be an area of concern.
Inherent risks are associated  with oil and gas field operations like – spillage, rupture,  blowout of wells, earthquake, tsunami, terrorist  activities, etc.
These risks are being mitigated right  from design stage; however probability of emergency  situations cannot be totally eliminated.
In the event of  any such unfortunate events the risk of significant  liabilities increases manifold.
However, ONGC has  implemented improved OISD Standards to improve  contingency combat capabilities.
ONGC offshore  assets have been rated under ‘acceptable risk’ by  international underwriters, enabling a lower-than-peer  insurance premium for these assets.
Accreting good quality reserves has turned out to be a  major area of concern.
Rather, industry has now  entered in such a phase where reserves are harder to  find as these are now left out to find only in challenging  areas like Arctic or in other ecologically sensitive areas  having a number of environmental issues.
Adding to  the concern are the myriad political interventions,  constraining regulations, unstable fiscal & regulatory  regimes & inadequate or half-cooked energy policies  in new reserve destination countries.
Besides, the  huge competition now-a-days is being witnessed for  proven conventional reserves.
Acknowledging these hard facts, nevertheless, your  company has intensified its exploratory efforts in  challenging areas and is also pursuing emerging  opportunities in identified plays particularly High  Pressure/ High Temperature (HP/HT) plays.
Improving  seismic imaging and reservoir characterization  remains a challenge particularly for the deep-water,  ultra deep-water, basement plays and HP/HT  reservoirs and subtle traps.
As such, viable price  realisation is central to economic success of  exploration and development in these areas.
Economic viability of the small to medium sized  discoveries, which have become almost the trend of  the new discoveries made in the Indian basins,  remains a concern.
Financing Upstream E&P pursuits is turning out to be  good hindrance now-a-days owing to a host of factors,  both globally as well as in India.
For the industry, as of  now, stiff competition is being witnessed as far as  financing of new projects and completing  megaprojects that is taking out huge annual cash  flows, is concerned.
Adding to the many factors that  influence investment decisions in oil & gas projects is  the uncertain government and regulatory landscape  which might come in the way of maximizing the  investments made by the financiers.
Capital investments in upstream E&P are remaining  more or less flat though it is seeing good upward trend  in downstream & midstream sectors.
For your  company too, financing its new projects, particularly in  matured fields to get remaining oil and in new &  marginal fields and also in deep-water areas, is turning  out to be a big task.
These pursuits are technology  driven, cost intensive and fraught with certain  uncertainty as well.
A good remunerative pricing  regime and a stable fiscal regime is a must to exploit  these potentials and finance these big projects.
111 Annual Report 2013-14 Returns on investment remain an abiding concerns;  par ticularly adhoc under recover y sharing  mechanism.
Increasing under-recovery, reducing net  realization and increasing cost of production for crude  oil remain the biggest stumbling blocks on the road to  an equitable and transparent regime, much necessary  in a risk-prone industry.
The depreciation of the Rupee  is a current concern of the Company as it increases  the quantum of under-recoveries and may lead to  higher share of under-recoveries for your  Company.
Furthermore, ‘uncertainty’ is an industry  characteristic in the global oil market and it is an area  that your Company closely tracks gauge well any  possible ramifications on the business on account of  market events and trends.
Land acquisition for exploration and development  projects and particularly for new sources of energy like  CBM, UCG, Shale gas, etc., remains an area of major  concern.
Further, overlapping of CBM blocks with the  mining blocks remain a concern.
Your Company is  waiting for the award of mining lease (ML) for its UCG  pilot project in ‘Vastan block’ for the last three years.
As  such, policy framework for exploration and exploitation  of new sources of energy remains a concern and it is  affecting ONGC’s endeavours for unconventional  sources.
8.
Outlook a.
Exploration acreage & mining Lease Your Company holds the largest exploration  acreage in India as an operator.
Despite  deregulation and increasing private participation,  your Company is still the largest exploration  acreage and mining lease holder in India.
As on 1st July 2014, your Company has 12  nomination blocks and is presently operating 56  NELP blocks covering a total area of 200,370 Sq.
Km.
Besides that ONGC 2 Pre-NELP blocks  covering an area of 1,996 Sq.Km has and 4 CBM  blocks covering an area of 875 Sq.Km.
In addition,  ONGC has participative interest in 10 NELP blocks  awarded under various NELP rounds wherein  other consortia partners are the operator.
ONGC holds 337 Mining Leases (Mls); covering an  area of 55,673 Sq.Km.
Out of these 337 PML, total  223 PMLs (40,781.53 Sq.Km) have been granted;  103 PMLs (13,074 Sq.Km) have been approved by  GoI and are awaiting grant from State  Governments; 1 PML (172.24 Sq.Km) has been  recommended by DGH for approval of  Government of India and 10 PMLs (646 Sq.Km.)
are under consideration with DGH for  recommendation/grant.
b.
Exploration  During the year, your Company made 14 oil and  gas discoveries in domestic fields (operated by  ONGC).
In addition to these discoveries, 25 more  exploratory wells drilled for delineation/appraisal  of known pays in existing fields were found to be  hydrocarbon bearing and have resulted in field  growth.
Out of 7 on-land discoveries made during  2013-14, four discoveries (Gandhar-686,  Sobhasan-300, Nandasan-111 & Geddanapalli-3)  have already been put on production and efforts  are on for bringing the other discoveries on  production as early as possible.
Five discoveries in  NELP blocks (one in onland and four in offshore)  are governed by the PSC guidelines and  appraisal/development activities will be taken up  keeping in view the time lines of the respective  blocks.
c. Deep-water exploration As on 31st March 2014, your company is  holding18 deep-water blocks in India in water  depth ranging from 400 meters to 3,200 meters  both at East Coast and at West Coast.
Out of these  18 blocks, 14 blocks are from NELP (1-VIII) regime  and 4 blocks are from Nomination blocks.
Besides  this, your company also holds 2 deep-water  blocks in PML area.
These 18 deep-water blocks  represents 67% of the total exploration area which  your company has in its fold.
Pursuing these efforts, your company since  inception (till 31st March 2014), has drilled a total  of 121 deep water exploratory wells (108  exploratory wells in Eastern Offshore deep-waters  and 13 exploratory wells in Western offshore  deep-waters).
In FY’14 alone, your company has  drilled 9 deep water wells: 1 in Kerala-Konkan; 6  wells in KG and 2 wells in Mahanadi deep water  areas.
All these efforts led to your company  making 24 deep-water discoveries, all in Eastern  Offshore deep-water fields.
Out of these 24 deep- water discoveries, 17 discoveries are in Krishna- Godavari deep-waters, 5 in Mahanadi deep- waters and 2 are in Andaman deep-water basins.
The fiscal further saw your company completing  and successfully putting on production its first  deep water sub-sea well G1-11 in Eastern  Offshore through an Early Production System  (EPS).
d. Development of new fields At present (as on July 01, 2014) your Company is  developing 33 new fields through 11 projects with  an estimated investment of ` 362.85billion.
G-1 &  GS-15 fields, off Eastern offshore, are being  developed in an integrated manner.
Production  from both the fields GS-15 & G-1 has already  commenced.During FY’14, your Company  completed three projects i.e., development of  Nor th Tapti, Development of BHE and  Development of SB-14.
In addition, development  of B-46 was completed during May 2014; thus,  monetizing 8 new fields.
Production from the fields  under projects B-22 Cluster, B-46 Cluster, C- Series, North Tapti and additional development of  N.B.Prasad (D-1) field has already commenced.
Four out of eleven projects are expected to be  completed this year and the remaining six in FY’16  and one (development of Vasistha (VA) and S-1  fields)in FY’17.
112 Considering the potential of C-23, C-26 and B-12  fields (Daman project) ONGC revisited the  development schedule of the project and  prioritized it to put the field on stream three years  earlier than scheduled and now it is expected to  come on stream by 2015-16.  e. IOR/EOR and Redevelopment projects More than 70 per cent of ONGC’s domestic  production coming from 15 major fields which are  of vintage of 25 to 50 years.
Technology intensive  Improved Oil Recovery (IOR) and Enhanced Oil  Recover y (EOR) through Redevelopment  schemes have been adopted for these 15 major  fields since 2000 with the objective to maintain  production levels and improve recovery factor.
By the end of FY’14, 19 out of 24 IOR/EOR and  redevelopment projects have been completed.
During FY’14 IOR/EOR projects contributed an  incremental oil gain of 7.52 MMT.
Cumulative  incremental gain so far (till FY’14) has been 87.46  MMT against the envisaged cumulative gain of 170  MMT over the life cycle of these projects.
As of  March 31, 2014 your Company has invested `  332.32 billion in these schemes against planned  investment of ` 413.16 billion.
Buoyed by the success of Mumbai High  Redevelopment plans, ONGC has adopted a  policy of rolling redevelopment scheme for the  major fields.
Under this, Mumbai high field itself is  planned to undergo third phase of redevelopment.
Besides that, continuous efforts in the areas of  MEOR (Microbial Enhanced Oil Recovery)  application in high temperature reservoirs,  development of reservoir specific and crude oil  specific thermophilic, anaerobic bacterial culture  bank for enhanced oil recovery, exploitation of  basement reservoirs, exploitation of tight plays,  cyclic steam stimulation to strengthen In-situ  combustion process, MEOR flooding, etc., are  being made towards improving the recovery  factor significantly.
f. Infrastructure creation Acknowledging the significance of its existing  infrastructure and production pursuits, your  company is also investing towards improving the  integrity of existing facilities and creating new  facilities as well to handle additional production  volumes.
At present your company is  implementing 21 projects with an investment of  ` 223.91 billion.
g. Unconventional & alternate sources of energy  Results of recent exploration activities clearly  shows that even well explored basins have  provided unexpected positive surprises.
Among  these are HP-HT/Deeper plays and Basement  Plays.
ONGC plans to continue its endeavour for  exploration of Unconventional & other resources  like CBM, HP/HT, Fractured Basement plays etc.
i.
Exploration of shale plays Your Company has the distinction of establishing  the first flow of shale gas in the country in  Durgapur.
ONGC is planning to explore for shale  gas in the identified basins such as - Cambay,  Krishna-Godavari, Cauvery and Bengal basins.
During the year 2013-14, Government of India  notified New Shale Gas Policy for the NOCs on  14.10.2013 according to it, ONGC and OIL to  initiate the shale gas and oil exploration activities in  their nomination blocks in phased manner.
ONGC  has identified 50 nomination blocks.
Out of the 50  blocks identified in these basins, 28 blocks are in  Cambay basin, 10 in KG basin, 9 in Cauvery basin  and 3 in Assam Shelf.
Following the notification of the policy, your  company drilled its first pilot Shale gas well  JMSGA(DD-3305 m) in Cambay basin.
Extensive  coring (139 m) was carried out in this well and  studies on cores and analysis of wire-line logs are  in progress which will help in assessing the shale  gas and oil potential of Cambay Shale, main  source rock in the basin.
Identification of  prospective shale gas blocks in different basins  has been completed and ONGC plans to take up  shale gas activities proactively in these basins.
Similar pilot wells around 20 are planned to be  drilled in Cambay, KG, Cauvery and A&AA basins  in 2014-15.  ii.
Coal Bed Methane (CBM) Your Company has taken concrete steps to  discover Coal Bed Methane (CBM) in the country  and currently operating in four CBM Blocks i.e.,  Jharia, Bokaro, North Karanpura and Raniganj.
The Development Plans for all the four blocks has  been submitted and approved by the Steering  Committees.
Nearly 400 wells and 2,000 hydro- fracturing jobs have to be carried out in the coming  4-5 years as per timelines of the CBM Contract.
In  view of the mammoth and time bound task, ONGC  has decided to farm-in experienced partners to  execute the operations, process for which is in  advanced stage.
iii.
Underground Coal Gasification (UCG) ONGC has selected Vastan Mine block in Surat  district,Gujarat for UCG Pilot project.
All the  ground work and inputs for pilot construction have  been finalized for implementation of UCG pilot at  Vastan.
Gazette notification from GoI for UCG  block allocation in the form of Notice Inviting  Application(NIA) had been issued on July 29,  2013.
The Mining Lease forthe block is awaited.
The Pilot construction and erection of surface  facilities shall be taken up only after the allocation  of the Vastan Mine block.
In order to make a dent on the energy front  through use of UCG Technology, a number of sites  were jointly identified by ONGC & Neyveli Lignite  Corporation Limited (NLC) for studying their  suitability to UCG.
These are Tadkeshwar in  113 Annual Report 2013-14 Gujarat and Hodu-Sindhari & East Kurla in  Rajasthan.
One more site was jointly identified by  ONGC & GMDC viz.
Surkha in Bhavnagar  district, Gujarat.
The data of all the fields have  already been analysed for evaluating the  suitability of these sites for UCG and all the sites  have been found suitable for UCG.
h. Other exploration initiatives i. HP-HT /Tight/Deeper plays ONGC has prioritized HP-HT/Tight/Deeper plays  in KG onland and shallow water offshore, Cauvery  onland and AAFB areas.
Good potential has  already been established in Bhuvnagiri,  Malleswaram, Periyakudi, Kottalanka, Bantimulli  South, Yanam shallow offshore, GS-OSN-2004  and G-4-6.
All these fields are expected to have  large growth components to be established and  vast potential area remains unexplored.
Your Company has hired services of M/S Blade  Energy Partners,USA to study the six discovered  HP-HT/Tight Reservoir Fields.
The study includes  G&G, Petrophysics drilling,testing,hydro- fracturing and completion of HP-HT wells.
ii.
Basement Exploration In India, there is established hydrocarbon potential  in Basement in Western Offshore (Archean  Basement,Deccan Basalt).
In the east Borholla- Champang field are well known basement  producers.
Commercial presence of hydrocarbons  has been established in prospects like  Padra,Karjan,Halisa,Chadra and Mansa in Cambay  basin.
Hydrocarbon occurrences in basement in  Mattur,Pundi,Vadatheru and Pondichery Offshore,  and recent commercial discoveries around  Mandam and Portonova highs have rejuvenated  exploration thrusts on Basement exploration.
Future plan of action with regard to Basement  exploration work to be extended in the known  occurrences of Basement.
This would cover  Mumbai High, Heera, Neelam, Bassein and North  Tapti areas of Western Offshore, Padra, Mansa,  Chadra areas of Western Onshore, Mandam and  Pandanallur and surrounding areas in Cauvery  Basin.
The basement would be probed for deeper  accumulations.
i.
Unconventional & alternate sources of energy  Your Company has taken step to evaluate various  forms of energy to fulfil the country’s growing  energy needs.
ONGC, through ONGC Energy  Center(OEC), a trust setup by ONGC is actively  pursuing alternate energy opportunities.
Some of  the significant initiatives in developing alternate  sources of energy are: I. G e n e r a t i o n  o f  H y d r o g e n  t h r o u g h   Thermochemical Processes: OEC is working on development of high  temperature thermochemical processes for  decomposition of water, utilizing waste nuclear  and/or solar heat.
The initial design and fabrication  of indigenous reactor has been completed.
The  complete close loop process is likely to be  demonstrated by August, 2014. ii.
Geothermal Power Project in Cambay Basin OEC has contemplated a pilot scale Geothermal  collaborative Pilot Project in Cambay Basin,  Western India with M/s.
Talboom, Belgium (as  technology partner).
The subsurface heat  modelling has estimated high geothermal  gradient.
The initial result of the modelling has also  estimated about 2.1MWe geothermal power  generation capacity can be set up in Phase-I.
OEC  has started preliminary work to evaluate feasibility  of geothermal power generation using single well  with a view to utilize abandoned / non-flowing high  temperature wells.
iii.
Kinetic Hydro Power Project ONGC Energy Center has entered into an  a g r e e m e n t  w i t h  M / S  N a t u r a l  P o w e r   Concepts(NPC), Hawaii, USA for the project on  Kinetic Hydro Power Generation in Rivers/Water  Channels/Tail races of Dams.
Floating turbines can  be used to harness the kinetic energy of flowing  streams or tail race of existing dams to generate  electricity.
iv.
Bioconversion of Coal to Methane Project  OEC had taken the initiative to undertake research  on development of biotechnological process for  conversion of lignite/coal to methane gas and  produce humic acid as a by-product which can act  as a soil nutrient.
A collaborative project with IIT  Kharagpur to generate methane and humic acid  from lignite in surface conditions as well as in-situ  is recently concluded.
v. Uranium Exploration Project ONGC Energy Center is currently engaged in an  exploration program for identification of uranium  prospects, suitable for exploitation by “In Situ  Leaching” (ISL) in collaboration with Atomic  Minerals Directorate for Exploration and Research  (AMD).
OEC has initially identified four regions,  with the presence of Uranium.
ONGC has  successfully completed 10 parametric wells in  Cauvery and KG basins at identified locations for  confirmations of the presence of Uranium.
During 2013-14 OEC started a project to drill 7  parametric wells in Suket region in Rajasthan.
Five wells were completed during the year.
Initial  results indicate Uranium concentration.
j. Non-E&P Business i.
Refining Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd  (MRPL), subsidiary of your Company, commissioned  its SPM (Single Point Mooring) facility (in August  2013), Delayed Coker Unit, Coker Hydro Treater  Unit and one SRU (Sulfur Recovery Unit) unit in  April/May 2013.
Commissioning of PFCC (Petro  Fluid Catalytic Cracking) is in advanced stage and  is expected to be commissioned by July 2014.
114 Polypropylene unit is expected to be  commissioned subsequently.
Total capital  expenditure incurred for expansion project so far  has been `117.43 billion.
With this capacity will  enhance to 15MMTPA.
MRPL is fur ther  considering upgrading capacity to 18 MMTPA.
ii.
Petrochemicals The two petrochemical plants ONGC Petro- additions Limited (OPaL) and ONGC Mangalore  Petrochemicals Limited (OMPL) promoted by your  Company are progressing well and are expected  to become operational in Jan 2015 and  December’2014 respectively.
These projects have  basically been promoted for value-multiplication  of in-house produced Naphtha at Uran, Hazira,  and Mangalore and C2-C3 components at C2-C3  extraction plant at Dahej.
On August 23, 2013,  your Company signed a Product Sale Agreements  with OPaL for supply of feed-stocks (expected  from Q2 2014-15).
iii.
Gas based power plant 726.6 MW (363.3 x 2) gas based Combined Cycle  Power Plant (CCPP) is being set up by ONGC  Tripura Power Company Ltd. (OTPC), an SPV  promoted by your Company, at Pallatana, Tripura.
The project aims to monetize idle gas assets in the  state of Tripura.
The commercial operation of first  unit (363.3 MW)commenced from 4th Jan 2014  and second unit is expected to be commissioned  by October’2014.
iv.
Nuclear power plant Your Company in association with Nuclear Power  Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL) is studying  the feasibility to setting up 1400 MW nuclear  power plant.
v. Gas & LNG ONGC along with Mitsui and BPCL is considering  setting up a 2.5 MMTPA LNG regasification  terminal (expandable to 5 MMTPA) at Mangalore  and is aiming to sourc LNG from Mozambique.
Your Company has signed an MOU with BPCL for  CGD (City Gas Distribution) and aims for organic  grow th.
Your Company is also pursuing  Greenfield or Brownfield opportunities for  participation in LNG value chain projects in several  countries like - Mozambique, Russia, Canada,  USA, Papua New Guinea etc.
vi.
Fertilizer Your Company has signed a Memorandum of  Understanding (MoU) with M/s Chambal  Fertilizers and Chemicals Ltd (CFCL) and the  Government of Tripura for setting up a 1.3 MMTPA  capacity urea fertilizer plant in Tripura which aims  to monetize recent gas discovery in Tripura.
9.
Internal Control Systems Energy business, particularly oil & gas, has always  been a very dynamic business, not just because of its  fundamental economic and strategic significance to  the nations of the world but also because of the high- risk nature of the business.
The business is challenged  by uncertainties, geological surprises, volatile markets  and number of external factors like – geo-political  uncertainties, fiscal & regulatory regime, etc.
In such scenario, where the uncertainties are the rule, it  becomes imperative to have a balanced portfolio.
Keeping these in view, your Company adopted the  vision to grow as an integrated global energy  company.
Exploration and production of oil and gas  remains the core business of your Company; however,  keeping in view the business imperatives, ONGC has  meaningfully integrated itself in the hydrocarbon value  chain.
Now the portfolio of your Company (including  overseas assets) is large, diversified and assuring.
To manage this large portfolio, your Company has  institutionalized robust internal control systems to  continuously monitor critical businesses, functions  and operations; particularly field operations.
The top management of your Company monitors and  reviews the various activities on continuous basis.
A  set of standardised procedures and guidelines have  been issued for all the facets of activities to ensure that  best practices are adopted even up to ground level.
Performance of every business unit is monitored by  the respective directorates for suitable corrective  measures, if any, in time.
Your Company has a dedicated Performance  Management and Benchmarking Group (PMBG)  which monitors the performance of each business unit  against the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) defined  in the Performance Contracts between the top  management and the Key Executives.
These  performance contracts are aligned to the goals and  objectives of the organization.
Occupational health, safety and environmental  protection are the adopted motto of your Company.
Achieving highest standards in these areas remains a  priority objective for your Company.
Internal and  external audits have been institutionalised and are  conducted on a continuous basis to ensure  compliance to various industr y norms and  benchmarks.
Your Company has dedicated Internal Audit (IA) group  which carries out audits in-house.
At the same time,  based on requirement, specialized agencies are  engaged to carry out audit in the identified areas.
Statutory auditors are appointed by Comptroller and  Auditor General (CAG) of India for fixed tenures.
Audit,  Ethics and Financial Management committee of the  Board oversees the functioning of Internal Audit and  control systems.
Third party safety audits are conducted regularly for  offshore and onshore installations by established  national and international HSE agencies such as Oil  Industry Safety Directorate ("OISD"), an organization  under the control of the MoPNG, which issues safety  guidelines.
Further, subject to the safety regulations  prescribed by the Directorate General of Mines and  Safety (DGMS), each work center has teams  dedicated to HSE, which execute the safety guidelines  115 Annual Report 2013-14 prescribed by OISD as well as DGMS.
HSE teams are  also responsible for obtaining necessary licenses and  clearances from the State Pollution Control Boards.
All transactions in the company are carried out on SAP  R/3 ERP based business portal.
Proper and adequate  system of internal control exists to ensure that all  aspects are safeguarded and protected against loss  from unauthorized use or disposition and that each  transaction is authorized, recorded and reported.
The  system further ensures that financial and other records  are fact-based and reliable for preparing the financial  statements.
10.
Human Resource Development As on April 1st 2014, a total of 33,988 ONGCians are  engaged in realizing your company’s vision, mission  and objective of securing for the country, year after  year, the much needed volumes of oil & gas, as the  energy soldiers of the country to steer its  developmental and growth goals.
The workforce intake strategy pursued by your  Company caters to meeting the demands of  maintaining a steady flow of talent, in a business which  is characterized by high risks and uncertainties,  enormous costs, fast changing technology, physically  challenging work environment, fluctuating product  prices and growing competition.
Your Company has in  place a scientific manpower induction plan aligned to  the business plans as well factoring the manpower  profile of the Company.
During the year, HR ensured that adequate numbers  with requisite skills-sets were inducted to meet the  requirements of the Company as well as replenish the  manpower loss on account of high superannuation.
Understanding that Skill up-gradation is a very vital  component for driving excellence through its Human  Resource pool, ONGC has branded the spectrum of its  training activities as ‘EXPONENT’, a comprehensive  programme which is nurturing the energy leaders of  tomorrow.
Your company believes that continuous development  of its human resource fosters engagement and drive  competitive advantage.
Towards that end, during the  year, your Company conducted Business Games to  hone the business acumen of its executives.
Your  Company also conducted the Assessment  Development Centre (ADC) for approximately 300  DGM level executives and provided them  developmental inputs.
Your Company has partnered  with global HR consulting firms to create a pool of  accredited mentors in the organization.
These  mentors will support organization’s effort to hone  young minds to successfully respond to the emerging  business needs of your Company.
Further to this, on  continued basis, Training Institutes of your company  have organized training in all dimensions - Technical as  well as non-technical and Managerial that is relevant to  Petroleum Industry.
As a Global player, it is imperative  to benchmark our strengths with the world’s best.
To  achieve this company has organized many  International Certification Programs benchmarked to  global standards.
Keeping the morale and motivation of our esteemed  workforce is continued to be the prime focus of your  company.
And towards this, your company is  providing them (inclusive of their family members) the  industry-best comprehensive & inclusive employee  welfare benefits in the areas of medical care,  education, housing, and social security, suitably  revising the terms of engagements thereby keeping  benefits abreast with changing business environment  and changing times.
Continuing its best maintained tradition of pursuing  operations & field/office activities through best of  Industrial Relations on Pan-India Pan-Organisation  basis, this year also your company did exceedingly  well and reported “no” man-days loss due to internal  industrial actions.
Some of the in-built employer- employee relationship mechanism has helped your  company in maintaining the harmony throughout the  organisation.
The endeavours of your Company, towards Human  Resource development, are well recognized in the  industry.
This year also, your company has been  bestowed with the “Most Attractive Employer” in the  energy sector in India, Award instituted by Ma Foi  Randstad, in acknowledgement of its sustained efforts  to encourage best practices and of building the  "Employer Brand".
11.
Corporate Governance The initiatives taken by your Company are detailed in  the Corporate Governance report, a part of the Annual  report.
12.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Initiatives taken by your Company towards CSR are  detailed in Directors’ Report.
13.
Cautionary Statement Statements in the Management Discussion and  Analysis and Directors Report describing the  Company’s strengths, strategies, projections and  estimates, are forward-looking statements and  progressive within the meaning of applicable laws and  regulations.
Actual results may vary from those  expressed or implied, depending upon economic  conditions, Government Policies and other incidental  factors.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue  reliance on the forward looking statements.
Your company is cognizant of the potential benefits of  unlocking the ‘unconventional resource base’ of the  country and has taken structured initiatives towards  shale gas exploration and exploitation.
India has good  shale potential in her fold.
In FY’13-14 your company  drilled a total of 7 wells for shale exploration.
20 wells  have been planned in Cambay, Assam-Arakan, KG  and Cauvery Basins in FY’14-15 with a further  commitment of 50 shale gas wells by 2016-17.
116 Corporate Governance is a term that refers broadly to  compliance of rules, processes, or laws by which  businesses are operated, regulated, and controlled.
Good  Corporate Governance helps to create a healthy culture  and climate of Consistency, Responsibility, Accountability,  Fairness, Transparency, and Effectiveness throughout the  organisation.
The presence of strong governance standards creates  awareness among stakeholders about the Company and  helps them to access capital and aids in economic growth.
Corporate Governance also has broader social and  institutional dimensions.
At ONGC, Corporate Governance has moved beyond mere  compliance.
It ensures trustworthy relations between the  Company and its stakeholders.
With a view to percolate the  values of fairness, transparency, accountability and  responsibility among the stakeholders, ONGC has  endeavoured to adopt best industry practices.
The main objectives that drive Corporate Governance in  ONGC are: • Adherence to ethical standards for ef fective  management and distribution of wealth and discharge  of social responsibility for sustainable development of  all stakeholders, (shareholders, customers,  employees and society at large) A sound system of internal control to mitigate risks  associated with achievement of business objectives,  both short term and long term Compliance of laws, rules & regulations Maintenance of highest standards with reference to  Company’s financial reporting    Strategic supervision by the Board of Directors having  appropriate composition, size, varied experience,  competence and commitment Timely and balanced disclosure of all material  information to all the stakeholders Clearly defined standards against which performance  of responsibilities are measured A clear delineation of shareholders’ rights Accuracy and transparency in disclosures regarding  operations, performance, risk and financial status  Based on the aforesaid objectives and in compliance  with the disclosure requirements of Clause 49 of the  Listing Agreement executed with the stock exchanges  as well as the Guidelines on Corporate Governance for  Public Sector Enterprises, issued by the Department of  Public Enterprises (DPE), the detailed Corporate  Governance Report of ONGC is as follows: • • • • • • • • 1.
Corporate Governance Recognitions ONGC’s Corporate Governance practices have  secured many accolades, some of which are: • ‘ICSI National Award for Excellence in Corporate  Governance for 2013’- Certificate of Recognition by the  Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
This is the  fourth year in a row that ONGC has bagged this award.
• ‘Best Corporate Governance Award-2012’ by the  Indian Chamber of Commerce; • ‘Golden  Peacock  Global Award’ for Corporate  Governance by World Council for Corporate  Governance, U.K. in the years 2005, 2007, 2008, 2009  and 2013 2.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2.1 COMPOSITION  The Company is managed by a Board of Directors,  which formulates strategies, policies and reviews its  performance periodically.
The Chairman & Managing  Director (CMD) and Six Whole-Time Directors viz.
Director (Human Resource), Director (Finance),  Director(Technology & Field Services), Director  (Exploration), Director (Of fshore) and Director  (Onshore), manage the business of the Company  under the overall supervision, control and guidance of  the Board.
The Board of Directors has an adequate combination  of Executive (Functional) and Non-executive st Directors.
As on 31  March, 2014, the Board of  Directors had 14 members, comprising of 6 Functional  Directors (including the Chairman & Managing  Director) and 8 Non-Executive Directors (comprising 1  part-time official nominee Director and 7 part-time  non-official Directors) nominated by the Government  of India.
To share the global experience and business  strategies, Managing Director, ONGC Videsh Limited  (OVL) is a permanent invitee to the meetings of the  Board.
th Except for the period from 29  November, 2013 to st 31  March, 2014, the composition of the Board of  Directors of the Company during the year 2013-14, did  not comply with the provisions of Clause 49 of the  Listing Agreement i.e., the Board of Directors did not  comprise of the required number of Independent  Directors as per the terms of the above mentioned  Listing Agreement.
This was due to the fact that in  terms of Article 104 (I) of Articles of Association of the  Company, the power to appoint directors on the Board  of ONGC vests with the Government of India that has  to take necessary action.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 117 Annual Report 2013-14 2.2   Board/ Committee Meetings and Procedures (A) Institutionalised decision making process The Company has defined guidelines for the meetings  of the Board of Directors and Committees.
These  guidelines seek to institutionalise the decision making  process at meetings of Board/ Committees, in an  informed and efficient manner.
Company’s guidelines  relating to Board Meetings are applicable to Committee  Meetings as far as practicable.
(B) Scheduling and selection of Agenda items for  Board / Committee Meetings (i) A tentative schedule of the Board Meetings to be held  during the ensuing financial year is drawn up and after  seeking convenience of the Directors and after  approval of the Board, the same is circulated among  all the Directors.
This helps the management in  ensuring that the various agenda items are kept ready  in advance and facilitates the Directors to plan their  schedule for participation in Board/Committee  meetings well in advance.
The meetings of the  Committees of the Board are held prior to the Board  Meeting after seeking convenience of members.
(ii) The meetings are convened by giving appropriate  advance notice after obtaining approval of the  Chairman of the Board/ Committee.
To address  specific urgent needs, meetings are also called at a  shorter notice.
In case of any exigency, resolutions are  passed by circulation.
(iii) Detailed agenda containing management reports and  other explanatory statements are circulated in  advance in the agenda format amongst members for  facilitating meaningful, informed and focused  delibrations and decisions at meetings.
Document or  agenda of confidential nature, are tabled with the prior  approval of CMD.
Sensitive subject matters are  discussed at the meeting without circulation of written  material.
In special and exceptional circumstances,  additional or supplemental item(s) on the agenda are  permitted.
(iv) The agenda papers are prepared by concerned  officials, sponsored by the concerned functional  Directors and approved by the CMD.
Duly approved  agenda papers are circulated amongst members of  the Board/ Committee by the Company Secretary.
(v) The meetings of the Board/ Committees are generally  held at the Company’s Registered Office at New Delhi.
(vi) Presentations are made to the Board/ Committee  covering Finance, Production, Operations, major  Business Segments, Human Resources, Marketing,  Joint Venture operations, whenever required.
(vii) The members of the Board/ Committee have  complete access to all information of the Company  and are also free to recommend inclusion of any  matter in the agenda for discussion.
Senior officials  are called to provide additional inputs to the items  being discussed by the Board/Committee, as and  when required.
(viii) Each Committee has the authority to engage outside  experts, advisers and counsels to the extent it  considers appropriate to assist the Committee in its  work.
Safety Snapshots ONGC is in the hydrocarbon business, therefore,  safety is paramount for continued operations.
To  apprise the Board regarding various safety measures  being taken and to seek their guidance on  implementation of these measures, periodic  presentations are made to the Board of Directors in the  form of Safety Snapshots which include all the major  incidences related to safety.
Industry Updates & Presentation  With a view to keep the members of the Board  apprised with latest developments in the Industry,  Industry updates are tabled and presentations on the  subjects relevant to E&P business are made  periodically to the Board.
This also ensures that the  Directors are constantly in touch with the problems  being faced by the Industry in general and ONGC in  particular in its operations.
(C) Recording minutes of proceedings at the Board  Meeting Minutes of the proceedings of each Board/Committee  meeting are recorded with all necessary details.
Draft  118 minutes are circulated amongst all members of the  Board/Commit tee for their appreciation and  comments that are incorporated in the minutes, that  are finally approved by the Chairman of the Board/  Committee.
These minutes are confirmed in the next  Board/ Committee Meeting.
Minutes of the meetings  of the Committees are also noted by the Board in its  next meeting.
The finalized minutes are entered in the  Minutes Book.
(D) Follow-up mechanism  The guidelines/decision of the Board/Committee  meetings provide for an effective post-meeting follow- up, review and reporting process for the action taken  on decisions/instructions/directions of the Board and  Committee.
As per the Board’s decision, the  Company Secretary intimates the ‘Action Points’  arising from deliberation during the meeting to the  concerned Functional Directors who in turn provide  updates to be apprised to the Board on areas of their  responsibilities in the next meeting.
Functional  Directors provide follow-up Action Taken Report (ATR)  once in a quarter.
(E) Compliance Functional Directors are responsible towards  ensuring adherence to all applicable provisions of law,  rules, guidelines.
A Quarterly Compliance Report  (collected from all work centres) confirming  adherence to all applicable laws, rules, guidelines and  internal instructions/ manuals, including Corporate  Governance, is reviewed by the Audit & Ethics  Committee and the Board.
(F) Training and Evaluation of non-executive Board  members   (a) In line with Clause 3.7 of the Guidelines on  Corporate Governance for Central Public Sector  Enterprises, 2010, issued by Government of India,  Ministry of Heav y Industries and Public  Enterprises, Department of Public Enterprises   and requirement of Listing Agreement with regard  to Training of Directors, the Board of Directors  have approved a three tier training policy for  Independent Directors: • Induction Training; • External Training; • Board Presentation.
Non-executive Board members are eminent  personalities having wide experience in the field of  business, education, industry, commerce and  administration.
Their presence on the Board is  advantageous and fruitful in taking business  decisions.
(b) Policy on Performance Evaluation of Directors  The draft Policy on Performance Evaluation of  Directors shall be reviewed in light of the  provisions of the Companies Act,  2013 as well as  the revised Guidelines of Corporate Governance.
(G) Board Charter As per Clause 3.5 of the guidelines on corporate  governance for CPSEs, a clear definition of the roles  and the division of responsibilities between the Board  and the management is necessary to enable the  Board to effectively perform its role.
The Board of ONGC has approved in principle a Board  Charter and that has been finalised by Independent  Directors.
However, to incorporate the amendments in  the Responsibilities of the Board as well as provisions  for Role & Responsibilities of Directors under the  Companies Act, 2013, the Board Charter is under  review.
2.3 BOARD MEETINGS  st st During 1  April, 2013 to 31  March, 2014, Thirteen th th Board meetings were held on 30   April,  29  May, th th th 10th June,  5  July, 12  August, 10  September, th th 25  September, 31st October, 13  November, st th 6th December, 2013, 31   January, 13   February and th 24  March, 2014.
The minimum and maximum interval between any  two Board meetings was 12 days and 56 days  respectively.
The details of number of Board Meetings attended by  Directors, attendance at the last Annual General  Meeting, Number of other Directorship/Committee  Membership in various companies held by them  during the year 2013-14 are tabulated below:- 119 Annual Report 2013-14 (ii) Part-time Non official Independent Directors Dr  D. Chandrasekharam (up to 10.03.2014) Prof. Deepak Nayyar 9 No 2 1 5 Shri Arun Ramanathan 7 No 6 4 4 Prof. S.K.Barua 11 Yes 4 1 4 Shri O.P.
Bhatt 10 Yes 4 Nil 8 Shri K.N.
Murthy 12 Yes 7 5 3 Shri P Umashankar 4 N.A.
Nil Nil 2 (From 29.11.2013) Shri S Ravi 4 N.A.
7 5 5 (From 29.11.2013) 10 Yes 3 Nil 1 Notes: (i) The Company being a PSU, all Directors are  appointed/ nominated by the President of India; (ii) Directors are not per se related to each other; (iii) Directors do not have any pecuniary relationships or  transactions with the Company; (iv) The Directorships/Committee Memberships are  based on the latest disclosure received; (v) None of the Director is a Member of more than 10  Committees or Chairman of more than 5 Committees,  across all the companies in which he is a Director.
3 STRATEGY MEET           A Strategy Meet is organised each year at which all  members of the Board and senior officials of the  Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas participate.
Intense discussion and deliberation takes place  covering areas of concerns and growth for ONGC.
4.
CONCLAVE To benefit from cumulative knowledge and experience  of seniors of ONGC, an assembly of the past and  present members of the Board of the Company is  organized each year.
To focus on action plan for  Perspective Plans and future growth strategies.
The  th rd 12  ONGC Conclave was organized from 21-23   February, 2014 at Khajuraho, Madhya Pradesh.
5.
KEY EXECUTIVES’ MEET (VICHAR VISHLESHAN) Key Executives are managers placed just below the  Directors of the Board and run day- to-day operations  of the Company under the direction and supervision of  the Directors.
While Key Executives, jointly or severally  meet CMD and functional directors as when required,  an annual meet of all Key Executives with CMD &  Directors is held to discuss issues of Management and  operations implementation strategies of Strategic  Plans are also discussed to find solutions for them.
6.
CHANGE AGENTS’ MEET To connect with Gen-next ONGCians, billed as  'Change Agents' and engaging and preparing them for  future challenges and for realization of Perspective  Plan - 2030, the Change Agent Meet is organized.
The  nd last meet was held on 22  March, 2013 at Jaipur.
7.
RESUME OF DIRECTORS PROPOSED TO BE RE- APPOINTED The brief resume of Directors retiring by rotation and  Additional Director seeking appointment including  nature of their experience in specific functional areas,  names of companies in which they hold directorship  and membership/ chairmanship of Board/ Committee  # Does not include Directorships of Foreign Companies, Section 25 Companies and Private Limited Companies.
*Chairmanship/ Membership of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Shareholders’/ Investors’ Grievance Committee of  Public Limited Companies (including ONGC).
121120 Names  & Designation As on 31.03.2014 No.
of    Directorships in  other companies# No.
of  Committee  memberships  in companies* Whether  attended  last AGM  held on  25.09.2013 No.
of Board  meetings  attended  out of 13  meetings  held a)   Executive Directors                                                                              Shri Sudhir Vasudeva 12 Yes 7 Nil Nil (Chairman & Managing Director)  also holding Additional Charge of  Director (Onshore) (up to 28.02.2014) Shri Dinesh Kumar Sarraf 1 N.A.
7 Nil Nil (Chairman & Managing Director)  also holding Additional Charge of  Director (Onshore)  from 01.03.2014) Shri P. K. Borthakur 11 Yes 2 Nil Nil Director (Offshore) (up to 31.01.2014) Shri K. S. Jamestin 13 Yes 6 Nil 2 Director (HR) Shri A. K. Banerjee 13 Yes 1 Nil Nil Director (Finance)  Shri Shashi Shanker 13 Yes 1 Nil Nil Director (T&FS) Shri N. K. Verma 11 Yes 1 Nil Nil Director (Exploration) (from 01.04.2013) Shri T. K. Sengupta 2 N.A.
2 Director (Offshore) (from 01.02.2014) (i) Part-time Official Directors- Govt.
Nominees Shri Shaktikanta Das, 6 No 1 Nil Nil Addl.
Secretary, MoP&NG (up to 29.12.2013) Shri Aramane Giridhar 6 No Nil Nil Nil Jt.
Secretary (E), MoP&NG  Chairman Member Attendance: Annual Report 2013-14 123 Attendance: Members No.
of Meetings held during the tenure No.
of Meetings Attended Shri Arun Ramanathan 8 7 Dr. D. Chandrasekharam (up to 10.03.2014) 8 7 Shri O. P. Bhatt 8 6 Prof. S. K. Barua 8 7 Shri K. N. Murthy 8 7 Shri P. Uma Shankar (from 13.02.2014) Nil Nil Shri S. Ravi (from 13.02.2014) Nil Nil Permanent Invitees: Shri A. K. Banerjee, Director (Finance) 8 7 Shri Pradeep Prasad, Chief I.A.
8 8 statutory and internal  auditors, adequacy of the  internal control systems.
(viii) Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, if  any, including the structure of the internal audit  department, staffing and seniority of the official  heading the depar tment, repor ting structure  coverage and frequency of internal audit.
(ix) Discussion with internal auditors on any significant  findings and follow up there on.
(x) Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations  by the internal auditors into matters where there is  suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal  control systems of a material nature and reporting the  matter to the Board.
(xi) Discussion with statutory auditors before the audit  commences, about the nature and scope of audit as well  as post-audit discussion to ascertain any area of concern.
(xii) To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the  payment to the depositors, shareholders (in case of  non payment of declared dividends) and creditors.
(xiii) To review the functioning of the Whistle Blower  Mechanism.
(xiii) Discussions with the auditors periodically about  internal control systems, the scope of audit including  the observations of the auditors and review the half- yearly and annual financial statements before  submission to the Board and also ensure compliance  of internal control systems.
(xiv) To review the Audit paras referred to A&EC by the  Internal Audit / Board and / or Govt.
of India and to  provide its suggestions / guidance / comments on the  issues referred to it.
(xvi)Carrying out any other function as is mentioned in the  terms of reference of the Audit Committee.
(xvii)The Audit Committee shall review the financial  statements, in particular, the investments made by the  unlisted subsidiary company Audit & Ethics Committee Meetings  st st During 1  April, 2013 to 31  March, 2014, eight  meetings of Audit & Ethics Committee were held on  th th th th th 17  May, 29  May, 05  July, 12  August, 10   th rd September, 13  November, 2013 and 23  January  th and 13  February, 2014.
The details of meetings attended by the members and their  tenure as member of the above Committee is reflected in  the table below:- is appended to the notice of the 21st Annual General  Meeting.
8.
BOARD COMMITTEES  The Company has the following Committees of the  Board: 8.1 AUDIT & ETHICS COMMITTEE (Audit, Ethics and  Financial Management Commit te e w.e.f.
13.02.2014) The terms of reference of the Audit & Ethics  Committee are in accordance with Section 292A of the  Companies Act, 1956, guidelines set out in Clause  49(II) of the Listing Agreement and the Guidelines on  Corporate Governance for Central Public Sector  Enterprises issued by the Department of Public  Enterprises in May, 2010.
Composition The committee is headed by Shri Arun Ramanathan, an  Independent Director.
Dr. D. Chandrasekharam, Shri O. P.  Bhatt, Shri S. K. Barua, Shri K. N. Murthy, Shri P. Uma  Shankar and Shri S. Ravi, Independent Directors, were/are  the other members of the Committee.
All members of the Committee have requisite financial and  management experience and have held or hold senior  positions in other reputed organizations.
Director (Finance) and Chief Internal Audit are permanent  invitees.
Representatives of Statutory Auditors and Cost  Auditors are invited to participate in the meetings  whenever required.
Functional Directors, Executives of  Finance and other departments are invited, if required.
Due to the inability of Shri Arun Ramanathan, Chairman  th A&EC to attend the 20  AGM of the Company, Dr. D.  Chandrasekharam, senior most Independent Director and  member of the A&EC, was unanimously elected by the other  members of A&EC, present at the aforesaid AGM, as Interim  Chairman to address Investor queries in the 20th AGM.
Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the  Committee.
The role of the Audit & Ethics Committee includes the  following:  (i) Overseeing company’s financial reporting process  and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure  that the financial statements are correct, sufficient and  credible.
(ii) Recommending to the Board, the appointment, re- appointment and, if required, the replacement or  removal of the statutory auditors and the fixation of  their fees.
(iii) Approval of payment to statutory auditors for any  other services rendered by them.
(iv) Reviewing, with the management, the annual financial  statements before submission to the Board for  approval, with particular reference to:  • Matters required to be included in the Director’s  Responsibility Statement to be included in the  Board’s report in terms of clause (2A A) of section  217 of the Companies Act, 1956  • Changes, if any, in accounting policies and  practices and reasons for the same  • Major accounting entries involving estimates based  on the exercise of judgment by management  • Significant adjustments made in the financial  statements arising out of audit findings  • Compliance with listing and other legal  requirements relating to financial statements  • Disclosure of any related party transactions  • Qualifications in the draft audit report.
(v) Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly  financial statements before submission to the Board  for approval.
(vi) Reviewing, with the management, the statement of  uses / application of funds raised through an issue  (public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, etc.
), the  statement of funds utilized for purposes other than  those stated in the offer document/prospectus/notice  and the report submitted by the monitoring agency  monitoring the utilisation of proceeds of a public or  rights issue, and making appropriate recommendations  to the Board to take up steps in this matter.
(vii) Reviewing, with the management, performance of  122 Annual Report 2013-14 124 Prof. Deepak Nayyar, Shri Arun Ramanathan, Shri K.  N. Murthy and Shri P Uma Shankar, Independent  Directors, are the other members of the Committee.
Director (HR) and Director (Finance) are the  permanent Invitees.
One meeting of the above Committee was held on  rd 23  December, 2013.
The details of meetings attended by the members and  their tenure as member of the above Committee is  reflected in the table below:- 8.2   REMUNERATION COMMITTEE   ONGC, being a Central Public Sector Undertaking, the  appointment, tenure and remuneration of directors  are decided by the Government of India.
However, as  per the DPE Guidelines, a Remuneration  Committee was constituted to decide the annual  bonus/variable pay pool and policy for its distribution  within the prescribed limits.
The Remuneration  Committee of ONGC was headed by Dr. D.  Chandrasekharam, Independent Director up to  10.03.2014.
Members No.
of Meetings held during the tenure No.
of Meetings Attended Dr.  D. Chandrasekharam  (up to 10.03.2014)  Prof. Deepak Nayyar 1 1 Shri Arun Ramanathan 1 1 Shri K. N. Murthy 1 1 Shri P. Uma Shankar (from 13.02.2014) Permanent Invitees: Shri A. K. Banerjee, Director (Finance) 1 1 Shri K.S.Jamestin, Director (HR) 1 1 1 1 Nil Nil remuneration.
The Non-executive (part-time non- official) or Independent Directors are paid sitting  fees@ 20,000/- for each Board/ Committee meeting  attended by them.
8.2.1 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION ONGC being a Government Company, terms and  conditions of appointment and remuneration of  Whole-time Functional Directors are determined by  the Government through administrative ministry, the  Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas.
Non-executive  (part-time of ficial) Directors do not draw any  125 8.2.2 STOCK OPTIONS The Company has not issued any Stock Options to  its Directors/ Employees.
8.2.3 EQUITY SHARES HELD BY DIRECTORS  Except as stated hereunder, none of the Directors,  hold any Equity Shares in the Company as per the  declarations made by them to the Company: (a) Executive Directors   ( in Million)`  Sl.
No.
1.
Shri Sudhir Vasudeva* 1.71 0.87 3.03 0.23 0.00 5.84 28.02.2014 2.
Shri D.K.Sarraf  (from 01.03.2014) 3.
Shri K. S. Jamestin 1.90 0.89 2.85 0.25 0.53 6.42 31.07.2014 4.
Shri A. K. Banerjee 1.80 0.87 2.78 0.24 0.45 6.13 30.04.2015 5.
Shri P. K. Borthakur* 1.53 0.70 1.21 0.20 0.00 3.64 31.01.2014 6.
Shri Shashi Shanker 1.68 0.85 2.14 0.22 0.42 5.31 30.11.2017 7.
Shri T.K.Sengupta (from 01.02.2014) 8.
Shri N. K. Verma (from 01.04.2013) Names Salary Other Performance Contribution Provision for Grand Term  including benefits Incentives to PF & Leave, Gratuity Total DA & perks other Funds & PRBS as  per AS- 15 0.17 0.08 0.17 0.02 0.03 0.47 30.09.2017 0.29 0.10 0.22 0.04 0.05 0.71 31.01.2019 1.71 0.83 2.16 0.23 0.31 5.24 31.03.2018 Note:  1.
Performance related pay of Functional Directors  (including CMD) is paid as per DPE norms.
2.
Notice period of 3 months or salary in lieu thereof is  required for severance of service.
(b) Non-Executive Directors (Part-time non-official) Non-Executive non-official Directors were paid sitting  fee@ `20,000/-for attending each meeting of the  Board/ Committees thereof.
Details of sitting fees  st st paid during the period of 1  April, 2013 to 31  March,  2014 under review is as follows:          * Superannuated.
Names Sitting fees  (`In Million) Dr D.Chandrasekharam 0.70 Shri Arun Ramanathan 0.68 Prof Deepak Nayyar 0.64 Prof. S.K.Barua 0.88 Shri O.P.
Bhatt 0.76 Shri K. N. Murthy 0.84 Shri P. Uma Shankar 0.14 Shri S. Ravi 0.18  Total 4.82 Name of Directors No.
Of Shares held Shri Sudhir Vasudeva  (up to 28.02.2014) Shri D. K. Sarraf  (from 01.03.2014) Shri K. S. Jamestin 3,600 Shri A. K. Banerjee 3,172 Shri P. K. Borthakur (up to 31.01.2014) Shri T. K. Sengupta (from 01.02.2014) Shri Shashi Shanker 3,712 Prof. Deepak Nayyar 200 2,580 3,192 6,228 3,672 st st Remuneration of Directors during 1  April 2013 to 31  March, 2014 was as follows: Annual Report 2013-14 officials, headed by Director (Finance) have been  assigned the responsibility of up-keep of the said  link and to serve as a platform for the shareholders  to express their opinions, views, suggestions, to  understand the influencing factors in their  investment decision-making process.
Besides,  this, the team is also instrumental in maintaining  close liaison and to share information through  periodic meets including tele-conferencing in India  and abroad, regular interactions with investment  bankers, research analysts and institutional  investors.
The Company is committed to take such  additional steps as may be necessary to fulfil the  expectations of the stakeholders.
8.4 H U M A N  R E S O U R C E  M A N A G E M E N T   COMMITTEE     The terms of reference include consideration of all  issues/ areas concerning Human Resource  8.3.4 INVESTOR RELATIONS CELL In line with global practices, the Company is  committed towards maintaining, the highest  standards of Corporate Governance, reinforcing  the relationship between the Company and its  Shareholders.
‘Investor Service Center’ with  information frequently required by investors and  analysis is available on the Company’s corporate  website www.ongcindia.com.
This website  provides updates on financial statements, investor- related events and presentations, annual reports,  dividend information and shareholding pattern  along with media releases, company overview and  report on Corporate Governance etc.
Existing and  potential investors are able to interact with the  Company through this link for their queries and for  seeking information.
A Core Team comprising of senior, experienced  127 Sl.
1.
Complaint regarding allocation  Shares, Refund order under   Sale, 2004 by Govt.
2. Dividend from financial years 2006-07 (final) to 2013-14 (2nd  interim) and  all matters      3.
For Dematted Shares- Change of address, status,  Bank account, mandate, ECS  mandate etc.
4.
All complaints except of  Sl.
no.1 & 3.
Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd., 124, Indira Chowk, New Delhi-110001 Phone: 011-23301299 & 23301257 e-mail: secretariat@ongc.co.in  No.
Nature of Complaint Contact Office Action to be taken MCS Limited, F-65, Okhla Industrial Application giving  details of  of Area, Phase-I, Delhi- 110020.
Application No, No.
of shares  Offer for PhoneNos.011-41406149,51-52 applied, No.
of Shares allotted, DP  of India Fax Nos.
011-41709881.
ID, Client ID, Nature of complaint,   e-mail: admin@mcsdel.com Applicant Name(s) and complete postal address.
M/s Karvy Computershare Private Ltd., Letter on plain paper stating the Plot No.17-24, Vittal Rao Nagar,  nature of complaint, Folio/ DPID/  Madhapur, Hyderabad - 500081.
Client ID No; lodging of original  pertaining to Bonus Shares and Phone Nos.
040- 4465150, shares and other documents/  shares held in Physical mode; 040- 44655155, Fax No: 040- 44655024. instruments as the case may be.
For Physical Shares- e-mail: mailmanager@karvy.com Members are requested to apply        Change of address, status, for renewal or issue of duplicate  Bank account, mandate, ECS dividend warrants for the Final  mandate etc.
Dividend 2006-07 and Interim Dividend 2007-08 before 18th October, 2014 and 21st January, 2015 respectively as the same will be transferred by the Company to the Investor Education & Protection Fund (IEPF) set up by Govt.
of India and no claim will lie against IEPF or the Company.
Concerned Depository Participant (DP) As per instructions of DP where the Shareholder is maintaining  his/her account Company Secretary On plain paper stating nature of  complaint, folio/DPID/Client ID No., Name and address.
8.3 SHAREHOLDERS’/ INVESTORS’ GRIEVANCE  COMMITTEE The Shareholders’/ Investors’ Grievance  Commit te e, r enamed as Stakeholders’ th Relationship Committee w.e.f.
13  February, 2014,  specifically looks into redressal of complaints/   grievances of Shareholders and Investors,  pertaining to transfer/transmission of shares, non- receipt of annual reports, dividend payments, issue  of duplicate share cer tificates and other  miscellaneous complaints.
The Commit tee  oversees and reviews performance of the Registrar  and Transfer Agent and recommends measures for  overall improvement in the quality of investor  ser vices.
The Commit te e also monitors  implementation and compliance of Company’s  Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading in  ONGC’s securities.
Prof. Deepak Nayyar, an Independent Director, was  the Chairman of the Committee up to 12.02.2014.
Thereafter, The Committee has been headed by  Shri K. N. Murthy, an Independent Director.
Shri K. N. Murthy became the Member of the  Committee from 13.02.2014.
Other Members of the  Committee were/are Shri Arun Ramanathan, Prof.  S.K.
Barua, Shri O.P.
Bhatt and Shri S. Ravi.
Director (HR) & Director (Finance) are the permanent  invitees of the Committee.
The Company Secretary  acts as a Convener of the Committee.
During the year 2013-14, four meetings were held th th on 29  May, 12  August and 06th December, 2013 th and 24  March, 2014.
The details of meetings attended by the members  and their tenure as member of the above Committee  is reflected in the table below:- 8.3.1 COMPLIANCE OFFICER Shri N. K. Sinha, Company Secretary is the  Compliance Officer and is primarily responsible to  ensure compliance with applicable statutory  requirements.
He is the interface between the  management and the regulatory authorities on  governance matters.
8.3.2 REDRESSAL OF INVESTORS’ GRIEVANCE  The Company addresses all complaints,  suggestions and grievances of the investors  expeditiously and usually resolves them within 7  days except in case of dispute over facts or other  legal constraints.
Except for the complaints pertaining to ‘ONGC  Offer for Sale - 2004’ by Government of India, the  Company received 30 shareholders’ complaints  from Stock Exchanges/ SEBI which inter-alia  includes non-receipt of dividend/ annual report,  issue of Bonus Shares amongst others.
The  complaints were duly attended to and the  Company/ RTA have furnished necessary  documents / information to the shareholders.
As far  as the Investors’ Grievances on “ONGC Offer for  Sale-2004” is concerned, considerable progress  has been made by constant interaction with SEBI,  department of Disinvestment and MCS.
No request for share transfer is pending beyond  30 days except those that are disputed or sub- judice.
All requests for de-materialization of  shares are likewise processed and confirmation  communicated to investors and Depository  Participants within 10 working days.
The total number of complaints/ queries/  correspondence received and replied/ attended to  the satisfaction of the shareholders was 2493.
The  numbers of complaints pending as on 31.03.2014  were NIL.
8.3.3 SETTLEMENT OF GRIEVANCES Investors may register their complaints in the  manner stated below: Attendance:-     Members Meetings held Meetings  during the tenure attended Prof. Deepak Nayyar (up to 12.02.2014) 4 4 Shri K. N. Murthy (from 13.02.2014) 1 1 Shri Arun Ramanathan 4 4 Prof. S. K. Barua (up to 12.02.2014) 3 2 Shri O. P. Bhatt  4 3 Shri S. Ravi (from 13.02.2014) 1 1 Permanent  Invitees Director ( HR) 4 4 Director (Finance) 4 4 126 Annual Report 2013-14 Planning & Management, HR policies & initiatives  and Promotions for the post of Group General  Manager (GGM) and Executive Director (ED) and  appeals of officers in terms of CDA Rules of ONGC.
Prof. S. K. Barua is the Chairman of the Committee.
Shri A. Giridhar, Dr. D. Chandrasekharam, Prof.  Deepak Nayyar, Shri K. N. Murthy, Shri P. Uma  Shankar, Shri S. Ravi, CMD and all Functional  Directors were/are the members of the Committee.
Director (HR) is the Member-Convener of the  Committee.
st st During 1  April, 2013 to 31  March, 2014, five th th th meetings were held on 29  April, 24  August, 6  rd th and 23  December, 2013 and 24  March, 2014.
The details of meetings attended by the members  and their tenure as member of the above  Committee is reflected in the table below:- 8.5 PROJECT APPRAISAL COMMITTEE   The Project Appraisal Committee examines and  makes recommendations to the Board on projects/  capital investment exceeding `2500 million.
Proposals upto 2500 million are appraised in- house, while the proposals exceeding 2500  million are first appraised by Financial Institutions  and thereafter considered by the Project Appraisal  Committee which recommends the proposal to the  Board with its views.
The Project Appraisal  Committee also monitors IOR/ EOR Schemes.
Shri O.P.
Bhatt, an Independent Director, is  Chairman of this Committee.
Shri A. Giridhar, Dr. D.  Chandrasekharam, Shri Arun Ramanathan, Prof.  S.K.
Barua, Shri K. N. Murthy, Shri P. Uma Shankar,  Shri S. Ravi, Shri A. K. Banerjee, Shri P. K.  Borthakur, Shri T. K. Sengupta & Concerned  Functional Director were/are the members of the  Committee.
Director (Offshore) is the Member- Convener of the Committee.
st st  During 1  April, 2013 to 31 March, 2014, Nine th meetings were held on: 30  April, 29th May, th th th 10  June, 05  July, 24  August, 31st October, th st 6  December, 2013 and 31  January and 24th  March, 2014.
The details of meetings attended by the members  and their tenure as member of the above  Committee is reflected in the table below:- ` ` Members No.
of Meetings No.
of  Prof. S. K. Barua (Chairman) Shri A. Giridhar 5 1 Dr. D Chandrasekharam (Upto 10.03.2014) Prof. Deepak Nayyar 5 4 Shri K. N. Murthy 4 4 Shri Sudhir Vasudeva (upto 28.02.2014) Shri D. K. Sarraf (from 01.03.2014) 1 1 Shri K. S. Jamestin 5 5 Shri A. K. Banerjee 5 4 Shri P. K. Borthakur (upto 31.01.2014) Shri T. K. Sengupta 1 1 Shri Shashi Shanker 5 5 Shri N. K. Verma (from 01.04.2013) 5 4 Shri P. Umashankar (from 13.02.2014) Shri S. Ravi (from 13.02.2014) held during Meetings  the tenure attended 5 4 4 3 4 4 4 4 1 1 1 1 *These Directors attended the meetings as member concerning  the Projects of their responsibilities.
Members No.
of Meetings No.
of  held during Meetings  the tenure attended Shri O. P. Bhatt 9 8 Shri A. Giridhar 9 3 Dr. D Chandrasekharam 8 7 (Upto 10.03.2014) Shri Arun Ramanathan 9 7 Prof. S. K. Barua 9 7 Shri K. N. Murthy 9 8 Shri A. K. Banerjee 9 8 Shri P. K. Borthakur (up to 31.01.2014) 8 8 Shri T. K. Sengupta (from 01.02.2014) 1 1 Shri Shashi Shanker* 2 2 Shri N. K. Verma* 1 1 Shri P. Umashankar (from 13.02.2014) 1 1 Shri S. Ravi (from 13.02.2014) 1 1 128 8.6 HEALTH SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE  (HSE) The terms of reference includes review of policy,  processes and systems on Safety, Health,  Environment and Ecology aspects.
Dr. D. Chandrasekharam, an Independent Director,  was the Chairman of the Committee up to  12.02.2014.
Thereaf ter, w.e.f 13.02.2014, the  Committee was headed by Shri P. Uma Shankar, an  Independent Director.
The other members of the  Committee were/are Shri A. Giridhar, Prof. Deepak  Nayyar, Prof. S.K.Barua, Shri O.P.
Bhatt, Dr. D.  Chandrasekharam, CMD and all functional  Directors.
Director (I/C-HSE) acts as a Member- Convener st st During 1  April, 2013 to 31  March, 2014, one  meeting was held on 19th June, 2013.
The details of meetings attended by the members  and their tenure as member of the above Committee  is reflected in the table below:-     8.7 FINANACIAL MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Mandate of the Committee includes examining into  the matters pertaining to Budget, Delegation of  Powers (Empowerment), Commercial Issues, Forex  and Treasury Management, Investments, Risk  Management, Capital Structure, Issue of Securities,  Short and Long Term Loans.
Shri Arun Ramanathan, an Independent Director was  the Chairman of the Committee, Prof. Deepak  Nayyar, Prof. S.K.
Barua, Shri O.P.
Bhatt, Shri K. N.  Mur thy, Director (Finance) and Concerned  Functional Director were the members and Company  Secretary was the Member –Convener.
st st During 1  April, 2013 to 31  March, 2014, five th meetings of the Committee were held on 5  July, st th th 31  October, 13  November, 6  December, 2013 and st  31 January, 2014.
The details of meetings attended by the members  and their tenure as member of the above Committee  is reflected in the table below:- Members No.
of Meetings No.
of  Dr. D Chandrasekharam (upto 10.03.2014) Shri A. Giridhar 1 - Prof. Deepak Nayyar 1  - Prof. S. K. Barua 1 1 Shri O. P. Bhatt 1 - Shri Sudhir Vasudeva (upto 28.02.2014) Shri K. S. Jamestin 1  1 Shri A. K. Banerjee 1 1 Shri P. K. Borthakur (upto 31.01.2014) Shri Shashi Shanker 1 1 Shri N. K. Verma 1 1 Shri P. Uma Shankar  (from 13.02.2014) Shri D. K. Sarraf (from 01.03.2014) Shri T. K. Sengupta (from 01.02.2014)  held during Meetings  the tenure attended 1 1 1 1 1 1 - - - - - - Members No.
of Meetings No.
of  Shri Arun Ramanathan 5 4 Prof Deepak Nayyar 5 4 Prof. S. K. Barua 5 5 Shri O. P. Bhatt 5 4 Shri K. N. Murthy (from 22.04.2013) Shri A. K. Banerjee 5 5 held during Meetings  the tenure attended 5 4 On reconstitution of the Committees of the Board w.e.f  13.02.2014, the Financial Management Committee was  merged with Audit & Ethics Committee and rechristened  as Audit, Ethics and Financial Management Committee.
8.8 COMMITTEE ON DISPUTE RESOLUTION The Committee has been constituted to review the  dispute between ONGC and its vendors / contractors  for suitable redressal.
Prof. Deepak Nayyar, an Independent Director, was  Chairman of the Committee up to 12.02.2014.
Thereafter, Prof. S. Ravi became the Chairman of the  Committee w.e.f 13.02.2014.
Other members of the  Committee were / are Dr. D. Chandrasekharam, Shri  Arun Ramanathan, Shri O. P. Bhatt, Shri K. N. Murthy,  Director (Finance), Director (Onshore), Director  129 Annual Report 2013-14 (T&FS) and Concerned Functional Director.
Director  (T&FS) is the Member-Convener of the Committee.
st st During 1  April, 2013 to 31  March, 2014, Six  meetings of the committee were held on 29th April,  th th st 27  August, 25  September, 31  October,  th th 6  December, 2013 and 13  February, 2014.
The details of meetings attended by the members  and their tenure as member of the above Committee  is reflected in the table below:- Prof. Deepak Nayyar and Prof. S. K. Barua.
Prof. Deepak Nayyar, an Independent Director, is  the Chairman of the Committee.
Shri Sudhir  Vasudeva, Shri D.K.Sarraf, Shri K. S. Jamestin, Shri  A. K. Banerjee, Prof. S.K.
Barua, were/are the  members the Committee.
The role of the Committee, which is under  finalisation, shall inter – alia include the following:  1.
To oversee the company’s activities relating to  Corporate Social Responsibility in line with (i) CSR  Policy of the Company, (ii) Guidelines of Department  of Public Enterprises and (iii) the provisions of  Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and  schedule VII.
2.
To Review from time to time and recommend to the  Board for the modification in the CSR Policy of  ONGC, if any.
3.
To Recommend Guidelines for implementation of the  CSR Policy by ONGC Trust to be formed for the  purpose, including and not limited to recommending  the powers to be exercised at each level of the  management with regard to various CSR activities,  from time to time.
4.
To Recommend formation of Trust(s) to the Board for  implementation of the activities of CSR and SD  activities of ONGC.
This shall include activities  relating to: (i) Incorporation of the Trust (ii) Finalisation of the Trust Deed and its review from  time to time (iii) Nomination of Trustees  (iv) Nomination of Nodal Officer(s) on the Trust 4.1 To recommend, if necessary, (i) amendments in the  Trust Deed (ii) winding up of the Trust etc.
5.
To oversee the activities of the CSR Foundation Trust  through periodic review of its functioning to ensure  effective and appropriate utilization of the funds of  ONGC.
6.
To consider and if thought fit, design suitable  projects based on identified focus and / or  geographical areas related to CSR for  implementation by ONGC / Foundation Trust.
7.
To approve Annual work plan for CSR of ONGC  taking into account: Members No.
of Meetings No.
of  Dr. D. Chandrasekharam (up to 10.03.2014) 6 5 Prof. Deepak Nayyar (up to 13.02.2014) 6 5 Shri Arun Ramanathan 6 4 Shri O. P. Bhatt 6 5 Shri K. N. Murthy 6 4 Shri Sudhir Vasudeva as  Member - also holding  additional charge of  Director (Onshore) up to 28.02.2014 Shri A. K. Banerjee 6 6 Shri Shashi Shanker 6 6 Shri P. K. Borthakur* 3 3 Shri D. K. Sarraf as   Member -also holding  additional charge of  Director (Onshore)  w.e.f 01.03.2014 Shri S. Ravi (from 13.02.2014) held during Meetings  the tenure attended 6 2 - - - - *Attended the meetings as member concerning the Projects of  their responsibilities.
8.9 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability   Development The Board in its 246th Meeting held on 12th August,  2013 approved formation of a Committee on  Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability  Development consisting of CMD, Director (HR),  Director (F) and two Independent Directors, namely,  130 (I) Need Assessment studies (ii) Footprint Study  (iii) Projects / Targeted interventions under CSR  (iv) Impact Assessment Studies / Social Audits of the  CSR initiatives 8.
Based on the Annual Work plan, to work out the  Annual Budget for CSR and recommend the same to  the Board  9.
To approve / Ratify / recommend Project / non- project activities of CSR 10.
To Review the Report of the CSR activities of ONGC  to be submitted by the Foundation Trust / CSR group  on a quarterly basis (within 30 days of the end of first  second and third quarter) and on Annual basis  (including evaluation report) within 3 months of the  end of the Financial Year and recommend the same  to the Board.
st st During 1  April, 2013 to 31  March, 2014, five  t h meetings were held on 25  September,  th rd st 12  November, 23  December, 2013 and 1  and  th 13  February, 2014.
The details of meetings attended by the members  and their tenure as member of the above Committee  is reflected in the table below:- MEETINGS OF INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS Shri Arun Ramanathan is the Lead Independent  Director.
st st During 1  April, 2013 to 31  March, 2014, one  meeting of the Independent Directors was held on  13.02.2014.
The details of meeting attended by the Independent  Directors are reflected in the table below:- Members No.
of Meetings No.
of  Shri Sudhir Vasudeva (up to 28.02.2014) 5 5 Shri D. K. Sarraf (from 01.03.2014) Shri K. S. Jamestin 5 5 Shri A. K. Banerjee 5 5 Prof. Deepak Nayyar 5 4 Prof. S. K. Barua 5 5 held during Meetings  the tenure attended Nil Nil 8.10 OTHER FUNCTIONAL COMMITTEES Apart from the above, the Board, from time to time,  constitutes Functional Committees with specific  terms of reference as it may deem fit.
Meetings of  such Committees are held as and when the need  arises.
Time schedule for holding the meetings of  such Committees is finalized in consultation with  Committee members.
Members No.
of Meetings No.
of  Shri Arun Ramanathan 1 Nil Dr. D. Chandrasekharam (up to 10.03.2014) Prof. Deepak Nayyar 1 1 Shri O. P. Bhatt 1 1 Prof. S. K. Barua 1 1 Shri K. N. Murthy 1 1 Shri P. Uma Shankar (from 13.02.2014) Shri S. Ravi (from 13.02.2014) held during Meetings  the tenure attended 1 1 1 1 1 1 9.0 CODE OF CONDUCT FOR MEMBERS OF THE  BOARD AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT      The Company is committed towards conducting  business in accordance with the highest standards  of business ethics and complying with applicable  laws, rules and regulations.
A code of conduct,  evolved in line with the industry practices was  adopted by the Board on the recommendations of  Audit and Ethics Committee.
A copy of the Code has  been placed on the Company ’s website  www.ongcindia.com.
All members of the Board and Senior Management  i.e.
‘Key Executives’ have confirmed compliance with  the Code of Conduct for the year under review.
A  declaration signed by Chairman & Managing  Director is given below: Code of Conduct – Compliance affirmation (Pursuant to Clause 49-I(D)(ii) of the Listing Agreement) “I hereby confirm that the Company has obtained  from the members of the Board and senior  management (Key Executives), affirmation that they  have complied with the Code of Conduct for  Directors and senior management in respect of the  financial year 2013-14” 131 Annual Report 2013-14 13.
DISCLOSURES 13.1 MATERIAL CONTRACTS/ RELATED PARTY  TRANSACTIONS The Company has not entered into any material  financial or commercial transactions with the  Directors or the Management or their relatives or the  companies and firms, etc., in which they are either  directly or through their relatives interested as  Directors and/or  Partners except with certain  PSUs, where the Directors are Directors without the  required  shareholdings.
The Company has  obtained declarations from all concerned in this  regard, which were noted by the Board.
The details of transactions with related parties are  disclosed in Note No.
37 of the Notes to Financial st Statements for the year ended 31  March, 2014.
Being a State Enterprise, no disclosure has been  made in respect of the transactions with State  Enterprises, including subsidiary companies, in line  with Accounting Standard-18 on Related Party  Transactions.
13.2 COMPLIANCES  The Company has complied with applicable rules  and the requirement of regulatory authorities on  capital market and no penalties or strictures were  imposed on the Company during last three years.
All returns/ reports were filed within stipulated time  with stock exchanges/ other authorities.
14.
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION • Quarterly/ Annual Results: The Company  regularly intimates un-audited as well as audited  financial results to the Stock Exchanges,  immediately after these are approved.
These  financial results are normally published in the  leading English and vernacular dailies having wide  circulation across the country.
The results are also  displayed on the website of the Company  www.ongcindia.com.
The results are not sent  individually to the shareholders.
• News Release, Presentation etc.
: The official  news releases, detailed presentations made to  media, institutional investors, financial analysts etc.
are displayed on the Company’s website  www.ongcindia.com.
• W e b s i t e :  T h e  C o m p a n y ’ s  w e b s i t e   www.ongcindia.com contains separate dedicated  section ‘Investor Relations’ where the information  for shareholders is available.
Full Annual Report,  Shareholding Pattern and Corporate Governance  Report etc.
are also available on the web-site in a  user-friendly manner.
• Annual Report: Annual Report containing inter-alia,  Audited Accounts, Consolidated Financial  Statements, Directors’ Repor t, Management  Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) Report, Auditors’  Report, Corporate Governance Report including  Information for the Shareholders and other  important information is circulated to the members  and others entitled thereto.
15.
SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION 15.1 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING th Date Friday, 19  September, 2014.
Time 10:00 Hrs.
Venue NDMC Indoor Stadium, Talkatora Garden, New Delhi – 110001.
15.2 FINANCIAL CALENDER  Adoption of Quarterly Results for the Quarter ending meeting of the Board June 30, 2014 (with limited  review by Statutory Auditors) August 13, 2014 September 30, 2014  (with limited review by  Statutory Auditors) December 31, 2014  (with limited review by  Statutory Auditors) March 31, 2015 (audited) Friday, May 29, 2015 These dates are tentative and subject to change and the last  date for submission of the unaudited quarterly and year to  date financial results to the stock exchange is within  forty- five days of end of each quarter (except the last quarter).
The last date for submission of the financial results of  the last quarter is within sixty days from the end of the  financial year.
Tentative date of the Wednesday, Friday,  November 14, 2014 Friday,  February 13, 2015 15.3 Book Closure Period The Book Closure period is from Saturday, the th th 13  September, 2014 to Friday, the 19  September,  2014 (both days inclusive) for the payment of Final  Dividend.
15.4 DIVIDEND PAYMENT DATE th Final Dividend would be paid on or after 19   September, 2014.
15.5 LISTING ON STOCK EXCHANGES: The equity shares of the Company are part of the  Sensex and S&P CNX Nifty Index and are listed on  the following Stock Exchanges: 133 Sd/- (Dinesh Kumar Sarraf) Chairman & Managing Director New Delhi th 12  June,2014 9.1 ONGC’ CODE ON INSIDER TRADING In pursuance of the Securities and Exchange Board  of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations,  1992, the Board has approved the "The Code of  Internal Procedures and Conduct in dealing with the  Securities of ONGC”.
The objective of the Code is to  prevent purchase and/ or sale of shares of the  Company by an Insider on the basis of unpublished  price sensitive information.
Under this Code,  Insiders (Directors, Advisors, Key Executives,  Designated Employees and other concerned  persons) are prohibited to deal in the Company’s  shares/derivatives of the Company during the  closure of Trading Window and other specified  period(s).
To deal in securities, beyond specified  limit, permission of Compliance Officer is required.
All Directors/ Advisors/ Of ficers/ designated  employees are also required to disclose related  information periodically as defined in the Code.
9.2 CEO/ CFO CERTIFICATION In terms of Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement, the  certification by the CEO and CFO on the financial  statement and internal controls relating to financial  reporting for the year 2013-14 was submitted to the  th Board in its meeting held on 29  May, 2014.
10.0 FINANCE MANUAL  ONGC’s Finance Manual is a compendium based on  existing practices and systems, comprehensively  covering various finance activities such as  accounting, budgeting, costing, pre-audit and  treasury management.
This manual provides the  users with existing practices, processes, finance  policies & procedures, and guides Finance of ficers  while ensuring consistency and uniformity across  locations in terms of processes and methodologies.
This manual also helps new incumbents' and  Finance officers to enlighten them as well as outside  agencies such as Statutory Auditors, Government  Auditors associated with ONGC.
11.0 SUBSIDIARY MONITORING FRAMEWORK The Company has two direct subsidiary companies,  Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL,  listed, material) and ONGC Videsh Ltd. (OVL,  unlisted, non-material).
The list of subsidiaries of  MRPL and OVL is given in the consolidated accounts  of ONGC, which forms part of the Annual Report.
All subsidiaries of the Company are Board managed  with their Boards having the rights and obligations to  manage such companies in the best interest of their  stakeholders.
CMD, ONGC is the Chairman of MRPL  and OVL.
In terms of Clause 49.III (ii) and (iii) of the Listing  Agreement and DPE guidelines, performance of the  listed and unlisted subsidiary companies  is  reviewed by the Audit and Ethics Committee and the  Board of ONGC   as under: a) Financial Statements of the listed and unlisted  subsidiary companies, are reviewed by the Audit  and Ethics Committee; b) Minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors are  placed before the Company’s Board, periodically; c) A statement of all significant transactions and  arrangements entered into by the Subsidiary  Company are also reviewed by the Company.
The Company does not have any material unlisted  subsidiary company in terms of the clause 49 of the  Listing Agreement.
12.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETINGS Location, date and time of the AGMs held during the  preceding 3 years are as under:  Year Location Date Time (IST) 2010-11 Siri Fort Auditorium,   Gaon, August   New Delhi- 110049 2011-12 Siri Fort Auditorium,  Khel Gaon, August  Kranti Marg,  New Delhi- 110049 2012-13 NDMC Indoor  Stadium, Talkatora  Garden,  New Delhi-110001 There was no special resolution passed by the Company at  the last Three Annual General Meetings.
No resolution  requiring Postal Ballot is proposed at the ensuing AGM 30.08.2011 10.00 a.m Khel  Kranti Marg,  24.09.2012 10.00 a.m 25.09.2013 10.00 a.m 132 Annual Report 2013-14 Name & Telephone/Fax/ E-mail ID/Website   Bombay   P.J.Towers,  Dalal Street,  Fort Mumbai- 400001 National  Stock  Exchange of  India Ltd.  (NSE) Exchange  Plaza,C-1, G Block,  Bandra-Kurla  Complex,  Bandra(E),  Mumbai- 400051  Trading  Address ID Symbol Telephone:022-22721233/4 500312  Stock Fax: 022-22721919 ONGC Exchange E-mail: info@bseindia.com (BSE) Website:www.bseindia.com Telephone: 022-26598100-8114 ONGC Fax: 022-26598120 E-mail: cc_nse@nse.co.in Website:www.nseindia.com 15.6 LISTING FEES Annual listing fees for the year 2013-14, as  applicable, have been paid to the above Stock  Exchanges.
15.7 DEMAT ISIN NUMBERS IN NSDL & CDSL (Stock Code): INE213A01029 Custody Fee of NSDL and CDSL has been paid for  the Financial Year 2013-14 15.8 STOCK MARKET INFORMATION  The stock price performance of ONGC scrip during  the period 1st April, 2013 to 31st March, 2014 in  comparison to BSE is plotted below: Month Bombay Stock Exchange National Stock Exchange High ( ) Low (`) Volume High ( ) Low ( ) Volume April‘13 336.7 295.8 5405833 336.5 295.65 67367160 May’13 345 317.15 7634474 345.2 318.5 78821666 June’13 353 296.15 6409835 353.05 297.06 78971277 July’13 339.25 265.4 6865094 339.25 265.45 81813110 August’13 296.5 234.4 11063225 296.75 244.1 109184929 September’13 302.25 246 7927139 302.5 247.6 82800078 October’13 299.9 261 4715066 300.8 260.8 58663440 November’13 299 263.3 4870089 299.8 263.5 51645013 December’13 307 271.5 4999780 307.45 273.8 60200816 January’14 294.45 270.2 5088537 294.8 270.1 66967918 February’14 292.85 264 3383379 292.75 264.15 50788375 March’14 335.2 287.15 7173637 335.4 287 96751797 ` ` ` 134 15.8.1  MARKET PRICE DATA: HIGH, LOW DURING EACH MONTH IN LAST FINANCIAL YEAR Source: Web-sites of BSE and NSE 16.
SHARE TRANSFER SYSTEM Karvy Computershare Private Ltd. (Karvy) is the  Registrar and Share Transfer Agent (RTA) for  physical shares.
Karvy is also the depository  interface of the Company with both National  Securities Depository Ltd. (NSDL) and Central  Depository Services (India) Ltd. (CDSL) The transfer of shares received in physical form is  overseen by an Officers Committee (constituted by  the Board of Directors) which usually meets  once in a fortnight to ratify the shares received  for transfer, transmission, re-materialization and  dematerialization etc.
The shares for transfer  received in physical form are transferred  expeditiously, provided the documents are  complete and the share transfer is not under any  dispute.
The Minutes of the aforesaid Committee  are placed to the Shareholders’/ Investors’  Grievance Commit te e now renamed as  Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee.
A summary  of transfer/ transmission of securities so approved  by the aforesaid Committee are placed at Board  Meetings.
The share certificates duly endorsed are  sent to the shareholders by RTA.
Confirmation in  respect to the requests for dematerialization of  shares is sent to the respective depositories i.e.
NSDL and CDSL, expeditiously.
With a view to further expedite the process of  transfer and transmission of shares in physical  mode, the Board of Directors have authorised the  Share Transfer Agent to process the transfer /  transmission.
The details of the transfers etc shall  henceforth be placed before the Committee of  Officers for ratification.
Pursuant to the Clause 47-C of the Listing  Agreement, certificates on half yearly  basis  confirming due compliance of share transfer  formalities by the Company, certificate for timely  dematerialization of the shares as per SEBI  (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996  are sent to the stock exchanges.
In addition, as a part of the capital integrity audit, a  Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit confirming that  the total issued capital of the Company is in  agreement with the total number of shares in  physical form and the total number of  dematerialized shares held with NSDL and CDSL, is  placed before the Board on a quarterly basis.
A   copy of the Audit Report is submitted to the stock  exchanges.
The total number of transfer deeds processed and  shares transferred during the last three years are as  under: 17.
SHAREHOLDING PATTERN AS ON 31st MARCH,  2014 Category No.
of Shares held Percentage of  Shareholding President of  India Banks, Financial  Institutions and  Insurance  Companies Foreign  Institutional  Investors Mutual Funds  & UTI NRIs 3,179,698 0.04 Qualified  Foreign  Investor Bodies Corporate: • Government  Companies • Others 148,534,012 1.73 Employees 5,692,606 0.07 Public 137,586,002 1.61 Total 8,555,490,120 100.00 5,897,760,333 68.94 819,802,594 9.58 569,897,010 6.66 109,513,269 1.28 100 0.00 863,524,496 10.09 Years No.
of transfer deeds No.
of shares transferred 2013-14 1722 23884 2012-13 1,178 24,633 2011-12 2,628 51,931 processed 135 Annual Report 2013-14 17.2 Distribution of Shareholding by Size as on 31st March, 2014 Category Number of Shareholders  Shareholders of Shares  Shareholding 1-500 417513 89.61 52244301 0.61 501-1000 22271 4.78 16190443 0.19 1001-2000 11286 2.42 16425359 0.19 2001-3000 5562 1.19 13889246 0.16 3001-4000 5167 1.11 18377610 0.21 4001-5000 1551 0.33 6888694 0.08 5001-10000 1214 0.26 7921507 0.09 10001 and above 1347 0.29 8423552960 98.46 Total 465911 100.00 8555490120 100.00 % of Total number % of 17.1   TOP 10 SHAREHOLDERS AS ON 31st MARCH, 2014 S. No Name No.
of Shares held % of total Shareholding 1 President of India 5897760333 68.94 2 Life Insurance Corporation Of India 666702623 7.79 3 Indian Oil Corporation Limited 657923428 7.69 4 GAIL (India) Limited 205601068 2.40 5 Franklin Templeton Investment Funds 76805580 0.90 6 ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 46964274 0.55 7 Vanguard Emerging Markets Stock Index Fund,  ASERIES of Vanguard International Equity Index Fund 8 LIC of India Market Plus 1 Growth Fund 27723200 0.32 9 HSBC GLOBAL INVESTMENT FUNDS A/C  HSBC GIF MAURITIUS LIMITED 26352684 0.31 10 CPSE ETF 24786189 0.29 36013384 0.42 137 17.4 History of Paid-up Equity Share Capital (Face value of 5 each) Year No.
of Shares Cumulative Details 1993-94 10 10 Initial Subscription to the Memorandum of Association on  23rd June, 1993.
1993-94 34,28,53,716 34,28,53,726 Issued to the President of India on 1st February, 1994 on transfer of Undertaking of Oil and Natural Gas Commission in terms of Oil and Natural Gas Commission (Transfer of Undertaking and Repeal) Act, 1993.
1994-95 66,39,300 34,94,93,026 Issued to the Employees at a premium of 260 per Share (includes 600 shares issued in 1995-96).
1995-96 107,64,40,966 142,59,33,992  Issue of Bonus Shares in ratio of 3.08: 1 on 24.04.1995 by Capitalization of General Reserve.
2006-07 (-)18,972 142,59,15,020 Forfeiture of Shares on 12.04.2006.
71,29,57,510 213,88,72,530 Issue of Bonus Shares in ratio of 1:2 on 08.11.2006 by Capitalization of General Reserve.
2010-11 - 8,555,490,120 Each equity Share of ONGC was split from the face value of   10 into two equity shares of the face value of `5 each.
Bonus Shares were issued in the ratio of 1:1 by Capitalization of Reserves to the shareholders as on 09.02.2011 (Record Date).
2011-12 - 8,555,490,120 President of India (PoI) acting through Ministry of Petroleum  & Natural Gas, Govt.
of India on 05.03.2012 has sold 420,416,170 number of equity shares (4.91% shares) in ONGC through the offer for sale through Stock Exchange Mechanism.
2012-13 - 8,555,490,120 - 2013-14 - 8,555,490,120 President of India (PoI) acting through Ministry of Petroleum  & Natural Gas, Govt.
of India on 27.03.2014 has sold 24,786,189 number of equity shares (0.29% shares) in ONGC through Off Market Transaction to Central Public Sector Enterprises Exchange Traded Fund.
` 17.3 Geographical Distribution of Shareholders as on 31st March, 2014 S. No City                                      Shareholders                              Shareholding Nos % age No of shares %age  of Shareholding 1 MUMBAI 110198 23.65 2329769095 27.23 2 NEW DELHI 52465 11.26 6118175725 71.51 3 CHENNAI 17256 3.71 17493349 0.21 4 CALCUTTA 26150 5.61 11931855 0.14 5 AHMEDABAD 28350 6.09 10201999 0.12 6 VADODARA 15110 3.24 6959216 0.08 7 DEHRADUN 5414 1.16 5445316 0.06 8 BANGALORE 20589 4.42 4454656 0.05 9 JORHAT 3953 0.85 4173998 0.05 10 OTHERS 186426 40.01 46884911 0.55 465911 100  8555490120  100 Annual Report 2013-14 Financial Year Date of       to IEPF* 2006-07- Final 19.09.2007 18.10.2014 2007-08-Interim 19.12.2007 21.01.2015 *Indicative dates, actual dates may vary.
Proposed  Date Declaration for transfer  20.
DEMATERIALIZATION OF SHARES AND  LIQUIDITY   S. Shares % of      1.
CDSL 102,949 6,785,490,159 79.31   2.
NSDL 351,429 1,763,400,613 20.61   3.
PHYSICAL 11,533 6,599,348 0.08 Total 465,911 8,555,490,120 100.00 Description No.
of   No.
Share Holders Equity The shares of the Company are in compulsory  dematerialized segment and are available for trading in  depository system of both National Securities Depository  Limited and Central Depository Services (India) Limited.
21.
OUTSTANDING GDRs/ ADRs / WARRANTS OR  CONVERTIBLE INSTRUMENTS No GDRs/ ADRs/ Warrants or Conver tible  Instruments have been issued by the Company  during the year.
22.
ASSETS/ BASINS/ PLANTS/ INSTITUTES/CODs A.
ASSETS                                        1.
Mumbai High Asset, Mumbai\ 2.
Neelam & Heera Asset, Mumbai 3.
Bassein & Satellite Asset, Mumbai 4.
Ahmedabad Asset, Ahmedabad 5.
Ankleshwar Asset, Ankleshwar 6.
Mehsana Asset, Mehsana 7.
Rajahmundry Asset, Rajahmundry 8.
Karaikal Asset, Karaikal 9.
Assam Asset, Nazira 10.
Tripura Asset, Agartala 11.
Eastern Offshore Asset, Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh B. BASINS 1.
Western Offshore Basin,  Mumbai 2.
Western Onshore Basin,  Vadodara 3.
KG-PG Basin, Chennai 4.
Cauvery Basin, Chennai 5.
Assam & Assam-Arakan Basin, Jorhat 6.
MBA Basin and CBM Development Project, Kolkata/Bokaro 7.
Frontier Basin, Dehradun C. PLANTS 1.
Uran Plant, Uran 2.
Hazira Plant, Hazira 3.
C C C  Plant, Dahej, Gujarat2 3 4 D.   INSTITUTES 1.
Keshava Deva Malaviya Institute of Petroleum  Exploration (KDMIPE), Dehradun 2.
Institute of Drilling Technology (IDT), Dehradun 3.
Institute of Reservoir Studies, (IRS) Ahmedabad 4.
Institute of Oil & Gas Production Technology (IOGPT)  Navi Mumbai 5.
Institute of Engineering & Ocean Technology (IEOT)  Navi Mumbai 6.
Geo- data Processing & Interpretation Center  (GEOPIC), Dehradun 7.
ONGC Academy, Dehradun 8.
Institute of Petroleum Safety, Health & Environment  Management (IPSHEM),Goa 9.
Institute of Biotechnology & Geotectonics Studies  (INBIGS), Jorhat 10.
School of Maintenance Practices (SMP), Vadodara 11.
Centre for Excellence in Well Logging (CEWL),  Vadodara 12.
Regional Training Institutes (RTIs) Navi Mumbai,  Chennai, Sivasagar &  Vadodara 13.
ONGC Energy Centre E. Centres of Deliveries 1.
CBM, New Delhi 2.
Shale Gas, Vadodara 3.
Deep water, Mumbai 4.
High Temperature/ High Pressure, Chennai 139 18.
CORPORATE BENEFITS  DIVIDEND HISTORY Years Rate (%) Per Share( ) Amount (`in million) 2008-09 •Interim 180 18 38,499.66 • Final 140 14 29,944.22 2009-10  •Interim 180 18 38,499.66 • Final 150 15 32,083.09 2010-11 •Interim 320 32 68,443.92 • Final 15 0.75 6,416.62 2011-12 •First Interim 125 6.25 53,471.84 • Second Interim 30 1.50 12,833.23 • Final 40 2.00 17,110.98 2012-13 •First Interim 100 5.00 42,777.45 • Second Interim 80 4.00 34,221.96 • Final (Proposed) 10 0.50 4,277.75 2013-14 •First Interim 100% 5.00 42,777.45 • Second Interim 85% 4.25 36,360.83 • Final (Proposed) 5% 0.25 2138.87 ` 19.
TRANSFER OF UNPAID/ UNCLAIMED DIVIDEND  AMOUNT TO INVESTOR EDUCATION &  PROTECTION FUND (IEPF) During the year under report, an amount of  12,187,220.00 and 16,491,906.00 pertaining to  unpaid dividend for the financial year 2005-06 (Final)  and 2006-07 (Interim) respectively was transferred  to the Investor Education & Protection Fund (IEPF)  set up by the Central Government.
This is in  accordance with the sections 205A and 205C of the  Companies Act, 1956 requiring transfer of dividend  remaining unclaimed and unpaid for a period of 7  years from the due date to the IEPF.
The unpaid/unclaimed amount of Final Dividend  declared on 19th September, 2007 for the financial  year 2006-07 and interim dividend declared on 19th  December, 2007 for the financial year 2007-08 will be  transferred to the Investor Education and Protection  Fund (IEPF) of the Central Government by 18th  October, 2014 and 18th January, 2015 respectively.
Members who have not encashed their dividend  warrants pertaining to the said years may approach  the Company or its Registrar & Share Transfer Agent  for obtaining payment thereof.
Given below are the proposed dates for transfer of  the unclaimed dividend to IEPF by the Company:- 138 Annual Report 2013-14 23.
INVESTOR SERVICES AND ADDRESSES FOR  SHAREHOLDERS’ CORRESPONDENCE.
These have been given at 8.3.3 and 8.3.4 above  24.
RISK MANAGEMENT The Risk Management Policy has been rolled out  across the organization in all Assets, Basins, Plants,  Institutes and offices.
The Risk Management  Committee reviews various types of risks whether  present or future and apprises the same to the  management   25.
COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE OF THE AUDITORS  Certificate from the Auditors of the Company,  confirming compliance with the conditions of  Corporate Governance as stipulated under Clause  49 of the Listing Agreement, is annexed to the  Directors’ Report forming part of the Annual Report.
The Certificate has also been forwarded to the stock  exchanges where the securities of the Company are  listed.
26.
A D O P T I O N  O F  N O N - M A N D A T O R Y   REQUIREMENTS OF CLAUSE - 49 Beside the mandatory requirement of Clause 49 of  the Listing Agreement, the following non- mandatory requirements have been implemented  and reflected elsewhere in this report:- • The Company has constituted a Remuneration  Committee (refer para 8.2).
• With regard to Shareholders’ Rights, communication  of financial results are being published widely  and also hosted on the Company’s website  (refer para 14) • As far as Audit Qualifications are concerned, the  Company has not received any qualification on its  financial statements.
• A Board Charter has been formulated to define the  role of the Board.
(2.2(G)) The Policy on Performance of Evaluation of  Directors has been formulated and the same shall  be finalised by the Independent Directors.
(2.2(F)(b)).
WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY In terms of revised Clause 49 of the Listing  Agreement, The company shall establish a vigil  mechanism for directors and employees to report  concerns about unethical behaviour, actual or  suspected fraud or violation of the company’s code  of conduct or ethics policy.
Accordingly ONGC has  implemented Whistle Blower Policy on 30th  November, 2009.
ONGC has provided ample opportunities to  encourage the employees to become whistle  blowers (employees who voluntarily and  confidentially want to bring the unethical practices,  actual or suspected fraudulent transactions in the  organization to the notice of the competent  authority for the greater interest of the organization  and the nation).
It has also ensured a very robust  mechanism within the same framework to protect  them (whistle blowers) from any kind of harm.
It is  hereby affirmed that no personnel has been denied  access to the Audit Committee.
27.
GUIDELINES ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  BY DPE In May, 2010, the Department of Public Enterprises  has come out with Guidelines on Corporate  Governance for Central Public Sector Enterprises  which have replaced the Guidelines issued in 2007.
The fresh guidelines of 2010 are now mandatory in  nature.
ONGC is complying with these guidelines.
No Presidential Directives have been issued during  the period 1st April to 31st March, 2014.
No items of expenditure have been debited in books  of accounts, which are not for the purpose of  business.
No expenses, which are personal in  nature, have been incurred for the Board of  Directors and top management.
The General Administrative  expenses were 6.57%  of total expenses during 2013-14 as against 5.74%  during the previous year.
28.
SECRETARIAL COMPLIANCE REPORT Secretarial Compliance Repor t confirming  compliance to the applicable provisions of  Companies Act, 1956, Listing Agreement, SEBI  guidelines, DPE Guidelines and all other related  rules and regulations relating to capital market,  though not mandatory, obtained from a practicing  Company Secretary, was noted by the Board and  forms part of the Directors’ Report.
29.
FEE TO STATUTORY AUDITORS The fee paid/payable to the Statutory Auditors for  the year was `22.92 million (previous year `20.21  million) including `1.01 million (previous year `1.01  million) as fee for certification of Corporate  Governance Report and `5.06 million (previous  year  `4.21 million) for limited review report plus  reasonable travelling and out of pocket expenses  actually incurred / reimbursable.
140 Auditors’ Certificate on Compliance of Conditions of Corporate Governance 141 To The Members  Oil And Natural Gas Corporation Limited 1.
We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Oil And Natural Gas Corporation  Limited ("the company")for the year ended 31st March, 2014, as stipulated in Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement  entered into by the Company with the Stock Exchanges.
2.
The Compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management.
Our examination  was carried out in accordance with the Guidance Note on Certification of Corporate Governance issued by The  Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and was limited to a review of the procedures and implementation  thereof, adopted by the Company, for ensuring the compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance (as  stipulated in Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement).
It is neither an audit nor an expression of an opinion on financial  statements of the Company.
3.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, “except that, the  Board of Directors did not comprise of the required number of Independent Directors during the period  from 1st April, 2013 to 28th November, 2013 and the vacancies caused due to retirement of the Independent  Directors have not been filled within 180 days as per terms of the Listing Agreement”, we certify that the  Company,  has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in Clause 49 of the Listing  Agreement.
4.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the  efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
M/s S Bhandari & Co.  Chartered Accountants P-7, Tilak Marg, C-Scheme Jaipur - 302 005 M/s Varma &Varma Chartered Accountants  Sreela Terrace, Level - 4 Unit - D, No.
105 First Main Road Gandhi Nagar, Adayar Chennai - 600 020 M/s G. D.Apte & Co. 9, Kamer Building Cawasji Patel Street Mumbai - 400 001 Chartered Accountants M/s Ray & Ray Chartered Accountants 6, Church Lane Kolkata - 700 001 M/s Mehra Goel & Co. Chartered Accountants 505, Chiranjiv Tower 43, Nehru Place New Delhi - 110 019 For Varma & Varma Chartered Accountants FR No.
004532S P R Prasanna Varma Partner Membership No.
025854 For S Bhandari & Co. Chartered Accountants FR No.
000560C P P Pareek Partner Membership No.
071213 For Ray & Ray Chartered Accountants FR No.
301072E B K Ghosh Partner Membership No.
051028 For Mehra Goel & Co. Chartered Accountants FR No.
000517N R K Mehra Partner Membership No.
006102 For G. D. Apte & Co. Chartered Accountants FR No.
100515W C M Dixit Partner Membership No.
017532 Date : July 15,2014 Place : New Delhi Annual Report 2013-14 ENERGY OF INDIA Business Responsibility Report  Secretarial Audit Report 144 Business Responsibility Report 2013-14 7.
Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in  (industrial activity code-wise): ONGC is a global Energy Company meaningfully  integrated in the entire energy value-chain.
Its core  business is Exploration and Production of oil and gas;  however, its business spread include related areas  like - processing of crude oil & natural gas; oil field  services, transportation of the oil and natural gas,  production of value added products like – LPG,  Naphtha, Superior Kerosene Oil,ATF, C2-C3,  Refining, Petrochemicals, Power, unconventional  and alternate sources of energy.
It is present in  downstream business through its subsidiary refinery  MRPL and in the petrochemical business through  Joint Ventures such as ONGC Petro additions Ltd  (OPaL) and ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Ltd  (OMPL) as anchor promoter.
In the non-conventional  sources, it is aggressively pursuing opportunities  such as- Shale and gas hydrates, CBM (Coal Bed  Methane) UCG (Underground Coal Gasification).
It  has ventured into electric power generation through  726MW gas based power project at Tripura (ONGC  Tripura Power Company Ltd.) and wind power  electricity generation through installing a 51 MW wind  power project at Bhuj, Gujarat.
It is also pursuing  opportunities in alternate energy which has potential  to change the landscape of alternate energy business  in the country.
8.
List three key products/services that the  Company manufactures/provides (as in balance  sheet)  The three key products of the company are: (i) Crude  Oil (ii) Natural Gas & (iii) Liquefied Petroleum Gas.
9.
Total number of locations where business activity  is undertaken by the Company  i.
Number of International Locations (Provide details of  major 5)   ONGC’s overseas operations are managed by its fully  owned subsidiary, ONGC Videsh Limited (OVL),  which operates in 16 countries with 32 hydrocarbon  assets.
ONGC, principally, focuses on domestic  operations which have a pan-India spread.
The major five international locations as per oil & gas  production are – Vietnam, Russia, Venezuela, Sudan,  South Sudan and Colombia The major five international locations as per oil & gas  reserves are – Russia, Venezuela, Sudan, South  Sudan, Myanmar and Vietnam.
ii.
Number of National locations: ONGC has business activities pan India, spread  across the length and breadth of the country, both  onshore and offshore.
The major locations are  detailed as below: Section A: General Information about the Company  1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company : L74899DL1993GOI054155 2.
Name of the Company : Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited 3.
Registered address : Jeevan Bharti Building, Tower-II 124, Indira Chowk, New Delhi India - 110001 4.
Website : www.ongcindia.com 5.
E-mail id : secretariat@ongc.co.in 6.
Financial Year reported : 2013-14 a) Offshore Locations (Oil & Gas producing including JV) : 1.
Mumbai Offshore in West Coast of India 2.
Krishna-Godavari and Cauvery Offshore in East Coast of India Mumbai High Asset Bassien & Satellite Asset Neelam & Heera Asset NB Prasad (D-1) Many small & marginal fields Panna, Mukta, Tapti fields off Andhra coast Ravva Annual Report 2013-14 145 b) Onshore Locations (Oil & Gas producing) : 1.
Gujarat 5.
Tripura 2.
Assam 6.
Rajasthan 3.
Andhra Pradesh 7.
West Bengal 4.
Tamil Nadu 8.
Madhya Pradesh Assam Tripura Ahmedabad Ankleshwar Cambay Kakinada Karaikal Mehsana Rajahmundry Uran (Maharashtra) Hazira Ankleshwar Dahej (Gujarat) Tatipaka (A P) Vadodara Mumbai Chennai KG & Jorhat, Kolkata WON Basin WOFF Basin Cauvery Basin A & AA Basin MBA Basin Dehra Dun Frontier Basin Keshava Deva Geo-data Processing Institute of Drilling Institute of Engineering Institute of Malaviya Institute of & Interpretation Technology (IDT) & Ocean Technology Petroleum Safety, Petroleum Exploration Centre (GEOPIC) (IEOT), Panvel Health & (KDMIPE), Dehradun Environment Management (IPSHEM) Institute of Reservoir ONGC Academy Regional Training School of Maintenance Centre for Excellence Studies (IRS) (ONGCA) Institutes (RTI's) Practices (SMP) in Well Logging Navi Mumbai, Technology Chennai, Sivasagar  (CEWELL) & Vadodara Institute of Biotechnology and Geo-tectonic Studies (INBIGS) c) Basins : Oil & Gas exploratory locations  d) Plants: Processing of Oil & Gas and production of Value added products (LPG, SKO, Naptha, C2-C3, etc.)
e) Institutes : Knowledge support and applied R&D for E&P activities f) Subsidiaries ONGC Videsh Limited (ONGC Videsh), New Delhi Mangalore Refineries & Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL), Mangalore 146 Business Responsibility Report 2013-14 g) Joint Ventures ONGC Tripura Power ONGC Petro- Mangalore Special ONGC Mangalore ONGC TERI Biotech Company Limited additions Limited Economic Limited Petrochemicals Limited Limited (OTBL), New (OTPC), Tripura (OPaL), Gujarat (MSEZ), Karnataka (OMPL), Karnataka Delhi Petronet MHB limited Petronet LNG Dahez SEZ Limited, Pawan Hans Limited  (PMHBL), Mangalore Limited (PLL), Dahej, Gujarat (PHL), New Delhi New Delhi 10.
Markets served by the Company: ONGC is marketing its domestic products, mainly  crude oil to the Public Sector Oil Marketing  Companies (OMCs) – Indian Oil, BPCL and HPCL.
It  also markets its crude oil to MRPL, ONGC’s  subsidiary.
ONGC supplies its produced natural gas  List of activities in which expenditure in 4 above has  been incurred:-  lONGC spends its Corporate Social  Responsibility (CSR) fund across a wide  s p e c t r u m  o f  s o c i o - e c o n o m i c  a r e a s   supplementing the Nation's efforts towards  inclusive growth.
Some focus areas are:  lProviding support in primary & secondary  education including vocational courses in  backward & rural areas : School buildings;  funding; scholarships lInfrastructure support such as roads, community  centre, medical assistances near our operational  area  lPromotion of arts, culture and sports by  sponsoring artisans, musicians, artists, sports  and sports person lProviding Health Care in remote and rural areas lCommunity development lFostering entrepreneurship mainly through GAIL; however, part of the gas is also  marketed directly by ONGC.
It markets Value Added  Products directly to the Indian consumers and  internally consumes products such as HSD & ATF;  however, in case of off-take constraints by the  domestic users some products like Naphtha, HSD,  ATF, etc., are also exported.
Section C: Other Details  1.
Does the Company have any Subsidiary  Company/Companies?
Yes.
ONGC has two subsidiary companies as  detailed above in section A 9(ii)f. 2.
Do the Subsidiary Company/Companies  participate in the BR Initiatives of the parent  company?
If yes, then indicate the number of  such subsidiary company(s) Since these Subsidiaries and the joint ventures  are separate entities, they carry out Business  Responsibility initiatives on their own as per the  policies applicable to the respective companies.
3.
Do any other entity/entities (e.g.
suppliers,  distributors etc.)
that the Company does  business with; participate in the BR initiatives  of the Company?
If yes, then indicate the  percentage of such entity/entities?
[Less than  30%, 30-60%, More than 60%]  The BR initiative of ONGC has the cooperation of  Section B: Financial Details of the Company              Sl.
No.
Particulars Amount  1 Paid up capital 4277.76 2 Total Turnover 84,203 3 PAT 22,095 4 Total spending on CSR as a % of PAT (2013-14) (` Crore) ` 341.25  Crore (1.55% of FY 14 PAT) 147 all its stakeholders (Govt.
of India, employees,  contractors, vendors, and the community at  large) and these stakeholders help ONGC in  achieving its business responsibility.
However, it  is difficult to establish the extent their support  helps in facilitating ONGC’s business  responsibility initiative.
Section D: BR Information  1.
Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR  a) Details of the Director responsible for  implementation of the BR policy/policies  Implementation of Policies related to Carbon  Management and Sustainability Services are  taken care of by Director (Exploration) while  policies on Ethics and Transparency and the  overall Business Responsibility of the company  2.
Principle-wise {as per National Voluntary  Guidelines (NVGs)} BR Policy/policies  Nine Business Responsibility Principles Principle 1: Businesses should conduct and  govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and  Accountability Principle 1.1  Do you have policy/policies for principle 1?
ONGC, being a listed Public Sector Enterprise,  conducts and governs itself with Ethics, Transparency  and Accountability as per policies  mandated by DPE  Guidelines on Corporate Governance, Listing  Agreement and other guidelines and policies of the  DPE in particular and Govt.
of India in general.
ONGC also pursues some policy initiatives  voluntarily towards Ethics, Transparency and  Accountability:   lThe company has well defined and well codified  Book of Delegated Powers, HR Manual, Material  Management Manual and Works Manual for  ensuring continuity, transparency and fairness  in following the laid down procedures.
The  company has an Enterprise Risk Management  Cell (ERM), risk framework, risk policy and risk  portfolio which are periodically monitored by the  Risk Management Committee, Audit & Ethics  lies with the Chairman & Managing Director who  gets them implemented through the respective  group heads.
lDIN Number : 00147870 lName : Shri D K Sarraf lDesignation : Chairman & Managing Director lTelephone No : +91-11-23301101 lE-mail id : cmd@ongc.co.in b) Details of the BR heads Responsibility of implementing the Sustainability  Development (SD) policies of ONGC under the  given ambit of BR Policies lies with ED-Chief  Carbon Management & Sustainability Services  Group.
The details are given below: Committee and the Board lCompany has a well-structured vigilance  department with units spread across the  organization at various Regions, Assets, Basins  and Plants constantly ushering transparency,  efficiency and integrity and best corporate  practices in the working of the organization lThe Company has a Whistle Blower Policy meant  for employees to raise any ethical issues within  the organisation.
lThe Company has positioned an Integrity Pact (in  association with Transparency International)  which is signed with bidders to enable them to  raise any issues with regard to tenders floated by  the Company.
ONGC was the first Indian  company to sign the Integrity Pact.
People with  high repute and integrity are appointed as  Independent External Monitors to oversee  implementation of the Pact.
Principle 1.2 Has the policy been formulated in consultation  with the relevant stakeholders?
All policies have been formulated after wide  consultation and discussion amongst the  stakeholders and further the same gets reviewed  from time-to-time to cater to emerging and new  S.No.
Particulars Details  1 DIN Number (if applicable) Nil  2 Name Shri Narain Lal 3 Designation ED - CM&SG 4 Telephone number +91-11-22440829 5 e-mail id lal_narain@ongc.co.in Annual Report 2013-14 148 business realities/paradigms, af ter wider  consultations amongst stakeholders.
The Company  being a Public Sector Enterprise and a National Oil  Company, pursues policies laid down by the  Government of India and other statutory bodies.
It is  assumed that those policies are worked out after  wider consultations and discussions by the  Government of India.
Principle 1.3 Does the policy conform to any national/  international standards?
If yes, specify?
(50  words) The policy and laid down procedures confirm to  statutes and policies of the Govt.
of India, DPE and  other statutory bodies.
It also confirms to mandated  applicable international standards.
ONGC voluntarily  follows principles and policies for transparency which  are of international standards like Transparency  International.
Principle 1.4 Has the policy been approved by the Board?
If  yes, has it been signed by MD/owner/  CEO/appropriate Board Director?
All policies mandated by the Government of India,  DPE and other Indian statutory bodies are followed  by ONGC after due approval of the ONGC Board.
All  other policies/manuals which ONGC pursues come  in effect only after ONGC Board or the assigned  Competent Authority, as delegated by the Board,  approves it.
Principle 1.5 Does the company have a specified committee of  the Board/ Director/Official to oversee the  implementation of the policy?
The Company has an Audit & Ethics Committee of  the Board of Directors which is bound by its Terms of  Reference as per the Listing Agreement and the  Companies Act, 2013 and is approved by the Board.
Company also has a well-structured vigilance  depar tment with units spread across the  organization at various Regions, Assets, Basins and  Plants constantly ushering transparency, efficiency  and integrity and best corporate practices.
However,  as the visage of the Principle is very wide, this is  overseen by various organs of the Company.
Principle 1.6 Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?
The website of the Company (www.ongcindia.com)  has reference to the various tenets as stated in the  principle under the section on Corporate  Governance.
Principle 1.7 Has the policy been formally communicated to all  relevant internal and external stakeholders?
ONGC policies and operational framework is  available on the ONGC website as well as intranet of  ONGC.
The engagement routes across all the stakeholders  are:  lThe Customers are engaged through Crude Oil Sales  Agreement (COSA), Gas Sales Agreement (GSA)  and regular meeting with B2B partners  lThe Communities in and around our areas of  operation are engaged through CSR projects  lBusiness partners/vendors/contractors are engaged  through vendor meets, business partners meet and  pre-bid conference lContract workers are engaged through regular  trainings and SAHYOG Scheme lEmployees are engaged through open house forums   like–Vichar Manthan, Vichar Dhara, Vichar Vishlesan,  Mantrana, etc., and employee web portal and also  through various in-house magazines lGovernment and regulatory bodies are engaged  through meetings with the administrative ministry i.e.
Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas (MoP&NG),  Department of Public Enterprises (DPE) under the  Ministry of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises (HI  & PE), Oil Industry Safety Directorate (OISD), Oil  Industry Development Board (OIDB) lShareholders and investors are engaged through  Investor & Analysts’ Meet, Investors’ Conference,  corporate website www.ongcindia.com and press  release  Principle 1.8 Does the company have in-house structure to  implement the policy/policies?
ONGC follows laid down policy for every critical  activity such as - procurement, payment, tendering,  contracting, HR and other functions that are  governed by well documented policies available for  reference to all concerned.
Principle 1.9 Does the Company have a grievance redressal  mechanism related to the policy/policies to  address stakeholders' grievances related to the  policy/policies?
Yes.
The Company has a structured grievance  redressal mechanism in place to address both  employees and stakeholders’ grievances related to  the policy/ policies.
For employees, company has a  Business Responsibility Report 2013-14 149 well laid down CDA rules (Conduct, Discipline and  Appeal) and also has structured laid down  procedures in place to escalate the matter/issues up  the hierarchy to seek justice and redress grievances  related to the policies.
For external stakeholders, the company has a well  laid down grievance redressal system in place with  adequate provisions to escalate the matters up the  hierarchy up to the Board (Stakeholders Relationship  Committee – a Board level Committee headed by an  Independent Director).
ONGC voluntarily facilitates resolving grievances  through Independent External Monitors (IEMs) and  through Outside Expert Committee (OEC).
Principle 1.10 Has the company carried out independent  audit/evaluation of the working of this policy by an  internal or external agency?
The Corporate Governance policy is audited by the  Statutory Auditors.
Other policies are validated from  time to time by the concerned authorities.
Principle 1  1.
Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and  corruption cover only the company?
All the policies relating to ethics, bribery and  corruption are "inclusive" and covers company  as well as its employees and all other external  stakeholders.
2.
Does it extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/  Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/Others:  Yes 3.
How many stakeholder complaints have been  received in the past financial year and what  percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the  management?
If so, provide details thereof, in  about 50 words or so.
ONGC is a pioneer organization in introducing  the Integrity Pact (IP) in India.
The mechanism of  monitoring IP through Independent External  Monitors (IEM) has considerably reduced time  for resolution of representation/issues coming  up during tender processing and has met the  objectives set by Transparency International  (India) such as greater transparency with regard  to integrity between the buyer and seller,  improved sense of ethics, reduction in frivolous  law suits and representation/complaints from  vendors, reduction in external interventions and  reduced political/diplomatic/administrative  interference.
Representations from bidders/ contractors as  well as opinion sought by ONGC against various  tenders are referred to IEM.
IEMs discuss the  issues with ONGC and bidders’ representatives  wherever felt necessary by IEMs and give their  opinion through a speaking order.
ONGC also has in place a “Stakeholders  Relationship Committee”.
The Committee  specifically looks into redressing Shareholders’  and Investors’ complaints per taining to  transfer/transmission of shares, non-receipt of  annual report, dividend payments, issue of  duplicate share cer tificates and other  miscellaneous complaints.
The committee also  monitors implementation and compliance of  company’s code of conduct for prevention of  insider trading in ONGC securities.
The  committee also oversees and monitors the  performance of the registrars and transfer agent  and recommends measures for overall  improvement in the quality of investor services.
lNumber of complaints received during April  2013 to March 2014 from Vendors: 21 lAll representations were forwarded to IEMs  who promptly gave their opinions in all cases  for further action.
lNumber of complaints received from  investors during 2013-14: 2,493.
All  complaints/ queries/ correspondence have  been replied to/ attended to the satisfaction  of the shareholders.
Principle 2:  Businesses should provide goods and services  that are safe and contribute to sustainability  throughout their life cycle.
Principle 2.1:  Do you have policy/policies for principle 2?
ONGC pursues its business activities in a safe and  sustainable manner.
All work practices, procedures  and production endeavours comply with the highest  Health, Safety and Environment standards as per the  Industry norms, Government and relevant statutory  bodies.
All the products that ONGC make conform  strictly to the respective product-making- procedures, laws, statutes and standards governing  their production.
The exploration & production  business activities are pursued and aligned in such a  manner that exploitation & production of resources is  done in a sustainable manner encompassing their life  cycle.
Commitment of ONGC towards Sustainability  Development can be gauged from the fact that  ONGC is a member of United Nations Global  Compact initiative for businesses that are committed  to aligning their operations and strategies with the ten  universally accepted principles in the area of human  rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption.
It is further a matter of privilege for ONGC and a sign  Annual Report 2013-14 150 of unflinching responsive commitment to  sustainability development that it’s former CMD, Shri.
Sudhir Vasudeva was nominated by Secretary- General of United Nations Mr. Ban-Ki-Moon as a  member of the UN Global Compact Board chaired by  the Secretary General himself.
Shri Vasudeva was  the first PSE Chief from India to have been conferred  this honour.
Principle 2.2:  Has the policy been formulated in consultation  with the relevant stakeholders?
ONGC follows all the work practices, procedures and  production endeavours pertaining to its area of  activities/operations as mandated by Industry,  Government and relevant statutory bodies (as  detailed in Principle 1.2).
Principle 2.3:  Does the policy conform to any national/  international standards?
If yes, specify?
(50  words) Yes; ONGC follows the international standards,  practices and standard operating procedures as  followed by other E&P companies across the world.
Besides, ONGC being a national oil company  adheres to all the statutes and policies of the Govt.
of  India and other statutory bodies such as DGH & OISD.
Principle 2.4:  Has the policy been approved by the Board?
If  yes, has it been signed by MD/owner/  CEO/appropriate Board Director?
Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas is the apex body  for the Hydrocarbon industry in the country.
All other  areas of operations fall under various laws as  enacted by the Govt.
of India.
Subject to above, all  internal policies are approved by the Board or  authority delegated for the same by the Board.
Principle 2.5:  Does the company have a specified committee of  the Board/ Director/Official to oversee the  implementation of the policy?
The Board oversees the compliance and  implementation of the policies through its various  Commit tees as detailed in the Corporate  Governance Report of the Annual Report.
Principle 2.6:  Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?
The website of the Company (www.ongcindia.com)  has reference to the various tenets as stated in the  principle under various places.
Principle 2.7:  Has the policy been formally communicated to all  relevant internal and external stakeholders?
ONGC’s policies and operational framework are  available on the ONGC website as well as intranet of  ONGC.
Principle 2.8:  Does the company have in-house structure to  implement the policy/policies?
Yes.
The company has well-established in-house  infrastructure, manpower pool, documented  standard operating procedure and other executive &  administrative machineries to implement the given  policies in the area of safe and sustainable  production of goods & services of the company.
The  HSE (Health, Safety & Environment) and CM&SG  (Carbon Management & Sustainability Group)  depar tment of company along with apex  management, acts as the nodal department to  execute and oversee policies pertaining to safe,  healthy and environment friendly operations and  compliance with sustainability parameters as  mandated and desired.
The process of procurement, payment, tendering,  risk management, safe remittance, fraud prevention,  control self-assessment (internal controls) and  various other processes are covered by well  documented policies, which are available for  reference on the website of the Company.
Principle 2.9:  Does the Company have a grievance redressal  mechanism related to the policy/policies to  address stakeholders' grievances related to the  policy/policies?
Yes: as detailed earlier in Principle 1.9.
Principle 2.10:  Has the company carried out independent  audit/evaluation of the working of this policy by an  internal or external agency?
ONGC is subject to various audits such as Statutory  Audit by firms of Chartered Accountants, CAG Audit,  Cost Audit, Secretarial Audit, Technical Audits,  Quality Audit, Energy Audit, Safety audit, and these  Auditors ensure compliance to various internal and  external policies.
Principle 2  1.
List up to 3 of your products or services  whose design has incorporated social or  environmental concerns, risks and/or  opportunities.
Business Responsibility Report 2013-14 151 a.
Social Concern for contractual workers ONGC is a capital and technology intensive  organization.
Therefore the company  employs a large number of secondary work  forces in unskilled and semi-skilled areas.
These workers are employed for short  duration and since they are hired through  contractors who do not have formal training  program, the workers are exposed to risks of  accidents in our operational areas.
The  company has taken up this responsibility and  named the year 2013 as "Year of Safety of  Contract Workers".
ONGC has provided safety  training to of fshore going contractual  workers.
Apart from this contractor worker  safety workshop is held at all the major work  centres.
ONGC has also implemented fair  wage policy to its contractual employees.
Moreover, the company has also established  "Sahyog Trust" to provide financial assistance  for marriage / education /medical purpose to  dependants of contractual / contingent  workers / retired employees.
b. Rajiv Gandhi Gramin LPG Vitaran Yojana The scheme aims at setting up small LPG  distribution agencies in order to increase rural  penetration and to cover remote as well as low  potential areas (locations having a potential of  600 cylinders per month).
The scheme is  being launched across all States of the  country.
Salient features of this scheme are:  lThe agency requires less infrastructure  and finance, and is primarily being set up  to penetrate deeper into rural areas.
lIt empowers rural womenfolk as the  distributorship will be in the joint names of  husband and wife.
lThe agency will be set up through draw of  lots amongst eligible candidates.
l25% is reserved for SC/ST and another  25% for defence / Para militar y/  handicapped/sportsmen.
c. Green Buildings Two green building projects at Mumbai and  Dehradun have been registered under  UNFCCC.
With this initiative, ONGC has  entered into the CDM arena related to energy  efficient buildings.
Across the globe there are  only a few energy ef ficient buildings  successfully registered so far for their energy  efficient features.
Various green features have  been included and the buildings are designed  on sustainable and environmentally friendly  ar chitectural concepts resulting in  environment protection, water conservation,  energy efficiency, usage of recycled products  and use of renewable energy.
2.
For each such product, provide the following  details in respect of resource use (energy,  water, raw material etc.)
per unit of  product(optional):  Measurement of usage of water, fuel, per unit is  yet to be carried.
However the company has put  in place all policies and processes to conserve  energy and natural resources.
Some of the  initiatives in this regard are outlined below: i.
Reduction during sourcing/production/  distribution achieved since the previous  year throughout the value chain?
The company has adequate measures  (equipment, machineries, trained manpower)  in place at all its installations/ plants and work- centres to mitigate damage or danger to the  environment while pursuing its business  activities.
Further, the company undertakes "Energy  Audits" at every installation and plant on  regular basis which helps in reducing the  environmental risks & concerns arising out of  production of its products.
Company also  undertakes "Water foot printing" exercise to  identify the scope of reduction in water use in  pursuing various intended business activities.
This year water foot printing studies were  carried out at Ankeleshwar, Rajhamundry  Assets  and at Hazira Plant.
Various proactive initiatives like water foot  printing, flare gas emission reduction,  methane gas initiatives, reduction of GHG  emissions, greening the vendor chain, foray  into alternate energy sources particularly  wind energy, installation of 20 MLD (Million  Litres per Day)desalination plant, establishing  wind potential zones in Western Ghats,  encouraging video conferencing to mitigate  GHG (Green House Gas) emissions due to  air/rail travel of employees, reduction of air  pollution from our operational equipment  particularly DG (Diesel Generator) sets and  cogeneration plants, reducing halon based  systems in refrigeration units, which is an  ozone depleting substance, and many more  such initiatives have generated benefits to the  company and society at large.
The following works on water conservation  have been carried out:  lSix Rain Water Harvesting (RWH) schemes  have been completed in Ahmedabad  Asset.
Annual Report 2013-14 152 lGround water recharge wells have been  installed at Naika Colony, Ahmedabad lFour Rain Water Harvesting (RWH) ground  water recharge wells have been installed at  Saij Colony, Ahmedabad lOne Rain Water Harvesting (RWH) ground  water recharge wells have been installed at  Avani Bhavan, Ahmedabad lOne Roof top Rain Water Harvesting (RWH)  system for ground water recharging  through an abandoned bore well is under  construction at Tripura Asset lA 50 m3 per day capacity Sewage  Treatment Plant has been installed in CISF  Colony at Mehsana Asset,.
lThe scope of work for installation of 20 MM  LPD sea water desalination plant at Uran  has been finalized and is being  implemented through ICB process  ii.
Reduction during usage by consumers  (energy, water) has been achieved since  the previous year?
The Company has embarked upon a number  of measures for reduction in use of energy and  water.
The company aims to sustain  operations with less dependence on fresh  water resources.
In order to do so the  company has embarked on water mapping of  onshore operations by adopting the concept  of 3R:  Reduce: Identify areas to reduce fresh water  usage Reuse: Identify opportunities to reuse fresh  water Recycle: Identify ways to use produced/  effluent water in place of fresh water.
Water  foot-printing has commenced and is likely to  be completed by 2015  The company is also in the process of setting  up of a desalination plant of 20 MLD at Uran in  the state of Maharashtra.
More information on  water usage is available on the Company’s  corporate website with the following  link:http://www.ongcindia.com/wps/wcm/co nnect/ongcindia/Home/Initiatives/Corporate +Sustainability/ A saving to the extent of ?
4532 million has  been achieved on account   of energy  conservation measures and efficient energy  usage across ONGC during 2013-14.
Energy audits in ONGC are carried out by the  internal team of qualified and certified energy  auditors at various work centr es.
Obser vations are raised and energy  conserving suggestions are given.
These  observations are, then, recorded in SAP  system of ONGC as ‘open’ and are closed  upon implementation/ compliance.
The  corporate energy cell at Dehradun monitors  and co-ordinates timely compliance of such  observations.
During the year 2013-14, 210 Energy Audits  have been conducted against a target of 195  across work centres of ONGC and a saving of  ?4532 million has been achieved.
lElectricity generated from wind power plant is  88.01 MU from which a revenue of ?
471 million  was generated lObserved Oil & Gas Conservation Fortnight  (OGCF-2014) at all locations of ONGC and  carried out promotional activities such as  cycle rally, Quiz programmes for ladies,  employees and school children, drawing,  slogan & essay competitions, Driver’s  awareness programmes, workshop on  energy conservation, exhibition, free pollution  checkup and street play for creating energy  conservation awareness and efficient use of  energy across ONGC and common masses  as well lCelebrated Rajiv Gandhi Akhshay Urja Divas  to promote the Nation-wide campaign for  utilization of renewable energy lCelebrated “Energy Conservation Day” at  various work centres lEnergy efficient lights have been installed  throughout ONGC lThe Project on “Provision to make up LP Gas  to KRIBHCO Gas from MP Header instead of  HP Header with an aim to increase capacity  utilization of LPG Plant has been implemented  and validated.
The savings worked out to `335  million per annum lVarious interactions were carried out and  technical supports was provided to implement  the projects on renewable energy and energy  conservation Business Responsibility Report 2013-14 153 3.
Does the company have procedures in place  for sustainable sour cing (including  transportation)?
Company has in place a well-devised procedure  for sustainable sourcing.
Company has a well- documented Material Management Policy  (available on the website of ONGC) that helps in  sourcing the requisites for operations and  business activities in a steady, continuous and  sustainable manner.
The company is in the  process of updating the Materials Management  Policy and procedures to reflect the current  business paradigm.
Company has policies of  long-term contracts and rate-contracts to ensure  that operations and business pursuits does not  suffer owing to externalities   Sustainability and Sustainable Development has  been embedded in work practices as a Corporate  Mantra and are aligned with Kyoto protocol  negotiations, GHG mitigation, Carbon  management, sustainability and greening the  vendor chain.
The Company is pursuing in letter & spirit the  concept of “Greening the vendor in its entire  value chain”.
Through this policy ONGC is  seeking to promote efforts lowered carbon  footprint not only with in ONGC but also amongst  its stakeholders down the vendor’s chain  (business partners).
To this effect ONGC would  consider giving preference in course of time to  products/services that are eco-friendly, energy  efficient that lead to reduced emissions and  conservation of natural resources.
I.
If yes, what percentage of your inputs was  sourced sustainably?
Also, provide details  thereof, in about 50 words or so.
The Company at present does not have a  process is to place measure this particular  parameter.
However, in the future, efforts will  be made to capture relevant information.
4.
Has the company taken any steps to procure  goods and services from local & small  pr oducers, including communities  surrounding their place of work?
Being an Indian CPSE (Central Public Sector  Enterprise), ONGC’s procurement policy and  practices are guided by the Govt.
Policies and  practices.
These are based on transparent  procurement mechanisms which promote  procurement from technically competent  suppliers.
However, care is also taken for the  interest of local suppliers and contractors within  the frame work of CVC‘s guidelines.
For example  ONGC has a special policy to encourage small  entrepreneurs in North East Region to provide  services pertaining to transport.
If yes, what steps have been taken to improve  their capacity and capability of local and small  vendors?
ONGC has always encouraged local suppliers to  participate in its tendering process and also  promote them through vendor development  programs.
Our continued pursuit in the direction  has seen improved participation of small local  players and socio-economic development of  communities in and around operational  locations.
At work centres, Vendors Meet are  regularly held to explain procedures and policies  pertaining to the procurements of goods and  services to help small local vendors.
The  Company is also in the process of implementing  guidelines of MSMEs (Medium, Small and Micro  Enterprises) for procurement goods and  services.
ONGC also provides certain incentive  to MSMEs (Medium, Small & Micro Enterprises)  such as exemption from tender fee and  Exemption from Bid Security.
MSMEs (not their  dealers/distributors) registered with District  Industry Centres or Khadi and Village Industries  Commission or Khadi and Village Industries  Board or Coir Board or National Small Industries  Corporation (NSIC) or Directorate of Handicrafts  and Handloom or any other body specified by  Ministry of MSME are exempted from payment of  tender fees.
Further they are also exempted from  payment of Bid Security irrespective of   monetary  limit mentioned  in  their   registration   certificate provided they are registered for the   items  for which they intend to  quote.
5.
Does the company have a mechanism to  recycle products and waste?
If yes what is the  percentage of recycling of products and  waste (separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%).
Also, provide details thereof, in about 50  words or so.
ONGC has a policy for Management of  Hazardous Chemicals and Materials that was  issued in 2002.
As per the policy personnel  handling hazardous chemical are to be trained  for safe handling practices.
Separate designated  area are provided for storage of hazardous  chemicals and all personnel is to be provided  Annual Report 2013-14 154 Personnel Protective Equipment (PPE) first aid  training.
Further, instructions were issued for the  auction/sale of Hazardous waste in 2004.
The  Ministry of Environment & Forest regulates the  recycling/reprocessing of hazardous wastes  such as used/waste oil,used  lead acid batteries  and other non-ferrous metal waste under  registration scheme , with the objective of  channelizing such waste to only those units  which possess  Environmentally Sound  Management (ESM) facilities.
The registration is  being implemented by Central Pollution Control  Board that regularly updates the list of registered  units in their website http://cpcb.delhi.nic.in and  the hazardous waste is required to be sold /  auctioned only to units registered by CPBP.
Thus  clear instructions have been issued and the  above policy is being followed.
For example all  lead acid batteries are to be sold back to  suppliers at the time of purchase of new  batteries.
For disposal of e-waste, the limited tender from  the firms registered with Central Pollution Control  Board for such items is to be invited and the items  of e-waste is to be sold to them only to ensure  safe disposal of the items.
We have an e-waste  policy to manage our e-waste.
ONGC is committed to recycling of materials,  wherever feasible.
ONGC’s Mehsana asset has  established effective infrastructure to control  expenses, non-optimal usage of costly materials,  ground water and also to effectively manage  waste disposal and has upgraded existing mud  preparation plants through enhancing the mud  preparation and storage capacity.
Mehsana Asset is now transporting the costly  polymer based mud from drill sites to centralized  mud plant for treatment and storage and  thereafter sent to other drill sites, where new  wells are under drilling.
Drilling being our most  water intensive operation, recycling of drilling  mud has ef fectively reduced our water  consumption by 120 million litre of ground water  in 13-14.
Waste generated in ONGC during exploration  and production operations are primarily drilling  mud and mud cuttings (non-hazardous),  chemical sludge and tank bottom sludge  (hazardous).
Chemical sludge is collected in  lagoons having leachate collection facility where  water is drained to reduce the quantity of sludge.
This chemical sludge is disposed of by land filling  in accordance with norms of the State Pollution  Control Board.
To treat tank bottom sludge,  which is mainly organic in content, bio- remediation techniques are employed.
Best  practices in the oil industry are adopted to  manage solid waste arising from operations.
Drill  mud and cuttings are disposed, re-used in land  filling or sold to authorized vendors as per  industry practices.
Waste management has been identified as a  material issue by ONGC for sustainable  development activities.
Accordingly, ONGC is  working toward development of a waste  management policy and plans to guide and  improve its waste management system.
ONGC  has been adopting a three way strategy to reduce  and manage waste: lKnow your waste footprint – Establish the waste base line lUnder take waste management project wherever feasible and apply  lManage waste & reporting Solid & Oily waste management Drill cuttings, drilling fluid and generation of oily  sludge from cleaning of storage tanks and from  various process units of effluent treatment plants  are few important wastes.
The tank bottom  sludge and oily waste were identified as  hazardous waste and is disposed-off according  to local statutory guidelines.
Oily sludge  r e m o v e d  p e r i o d i c a l l y  i s  t r e a t e d  b y   environmentally sound bioremediation  techniques using a consortium of bacteria known  as Oil Zappers and is rendered non-hazardous.
Approx 21900 MT of oily sludge was treated  using the Oil Zapper method of microbe based  bioremediation at our plants and installations.
Land is normally acquired by ONGC for short  duration to carry out its drilling activities.
The land  degradation takes place during drilling  operations due to discharge of waste water from  various sources.
The land acquired for drilling  activities is reclaimed/ restored to its pristine  condition before returning to land owners.
Produced water/ Effluents Business Responsibility Report 2013-14 155 The water produced with the oil and gas, is the  major effluent for the company as part of its  production activities.
The produced water, which  is part of well fluid is separated and sent to  Effluent Treatment Plants (ETPs) for further  treatment.
ONGC operate twenty two ETPs to  treat the ef fluent generated at onshore  Installations.
In  order to cope up with enhanced  liquid production due to high water cut because  of aging of oil fields twenty one new/ substitute  ETPs have been planned /under construction.
At drill sites waste water generated during drilling  activities is collected in a waste pit that lined with  High Density Poly Ethylene Sheets (HDPE).
The  waste water from waste pit is recycled for mud  preparation and other uses.
In North East Sector,  where heavy rainfall takes place, waste water is  treated by mobile ETPs and reused to avoid  overflow of water from waste pits to nearby areas.
In onshore locations, part of treated produced  water is used for water injection into the reservoir  for pressure maintenance; the remaining  quantities are re-injected into sub surface  disposal wells located 1000 mts underground.
In  offshore location, treated produced water is  disposed 40 mts below the sea surface.
Principle 3: Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees.
Principle 3.1 Do you have policy/policies for principle 3?
Yes.
The Company has a wide range of HR policies  covering all categories of the employees (workers,  officers, women employees, SC/ST employees,  sportsperson).
It addresses all aspect of professional  skill & knowledge up-gradation, employee  motivation & welfare measures, employees health &  general well being measures, women empowerment,  empowerment of SC/ST and other disadvantageous  class of employees, separation/superannuation and  post-retirement welfare measures.
Principle 3.2 Has the policy been formulated in consultation with the relevant stakeholders?
The HR policies of ONGC are formulated in line with  DPE guidelines and after due consultation with the  collectives and employees.
Principle 3.3 Does the policy conform to any national/  international standards?
If yes, specify?
(50  words) HR Policies of ONGC conform to the best of  International and National standards.
The company  is perceived to be one of the best employers in the  country.
Some awards/ recognitions received are: lRandstand– 2013 (a reputed international HR  service company) for being the most attractive  employer in the energy sector in India.
lHuman Resource Management Excellence  Award of the ICC PSE Excellence Awards in 2013   l‘Voice of Employee’ award at the Aon Hewitt Best  Employers –India in 2013. l'Best Enterprise Award' in the Maharatna and  Navratna category at WIPS Award of excellence  in women empowerment lMr.
K S Jamestin, Director (HR & BD/JV) was  conferred with the following awards –  (a) JRD Tata Award for Inspirational Leadership  in HR (b) 50 Most Talented Global HR Leaders in Asia  (c) HR Leadership Award, Most Powerful HR  Professional of India and 30 Best HR Leaders  in PSUs at the Asia Pacific HRM Congress  in  September, 2013  (d) Conferred Level –A Certification, i.e.
Cer tified Projects Director by the  International Pr oject Management  Association  (IPMA) in January, 2014.
These National and International awards are  testimony to the fact that our HR polices are  aligned with National and International  standards.
Principle 3.4 Has the policy been approved by the Board?
If  yes, has it been signed by MD/ owner /CEO /  appropriate Board Director?
All HR policies are approved by competent  authorities as delegated by the Board and signed  accordingly.
Principle 3.5 Does the company have a specified committee of  the Board/ Director/Of ficial to oversee the  implementation of the policy?
The Board of Directors have constituted a Board level  Annual Report 2013-14 156 Human Resource Management Committee to  oversee the major decisions in the area of human  resources.
Principle 3.6 Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?
The intranet of the Company “webice.ongc.co.in”  has link to the various HR policies.
Principle 3.7 Has the policy been formally communicated to all  relevant internal and external stakeholders?
Yes.
ONGC’s HR policies are available on-line on the  Company website as well as on the Company’s  internal web-ice portal and on ongcreports.net.
All  policies, procedures and work-flows are  documented and are available on-line for easy  access, use and information by all employees.
Any  new initiatives, changes or new announcements are  communicated to employees on-line through  internal websites and also through formal orders  posted on notice boards and through circulation to  individuals.
Principle 3.8 Does the company have in-house structure to  implement the policy/policies?
ONGC has a structured Human Resource  Department set- headed by Director (HR) who  implements the policies throughout the Company  with the support of senior HR executives.
Principle 3.9 Does the Company have a grievance redressal  mechanism related to the policy/policies to  address stakeholders' grievances related to the  policy/policies?
Yes.
ONGC has a structured employees’ grievance  redressal mechanism.
The mechanism/procedures  allow employees to escalate their grievances to the  level of Director (HR) of the Company and in some  case even to the Executive Committee for justifiable  redressal of issues & concerns.
Collectives and  Officers association are engaged/ associated at  every stage to discuss/ negotiate the vexed issues  and address their concerns.
An Executive Director  level position oversees employee relations and  industrial relations (ER & IR) and maintains cordial,  motivated and a spirited work atmosphere.
All the  employees have access to CMD and Directors  through e-mails as well.
Principle 3.10 Has the company carried out independent  audit/evaluation of the working of this policy by an  internal or external agency?
The HR policies and practices are reviewed at regular  intervals taking cognizance of emerging realities.
Regular independent audits, both internal & external,  gets carried out to gauge level of employee  engagement & satisfaction like the one recently  got done by M/s Booz & Co.
Wherever desired and  warranted, expert advice from external agencies/  consultancies is solicited to ramp up our practices/  policies to best of industry standards.
Principle 3  1.
Total number of employees: 33911 (As on 01.04.2014) 2.
Total number of employees hired on  temporary/contractual/casual basis.
lTemporary workers : NIL lContractual workers : 159 (Contract paramedics) lTenure based : 1327 lCasual workers/ contingent  : 588 lIn addition to the above, approx.
17115 contract labour were deployed by Contractors providing various services to ONGC during the year.
They are employees of the respective Contractors.
3.
Please indicate the Number of permanent women employees: 2223 4.
Please indicate the Number of permanent employees with disabilities: 147 5.
Do you have an employee association that is recognized by management?
Yes A.
Executive Cadre: The Association of Scientific and Technical Of ficers (ASTO) has been recognized to represent the issues related to the officers B. Non-Executive Cadre: Ten recognized unions Business Responsibility Report 2013-14 Sl.
Name of the Union Affiliation Work-centre for which recognized 1.
ONGC Employees Mazdoor Sabha, Mehsana Jodhpur 2.
Oil & Natural Gas Commission (B.O.P.)
Karmachari Sanghatana, Mumbai No.
Independent Vadodara, Mehsana, Cambay, Independent Mumbai Sector 3.
ONGC Workmens' CITU Kolkata Association, Kolkata 4.
ONG Mazdoor Sangh, Independent Ankleshwar Ankleshwar 5.
National Union of ONGC INTUC Dehradun Employees,  Dehradun 6.
Petroleum Employees INTUC Southern Sector Union, Rajahmundry 7.
ONGC Workers Union, CITU Agartala Agartala 8.
ONGC Purbanchal INTUC Nazira, Sivasagar,  Employees' Association, Jorhat Sivasagar, Assam 9.
Trade Union of ONGC CITU Silchar Workers, Silchar, Assam 10.
Petroleum Mazdoor Sangh, Ahmedabad Independent Ahmedabad Principle 4: Businesses should respect the  interests of, and be responsive towards all  stakeholders, especially those who are  disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized Principle 4.1 Do you have policy/policies for principle 4?
The Company has a number of policies in place to  address the interests of all stakeholders.
As a PSE  under Govt.
of India, the company pursues all such  policies as mandated by the government.
The  Corporate Social Responsibilit y (CSR) and  Sustainable Development policy along with a host of  policies of the Government of India are directed  towards disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized  section of the society.
Moreover, In line with the then  DPE Guidelines, ONGC had separate policies on  Corporate Social Responsibilit y (CSR) and  Sustainable Development (SD) for guiding these  activities during 2012-13.
The DPE revised its  Guidelines for CSR & SD effective from 01st April  2013.
The Companies Act, 2013 (Section 135 related  to CSR) and CSR rules have been notified.
These  shall be effective from 01st April 2014.
CSR Policy in  line with Companies Act has been drafted and is  under Board approval.
To substantiate our stakeholder engagement, ONGC  has formulated a ‘communication policy for  stakeholder engagement’.
The goal of the policy is to:  Training of 24,207 man-days  was provided through our  pr emier insti tutes of  IPSHEM Goa and ONGC  Academy, Dehra Dun.
157 6.
What percentage of your permanent  employees is members of this recognized    employee association?
Most executives are member of ASTO.
The non- executive cadres of employees are affiliated to  various recognised unions.
ASTO has a  membership of nearly 21750 executives which is  about 94% of executives.
Ten recognised unions have been conferred  recognition by the Company on the basis of  verification through secret ballot.
They recognize  all the unionized categories of employees in their  respective work-centres, though some may hold  membership with rival unions 7.
Please indicate the Number of complaints  relating to child labour, forced labour,  involuntary labour, sexual harassment in the  last financial year and pending, as at the end of  the financial year.
Sl.
Category No of No of complaints No complaints pending at the   filed during end of the the financial  financial year year   1 Child labour/forced labour/involuntary labour NIL NIL 2 Sexual harassment NIL NIL 3 Discriminatory employment NIL NIL lPermanent Employees  lPermanent Women Employees  lCasual/Temporary/ Contractual Employees  lEmployees with Disabilities    8.
What percentage of your under mentioned  employees were given safety & skill up- gradation training in the last year?
Annual Report 2013-14 158 Connect, Listen, Respond, Sustain’ – leading to  business value creation with Economic, Social and  Environmental sustainability in view.
The policy has  Principle 4.2 Has the policy been formulated in consultation  with the relevant stakeholders?
The CSR policy and policy of Sustainable  development is in compliance with DPE Guidelines  and other relevant statutory bodies including  Companies Act 2013.
Separate Stakeholder  Engagement policy is also under formulation by  ONGC, as part of the CSR Policy.
Principle 4.3 Does the policy conform to any national  /international standards?
If yes, specify?
(50  words)+ ONGC’s policies comply with National Standards.
The Stakeholder Engagement policy shall conform  to AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement standard,  which is an International standard.
Principle 4.4 Has the policy been approved by the Board?
If  yes, has it been signed by MD/owner/ CEO/  appropriate Board Director?
All such policies being pursued by ONGC gets  approved by the Board through its various  Committees or by Director (HR).
The existing  Corporate Citizenship Policy was approved by Board  been put up to the Board for approval.
The table  below depicts the manner in which the Company  engages to address the interests of all stake-holders: and signed by the concerned Director.
The revised  CSR policy is under approval.
Principle 4.5 Does the company have a specified committee of  the Board/ Director/Of ficial to oversee the  implementation of the policy?
Yes.
Director (HR) has been delegated power to  implement CSR initiatives of ONGC.
The  implementation of CSR policy is to be overseen by  the CSR Committee of the Board, as per the  Companies Act, 2013.
Principle 4.6 Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?
The website of ONGC,www.ongcindia.com, has the  link to the CSR and SD activities and to a host of  policies directed towards the betterment of  disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised section  of stakeholders.
Principle 4.7 Has the policy been formally communicated to all  relevant internal and external stakeholders?
Yes.
For internal stakeholders, all these policies are  available on-line on Company websites and also  perpetuated through its Collectives, Of ficers  Association and other relevant associations.
For  Stakeholders Mode of engagement Customers Structured engagement through Crude Oil Sales Agreement (COSA)& Gas Sales Agreement (GSA); Regular / periodic meetings with B2B partners.
Communities Direct engagement at work centres through CSR programmes and HR departments.
Business partners/ contractors/ vendors Contract workers Employees Open House; Vichar-Manthan; Vichar-Dhara; Vichar-Vishlesan; Mantrana; Employee web portal Regulatory bodies (DGMS,NSE, BSE,SEBI,OISD,OIDB, etc.)
Government bodies Shareholders, investors Investor & Analyst meet; AGM; Investor Conferences; Corporate web site and press release Vendor meets; Business partner meets; Pre-bid conferences Safety trainings & SAHYOG Scheme Structured engagement through meetings with administrative ministry MoP&NG, DPE, HI & PE, OISD, OIDB, etc.
Business Responsibility Report 2013-14 159 external stakeholders, communication in this regard  is pursued through interactions at multiple levels.
Principle 4.8 Does the company have in-house structure to  implement the policy/policies?
ONGC has the structured framework and a laid down  well documented procedures in place to execute &  implement its policies.
ONGC has separate  Departments for (i) CSR - headed by Chief CSR, to  implement the CSR activities throughout the  organisation and (ii) Carbon Management and  Sustainable Development - headed by Chief CM&SG  to implement the Sustainability agenda of the  Company.
Principle 4.9 Does the Company have a grievance redressal  mechanism related to the policy/policies to  address stakeholders' grievances related to the  policy/policies?
Yes.
Principle 4.10 Has the company carried out independent  audit/evaluation of the working of this policy by an  internal or external agency?
Policies directed towards the betterment of  disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised  stakeholders are audited & reviewed regularly by  internal groups and by Collectives/Of ficers  Associations to oversee whether it is meeting  intended objectives or not.
CSR policies are  reviewed and revamped periodically depending  upon needs and instructions of the Govt.
of India.
SD  policies also get reviewed regularly by the concerned  stakeholders through interaction with internal &  external agencies.
Since 2011-12, the Sustainability  Report published by ONGC is third party assured.
Also, since 2011-12, ONGC has been carrying out  the third party Impact Assessment of select CSR  initiatives.
Principle 4 1.
Has the company mapped its internal and external stakeholders?
Yes.
The company has well mapped internal & external stakeholders and it is reflected in  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) report on the  corporate website www.ongcindia.com.
The key  stakeholders are shown below.
lEmployees  lCustomers  lCommunities  lBusiness partners / contractors/vendors  lContract workers  lRegulatory bodies (DGMS, NSE, BSE, SEBI, OISD, OIDB)  lGovernment bodies  lShareholders, investors 2.
Out of the above, has the company identified  the disadvantaged, vulnerable & marginalized  stakeholders?
Yes.
ONGC complies with Government directives  for upliftment of priority section of the society.
It is  fully committed to the welfare of the marginalized  and vulnerable sections of the society.
Each of our  strategic business units (SBU) has the  responsibility to identify and engage with relevant  stakeholder to create a symbiotic relationship.
3.
Are there any special initiatives taken by the  company to engage with the disadvantaged,  vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders?
If  so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words  or so.
CSR activities are planned to maximise benefits to  the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized  stakeholders.
Engagement with these  stakeholders is done through their elected  representatives, local Government officials and  NGOs working in their area.
The Company has  suitable processes, policies and departments in  place to identify and engage with such groups of  stakeholders.
Marginalised Categories lPeople with disabilities Children and Women Tribal Migrant workers  SC/ ST Senior Citizen HIV afflicted people People with serious illness l l l l l l l Engagement Mode Disability support aids (wheel chairs, hearing aid, etc.
), Education,  Mid-day meals.
Livelihood schemes Health care, Hospitals Water supply schemes.
Indirect employment as contractual/casual workers.
Company has annual component plan for the SC/ST which is  distributed through the various work centres of ONGC.
The company also provides scholarship for meritorious SC/ST students to pursue higher professional studies.
l l l l l l l l Annual Report 2013-14 160 Principle 5: Businesses should respect and  promote human rights Principle 5.1 Do you have policy/policies for principle 5?
All policies of ONGC take into account the Human  Rights of not only employees but also people likely to  be affected by the operations of the Company.
ONGC is committed to conducting its business  operations and strategies with the ten universally  accepted principles in the area of Human Rights,  Child labour, Anti- corruption and Environment.
ONGC embraces and supports those ten principles,  par ticularly that on the Human Rights viz:  “Businesses should support and respect the  protection of internationally proclaimed human  rights” and “Make sure that they are not complicit in  human rights abuses”.
ONGC is fully committed to  the principles of United Nations Global Compact on  human rights and subscribe to the international  agreements/conventions such as Kyoto protocol,  Montreal Protocol, UNCLOS (MMD), SOLAS and  MARPOL within the framework of Government of  India directives.
The Company ensures compliance  with various labour protection Acts such as Payment  of Wages Act 1936, minimum Wages Act 1948, Equal  Remuneration Act 1976, Industrial Dispute Act 1947,  ESI Act 1948, Employees Provident fund and  Miscellaneous Act 1952, CLRA 1970, Child Labour  (Prohibition and Regulation) Act 1986.
As a  responsible principal employer, ONGC ensures that  contract labour is treated fairly as per law and for any  complaints or disputes, the contractor is advised to  settle the issue in accordance with the law.
Various in- house policies like service rules, leave rules, gratuity  rule, CPF rules, HBA, conveyance advance,  education loans also confirm to Human Right values.
Principle 5.2 Has the policy been formulated in consultation  with the relevant stakeholders?
ONGC being a Public Sector Enterprise is primarily  guided by Government of India policies.
The entire  gamut of its policies, rules and regulations which  govern its functioning have “people first” as its  fulcrum.
Principle 5.3 Does the policy conform to any national/  international standards?
If yes, specify?
(50  words) The policies of ONGC are in line with national  standards and relevant international standard for its  operations and business pursuits.
Principle 5.4 Has the policy been approved by the Board?
If  yes, has it been signed by MD/owner/CEO/  appropriate Board Director?
All the policies are approved either by the Board or  designated competent authorities.
Principle 5.5 Does the company have a specified committee of  the Board/ Director/Official to oversee the  implementation of the policy?
Each Policy incorporates safeguards to ensure that  its functioning is overseen by a Competent Authority /  Committee.
Principle 5.6 Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?
The website of ONGC www.ongcindia.com has the  link to the various policies, rules and regulations of  ONGC Principle 5.7 Has the policy been formally communicated to all  relevant internal and external stakeholders?
All the Policies of ONGC have been suitably  communicated to concerned stakeholders, both  internal as well as the external.
Principle 5.8 Does the company have in-house structure to  implement the policy/policies?
Yes.
The company has in place a structured set-up  with adequate empowerment to implement the  requisite policies.
Principle 5.9 Does the Company have a grievance redressal  mechanism related to the policy/policies to  address stakeholders' grievances related to the  policy/policies?
Yes (as detailed earlier).
Principle 5.10 Has the company carried out independent  audit/evaluation of the working of this policy by an  internal or external agency?
Business Responsibility Report 2013-14 161 The policies, rules and regulations in the direction as  stipulated by the principle 5 are subject to periodic  audit/reviews both by internal and external agencies.
Moreover, frequent audits like ISO 9001: 2008,  Internal Audit, external audit by government agencies  are carried out across the organization.
Principle 5  1.
Does the policy of the company on human  rights cover only the company or extend to the  Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/  NGOs/Others?
The policies towards upholding the human rights  extend to JV's and wholly owned subsidiaries of  ONGC 2.
How many stakeholder complaints have been  received in the past financial year and what  percent was satisfactorily resolved by the  management?
Principle 6: Business should respect, protect, and  make efforts to restore the environment Principle 6.1 Do you have policy/policies for principle 6?
ONGC has always ensured that it protects and cares  for the environment.
The Company has an integrated  Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Policy.
The  company continually strives to mitigate the  environmental impact, that may arise from its  business activities such as exploration, drilling &  production, by investing in state-of-art technologies,  effluent & solid waste management, environment  monitoring and reporting, bio-diversity conservation  ef forts and up-gradation and sustenance of  environment management systems.
ONGC has a  robust process of internal audit and management  review for QHSE management system and regularly  reviews its QHSE policy and maps risks.
Some  notable HSE practices are – Regular QHSE internal  audit, Fire safety measures, regular fire and earth  quake mock drill, health awareness program,  Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS), Personal  Protective Equipment, implementation of  Environment Management Systems (EMS),  Occupational Health Safety (OHS), near miss  reporting, Governance, Risk management and  Compliance reporting.
Principle 6.2 Has the policy been formulated in consultation  with the relevant stakeholders?
Yes.
All policies of the company have been formulated  in consultation with stakeholders, primarily in  consultation with and under the guidelines of  MoP&NG and Ministry of Environment, Govt.
of India  and other statutory bodies.
Principle 6.3 Does the policy conform to any national /international  standards?
If yes, specify?
(50 words) The HSE policy of ONGC is in line with International  Standards and conforms to ISO - 14000 and OSHAS -  18001.
Policies confirm to all standards, practices  and statutes per taining to environmental  commitments as expected from and as mandated to  a company engaged in the oil & gas business.
Principle 6.4 Has the policy been approved by the Board?
If  yes, has it been signed by MD/owner/CEO/  appropriate Board Director?
Yes, the policy has been approved by the Board and  signed by Chairman & Managing Director, ONGC.
Principle 6.5 Does the company have a specified committee of  the Board/ Director/Official to oversee the  implementation of the policy?
ONGC has a Committee of Directors (COD) on  Health, Safety & Environment chaired by an  independent director.
This Board level committee  oversees and reviews decisions on policy matters  concerning HSE Policy.
Principle 6.6 Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?
The website of ONGC, www.ongcindia.com, has a  separate link for HSE activities.
Principle 6.7 Has the policy been formally communicated to all  Stakeholders Complaint Customers Communities Business partners/ contractors/ vendors Contract workers Employees Regulatory bodies (DGMS,NSE, BSE,SEBI,OISD,OIDB etc.,) Government bodies Shareholders, investors As detailed in Principle 1(4).
21  (referred to IEM) Annual Report 2013-14 162 relevant internal and external stakeholders?
The HSE Policy is displayed at all the work centres  and has been communicated to each employee as  well as contractual employees.
A link to our HSE  policy has been provided on ONGC website for  external stakeholders.
ONGC continuously engages  with stakeholders at multiple levels through diverse  channels.
This engagement helps in the formulation  of company policies directed at progressively  enriching practices and sustainable operations over  time.
Principle 6.8 Does the company have in-house structure to  implement the policy/policies ?
ONGC has dedicated HSE Department at Corporate  level as well as at the Strategic Business units (SBU’s)  level comprising of Assets, Basin, Plants and  Institutes.
Safety officers suitably trained and  certified are posted at SBU levels to effectively  manage and report safety performance.
Principle 6.9 Does the Company have a grievance redressal  mechanism related to the policy/policies to  address stakeholders’ grievances related to the  policy/policies?
Yes.
Principle 6.10 Has the company carried out independent  audit/evaluation of the working of this policy by an  internal or external agency?
Company undertakes HSE audit at regular pre- defined intervals.
External bodies engaged in  granting ISO-14000 and OHSAS and other  certification agencies conduct regular audits within  the certification period to oversee that pre-requisites  are being met before granting extensions to these  certification.
Principle 6  1.
Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover  only the company or ex tends to the  Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/  NGOs/others.
The HSE policy and processes cover ONGC and  its vendors.
All suppliers, NGOs and others  Business partners doing business with the  Company within the Company’s premise  subscribes to the Company’s policies and  commitment to the environment.
The policies of  the Company extend to its wholly owned  subsidiaries and to joint ventures after getting  approval of its JV partners on the tenets &  premises of environmental commitment.
2.
Does the company have strategies/ initiatives  to address global environmental issues such  as climate change, global warming, etc.?
The Company is aware of the risks arising due to  climate change.
It has a dedicated Carbon  Management & Sustainability Group (CM&SG)  with a specific mandate to position ONGC as the  leading organisation in sustainable development  (SD) and to voluntarily take up carbon  management as an activity to synergise all  business activities with sustainable development  particularly to address issues related to climate  change risks and opportunities arising from  carbon mitigation initiatives.
The management  has been active in engaging with national and  international climate change forum to ensure that  the organization stays current with global climate  change negotiations and India’s domestic  commitments.
Fugitive methane emissions from  oil and natural gas systems are primarily the result  of normal operations and system disruptions.
These emissions can be cost-effectively reduced  by upgrading technologies or equipment, and by  improving operations.
The Global Methane  Initiative (GMI) is an action-oriented initiative from  USEPA to reduce global fugitive methane  emissions to enhance economic grow th,  promote energy securit y, improve the  environment, and reduce greenhouse gases  emission.
The Global Methane Initiative facilitates  cooperative mitigation activities that result in  bringing more gas to markets through the  Identification, Quantification, and Reduction  (IQR) path.
ONGC entered into a MoU with the United States  Environment Protection Agency (USEPA) in  August 2007, to undertake Methane to Market  (now GMI) projects in ONGC and ONGC has  formed an internal and measurement team  procured methane emission detection and  measurement equipment in order to undertake  Fugitive Emission detection and quantification at  its operating facilities in-house and has reduced  approx.
14 MMSCM of fugitive methane over the  years.
ONGC has also drawn an effective plan to  map all its production installations for fugitive  hydrocarbon emission and make the installations  leak free in the near future.
3.
Does the company identify and assess  potential environmental risks?
Business Responsibility Report 2013-14 163 Yes.
The environmental footprints are mapped  during the project planning phase and based on  impact assessment remedial measures are put in  place during the operational phase.
Af ter  September, 2006 gazet te notification on  Environmental Clearance of Ministr y of  Environment & Forests, all new and expansion  projects of ONGC are mandated to obtain prior  environmental Clearance from Expert Appraisal  Committee (EAC) of MoEF before commencing  operational activities.
The company has obtained  131 environmental clearances so far.
The  company has implemented globally recognized  environmental management system like ISO  9001, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 at all its  operational work centres.
4.
Does the company have any project related to  Clean Development Mechanism?
If so, provide  details thereof, in about 50 words or so ONGC commenced its CDM journey in 2006.
Currently ONGC has 11 registered CDM projects  with UNFCCC,  that yield Certified Emissions  Reductions (CER) approx.
1.9 million yearly.
The  registered CDM projects are: Sl no Project CER/annum 1 Waste heat recovery from Process Gas Compressors (PGCs), Mumbai high south (offshore platform) 5,320 2 Up-gradation of Gas Turbine 1 (GT 1) and Gas Turbine 2 (GT 2) at co-generation plant of Hazira Gas Processing Complex (HGPC) 7,802 3 Flare gas recovery project at Uran plant 97,740 4 Flare gas recovery project at Hazira Gas Processing Complex (HGPC), Hazira plant 8,793 5 Amine Circulation Pumps Energy Efficiency at Hazira Plant 4,043 6 51 MW wind power project of ONGC at Surajbari 85,762 7 Energy Efficient Green Building at Mumbai 544 8 Energy Efficient Green Building at Dehradun 735 9 Gas Flaring Reduction at Neelam&Heera Asset 65,811 10 OTPC Natural gas based combined cycle power plant in Tripura, India 16,12,506 11 Energy Efficient Green Building at Kolkata 1881 Total 18,90,937 Annual Report 2013-14 164 Business Responsibility Report 2013-14 This is probably the highest registration of CER’s  by any single entity in India.
Two projects are  under various stages of registration which will  make India the largest Certified Emissions  Reductions (CER) earner in Asia/ Europe.
Annual  CERs earned from these projects are 210,739.
ONGC has registered ONGC Tripura Power  Corporation Limited (OTPC) as a Clean  Development Mechanism (CDM) project with the  United Nations Framework Convention on  Climate Change (UNFCCC).
This is one of the  largest CDM projects in the world.
5.
Has the company undertaken any other  initiatives on – clean technology, energy  efficiency, renewable energy, etc.
Yes.
The Company has taken a host of initiatives to  pursue clean technologies, energy efficiency  measures and renewable energy pursuits.
Some  of these initiatives are spelled out in detail at  Principle-2 under questionnaire 2 &3 (please refer  to these for our supplementary response against  this questionnaire).
To name a few, the Company  has taken some energy saving initiatives such as: lFlare gas recovery lUse of turbo-expanders in LPG production lUse of wind and solar energy lUse of Gas gen set/Gas based captive  power plant lUse of wind ventilators/vapour recovery unit lWaste heat recovery from gas turbines lUse of solar water heating systems and  energy efficient lighting lArrest of steam leakages Focussing on cleaner and renewable sources of  energy ONGC has implemented the renewable  energy wind project 51 MW at Bhuj, Gujarat  commissioned in 2008.
The second of wind power  project of 102 MW is expected to commence  operations in 2014-15.
ONGC aims to reduce GHG  emissions by focusing on improved energy  efficiency.
The Company has also established  “ONGC Energy Centre”, a Trust set up by ONGC to  actively pursue alternate energy opportunities.
The  Energy Centre is poised to contribute significantly  towards ONGC’s endeavour to have a healthy  portfolio of alternate energy.
Some of the significant  projects / initiatives are: lGeneration of Hydrogen through Thermo chemical Processes.
lGeothermal Power Project in Cambay Basin.
lKinetic Hydro Power Project.
lBioconversion of Coal/Oil Project  lSolar Thermal Project lUranium Exploration Project lPilot Solar & Wind Hybrid Power Station If yes, please give hyperlink for web page: http://w ww.ongcindia.com/wps/wcm/connect/o ngcindia/Home/Initiatives/Corporate+Sustainab ility/ 6.
Are the Emissions/Waste generated by the  company within the permissible limits given by  CPCB/SPCB for the financial year being  reported?
Yes.
The emissions & waste generated by the  Company is within permissible limits.
Annual  Environment Compliance reports are submitted  by the respective work units to respective State  Pollution Control Boards (SPCB).
All the  installations comply with environmental  regulations.
Procedures are in place for storage,  handling and disposal of hazardous chemicals  and wastes.
7.
Number of show cause/ legal notices received  from CPCB/SPCB which are pending (i.e.
not  resolved to satisfaction) as on end of Financial  Year:  Crude oil Leakage in BUT pipeline on 6/10/2013  case pertaining to Uran Work Centre is pending.
There are few other accidental instances of  environmental pollution as per regulations.
All  issues have been resolved with CPCB / SPCB,  except the Uran case.
Principle 7: Businesses, when engaged in  influencing public and regulatory policy,  should do so in a responsible manner Principle 7.1 Do you have a policy/policies for principle 7?
Public and regulatory policies relating to  operation of E&P Companies in India are  formulated by the Government of India.
ONGC,  per se, is not engaged in influencing public and  regulatory policy.
However, being a PSE and a  responsible corporate citizen of India, it conducts  its business in a responsible manner and always  pursues the best ethical business practices.
165 Principle 7.2 Has the policy been formulated in consultation with  the relevant stakeholders?
ONGC being a Public Sector Enterprise is under the  control of the Government of India, though the Ministry  of Petroleum & Natural Gas.
Principle 7.3 Does the policy conform to any national  /international standards?
If yes, specif y?
(50words) The Company pursues its business in a responsible  manner and policies are as per the best of prevailing  National & International standards as applicable for  E&P industry.
ONGC was bestowed with ‘Certificate of  Recognition’ for adopting exemplary corporate  governance practices, instituted by the Institute of  Company Secretaries of India.
ONGC has also  received “Excellent” Rating for the year 2012-13 for  Compliance of Guidelines on Corporate Governance,  issued by Department of Public Enterprises (DPE) for  Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs).
ONGC has  secured 100% Score in this regard and is the only  Maharatna to achieve this distinction.
Principle 7.4 Has the policy been approved by the Board?
If yes,  has it been signed by MD/ owner/ CEO/ appropriate  Board Director?
ONGC follows policies  of the Govt.
of India.
All its  internal policies are approved by the Board of  Directors or its designated authority.
Principle 7.5 Does the company have a specified committee of  the Board/ Director/ Official to oversee the  implementation of the policy?
Depending upon the area of operation, the relevant  function is under the purview of the concerned  Functional Director who ensures that the same is  being implemented in a responsible manner.
The  ONGC Board has constituted a number of Board level  Committees to oversee functioning of respective  areas which are detailed in the Corporate Governance  Report of the Annual Report 2013-14.
Principle 7.6 Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?
The website of ONGC (www.ongcindia.com) has links  to the various policies of ONGC through which one can  assess that ONGC conducts its business in a  responsible manner.
Principle 7.7 Has the policy been formally communicated to all  relevant internal and external stakeholders?
ONGC functions in a transparent and ethical manner  and its policies are available on-line for all its internal &  external stakeholders.
Further, being a PSE, it is  obliged to provide all information to citizens in line with  Right to Information Act, 2005.
Principle 7.8 Does the company have in-house structure to  implement the policy/policies?
ONGC has an elaborate organisation structure  comprising of 6 functional directors headed by  Chairman & Managing Director to ensure proper  implementation of all the policies in place.
Principle 7.9 Does the Company have a grievance redressal  mechanism related to the policy/policies to  address stakeholders' grievances related to the  policy/policies?
Yes.
Principle 7.10 Has the company carried out independent  audit/evaluation of the working of this policy by an  internal or external agency?
The Company has a dedicated Internal Audit  department and concurrently audits are conducted  through external agencies on regular basis to ensure  that the policies produce the desired results.
Further,  being a PSE under Govt.
of India’s ambit.
The  Company is subjected to scrutiny by the statutory  bodies such as CAG.
Principle 7  1.
Is your company a member of any trade and  chamber or association?
If Yes, Name only  those major ones that your business deals  with: Yes.
Company has association with a number of  trade chambers & associations such as lFederation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) lConfederation of Indian Industries (CII) lStanding Conference on Public Enterprises (SCOPE) lPetroleum Federation of India (PetroFed) 2.
Have you advocated/lobbied through above  associations for the advancement or  improvement of public good?
Yes/No; if yes  specif y the broad areas (drop box:  Annual Report 2013-14 166 Governance and Administration, Economic  Reforms, Inclusive Development Policies,  Energy security, Water, Food Security,  Sustainable Business Principles, Others)  ONGC has always advocated constructive  suggestion in area of taxation matters, pricing  policies, subsidy sharing, exploration and  licensing policies, policies towards pursuing the  energy security, sustainable development,  corporate social responsibility, that are beneficial  to the Industry in specific and society in general.
ONGC, on its own, has made a 'Perspective Plan  2030' intended to provide much needed energy  security for the nation.
Further, details are  available on company site www.ongcindia.com.
Principle 8: Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development Principle 8.1 Do you have policy/policies for principle 8?
ONGC supports inclusive growth and equitable  development.
A well-defined set of objectives,  beneficiaries, strategy and project activities are  undertaken by ONGC through its Corporate Social  Responsibility (CSR) and Sustainable Development  (SD) projects thereby contributing towards inclusive  development of the Nation.
The objective is to yield  discernible, long-term, sustainable benefit for  communities in its operational areas & other  backward districts as identified by the Planning  Commission, GOI.
This principle is one of the main  pillars of the existing Corporate Citizenship Policy as  well as CSR Policy which is under approval.
Principle 8.2 Has the policy been formulated in consultation  with the relevant stakeholders?
ONGC being a Public Sector Enterprise follows CSR  Policy and policy on Sustainable Development as per  DPE Guidelines formulated by the Govt.
of India.
Separate Stakeholder Engagement policy is also  under formulation by ONGC.
Principle 8.3 Does the policy conform to any national  /international standards?
If yes, specify?
(50  words) The CSR and SD policy is formulated to comply with  DPE Guidelines, it conforms to National standards.
The Companies Act, 2013 meets International norms  on CSR on which the ONGC CSR policy is based.
Principle 8.4 Has the policy been approved by the Board?
If yes,  has it been signed by MD/owner/CEO/appropriate  Board Director?
All policies/ activities pursued through CSR & SD gets  approved by the ONGC Board and are signed by the  designated competent authorities as per the  instructions of the Board.
However, the revised CSR  policy is under approval.
The existing Corporate  Citizenship Policy was approved by Board and signed  by the concerned Director.
Principle 8.5 Does the company have a specified committee of  the Board/ Director/Official to oversee the  implementation of the policy?
The Company has a Committee on CSR & SD chaired  by an Independent Director which conforms to the  DPE Guidelines on CSR & SD as well as section 135 of  the Companies Act, 2013.
Director (HR) is the nodal  Functional Director for implementation of CSR  initiatives of ONGC who executes the activities  through corporate and work centre level units.
Principle 8.6 Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?
The website of ONGC – www.ongcindia.com has a  link to the CSR policy and policy on Sustainable  Development and other such activities of ONGC.
Principle 8.7 Has the policy been formally communicated to all  relevant internal and external stakeholders?
Yes.The existing policy has been formally  communicated to all relevant stakeholders.
Also  these policies are available online on the website of  DPE and ONGC.
Principle 8.8 Does the company have in-house structure to  implement the policy/policies?
ONGC has dedicated departments for CSR and  Carbon Management and Sustainable Development  at corporate level as well as work centre level.
Principle 8.9 Does the Company have a grievance redressal  mechanism related to the policy/policies to  address stakeholders' grievances related to the  policy/policies?
Yes.
Business Responsibility Report 2013-14 167 Principle 8.10 Has the company carried out independent  audit/evaluation of the working of this policy by an  internal or external agency?
Since 2011-12, the Sustainability Report published by  ONGC is third party assured.
Also, since 2011-12,  ONGC has been carrying out the third party Impact  Assessment of its select CSR initiatives.
The impact  assessment was carried out for the following project:  1) Varisthajan Swasthya Sewa Abhiyan 2) Computer  education project 3) Project Utkarsh 4) Project  eastern swamp deer 5) Project mangrove restoration  and conser vation education unit 6) project  Haritmoksha.
The assessment shows a good  correlation with its intended objective.
Principle 8  1.
Does the company have specified  programmes/initiatives/projects in pursuit of  the policy related to Principle 8?
Yes.
ONGC has played an anchor role in meeting  the inclusive developmental goals across the  country particularly in the north eastern parts of  the country.
ONGC's operational presence is  source of local employment and livelihood  generation which improve the overall economic  standards of the community and region.
Some of  the projects and initiatives in the given direction  are as follows:  Projects on health care lONGC- Specialist Palliative and Geriatric Care Out- patient Clinic lONGC-PMS & RF - 100 Heart Surgeries lONGC-Hope Foundation lMahavir International lWheel Chairs to Under Privileged in AIIMS lIndian Red Cross Society, Godda (Jharkhand ) lIndian Red Cross Society, Mehabubnagar Education and vocational courses lSri Shanmukhananda Fine Arts & Sangeetha  Sabha lSOS Children's Village lONGC-The Akshaya-Patra Foundation lAantyodaya Prakalp Projects for Physically and Mentally  challenged lAids & Appliances to the physically  challenged lAashirwad Special Education School lTamanna lCheshire Home India (Mumbai) Self-help and livelihood generation scheme ONGC – Adharshila Entrepreneurship and Skill Development Initiative lUdaan lUTKARSH- an ONGC AROH effort for  Economic Upliftment of People in Sibasagar Other CSR Schemes lHortoki Water Supply Scheme lONGC-Gayatri Pariwar Trust lEquipment in District Gov t. Hospital  Kushinagar lSt Joseph of Annecy (India) Society, Tripura lAdoration Charitable Trust lVaristhajan Swasthya Sewa Abhiyan lONGC-GICEIT Computer Centre lHarit  Moksha lONGC-Eastern Swamp Deer Conservation  Project in Kaziranga National Park lONGC has contributed ?
2 Crore aid for flood relief operations in Uttarakhand.
lONGC has associated with 'Clean India  Campaign' initiated by the Ministry of Tourism  for restoration and preservation of historical  monument.
2.
Are the programmes/projects undertaken  through in-house team/own foundation/  external NGO / government structures/any  other organization?
The company undertakes projects through in- house department, NGO's and government  agencies.
The CSR activities are essentially  guided by project based approach in line with the  guidelines issued by the Department of Public  Enterprises and Ministry of Corporate Affairs of  the Government of India.
As per DPE Guidelines,  PSEs cannot implement the projects through their  employees / staff.
3.
Have you done any impact assessment of your initiative?
Yes.
Since 2011-12, ONGC has been carrying out  the third party Impact Assessment of its select  CSR initiatives.
The impact assessment had been  done in FY 2011-12 & 2012-13 4.
What is your company's direct contribution to  community development projects- Amount in  INR and the details of the projects undertaken?
Annual Report 2013-14 168 CSR Expenditure for F.Y.
2013-14  CSR Expenditure for the F.Y.
2013-14  Focuswise  Amt.
consumed Annual Component Plan- SC/ST Welfare 1,90,67,466 Education including Vocational courses 61,58,83,396 Entrepreneurship (self help and livelihood) 1,78,13,995 Environment, ecological conservation, protection 1,64,49,49,553 Grant of Financial aid / assistance 16,74,15,215 Ground water management including recharge 2,73,23,687 Health Care 28,34,15,455 Infrastructural support near our operational areas 15,97,55,012 Initiatives for physically and mentally challenged 27,99,44,532 Promoting sports/sports persons; support 1,30,13,901 Promotion of artisans, craftsmen, musicians 4,11,71,136 Protection of heritage sites, UNESCO heritage sites 5,00,000 Society of Petroleum Geophysicists 9,990 Sponsorship of media / cultural / sports 1,87,80,251 Sponsorship of seminars, conferences, workshops 11,37,55,268 Women's empowerment, girl child development 97,46,312 Grand Total 3,41,25,45,169 5.
Have you taken steps to ensure that this  communit y development initiative is  successfully adopted by the community?
Please explain in 50 words, or so.
Yes.
Successful adoption of community  development initiatives by the respective  community is ensured through the project  implementing agency.
The CSR project is  developed based on need assessment after due  interaction with the opinion makers and / or  elected representatives and / or local  g o v e r n m e n t  a g e n c i e s .
T h e  p r o j e c t   implementation strategy includes information  dissemination, which helps in adoption of the  project by the local community.
Moreover,  ONGC’s operations are not adversely affecting  indigenous communities.
We have not received  any reported incidents of violation involving  rights of local community and indigenous  people.
CSR policy covers engagement of  communities impacted by our operations and  activities to come up with solutions that enrich  the social capital and enhance positive  outcomes of our activities.
For instance, we  provide elderly health care through 20 mobile  medical units operated by HelpAge.
We also  provide prosthetic support to physically  challenged persons.
Other communit y  initiatives are Haritmokhsa, education to tribal  people, eradication of malnutrition amongst  others.
Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and  provide value to their customers and consumers  in a responsible manner Business Responsibility Report 2013-14 169 Principle 9.1 Do you have policy/policies for principle 9?
ONGC engages with the customers and consumers  in a manner that depicts the best business practises  and win-win proposition to all doing business with  company as per mutually agreed upon business  principles and deliverables.
ONGC's main customers  are Oil Refining & Gas Marketing Companies to which  the company's produce that is oil and gas is allocated  by the government of India.
Company enters into a  Crude Oil Sale Agreement (COSA) with the Oil  Marketing Companies (OMCs) and Gas Sales  Agreement (GSA)with GAIL to whom it sells the  Crude Oil, Natural Gas etc.
following the crude oil  /gas sales allocations as being done by Govt.
of  India.
The COSA/GSA incorporates suitable  provisions with regard to the quality and quantity of  the product being supplied by ONGC.
Besides this,  ONGC also sells its produce to many customers  under adequate sales agreement and gets governed  by the policies and business principles of that time.
Principle 9.2 Has the policy been formulated in consultation  with the relevant stakeholders?
The COSA/GSA of ONGC has been arrived at in  consultation with OMCs and Gas marketing  companies on mutually agreed principles.
Other  sales or purchase agreement are also agreed  mutually.
ONGC has therefore laid down policies and  guidelines for engaging with and providing value to  their customers and consumers in a responsible  manner.
Principle 9.3 Does the policy conform to any national/  international standards?
If yes, specify?
(50  words) The specifications of quality, etc., in COSA/GSA are  in accordance with the national standards.
More over  ONGC ensures that the policies followed are as per  the guidelines of Government of India.
Principle 9.4 Has the policy been approved by the Board?
If  yes, has it been signed by MD/ owner/ CEO/  appropriate Board Director?
Yes.
Policies in practise with regard to engagement  with customers and consumers are approved by the  Board.
Thereafter, COSA/ GSA are signed by the  designated authorities.
Principle 9.5 Does the company have a specified committee of  the Board/ Director/Official to oversee the  implementation of the policy?
Company has a structured and dedicated marketing  department / establishment headed by a General  Manager to oversee implementation of relevant  policies in this regard.
Principle 9.6 Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?
COSA/GSA being a bipartite agreement is a  confidential document and is not available for  inspection to the public.
However, the general  guidelines with respect to doing business with ONGC  and also the standard business/contract terms &  conditions of doing business with ONGC are  available on the site www.ongcindia.com.
Principle 9.7 Has the policy been formally communicated to all  relevant internal and external stakeholders?
Policies, being an internal policy document, have  been circulated within the company (internal stake  holders).
The need for circulation to external  stakeholders has not been felt; moreover, it may  compromise ONGC commercial interests.
Principle 9.8 Does the company have in-house structure to  implement the policy/policies?
As given in response against 9.5 above.
Principle 9.9 Does the Company have a grievance redressal  mechanism related to the policy/policies to  address stakeholders' grievances related to the  policy/policies?
Yes.
COSA/GSA has a built in mechanism for  stakeholders' grievance redressal.
Principle 9.10 Has the company carried out independent  audit/evaluation of the working of this policy by an  internal or external agency?
The COSA/GSA is subject to review as may be  mutually agreed upon.
Principle 9  1.
What percentage of customer complaints/  consumer cases are pending as on the end of  financial year :  None.
There are no incidents this year for non- compliance with regulations.
We have been  complying with all laws and regulations  concerning the provision of our products and  services and have not been imposed any fines  for non-compliance this year.
2.
Does the company display product  information on the product label, over and  above what is mandated as per local laws?
For crude oil sale, Batch wise certificates are  issued for Crude Oil, which includes various  quality parameters including the BS&W.
Product  Annual Report 2013-14 Annual Report 2013-14 170 labelling related to storage procedures and  safety precautions is clearly indicated at the  ONGC installation holding the crude.
All VAP’s are supplied with batch-wise test  reports and standard handling procedures to be  followed in line with OISD/other statutory  standards.
Relevant BIS specifications (if  applicable) and quality cer tificates with  parameters are issued while dispatching.
Product labelling related to storage procedures  and safety precautions are clearly indicated  at  ONGC installations holding the VAP product.
3.
Is there any case filed by any stakeholder  against the company regarding unfair trade  practices, irresponsible advertising and/or  anti-competitive behaviour during the last five  years and pending as on end of financial year:  No.
4.
Did your company carry out any consumer  survey/ consumer satisfaction trends?
Yes.
The Company interacts on regular basis with  its B2B customers’ with respect to product quality  and pricing.
This kind of engagement with our  partners ensures customer satisfaction.
Any  concerns related to the product by any of our  consumers are addressed immediately.
In view of  constant interaction and feedback through  meetings, no need has been felt to undertake  separate sur veys to measure customer  satisfaction.
Recently, first ever meet of customers  buying Naphtha exported by ONGC was held on  January 16th, 2014.
The Meet had active  participation from all major trading companies  who are regular buyers of Naphtha exported by  ONGC.
The Meet proved to be a great success  and provided an interactive platform for Buyers to  voice their feedback on the procedures adopted  by ONGC for exporting Naphtha.
Sl.
Questions P 1 P 2 P 3 P 4 P 5 P 6 P 7 P 8 P 9  1 The company has not understood the Principles  2 The company is not at a stage where it finds itself in a position to formulate and implement the policies on specified principles 3 The company does not have financial or manpower resources available for the task  4 It is planned to be done within next 6 months  5 It is planned to be done within the next 1 year  6 Any other reason (please specify)  NOT APPLICABLE 3.
Governance related to BR  lIndicate the frequency with which the  Board of Directors, Committee of the  Board or CEO to assess the BR  performance of the Company.
Within 3  months, 3-6 months, Annually, More  than 1 year Annually.
lDoes the Company publish a BR or a  Sustainability Report?
What is the  hyperlink for viewing this report?
How  frequently it is published?
This is the second Report on Business  Responsibility and forms part of Annual  Report 2013-14.
ONGC also publishes its 'Sustainability  Repor t' annually based on Global  Reporting Initiative's latest reporting  guidelines.
The Sustainability Report for  FY 12-13, FY 11-12, FY 10-11 and FY 09- 10 is available on the corporate website of  the company www.ongcindia.com.
2a.
IF ANSWER TO S.NO.
1 AGAINST ANY PRINCIPLE, IS 'NO', PLEASE EXPLAIN WHY:  (TICK UP TO 2 OPTIONS) Business Responsibility Report 2013-14 Highest ultimate reserve accretion in the last two decades - 84.99 MTOE  172 Secretarial Audit Report Secretarial Audit Report We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance  of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to  good corporate practices by Oil and Natural Gas  Corporation Ltd (“the Company”).
The secretarial audit  was conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable  basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory  compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company's books, papers,  minute books, forms and returns filed and other records  maintained by the Company, its officers, agent and  authorized representatives during the conduct of  secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the  Company has during the audit period covering the financial  year ended on March 31, 2014 complied with the statutory  provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company has  proper Board processes and compliance mechanism in  place to the extent and in the manner reported hereinafter.
1.
We have examined the books, papers, minute books,  forms and returns filed and other records maintained  by the Company for the financial year ended on March  31, 2014 according to the provisions of: lThe Companies Act, 1956 and Rules made under  that Act and notified sections of the Companies  Act, 2013 as applicable for the financial year under  report; lThe Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations  and Byelaws  framed under that Act; lThe Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)  Regulations, 2011; lThe Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Prohibition of Insider Trading (Regulations), 1992; lThe Equity Listing Agreements with the Bombay  Stock Exchange Ltd. and the National Stock  Exchange of India Ltd. And lGuidelines on Corporate Governance for Central  Public Sector Enterprises as stipulated in the th O.M.No.
18(8)/2005-GM dated 14  May, 2010 of  the Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public  Enterprises, Government of India (the DPE   Guidelines onCorporate Governance).
2.
We report that the Company has in our opinion  complied with the provisions of the Companies Act  1956, the rules made under that Act, notified sections  of the Companies Act, 2013 as applicable to the  financial year under report and the memorandum and  articles of association of the Company, with regard to: (a) Maintenance of statutory registers and documents  and making necessary entries therein; (b) Filing of the requisite forms and returns with the  Registrar of Companies, NCT of Delhi and Haryana  within the time  prescribed under the Act and the  Rules made there under.
(c) Service of documents by the Company on its  members and the Registrar of Companies.
(d) Closure of Register of Members and Share Transfer th Books of the Company from 19  September, 2013 th to 25  September, 2013 (both days inclusive).
(e) Notice of Board Meetings and Committee  meetings of Directors; (f) Convening and holding of the meetings of  Directors and Commit tees of Directors  including passing of resolutions by circulation; th (g) The 20  Annual General Meeting held on 25th  September, 2013.
(h) Minutes of proceedings of General Meeting and  meetings of Board and its committees.
(i) Constitution of Board of Directors and  appointment, retirement and re-appointment of  directors; (j) Appointment of Chairman and Managing Director,  Whole Time Directors and non-executive Directors  and their remuneration.
(k) The Directors disclosed their interests and  concerns in contracts and arrangements,  shareholdings and directorships in other  companies and interests in other entities and  their disclosures have been noted and recorded  by the Board.
(l) Transfers and transmission of shares and issue and  delivery of original and duplicate certificates of  The Board of Directors, Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd Regd.
Office: Jeevan Bharati,Tower II, 124, Indira Chowk, New Delhi-110001.
173 shares; dematerialization/ rematerialization of  shares; (m) Declaration and payment of dividend including  interim dividends; (n) Transfer of certain amounts as required under the  Act to the Investor Education and Protection Fund; (o) Investment of Company's funds including inter  corporate loans and investments; (p) Appointment and remuneration of Auditors/Cost  Auditors; (q) The Company wherever necessary has kept in  abeyance rights to dividend declared at the Annual  General Meeting held on 25th September, 2013  and interim dividends declared on 06.12.2013 and  24.3.2014, pending registration of transfer of  shares in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
(r) The Company has not invited/accepted any  deposits falling within the purview of Section 58A  of the Act;  (s) The Company has not made any secured  borrowings;  (t) The Company has not bought back any shares; (u) The Company has complied with forms of balance  sheet and statement of profit and loss as  prescribed in Parts I and Part II and General  Instructions for preparation of the same as  prescribed in Schedule VI to the Act.
(v) The Company has complied with all other  applicable provisions of the Act and Rules made  under the Act.
(w) The Company has created a trust, namely, the  ONGC Employees Contributory Provident Fund  Trust for its employees.
The Company has  deposited both the employees' and employer's  contribution with the above Trust within the  prescribed time pursuant to Section 418 of the Act  during the relevant period.
(x) The Company has substantially observed the  Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of  Company Secretaries of India, although  recommendatory in nature.
(y) There was no prosecution initiated against or show  cause notice received by the Company and no  fines or any other punishment was imposed on the  Company, its Directors and officers during the  period under review for any offence under the Act.
3.
We further report that the Company has complied with  the provisions of the Depositories Act, 1996 and  Regulations framed there-under with regard to  dematerialisation/rematerialisation of securities and  reconciliation of records of dematerialized  securities with all securities issued by the Company.
4.
We further report that: (i) The Company has complied with the provisions of  Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)  Regulations, 2011 with regard to disclosures and  maintenance of records required under the  Regulations.
(ii) The Company has complied with the provisions of  Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992  with regard to disclosures and maintenance of  records required under the Regulations.
5.
The Company has complied with the requirements  under the Equity Listing Agreements entered into with  the Bombay Stock Exchange Ltd and the National  Stock Exchange of India Ltd., except, the Board of  Directors did not comprise of the required number of st Independent Directors for the period 1  April, 2013 to th 28  November, 2013, and the vacancies caused due to   retirement of Independent Directors have not been  filled within 180 days as per the terms of Listing  Agreements.
6.
We further report that based on the information  received and records maintained, there are adequate  systems and processes in the Company,  commensurate with the size and operations of the  Company, to monitor and ensure compliance with  applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
7.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and  according to explanations given to us by the  management, we further certify that the Company has  complied with the DPE guidelines on Corporate  Governance, except that the Board of Directors did not  comprise of the required number of Independent st th Directors for the period 1  April, 2013 to 28  November,  2013, as stipulated in Para 3.1.4 of Chapter 3 of DPE  Guidelines on Corporate Governance.
Sd/-   (A.N.
Kukreja)     Proprietor CP No.2318 For A.N.
Kukreja & Co. Company Secretaries.
July 15, 2014 Annual Report 2013-14 174 Details of Subsidiary Companies (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) (f) (g) (h) Sr. No.
Name of Subsidiary Company Capital Reserves Total T Assets Liabilities Investment (except in case of investment in the subsidiaries)\ 1 ONGC Videsh Limited 2 Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Limited 3 ONGC Nile Ganga B.V.  0.09  2,808.48  3,097.51  288.94  972.27  671.71  592.78  59.49  4 ONGC Narmada Limited  0.16  (30.60)  1.75  32.19  -    -    (0.03)  -    5 ONGC Amazon Alaknanda Limited  227.23  560.56  869.65  81.86  -    351.26  183.27  63.00  6 ONGC Campos Ltda.
295.03  (114.19)  1,330.25  1,149.42  245.59  (27.26)  (1.67) 7 ONGC Nile Ganga (Cyprus) Ltd.  0.00  149.54  150.19  0.65  -    4.41  0.45  8 ONGC Nile Ganga (San Cristobal) B.V.  0.07  487.19  492.46  5.19  191.29  1.66  125.27  -    9 ONGC Satpayev E&P B.V  0.02  (0.02)  0.00  -    -    (0.00)  -    10 ONGC Caspian E&P B.V  0.05  126.80  126.85  -    0.04  -    7.33  2.68  11 Imperial Energy Limited (previously knows as Jarpeno Limited)  0.22  2,507.79  3,484.75  976.74  -    -    (3.46)  -    12 Biancus Holdings Limited  -    17.02  107.04  90.02  -    -    (0.45)  -    13 San Agio Investments Limited  -    1.54  20.70  19.16  -    -    (0.26)  -    14 Redcliffe Holdings Limited  -    60.35  60.44  0.09  -    -    (0.03)  -    15 Imperial Energy Nord Limited  0.03  1,020.28  1,021.50  1.19  -    -    0.02  -    16 Imperial Energy (Cyprus) Limited  0.03  245.76  245.95  0.16  -    -    (0.03)  -    17 Imperial Energy Tomsk Limited  -    10.95  11.16  0.21  -    -    (0.03)  -    18 Imperial Frac Services (Cyprus) Limited  -    0.19  0.30  0.11  -    -    0.38  -    19 LLC Nord Imperial  0.01  354.76  414.20  59.43  -    32.36  (10.73)  -    20 LLC Allianceneftegaz  -    (48.08)  220.18  268.26  -    189.07  (44.94)  -    21 LLC Sibinterneft  -    (22.51)  -    22.51  -    -    (3.66)  -    22 LLC Rus Imperial Group  -    7.88  32.41  24.53  -    -    (10.97)  -    23 Carabobo One AB  5.71  153.56  193.88  34.61  -    -    (0.08)  -    24 Petro Carabobo Ganga B.V.  0.03  161.61  164.74  3.10  0.03  -    (0.60)  -    25 ONGC (BTC) Limited  8.00  (14.56)  0.02  6.58  -    16.69  15.19  -    26 BREML  528.37  (202.71)  370.06  44.40  -    -    0.48  -    otal Details of Turnover Profit Provision  before  for  Taxation Taxation As on 31.03.2014 (US$ in Million) For the year 2013-14 Exchange Rate As on 31.03.2014 1 US$ = ` 60.06 Average Rate for 2013-14 1 US$ =  60.48` Note:- In view of exemption granted by the Central Government under Section 212(8) of the Companies Act, 1956, copies of the Balance Sheet, Profit and Loss Account,  Report of Directors and Auditors of the Subsidiary are not attached to the Balance Sheet of the Company.
The annual accounts of the subsidiary and the related  detailed information will be made available to the holding company and subsidiary investors, seeking such information at any point of time.
The same are also  available for inspection by any investor at the Registered Office of the Company as well as at the Registered Office of the Subsidiary.
The details of the accounts of  individual subsidiary are available at www.ongcvidesh.com.
175 As on 31.03.2014 (` in Million) (I) (j) (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) (f) (g) (h) (I) (j) Profit  after  Taxation  of investment in the subsidiaries) 100,000.00  149,305.16  689,791.58  440,486.42  8,841.70  98,564.25  51,327.53  15,805.84  35,521.69  -     17,526.64  53,162.08  395,176.75  324,488.03  150.02  718,147.92  4,096.96  (1,914.86)  6,011.82  -     533.29  -    5.39  168,677.50  186,036.48  17,353.58  58,394.47  40,624.86  35,851.04  3,597.67  32,253.37  -     (0.03)  -    9.61  (1,837.84) 105.11  1,933.33  -    -    (1.81)  -    (1.81)  -     120.27  -    13,647.43  33,667.23  52,231.18  4,916.51  -    21,244.20  11,084.17  3,810.24  7,273.93  -     (25.59)  -    17,719.28  (6,858.40)  79,894.87  69,033.98  -    14,853.02  (1,648.56)  (100.72)  (1,547.83)  -     3.96  -    0.15  8,981.48  9,020.62  38.99  -    -    266.42  27.18  239.24  -     125.27  30.25  4.47  29,260.71  29,577.07  311.89  11,488.64  100.20  7,576.13  -    7,576.13  1,829.52   (0.00)  -    1.49  (1.24)  0.25  -    -    -    (0.25)  -    (0.25)  -     4.65  -    2.98  7,615.85  7,618.84  -    2.45  -    443.14  161.89  281.25  -     (3.46)  -    13.21  150,617.87  209,294.09  58,663.00  -    -    (209.26)  -    (209.26)  -     (0.45)  -    -    1,022.22  6,428.82  5,406.60  -    -    (27.22)  -    (27.22)  -     (0.26)  -    -    92.49  1,243.24  1,150.75  -    -    (15.72)  -    (15.72)  -     (0.03)  -    -    3,624.62  3,630.03  5.41  -    -    (1.81)  -    (1.81)  -     0.02  -    1.80  61,278.02  61,351.29  71.47  -    -    1.21  -    1.21  -     (0.03)  -    1.80  14,760.35  14,771.76  9.61  -    -    (1.81)  -    (1.81)  -     (0.03)  -    -    657.66  670.27  12.61  -    -    (1.81)  -    (1.81)  -     0.38  -    -    11.41  18.02  6.61  -    -    22.98  -    22.98  -     (10.73)  -    0.60  21,306.89  24,876.85  3,569.37  -    1,957.13  (648.95)  -    (648.95)  -     (44.94)  -    -    (2,887.68)  13,224.01  16,111.70  -    11,434.95  (2,717.97)  -    (2,717.97)  -     (3.66)  -    -    (1,351.95)  -    1,351.95  -    -    (221.36)  -    (221.36)  -     (10.97)  -    -    473.27  1,946.54  1,473.27  -    -    (663.47)  -    (663.47)  -     (0.08)  -    342.94  9,222.81  11,644.43  2,078.68  -    -    (4.72)  -    (4.72)  -     (0.60)  1.66  9,706.36  9,894.34  186.33  1.54  -    (36.17)  -    (36.17)  -     15.19  -    480.48  (874.47)  1.20  395.19  -    1,009.41  918.69  -    918.69  -     0.48  31,733.90  (12,174.76)  22,225.80  2,666.66  -    -    29.03  -    29.03  -    Proposed Capital Reserves Total Total Details of Turnover Profit before Provision for Profit after Proposed Dividend Assets Liabilities Investment Taxation Taxation Taxation Dividend (except in case  For the year 2013-14 Sd/-  (A K Banerjee) Director (Finance) Sd/-  (N K Sinha) Company Secretary    Sd/- (D. K. Sarraf)  Chairman & Managing Director Annual Report 2013-14 Auditors’ Report - Stand Alone Balance Sheet and Statement of Profit and Loss - Stand Alone Cash Flow Statement - Stand Alone   Notes to Accounts - Stand Alone 179 7.
Repor t on Other Legal and Regulator y  Requirements i.
As required by the Companies (Auditor's Report)  Order, 2003 (“the Order”), as amended, issued by the  Central Government of India in terms of sub-section  (4A) of section 227 of the Act, we give in the Annexure a  statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 4  and 5 of the said Order.
ii.
As required by section 227(3) of the Act, we report that: a.
We have obtained all the information and  explanations which to the best of our knowledge  and belief were necessary for the purposes of our  audit; b.
In our opinion proper books of account as  required by law have been kept by the Company  so far as appears from our examination of those  books; c. The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and  Loss and the Cash Flow Statement dealt with by  this Report are in agreement with the books of  account; d. In our opinion, the Balance Sheet, the Statement of  Profit and Loss and the Cash Flow Statement dealt  with by this report, comply with the Accounting  Standards notified under the Act read with the  General Circular 15/2013 dated September 13,  2013 of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs in respect  of Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013; e. Disclosure in terms of clause (g) of sub-section (1)  of section 274 of the Act is not required as per  notification number GSR 829(E) dated October 21,  2003 issued by the Department of Company  Affairs, Government of India.
For M/s S Bhandari & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg No.
000560C (P. D. Baid) Partner (Mem.
No.
072625) For M/s Varma & Varma Chartered Accountants  Firm Reg No.
004532S (K. M. Sukumaran) Partner (Mem.
No.
015707) For M/s G. D. Apte & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg No.
100515W (C. M. Dixit) Partner (Mem.
No.
017532) Date  : May 29, 2014 Place : New Delhi For M/s Ray & Ray Chartered Accountants Firm Reg No.
301072E (B. K. Ghosh) Partner (Mem.
No.
051028) For M/s Mehra Goel & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg No.
000517N (R. K. Mehra) Partner (Mem.
No.
006102) 178 1.
Report on the Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying financial  statements of Oil And Natural Gas Corporation Limited  (the “Company”),which comprise the Balance Sheet as  at March 31, 2014, and the Statement of Profit and Loss  and Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended, and  a summary of significant accounting policies and other  explanatory information.
2.
Management's Responsibility for the Financial  Statements Management is responsible for the preparation of these  financial statements that give a true and fair view of the  financial position, financial performance and cash flows  of the Company in accordance with the Accounting  Standards notified under the Companies Act, 1956 ('the  Act') read with the General Circular 15/2013 dated  September 13, 2013 of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs  in respect of Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013.
This responsibility includes the design, implementation  and maintenance of internal control relevant to the  preparation and presentation of the financial  statements that give a true and fair view and are free  from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or  error.
3.
Auditors' Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these  financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted  our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing  issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of  India.
Those Standards require that we comply with  ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to  obtain reasonable assurance about whether the  financial statements are free from material  misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit  evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the  financial statements.
The procedures selected depend  on the auditor's judgement, including the assessment  of the risks of material misstatement of the financial  statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making  those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal  control relevant to the Company's preparation and fair  presentation of the financial statements in order to  design audit procedures that are appropriate in the  circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing  an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's  internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the  appropriateness of accounting policies used and the  reasonableness of the accounting estimates made by  management, as well as evaluating the overall  presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is  sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our  audit opinion.
4.
Opinion In our opinion and to the best of our information and  according to the explanations given to us, the financial  statements give the information required by the Act in  the manner so required and give a true and fair view in  conformity with the accounting principles generally  accepted in India: i.
In the case of the Balance Sheet, of the state of affairs of  the Company as at March 31, 2014; ii.
In the case of the Statement of Profit and Loss, of the  profit of the Company for the year ended on that date;  and iii.
In the case of the Cash Flow Statement, of the cash  flows of the Company for the year ended on that date.
5.
Emphasis of Matter We draw attention to Note No.
42.3.2 with regard to the  dispute between the company and the Government of  Gujarat in respect of payment of Royalty on the crude  oil produced in the State.
The accrual of the additional  liability of  ` 1,16,326.96 millions, which also includes  an amount of ` 2,092.23 millions paid with effect from  February 1, 2014 and considered as deposit, would  depend on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court  of India.
The amount of ` 1,16,326.96 millions has been  disclosed as contingent liability.
6.
Other Matters I.
The financial statements include the Company's share  in the total value of assets, liabilities, expenditure and  income of 135 blocks under New Exploration Licensing  Policy (NELPs) / Joint Venture (JVs) accounts for  exploration and production out of which 8 NELPs / JVs  accounts have been certified by other firms of  Chartered Accountants and 11 NELP / JVs have been  certified by the management in respect of NELPs / JVs  operated by other operators.
Our opinion is based  solely on the reports of the other auditors and  management certified accounts.
ii.
We have placed reliance on technical / commercial  evaluation by the management in respect of  categorization of wells as exploratory, development,  producing and dry well, allocation of cost incurred on  them, depletion of producing properties on the basis of  proved developed hydrocarbon reserves, impairment,  liability for abandonment costs, liability under NELP  and nominated blocks for under-performance against  agreed Minimum Work Programme and allocation of  depreciation on process platforms to transportation  and facilities.
Our opinion is not qualified in respect of these matters.
Our opinion is not qualified in respect of this matter.
To The Members of Oil And Natural Gas Corporation Limited Auditors’ Report Annual Report 2013-14 180 i. a) The Company has generally maintained proper  records showing full par ticulars including  quantitative details and situation of fixed assets.
b)  As per information and explanations given to us, the  fixed assets having substantial value, other than  those which are underground / submerged / under  joint venture have been physically verified by the  management in a phased manner, which in our  opinion is reasonable, having regard to the size of  the Company and nature of its business.
The  reconciliation of physically verified assets with the  book records is in progress.
Discrepancies noticed  on physical verification and consequential  adjustments are carried out on completion of  reconciliation.
According to the information and  explanation given by the management and in our  opinion, the same is not material.
c) The Company has not disposed off a substantial  part of fixed assets during the year.
ii.
a) According to the information and explanations  given by the management, the inventory has been  physically verified in a phased manner (excluding  inventory lying with third parties, at some of the  site- locations, inventory with joint ventures and  intra site material in transit) during the year by the  management.
In our opinion, the frequency of  verification is reasonable.
b) In our opinion, the procedures of physical  verification of inventor y followed by the  management were generally reasonable and  adequate in relation to the size of the Company and  nature of its business.
c) The Company has generally maintained proper  records of inventory.
According to the information  and explanations given by the management and in  our opinion, the discrepancies noticed on physical  verification between the physical stock and book  records were not material having regard to the size  of the Company and nature of its business.
In case  where discrepancies noticed on physical  verification have been identified with inventory  records, necessary adjustments have been carried  out in the books.
In respect of cases where the  reconciliation is not complete, the management  has stated that the effect of the same on the  accounts would be adjusted on completion of  reconciliation.
iii.
a) The Company has granted secured loans to three  parties covered in the register maintained under  section 301 of the Companies Act, 1956.
The  amount outstanding at the year-end is ` 0.50 million  and the maximum amount outstanding at any time  during the year was  ` 0.90 million.
b) The rate of interest and other terms and conditions  of the loans granted are not prima facie prejudicial  to the interest of the Company.
c) The receipt of principal amount and interest are  regular.
d) There is no overdue amount in respect of loans  granted to the above parties.
e) The Company has not taken any loans, secured or  unsecured, from companies, firms or other parties  covered in the register maintained under section  301 of the Companies Act, 1956 and consequently,  the reporting requirements of clause (iii) (f) and (iii)  (g) of paragraph 4 of the Companies (Auditor`s  Report) Order, 2003 are not applicable.
iv.
In our opinion, and according to the information and  explanations given to us, the internal control  procedures are generally adequate and  commensurate with the size of the Company and  the nature of its business with regard to purchases  of inventory, fixed assets and sale of goods and  services.
During the course of our audit we have not  observed any continuing failure to correct major  weaknesses in internal controls.
v. a) In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, there is no contract or  arrangement that needs to be entered in the  register required to be maintained in pursuance of  section 301 of the Companies Act, 1956.   b) Accordingly, the reporting requirement of clause  (v) (b) of paragraph 4 of the Companies (Auditor's  Report) Order, 2003 is not applicable.
vi.
The Company has not accepted any deposits from  the public.
vii.
In our opinion, the Company has an internal audit  system commensurate with the size and nature of  its business.
viii.
We have broadly reviewed the cost records  maintained by the Company pursuant to the  Companies (Cost Accounting Records) Rules,  2011  prescribed by the Central Government under  section 209 (1)(d) of the Companies Act, 1956 and  we are of the opinion that prima facie the prescribed  accounts and records have been made and  maintained.
However, we have not made a detailed  examination of the cost records with the view to  determine whether they are accurate or complete.
ix.
a) According to records of the Company, undisputed  statutory dues including Provident Fund, Investor  Education and Protection Fund, Employees' State  Insurance, Income Tax, Sales Tax, Service Tax,  Wealth Tax, Custom Duty, Excise Duty, Cess and  other statutory dues have been generally regularly  deposited with the appropriate authorities.
According to the information and explanations  given to us, no undisputed amounts payable in  respect of the aforesaid dues were outstanding as  at March 31, 2014 for a period more than six months  from the date of becoming payable.
Annexure to the Auditors' Report (Referred to in paragraph 7 (i) of our report of even date) 181 b) According to the information and explanations given to us, the disputed statutory dues in respect of Income Tax, Excise  Duty, Customs Duty, Cess, Sales Tax, Service Tax, and Wealth Tax are as under: Nature of the statute Nature of the dues Amount Involved (` in million) Income Tax Act, 1961 Income tax/ Penalty/ 50,644.75 32,528.47 2006-2013 Commissioner (Appeals) 2,748.61 556.50 1995-2011 Income Tax ` Appellate Tribunal 947.18 51.27 1991-2012 Hon.
High Court 723.61 - 1983-1987 Hon.
Supreme Court Total 55,064.15 33,136.24   Central Excise Act, 1944 Central excise duty / 494.16        108.54 2001-2010 Commissioner (Appeals) of Central Excise, Customs and Service Tax 4,838.14 109.37 2003-2013 Custom, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal 1,317.46 - 1996-2014 Hon.
High Court 1,773.30 490.00 1980-2005 Hon.
Supreme Court  Total 8,423.06 707.91   The Customs Act, 1962 Customs duty / Penalty / 2,324.87 - 1996-2003 Central Board of Excise and Customs  1,437.47 - 1995-1997 Commissioner of Central Excise, Customs & Service Tax 5.00 1.00 2007-2008 Custom, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal Total 3,767.34 1.00 Oil Industries (Development) Act, 1974 Total 6.75 - Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 and respective States Sales Tax Act 7,880.43 220.92 1993-2009 Appellate Tribunal 37,639.98 596.77 1978-2013 Hon.
High Court Amount Paid Period to Forum where under Protest which the dispute is (`in million) amount relates pending (financial year) Interest Interest / Penalty Interest  Cess / Interest 6.75 - 2004-2010 Custom, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal Sales tax / Turnover Tax / 3,108.59 34.48 2000-2010 Joint Commissioner/ Penalty / Interest Commissioner CT - Appeals Total 48,629.00 852.17 Finance Act, 1994 Service Tax / Interest / 2,550.06 4.10 2003-2014 Custom, Excise and Penalties Service Tax Appellate Tribunal     0.11 - 2004-2005 Deputy Commissioner of Central Excise, Customs and Service Tax  ` 637.40 - 2006-2008 Directorate General of Central Excise Intelligence 32.48 - 2006-2008 Hon.
High Court Total 3,220.05 4.10 Annual Report 2013-14 182 x.
The Company does not have accumulated losses at  the end of the current financial year and has not  incurred cash losses either during the year or during  the immediately preceding financial year.
xi.
The Company has not issued any debentures and  has not defaulted in repayment of dues to financial  institutions or banks.
xii.
In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, the Company has not  granted loans and advances on the basis of security  by way of pledge of shares, debentures and other  securities.
xiii.
The Company is not a chit fund or a nidhi/mutual  benefit fund/ society.
Accordingly, the reporting  requirements of clause (xiii) of paragraph 4 of the  Companies (Auditor's Report) Order, 2003 are not  applicable to the Company.
xiv.
In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, the Company is not dealing  or trading in shares, securities, debentures and other  investments.
xv.
In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, the terms and conditions on  which the Company has given guarantees for loans  taken by others from banks or financial institutions  are not prima facie prejudicial to the interest of the  Company.
xvi.
The company has not availed any term loan during  the year.
xvii.
According to the information and explanations given  to us and on an overall examination of the balance  sheet of the Company, we report that no funds raised  on short terms basis have been used for long term  investment.
xviii.
The Company has not made any preferential  allotment of shares during the year.
xix.
The Company has not issued any debentures.
xx.
The Company has not raised any money by way of  public issue during the year.
xxi.
According to the information and explanations given  to us, no fraud on or by the Company has been  noticed or reported during the year.
For M/s S Bhandari & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg No.
000560C (P. D. Baid) Partner (Mem.
No.
072625) For M/s Varma & Varma Chartered Accountants  Firm Reg No.
004532S (K. M. Sukumaran) Partner (Mem.
No.
015707) For M/s G. D. Apte & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg No.
100515W (C. M. Dixit) Partner (Mem.
No.
017532) Date  : May 29, 2014 Place : New Delhi For M/s Ray & Ray Chartered Accountants Firm Reg No.
301072E (B. K. Ghosh) Partner (Mem.
No.
051028) For M/s Mehra Goel & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg No.
000517N (R. K. Mehra) Partner (Mem.
No.
006102) Annual Report 2013-14  st Balance Sheet  as at 31  March, 2014 I.
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1 Shareholders’ funds (a) Share capital 4  42,777.60  42,777.60  (b) Reserves and surplus 5  1,324,472.45  1,201,754.64  2 Non-current liabilities (a) Deferred tax liabilities (Net) 6  165,786.78  128,879.81  (b) Other Long term liabilities 7  11,850.17  11,241.67  (c) Long-term provisions 8  257,199.64  221,874.45  3 Current liabilities (a) Trade payables 9  63,724.81  53,410.06  (b) Other current liabilities 10  119,261.65  112,226.56  (c) Short-term provisions 11  7,811.19  9,101.88  TOTAL  1,992,884.29  1,781,266.67  II.
ASSETS 1 Non-current assets (a) Fixed assets (i) Tangible assets 12  302,291.89  274,036.80  (ii) Producing Properties 13  657,832.64  524,407.11  (iii) Intangible assets 14  500.61  797.95  (iv) Capital work-in-progress 15  116,450.34  144,153.69  (v) Exploratory/Development Wells in Progress 16  139,127.59  104,758.75  (b) Non-current investments 17  172,043.06  91,730.54  (c) Long-term loans and advances 18  181,783.61  221,728.46  (d) Deposit under Site Restoration Fund Scheme 19  113,101.59  101,331.21  (e) Other non-current assets 20  11,319.96  14,053.53  2 Current assets (a) Inventories 21  58,825.41  57,043.94  (b) Trade receivables 22  81,656.70  68,637.21  (c) Cash and Cash Equivalents 23  107,988.77  132,185.86  (d) Short-term loans and advances 24  43,669.60  37,021.24  (e) Other current assets 25  6,292.52  9,380.38  TOTAL  1,992,884.29  1,781,266.67  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements 1 to 50 Particulars Note No.
As atst 31  March, 2014 As atst  31 March, 2013 (` in million) (A. K. Banerjee) Director (Finance) (D.K.Sarraf) Chairman & Managing Director For and on behalf of the Board (N. K. Sinha) Company Secretary For  G D Apte & Co.        Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
100515W (C. M. Dixit)         Partner (M.No.
017532)   For Ray & Ray Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
301072E (B.K.Ghosh) Partner (M. No.
051028) New Delhi May 29, 2014 For Varma & Varma Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
004532S (K.M.
Sukumaran) Partner (M. No.
015707) For  Mehra Goel & Co.       Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
000517N (R.K.Mehra)                                   Partner (M.No.
006102) For S. Bhandari & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
000560C (P. D. Baid) Partner (M. No.
072625 ) In terms of our report of even date attached 184 I REVENUE Revenue from operations (Gross) 26  842,027.80  833,089.58  Less: Excise Duty  3,125.09  3,036.25  Revenue from operations (Net)  838,902.71  830,053.33  Other Income 27  67,131.99  54,367.42  Total Revenue  906,034.70  884,420.75  II EXPENSES (Increase)/ Decrease in inventories 28  1,042.80  (230.22) Purchases of Stock-in-Trade  31.80  31.04  Production, Transportation, Selling and Distribution Expenditure 29  393,334.90  375,338.89  Exploration Costs written off - Survey Costs  15,911.62  15,667.71  - Exploratory well Costs  62,445.15  84,763.24  Depreciation, Depletion, Amortisation and Impairment 30  109,258.90  83,735.71  Financing Costs 31  3.57  276.36  Provisions and Write-offs 32  2,188.50  18,863.20  Adjustments relating to Prior Period (Net) 33  (2,501.86)  531.49  Total  Expenses  581,715.38  578,977.42  Profit before Exceptional, Extraordinary items and Tax  324,319.32  305,443.33  Exceptional items  -    -    Profit before Extraordinary items and Tax  324,319.32  305,443.33  Extraordinary items  -    -    Profit before Tax  324,319.32  305,443.33  Tax Expense    - Current Tax  65,500.00  86,300.00   - MAT Credit Entitlement  (2,800.00)  -     - Earlier years  2,145.87  (7,014.76)  - Deferred Tax  38,525.38  16,901.13   - Fringe Benefit Tax  -    -    Profit after Tax  220,948.07  209,256.96  Earnings per Equity Share - Basic and Diluted  (`) 34 25.83 24.46  (Face Value ` 5/-Per Share) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements 1 to 50 Particulars (` in million) Statement of Profit & Lossst for the year ended 31  March, 2014 Note No.
2013-14 2012-13 (A. K. Banerjee) Director (Finance) (D.K.Sarraf) Chairman & Managing Director For and on behalf of the Board (N. K. Sinha) Company Secretary For  G D Apte & Co.        Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
100515W (C. M. Dixit)         Partner (M.No.
017532)   For Ray & Ray Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
301072E (B.K.Ghosh) Partner (M. No.
051028) New Delhi May 29, 2014 For Varma & Varma Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
004532S (K.M.
Sukumaran) Partner (M. No.
015707) For  Mehra Goel & Co.       Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
000517N (R.K.Mehra)                                   Partner (M.No.
006102) For S. Bhandari & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
000560C (P. D. Baid) Partner (M. No.
072625 ) In terms of our report of even date attached 185 Annual Report 2013-14 A.
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net Profit before tax and extraordinary items 324,319.32 305,443.33  Adjustments For: - Prior Period Items  (2,501.86) 531.49  - Depreciation, Depletion, Amortisation & Impairment  109,258.90  83,735.71  - Exploratory Well Costs Written off  62,445.15  84,763.24  - Interest on Borrowings  3.57  276.36  - Unrealized Foreign Exchange Loss/(Gain)  341.11  (103.02) - Provision for Leave Encashment  (17,273.47)  1,998.87  - Provision for other Employee benefits  2,764.16  7,509.95  - Other Provision and Write offs (Net)  2,188.50  18,863.20  - Excess Provision written back  (16,328.86)  (5,323.57) - Provision for Abandonnment  243.56 -   - Interest Income  (33,006.23) (31,428.20) - Excess Liability written Back  (2,836.39)  (5,522.81) - Amortization of Government Grant  (2.87)  (3.28) - Dividend Income  (3,744.37) 101,550.90 (4,614.75)  150,683.19 Operating Profit before Working Capital Changes 425,870.22  456,126.52 Adjustments for:- -Receivables  2,779.65  (18,667.58) - Loans and Advances  (2,677.53)  (12,007.98) - Other Current Assets  3,515.95 (3,709.17) - Inventories  (2,704.45) (6,336.33) - Trade Payable and Other Liabilities  29,225.79  30,139.40 1,711.89  (39,009.17) Cash generated from Operations  456,009.63 417,117.35  Direct Taxes Paid (Net of tax refund) (78,080.58)  (94,582.60) Cash Flow before prior period 377,929.05  322,534.75  Prior period items (Cash items)  166.71  (522.50) Net Cash Flow from Operating Activities 'A' 378,095.76  322,012.25  B.
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchase of Fixed Assets (101,082.42)  (115,789.59) Sale of Fixed Assets 7.28  140.00  Exploratory and Development Drilling  (199,047.62)  (166,340.67) Sale of Investments  -    8,519.07 Advance/Investment in Joint Controlled Entities (9,910.69)  (103.32) Loan to Associates 337.88  263.07  Loan and advances to Subsidiary  6,941.01  5,566.41  Investments/Loans to Public Sector Undertakings and Other Bodies Corporate (26,707.47) 83.03  Deposit in Site Restoration Fund (11,770.38)  (9,505.49) Dividend Received from Subsidiary/Associates 11.46  1,255.35  Dividend Received from Others  3,732.91  3,359.40  Interest Received  32,768.93  35,958.20  Net Cash Flow from Investing Activities 'B' (304,719.11)  (236,594.54) Year Endedst  31 March, 2014 Year Endedst  31 March, 2013 (` in million) Cash Flow Statementst for  the  year  ended  31  March, 2014 186 Cash Flow Statementst for the  year  ended  31  March, 2014 C. CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Repayment of Short Term Borrowings  -   (45,000.00) Dividend Paid  (83,399.48)  (94,140.71) Tax on Dividend  (14,170.69)  (15,060.43) Interest Paid  (3.57)  (276.36) Net Cash Flow from Financing Activities 'C'  (97,573.74)  (154,477.50) Net increase/(decrease) in Cash and (24,197.09) (69,059.79) Cash Equivalents (A+B+C) st Cash and Cash Equivalents as at 1  April, 2013 132,185.86 201,245.65  (Opening Balance) st Cash and Cash Equivalents as at 31  March, 2014* (Note 24) 107,988.77 132,185.86  (Closing Balance)  (24,197.09)  (69,059.79) * Includes restricted amount of  ` 242.01million (Previous period ` 225.43 million) earmarked for payment of unclaimed   dividend.
Notes: 1.The above Cash Flow Statement has been prepared under the 'Indirect Method' as set out in the Accounting Standard (AS) 3  on Cash Flow Statements issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
2.
Brackets indicate cash outflow/ deduction.
3.
Previous year figures have been re-grouped/re-classified wherever necessary to confirm to the current years presentation.
Year Endedst  31 March, 2014 Year Endedst  31 March, 2013 (` in million) (A. K. Banerjee) Director (Finance) (D.K.Sarraf) Chairman & Managing Director For and on behalf of the Board (N. K. Sinha) Company Secretary For  G D Apte & Co.        Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
100515W (C. M. Dixit)         Partner (M.No.
017532)   For Ray & Ray Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
301072E (B.K.Ghosh) Partner (M. No.
051028) New Delhi May 29, 2014 For Varma & Varma Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
004532S (K.M.
Sukumaran) Partner (M. No.
015707) For  Mehra Goel & Co.       Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
000517N (R.K.Mehra)                                   Partner (M.No.
006102) For S. Bhandari & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
000560C (P. D. Baid) Partner (M. No.
072625 ) In terms of our report of even date attached 187 Annual Report 2013-14 st Notes to Financial Statements for the year ended 31  March, 2014 1.
Corporate information Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited ('ONGC' or 'the  Company') is a public limited company domiciled in India  and incorporated under the provisions of the Companies  Act, 1956.
Its shares are listed and traded on Stock  Exchanges in India.
The Company is engaged in  exploration, development and production of crude oil  and natural gas.
2.
Significant Accounting Policies a.
Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared under the  historical cost convention on accrual basis in  accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting  Principles (GAAP), applying the Successful Efforts  Method as per the Guidance Note on Accounting  for Oil and Gas Producing Activities (Revised)  issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of  India and Accounting Standards notified under the  Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2006  and provisions of the Companies Act, 1956.
As the operating cycle cannot be identified in  normal course due to the special nature of industry,  the same has been assumed to have duration of 12  months.
Accordingly, all assets and liabilities have  been classified as current or non-current as per the  Company's operating cycle and other criteria set  out in the Revised Schedule VI to the Companies  Act, 1956.
The financial statements are presented in Indian  Rupees and all values are rounded to the nearest  million except otherwise stated.
b.
Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements requires  estimates and assumptions which affect the  reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenues  and expenses of the reporting period.
The  difference between the actual results and  estimates are recognized in the period in which  the results are known or materialized.
c. Government Grant Government Grant related to acquisition of Fixed  Assets is treated as 'Deferred Government Grant'  and an amount equal to propor tionate  depreciation of such assets is credited to the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
d. Fixed Assets d.1 Tangible Assets d.1.1 Fixed assets are stated at historical cost  less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Fixed assets received as donations/gifts are  capitalised at assessed values with  corresponding credit taken to Capital Reserve.
d.1.2 All costs, net of applicable tax credits, relating to  acquisition of fixed assets till the time of bringing  the assets to working condition for intended use  are capitalised.
d.2 Intangible Assets Intangible assets are stated at cost of acquisition,  net of applicable tax credits, less accumulated  amortization and impairment.
e. Exploration, Development and Production  Costs  e.1 Pre-acquisition cost Expenditure incurred before obtaining the right(s)  to explore, develop and produce oil and gas are  expensed as and when incurred.
e.2 Acquisition Cost Acquisition costs of an oil and gas property are  costs related to right to acquire mineral interest  and  are accounted/ treated as follows:- Exploration and Development stage:  Acquisition cost relating to projects under  exploration or developments are initially  accounted as capital work in progress.
Such  costs are capitalized by transferring to Producing  Property when a well is ready to commence  commer cial pr oduction.
In case of  abandonment/ relinquishment, such costs are  written off.
Production stage: Acquisition costs of a producing oil and gas  property are capitalized as proved property  acquisition cost under producing properties and  amortized over the production profile of the  underlying asset using the unit of production  method over proved reserves.
e.3 Survey Cost Cost of Survey and prospecting activities conducted  in the search of oil and gas are expensed as  exploration cost in the year in which these are  incurred.
e.4 Exploratory/ Development Wells in Progress   e.4.1 All exploration costs incurred in drilling and  equipping exploratory and appraisal wells, cost  of drilling exploratory type stratigraphic test wells  are initially capitalized as Exploratory Wells in  Progress till the time these are either transferred  to Producing Properties on completion as per  note no.2.f.1.1 or expensed as exploration cost  (including allocated depreciation) as and when  determined to be dry or of no further use, as the  case may be.
e.4.2 Costs of exploratory wells are not carried unless  there are indications of sufficient quantity of  188 reserves and sufficient progress is being made in  assessing the reserves and the economic and  operating viability of the project.
All such carried  costs are subject to review for impairment as per  note no.
2.j.
e.4.3 All costs relating to Development Wells are  initially capitalized as 'Development Wells in  Progress' and transferred to 'Producing  Properties' on "completion" as per note no.2.f.
f. Producing Properties  f.1.1 Producing Properties are created in respect of an  area/field having proved developed oil and gas  reserves, when the well in the area/field is ready  to commence commercial production.
f.1.2 Cost of temporary occupation of land, successful  exploratory wells, all development wells,  depreciation on related equipment, facilities and  estimated future abandonment costs are  capitalised and reflected as Producing  Properties.
g. Depletion of Producing Properties  Producing Properties are depleted using the  "Unit of Production Method".
The rate of depletion  is computed with reference to an area covered by  individual lease/license/asset/ amortization base  by considering the proved developed reserves  and related capital costs incurred including  estimated future abandonment costs net of  salvage value.
Acquisition cost of Producing  Properties is depleted by considering the proved  reserves.
These reserves are estimated annually  by the Reserve Estimates Committee of the  Company, which follows the International  Reservoir Engineering Procedures.
h. Production Costs Production costs include pre-well head and post- well head expenses including depreciation and  applicable operating costs of support equipment  and facilities.
i.
Side tracking i.1 The cost of abandoned portion of side tracked  exploratory wells is expensed as 'Exploratory  Well Cost'.
i.2 The cost of abandoned portion of side tracked  development wells is considered as part of cost of  development wells.
i.3 The cost of sidetracking in respect of existing  producing wells is capitalised if it results in  additional proved developed oil & gas reserves or  increases the future economic benefits therefrom  beyond previously assessed standard of  performance, otherwise, expensed as 'Work over  Expenditure'.
j. Impairment j.1 Producing Properties, Development Wells in  Progress (DWIP), and Fixed Assets (including  Capital Works in Progress) of a "Cash Generating  Unit" (CGU) are reviewed for impairment at each  Balance Sheet date.
In case, events and  circumstances indicate any impairment,  recoverable amount of these assets is  determined.
An impairment loss is recognized,  whenever the carrying amount of such assets  exceeds the recoverable amount.
The  recoverable amount is higher of its 'value in use' or  'net selling price' (if determinable).
In assessing  value in use, the estimated future cash flows from  the use of assets and from its disposal at the end  of its useful life are discounted to their present  value at appropriate rate.
An impairment loss is reversed if there is increase  in the recoverable amount and such loss either no  longer exists or has decreased.
Impairment loss /  reversal thereof is adjusted to the carrying value  of the respective assets, which in case of CGU, is  allocated to its assets on a pro-rata basis.
Subsequent to impairment, depreciation is  provided on the revised carrying value of the  assets over the remaining useful life.
j.2 Impairment testing during exploratory phase is  carried out at area level when further exploration  activities are not planned in near future or when  sufficient data exists to indicate that although a  development in the specific area is likely to  proceed, the carrying amount of the exploration  asset is unlikely to be recovered in full from  successful development or by sale.
Impairment is  reversed subsequently, to the extent that  conditions for impairment are no longer present.
k. Abandonment Cost k.1 The full eventual estimated liability towards costs  relating to dismantling, abandoning and restoring  well sites and allied facilities are recognized in  respective assets when the well is complete /  facilities are installed.
The abandonment cost on  dry well is expensed as exploratory well cost.
k.2 Provision for abandonment cost is updated  based on the technical assessment at current  costs.
The effects of changes resulting from  revisions to estimated liability are adjusted to the  carrying amount of the related Asset and  considered for depletion on a prospective basis.
l. Jointly Controlled Asset The Company has Joint Ventures in the nature of  Production Sharing Contracts (PSC) with the  Government of India and various body corporates  for exploration, development and production  activities.
l.1 The company's share in the assets and liabilities  along with attributable income and expenditure of  189 Annual Report 2013-14 the Jointly Controlled Assets is  merged on line by  line basis with the similar items in the Financial  Statements of the Company and adjusted for  depreciation, depletion, survey, dry wells,  abandonment, impairment and sidetracking in  accordance with the accounting policies of the  Company.
l.2 Disposal of Interest  Gain or loss on sale of interest in a cost centre, is  recognized in the statement of profit and loss,  except that no gain is recognized at the time of  such sale if substantial uncertainty exists about  the recovery of the costs applicable to the  retained interest or if the company has substantial  obligation for future performance.
The gain in  such situation is treated as recovery of cost  related to that cost centre.
l.3 The hydrocarbon reserves in such areas are  taken in proportion to the participating interest of  the Company.
m. Investments Long-term investments are valued at cost.
Provision is made for any diminution, other than  temporary, in the value of such investments.
Current Investments are valued at lower of cost  and fair value.
n. Inventories n.1 Finished goods (other than Sulphur) and stock in  pipelines/tanks and carbon credits are valued at  cost or net realisable value whichever is lower.
Cost of finished goods is determined on  absorption costing method.
Sulphur is valued at  net realisable value.
The value of inventories  includes excise dut y, royalt y (wherever  applicable) but excludes Cess.
n.2 Crude oil in unfinished condition in flow lines up to  Group Gathering Stations/platform and Natural  Gas in Pipelines is not valued.
n.3 Inventory of stores and spare parts is valued at  weighted average cost or net realisable value,  whichever is lower.
Provisions are made for  obsolete and non-moving inventories.
n.4 Unser viceable and scrap items, when  determined, are valued at estimated net  realisable value.
o.
Revenue Recognition o.1 Revenue from sale of products is recognized on  transfer of custody to customers.
o.2 Sale of crude oil and gas (net of levies) produced  from Wells in Progress is deducted from  expenditure on such wells.
o.3 Sales are inclusive of all statutory levies except  Value Added Tax (VAT).
Any retrospective revision  in prices is accounted for in the year of such  revision.
o.4 Revenue in respect of the following is recognized  when there is a reasonable certainty regarding  ultimate collection: a.
Short lifted quantity of gas b.
Gas pipeline transportation charges c. Reimbursable subsidies and grants d. Surplus from Gas Pool Account e. Interest on delayed realization from  customers f. Liquidated damages from contractors/  suppliers o.5 Dividend income is recognized when right to  receive is established.
Interest income is  recognized on time proportion basis taking into  account the amount outstanding and rate  applicable.
p. Depreciation and Amortisation  p.1 Depreciation on fixed assets is provided for under  the written down value method in accordance  with the rates specified in Schedule XIV to the  Companies Act, 1956. p.2 Depreciation on additions/deletions during the  year is provided on pro rata basis with reference  to the date of additions/deletions except items of  plant and machinery used in wells with 100% rate of  depreciation and low value items not exceeding `  5,000/- which are fully depreciated at the time of  addition.
p.3 Depreciation on subsequent expenditure on fixed  assets arising on account of capital improvement  or other factors is provided for prospectively.
Depreciation on refurbished/revamped assets  which are capitalized separately is provided for  over the reassessed useful life at rates which are  not less than the rates specified in Schedule XIV to  the Companies Act, 1956. p.4 Depreciation on fixed assets (including support  equipment and facilities) used for exploratory/  development drilling and on production facilities  is initially capitalised as part of drilling cost or  producing properties and expensed/depleted as  stated in Note no.
2. f and 2.g  above.
Depreciation on equipment/ assets deployed for  survey activities is charged to the Statement of  Profit and Loss.
p.5 Leasehold land is amortized over the lease period  except perpetual leases.
p.6 Intangible assets are amortized on Straight Line Method (SLM) over the useful life not exceeding five years from the date of  capitalization.
190 q.
Foreign Exchange Transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are accounted  for at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of  the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary  assets and liabilities at the year-end are translated  using mean exchange rate prevailing on the last  day of the financial year.
The loss or gain thereon  and also the exchange differences on settlement  of the foreign currency transactions during the  year are recognized as income or expense and  adjusted to the Statement of Profit & Loss except  where such liabilities and /or transactions relate to  fixed assets/ projects and these were incurred/  entered into before 1.4.2004 in which case, these  are adjusted to the cost of respective fixed assets.
r. Employee Benefits r.1 All short term employee benefits are recognized  at their undiscounted amount in the accounting  period in which they are incurred.
r.2 Employee benefits under defined contribution  plans comprising provident fund etc.
is  recognized based on the undiscounted amount  of obligations of the company to contribute to the  plan.
The same is paid to a fund administered  through a separate trust.
r.3 Employee benefits under defined benefit plans  comprising of gratuity, leave encashment,  compensated absences, post-retirement medical  benefits and other terminal benefits are recognized  based on the present value of defined benefit  obligation, which is computed on the basis of actuarial  valuation using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
Actuarial Liability in excess of respective plan assets is  recognized during the year.
Actuarial gains and losses  in respect of post-employment and other long-term  benefits are recognized during the year.
s. Voluntary Retirement Scheme  Expenditure on Voluntary Retirement Scheme  (VRS) is charged to the Statement of Profit & Loss  when incurred.
t. General Administrative Expenses  General administrative expenses which are directly  attributable are allocated to activities and the balance  is charged to the Statement of Profit & Loss.
u.
Insurance claims The company accounts for insurance claims as  under :- u.1 In case of total loss of asset, by transferring either the carrying cost of the relevant asset or insurance value (subject to deductibles),  whichever is lower under the head "Claims Recoverable-Insurance" on intimation to  Insurer.
In case insurance claim is less than carrying cost, the difference is charged to  the Statement of Profit & Loss.
u.2 In case of partial or other losses, expenditure  incurred/payments made to put such assets back  into use, to meet third party or other liabilities  (less policy deductibles) if any, are accounted for  as "Claims Recoverable-Insurance".
Insurance  Policy deductibles are expensed in the year the  corresponding expenditure is incurred.
u.3 As and when claims are finally received from  insurer, the difference, if any, between Claims  Recoverable-Insurance and claims received is  adjusted to the Statement of Profit & Loss.
v. Research Expenditure Revenue expenses on Research are charged to  the Statement of Profit & Loss, when incurred.
w. Taxes on Income  Provision for current tax is made as per the  provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
Deferred  Tax Liability / Asset resulting from 'timing  difference' between book profit and taxable profit  is accounted for considering the tax rate and laws  that have been enacted or substantively enacted as  on the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred Tax Asset is  recognized and carried forward only to the extent  that there is reasonable certainty that the asset will  be realized in future.
x.
Borrowing Costs Borrowing Cost specifically identified to the  acquisition or construction of qualifying assets is  capitalized as part of such assets.
A qualifying  asset is one that necessarily takes substantial  period of time to get ready for intended use.
All  other borrowing costs are charged to the  Statement of Profit & Loss.
y. Rig Days Costs Rig movement costs are booked to the next  location drilled/planned for drilling.
Abnormal Rig  days' costs are considered as unallocable and  charged to the Statement of Profit & Loss.
z. Unamortised Expenditure Dry docking charges of Rigs/ Multipurpose  Supply Vessels (MSVs), Geo Technical Vessels  (GTVs), Well Stimulation Vessels, Offshore  Supply Vessels (OSVs), Rig/equipment  mobilization expenses and other related  expenditure is amortized over the period of use  not exceeding five years and the balance is  carried under head "Unamortized Expenditure" in  the  Balance Sheet.
za.
Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and  Contingent  Assets Provisions involving substantial degree of  estimation in measurement are recognized when  there is a present obligation as a result of past  events and it is probable that there will be an  191 Annual Report 2013-14 outflow of resources embodying economic  benefits.
Contingent Assets are neither  recognized nor disclosed in the financial  statements.
Contingent liabilities are disclosed  by way of notes to account.
3.
The company has changed the accounting  policies to align with the Guidance Note on  Accounting for Oil and Gas Producing Activities   (Revised) notified by the Institute of Chartered  Accountants of India, with effect from 01.04.2013.
This has resulted in an increase in profit before  tax by ` 10,140.04 million.
The detailed impact  and adjustments resulting from such changes in  policies have been disclosed in Note no.
8.1, 13.1,  13.2, 16.1(a), 16.1(b) and 16.1(c).
As atst 31  March, 2014 As atst 31  March, 2013 (` in million)4.
Share Capital Authorised: 30,000,000,000 Equity Shares of ` 5 each 150,000.00 150,000.00 (Previous Year 30,000,000,000 Equity Shares of ` 5 each) Issued and Subscribed: 8,555,528,064 Equity Shares of ` 5 each 42,777.64   42,777.64 ( Previous Year 8,555,528,064 Equity Shares of ` 5 each) Paid up : 8,555,490,120 Equity Shares of ` 5 each 42,777.45   42,777.45 (Previous Year 8,555,490,120 Equity Shares of ` 5 each) Add: Shares forfeited 0.15            0.15 Total  42,777.60   42,777.60  4.1 Reconciliation of the equity shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the reporting period:- Outstanding at the beginning of the year 8,555.49 42,777.45 8,555.49 42,777.45 Changes during year - - - - Outstanding at the end of the year 8,555.49 42,777.45 8,555.49 42,777.45 st As at 31  March, 2014 st As at 31  March, 2013 No.
in  million No.
in  million ` in  million ` in  million Particulars 4.2 Terms/rights attached to equity shares The company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of `5 per share.
Each holder of equity shares  is entitled to one vote per share.
The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the  shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
In the event of liquidation of the company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of  the company, after distribution of all preferential amounts.
The distribution will be in proportion to the number of  equity shares held by the shareholders.
4.3 Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the company are as under:- President of India 5,897.76 68.94 5,922.55 69.23 Life Insurance Corporation of India 666.70 7.79 662.85 7.75 Indian Oil Corporation Limited 657.92 7.69 657.92 7.69 As at March, 2014st  31 As at  March, 2013st  31 No.
in  million No.
in  million % holding % holding Name of the Share Holders Particulars 192 4.4 Pursuant to the approval of the members dated  28.01.2011, during the financial year 2010-11, one  equity   share having face value of ` 10/- each had  been sub-divided into two equity shares of ` 5/-  each and bonus shares in proportion of one new  equity bonus share of ` 5/- each for every one fully  paid up equity share of ` 5/- each held on  09.02.2011  (record date) had been allotted.
The  company has issued total 4,277.75 million equity  shares of face value of ` 5 each issued as fully paid  up by way of bonus shares during the period of five  years immediately preceding the reporting date.
4.5 Shares reserved for issue under option : Nil  (previous year nil) 5.
Reserves and Surplus Capital Reserve  (Note-5.1) As per last Balance Sheet  159.44  159.44  Deferred Government Grant (Note-2.c)  a) As per last Balance Sheet  27.53  30.81   b) Less: Deduction during the year**  2.87  24.66  3.28 27.53     General Reserve  a) As per last Balance Sheet  1,201,567.67  1,086,599.46   b) Less: Impairment loss  (net of deferred tax) [Note 16.1(a)]  3,143.02 -  c) Add: Transferred from Surplus  125,863.70 1,324,288.35 114,968.21 1,201,567.67     Surplus a) As per last Balance Sheet  -    -    b) Add: Profit after Tax for the year  220,948.07 209,256.96  c) Less: Proposed Dividend (Note 5.2) 2,138.87  4,277.75  d) Less: Interim Dividend  79,138.31  76,999.41  e) Less: Tax on Dividend  13,807.19  13,011.59  f)  Less: Transferred to General Reserve  125,863.70  -  114,968.21 -      Total  1,324,472.45 1,201,754.64 As at st 31  March, 2014 As at st 31  March, 2013 Particulars ** Represents the amount equivalent to depreciation transferred to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
5.1 Represents assessed value of assets received as gift.
5.2 The Board of Directors has recommended a final dividend of  ` 0.25 per share (previous year ` 0.50 per  share) which is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting over and  above the interim dividend of ` 9.25 per share (Previous year ` 9.00 per share).
193 (` in million) Annual Report 2013-14 (` in million) 6.
Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net) As atst 31  March, 2014 As atst 31  March, 2013 (i) Liabilities  Depletion of Producing Properties  218,766.58 177,977.15 Depreciation Allocated to Wells in Progress and expenses relating to NELP  blocks   23,002.57 14,799.59 Unamortised Expenditure written off  3,718.06 5,050.44 Development Wells-in-Progress  10,052.58 12,045.58 Others  7,300.79 3,707.52 Total  (i) 262,840.58 213,580.28 (ii) Assets Depreciation 19,978.75 13,710.84 Dry wells written off 18,340.46 10,650.76 Provision for Non Moving Inventories 1,876.75 1,584.30 Provision for Doubtful Debts/Claims/Advances/ Interest Accrued 4,270.17 9,501.06 Provision for Abandonment 38,633.84 24,029.48 Provision towards Additional Profit Petroleum & interest thereon 3,426.45 3,102.97 Provisions unpaid u/s 43B of Income Tax Act, 1961 766.87 14,894.03 Others* 9,760.51 7,227.03 Total (ii) 97,053.80 84,700.47 Deferred Tax Liability (Net) (i - ii) 165,786.78 128,879.81 *Includes `1,618.41 million (Previous Year Nil) created consequent to assessment of impairment during  exploration phase as at 01.04.2013 in terms of the Guidance Note on Oil and Gas Producing Activities (Revised) as  referred to in note no.
16.1 Disclosure under Accounting Standard-22 on 'Accounting for Taxes on Income' is as under: (` in million) (` in million) 7.
Other Long term Liabilities 8.
Long Term Provisions As atst 31  March, 2014 As atst 31  March, 2014 As atst 31  March, 2013 As atst 31  March, 2013 Trade payables - Outstanding dues to Micro & Small Enterprises (Note 45)  -    -    - Outstanding dues to other than Micro & Small Enterprises  998.01  1,171.14  Others - Deposits from Suppliers and Contractors  31.23  52.48  - Liability for Capital Goods  88.60  79.70  - Liquidated Damages deducted  9,904.05  9,250.07  - Other Liabilities  828.28  688.28  Total  11,850.17  11,241.67 Provision for Employee benefits (Note 35) Unavailed Leave (Note-35.1.2 & 35.1.3)  -    17,963.52  Post Retirement Medical & Terminal Benefits  28,536.99  26,228.20 Provision for Abandonment (Note 41 & 8.1)  228,022.08  177,051.63  Provision for Others (Note 41)  640.57  631.10  Total  257,199.64  221,874.45  Particulars Particulars Particulars 194 8.1 Change in policy of accounting in respect of  provision for abandonment net of salvage value to  gross basis (refer accounting policy no.
2.k.1 has  resulted in an increase in provision by ` 26,969.32  million with corresponding increase in producing  property  by  ` 26,729.88 million, Exploratory  wells in Progress by ` 59.04 million, Development  well in progress by ` 42.97 million and increase in  expenditure of  ` 137.43 million as at and for the  year ended 31.03.2014.
(` in million) (` in million) (` in million) 9.
Trade Payables 10.
Other current liabilities 11.
Short term provisions As atst 31  March, 2014 As atst 31  March, 2014 As atst 31  March, 2014 As atst 31  March, 2013 As atst 31  March, 2013 As atst 31  March, 2013 - Outstanding dues to Micro & Small Enterprises (Note - 45)  81.44  3.60  - Outstanding dues to other than Micro & Small Enterprises 63,643.37  53,406.46  Total  63,724.81  53,410.06  Advance from Customers  26,202.83  3,910.08  Unclaimed Dividend (Note-10.1)  242.01  225.43  Liability for Capital Goods  18,926.10  27,977.03  Liability for Statutory Payments  18,110.13  18,622.15  Deposits from Suppliers and Contractors  6,914.34  3,759.73  Liability for Gratuity  -    60.84  Liability for Employees  9,414.76  6,511.95  Liability for Superannuation Benefits (Note 35.1.6)  427.31  20,204.79  Cash call payable to JV Partners  9,927.26  7,034.34  Liquidated damages deducted  10,666.22  9,061.49  Other Liabilities  18,430.69  14,858.73  Total  119,261.65  112,226.56  Provision for Employees  Benefits (Note-35)     Unavailed Leave (Note- 35.1.2 & 35.1.3) 2,566.68  1,876.63      Post Retirement Medical & Terminal Benefits 2,092.56  1,637.19 Provision for Abandonment (Note-41 & 8.1)  417.11  402.82 Provision for Others     Proposed Dividend 2,138.87 4,277.75      Tax on Proposed Dividend 363.50    727.00      Provision for Wealth tax  126.00  102.00      Less: Paid 58.82  67.18 52.27 49.73     Other Provisions (Note-41)  165.29  130.76  Total 7,811.19  9,101.88  10.1 No amount is due for deposit in Investor Education and Protection Fund.
Particulars Particulars Particulars 195 Annual Report 2013-14 13.
Producing Properties Gross Cost Opening Balance  1,146,652.17  1,018,980.62  Transfer from Exploratory Wells-in-Progress  8,950.30  3,880.95  Transfer from Development Wells-in-Progress  92,576.75  65,181.63  Depreciation on Facilities  64,756.79  59,741.63  Increase/(Decrease) in estimated Abandonment costs  52,578.56  (1,132.66) Other Adjustments  (59.05) 1,365,455.52  - 1,146,652.17               Less: Depletion & Impairment     Depletion  Opening Balance  618,948.25  552,657.94  Depletion for the year (Note 13.3, 30 & 33)  85,076.96 704,025.21  66,290.31  618,948.25     Impairment Opening Balance  3,296.81  2,554.40  Impairment provided during the year  417.20  742.41  Write back of Impairment  (116.34)  3,597.67  -    3,296.81  Net Producing Properties  657,832.64  524,407.11  As at st 31  March, 2014 As at st 31  March, 2013 Particulars 13.1 Change in policy of capitalising the cost of side  tracking of producing wells, only if it results in  increased proved developed reser ves, to  capitalising the cost if it results in increased proved  developed reserves or future economic benefits  therefrom beyond previously assessed standard  of performance(refer accounting policy no.
2.i.3),  has the impact of increase in profit before tax by ` 7,879.28 million with corresponding increase in  Producing Properties by ` 7,328.59 million and  Development Wells in Progress by ` 550.69 million  for the year ended 31.03.2014.
13.2 Change in policy of transferring development wells  to producing properties upon establishment of  proved developed reserves and connectivity for  production, to only upon establishment of proved  developed reserves irrespective of connectivity,  has the impact of decrease in profit before tax by ` 247.48 million on account of increase in depletion  on Producing Properties capitalized from such  Development Wells in Progress (DWIP) with  corresponding decrease in DWIP by ` 5,444.14  million and increase in net Producing property by  ` 5,196.66 million for the year ended 31.03.2014.
(refer accounting policy no.
2.e.4.3) 13.3 During the year, PMT JV has downgraded  reserves for the Mid and South Tapti fields due to  geological surprises.
As a result, the production  profile is envisaged only up to 2015-16 and the sale  realization (net of statutory levies) will be  transferred to Site Restoration Fund pursuant to  the Profit Sharing Contract.
Under these  circumstances, the field has been fully depleted  and depletion aggregating to ` 9,090.44 million  has been charged to the Statement of Profit and  Loss.
Similarly, a provision for impairment of `  441.87 million representing the salvage value of  Tapti field and Capital Work in Progress in Tapti  field has been made in the financial statements.
(` in million) 197 12.
Tangible Assets Land Freehold  3,237.89  1,040.26  21.49  4,256.66  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    4,256.66  3,237.89  Land Leasehold  5,689.65  95.07  3.96  5,780.76  526.72  106.18  4.71  628.19  -    -    -    -    -    5,152.57  5,162.93  Building & Bunk Houses  18,767.39  3,965.76  92.11  22,641.04  8,778.38  1,118.52  14.43  9,882.47  87.40  38.45  0.01  -    125.84  12,632.73  9,901.61  Plant & Equipment  918,409.21  109,103.68  2,159.08  1,025,353.81  666,426.27  87,002.28  2,166.64  751,261.91  1,934.22  38.70  6.36  39.38  1,927.18  272,164.72  250,048.72  Furnitures & Fixtures  6,802.37  392.00  219.59  6,974.78  4,175.75  503.81  141.74  4,537.82  11.95  0.59  0.07  0.18  12.29  2,424.67  2,614.67  Vehicles#  5,681.15  1,875.99  242.42  7,314.72  4,055.22  483.98  238.62  4,300.58  10.61  -    -    0.36  10.25  3,003.89  1,615.32  Office Equipment  5,253.01  1,886.79  774.96  6,364.84  3,774.70  686.26  774.20  3,686.76  22.65  0.69  1.78  0.13  21.43  2,656.65  1,455.66  Total  963,840.67  118,359.55  3,513.61  1,078,686.61  687,737.04  89,901.03  3,340.34  774,297.73  2,066.83  78.43  8.22  40.05  2,096.99  302,291.89  Previous Year  899,072.22  137,532.36  72,763.91  963,840.67  681,661.45  78,640.01  72,564.37  687,737.09  1,732.62  774.14  -    439.98  2,066.78  274,036.80  Share in Joint Ventures  67,697.26  6,421.52  29.24  74,089.54  48,775.46  5,749.19  13.14  54,511.51  797.53  24.20  -    -    821.73  18,756.30  -    Previous Year  62,754.08  4,998.97  55.79  67,697.26  43,769.36  5,060.87  54.77  48,775.46  182.52  615.01  -    -    797.53  18,124.27  Description st  At 1   April, 2013 st  At 1   April, 2013 st  At 1 April, 2013 For the year For the year Written back/ Adjustments Re classification/ Adjustments Additions Gross Block Accumulated Depreclation Accumulated Impairment Net Block Deletion/ Adjustments Deletion/ Adjustments st  At 31   March, 2014 st  At 31   March, 2014 st  At 31 March, 2014 st  At 31   March, 2014 st   At 31 March, 2013 # Vehicles includes Survey Ships, Crew Boats and Helicopters.
Vehicles also include cost of 10 Immediate support vessels (ISV) amounting to ` 1,079.50 million (Previous year Nil)  handed over to Indian Navy for manning, maintenance and operations.
Notes 12.1 Land includes lands in respect of certain projects for which execution of lease/conveyance deeds are in process.
12.2 Registration of title deeds in respect of certain Buildings is pending execution.
12.3 Depreciation for the year includes ` 48.02 million pertaining to prior period (Previous Year ` 8.99 million).
12.4 Building includes cost of undivided interest in land.
(` in million) 196 Annual Report 2013-14 14.
Intangible Assets As at st 31  March, 2014 As at st 31  March, 2013 As at st 31  March, 2013 Share in Joint Venture As at st 31  March, 2014 Application Software Gross Block Opening Balance  6,300.68  6,051.08  92.76  99.61  Additions during the year  112.03  264.08  7.20  5.15  Deletions/Adjustments  54.92  14.48  -    12.00  Closing Balance  6,357.79  6,300.68  99.96  92.76  Amortisation Opening Balance  5,480.46  4,905.53  38.29  36.98  Provided during the year  409.37  589.39  16.64  13.29  Deletions/Adjustments  54.92  14.46  -    11.98  Closing Balance  5,834.91  5,480.46  54.93  38.29  Impairment Opening Balance  22.27  22.27  -    -    Provided during the year  -    -    -    -    Closing Balance  22.27  22.27  -    -    Net Block as at the year end  500.61  797.95  45.03  54.47  15.
Capital Works-In-Progress Acquisition Costs-E&P Asset (Note no.15.1)  28.59  Buildings  4,605.30  3,641.65  Plant and Equipment (Note-15.2)  106,608.89  139,928.76  Capital Stores (including in transit)  7,686.30  3,032.07  Less: Provision for Non-Moving Items  77.51 118,822.98  117.65  146,484.83    Less: Impairment Opening Balance  2,331.14  1,295.90  Provided during the year  686.78  1,377.05  Other adjustments  -    (22.13) Write back of Impairment  (616.69)  2,401.23  (319.68) 2,331.14     Net Capital Works-In-Progress  116,450.34  144,153.69  As at st 31  March, 2014 As at st 31  March, 2013 Particulars (` in million) (` in million) 15.1 The company has paid a lump sum amount of `  28.59 million (Previous year nil) as   commercial  bonus to MoP&NG, Government of India which is  accounted as acquisition cost for acquiring the  right of mining lease in CBM Block (NK-CBM- 2001/1 & BK-CBM-2001/1) 15.2 Plant & Equipment includes an amount of `  8,436.64 million (Previous Year ` 8,176.05 million)  in respect of Capital Works in Progress (CWIP) for  C2-C3 plant which is mechanically complete and will  be capitalized on completion of test run.
Further,  C3-C4 blending facility and recycling facility of C2  is mechanically completed in February 2014 and  pending test run the same has been carried  forward as CWIP.
198 16.
Exploratory/Development Wells in Progress A) Exploratory Wells-In-Progress Gross Cost Opening Balance  86,489.94  67,443.65  Acqusition cost (Note - 16.2)  -    2,124.44  Expenditure during the year  116,872.08  96,509.46  Less : Sale proceeds of Oil and Gas  {(Net of levies ` 148.65 million) (Previous year ` 53.60 million)}  470.54 116,401.54  123.05  96,386.41     Depreciation during the year  2,506.44  1,335.06  205,397.92  167,289.56  Less : Transfer to Producing Properties  8,950.30  3,880.95  Wells written off during the year  62,508.91  76,976.44  Other adjustments  (16.66)  71,442.55  (57.77)  80,799.62   133,955.37  86,489.94          Less : Provisions (Note-16.2)/Impairment (Note-16.1)  24,518.71  17,169.78           Exploratory Wells-In-Progress (A)  109,436.66  69,320.16  B) Development Wells-In-Progress  Opening Balance  35,820.64  28,041.51           Expenditure during the year  85,188.40  70,118.36           Depreciation during the year  1,871.16  2,842.40          Less: Transfer to Producing Properties  92,576.75 30,303.45  65,181.63  35,820.64          Less: Impairment         Opening Balance  382.05  260.74          Provided during the year  264.47  121.31          Write back during the year  (34.00) 612.52  -   382.05      Development Wells-In-Progress (B)  29,690.93  35,438.59  Exploratory/Development Wells-In-Progress (A+B)  139,127.59  104,758.75  As at st 31  March, 2014 As at st 31  March, 2013 Particulars (` in million) 16.1 (a) In accordance with policy no.2.j and as per the  requirement of the Guidance Note on accounting  for oil and gas producing activities (Revised), the  company has carried out impairment testing of  assets under exploratory phase (Exploratory  Wells in Progress) as on 01.04.2013 .
Accordingly,  an amount of ` 4,761.42 million has been  accounted as provision for impairment with  corresponding amount of   3,143.01 million (net  of deferred tax of ` 1,618.41 million) has been  adjusted against general reserves as on  01.04.2013.
Further, impairment testing of assets under  exploratory phase (Exploratory Wells in Progress)  has been carried out as on 31.03.2014, and an  additional amount of ` 2,546.46 million has been  provided during the year 2013-14 as impairment  ` loss in the Statement of Profit & Loss.
(b) Change in policy of expensing the cost of  stratigraphic test wells (expendable wells) on their  completion irrespective of their status, to carrying  the cost of only those stratigraphic test wells      having indications of sufficient quantity of reserves  (refer accounting policy no.
2.e.4.1 & 2.e.4.2), has  an impact of increase in profit before tax by  2,702.95 million with corresponding increase in  Exploratory Wells in Progress during the year  ended 31.03.2014.
(c) Change in policy of expensing the cost of  exploratory wells which are more than two years  from date of completion of drilling to carrying the  cost of only those exploratory wells having  indications of sufficient quantity of reserves (refer  accounting policy no.
2.e.4.2), has an impact of  ` 199 Annual Report 2013-14 increase in profit before tax by ` 2,489.18 million  with corresponding increase in Exploratory Wells  in Progress during the year ended 31.03.2014.
16.2 During the Financial year 2004-05, the company  had acquired 90% Participating Interest in  Exploration Block KG-DWN-98/2 from M/s Cairn  Energy India Ltd. for a lump sum consideration of ` 3,711.22 million which, together with  subsequent exploratory drilling costs of wells had  been capitalised under exploratory wells in  progress.
Initial in-place reserves have been  established in this block and a conceptual  development plan as part of the proposal for  Declaration of commerciality (DOC) had been  submitted on 21.12.2009 for Southern Discovery  Area and on 15.07.2010 for Northern Discovery  Area to the Management Committee (MC) for  review as per original time lines.
The exploration  period of this block has been restructured by  Government upto 29.12.2013 in accordance with  the Rig Holiday Policy and taking into account the  delay in grant of PEL.
Additional appraisal drilling  along with exploratory drilling is in progress.
During the financial year 2012-13, the company  had acquired the remaining 10% participating  interest in the block from M/s Cairn Energy India  Ltd. on actual past cost basis for a consideration of  ` 2,124.44 million.
Revised DOC has been submitted on 26.12.2013  to Directorate of Hydrocarbon (DGH) for review.
Further, the Company has applied to DGH for  continuation of appraisal / drilling activities for a  period of 2 years or till grant of ML.
Pending final  decision on the DOC by the MC, as a matter of  abundant caution, the company has retained a  provision of ` 17,210.82 million (Previous Year ` 17,169.79 million) towards acquisition costs and  cost of exploratory wells.
17.
Non-Current Investments A.
Trade Investments Investment in Equity Instruments (i) Investment in Subsidiaries (a) ONGC Videsh Limited-(Unquoted) (Note 17.3) 1,000,000,000 100  100,000.00 50,000.00  (500,000,000) (b) Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (Quoted) 1,255,354,097 10  10,405.73 110,405.73  10,405.73 60,405.73  (1,255,354,097)   (ii) Investment in Associate     (a)  Pawan Hans Limited (formerly known as "Pawan Hans Helicopter Ltd")  (Unquoted)120,350 10,000  1,203.50  1,203.50  Extent of holding 49% (previous year 49%)  (120,350) (iii) Investment in Joint Venture Companies Unquoted (a)Petronet MHB Limited.
157,841,000 10  1,578.41  1,578.41  (157,841,000) (b) Mangalore SEZ Limited.
13,000,000 10  130.00  130.00  (13,000,000)    (c) ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited (Note-17.1)  23,000 10  0.23  0.23  (23,000) (d) ONGC Petro Additions Limited (Note-17.1)  997,955,639 10  9,979.55  6,374.51   (637,450,640) Particulars (` in million) No.
of Shares/ Bonds/Units (fully paid) Face Value per Share/ Bond/Unit (in `) As at st 31  March,  2014 As at st  31 March,  2013 200 (e) ONGC Teri Biotech Limited  24,990 10  0.25  0.25   (24,990) (f) ONGC Tripura Power Company Limited (Note-17.1)         - Fully Paid  267,489,998 10  2,674.90  2,674.90  (267,489,998) (g) Dahej SEZ Limited  23,025,000 10  230.25  230.25  (23,025,000) Quoted Petronet LNG Limited.
93,750,000 10  987.50 15,581.09  987.50  11,976.05  (93,750,000)   (iv)Investment in Others (a) Indian Oil Corporation Limited  (Quoted)  334,303,814 10  40,427.97  13,720.49  (212,906,190) (b) GAIL (India) Limited (Quoted)  61,259,323 10  2,451.06  2,451.06  (61,259,323) (c) Oil Spill Response Limited (Unquoted) (Note-17.2)  100  0.01 42,879.04  0.01 16,171.56  (100)   Total (A)  170,069.36  89,756.84  B. Non-trade investments Investment in Government or Trust Securities (Unquoted) 8.40%  GoI Special Bonds 2025 197,370 10,000  1,973.70  1,973.70  (197,370) Total (B)  1,973.70  1,973.70  Total Non-current Investment (A+B)  172,043.06  91,730.54  Total Quoted Investments  54,272.26  27,564.78  Total Unquoted Investments  117,770.80  64,165.76   172,043.06  91,730.54  Total Market Value of Quoted Investments  189,917.38  154,356.08 Particulars (` in million) No.
of Shares/ Bonds/Units (fully paid) Face Value per Share/ Bond/Unit (in `) As at st 31  March,  2014 As at st 31  March,  2013 17.1 Company is restrained from diluting the investment in the respective companies till the sponsored loans are fully  repaid as per the covenants in the loan agreements.
17.2 Shares of Oil Spill response limited valued at GBP one each at the time of issuance.
Total value in INR at the time of  issuance of shares was ` 6,885/-.
17.3 Loan to ONGC Videsh limited (wholly owned subsidiary) amounting to ` 50,000 million (previous year ` 40,000  million) has been converted into 500 million (previous year 400 million) fully paid Equity Shares of  ` 100 each.
201 Annual Report 2013-14 18.
Long Term Loans and Advances (Unsecured, considered good unless otherwise stated)  Capital Advances  65.39 274.96 Deposits  With Customs/Port Trusts etc.
22.96  23.25  Others  - Considered Good  3,251.90  3,623.35   - Considered Doubtful  629.88  608.06  3,904.74  4,254.66  Less : Provision for Doubtful Deposits  629.88  3,274.86  608.06  3,646.60  Advances to Related Party against Equity pending allotment (Note 37.3.1)  18,834.11  12,528.46  Loans & Advances to Subsidiaries (Note 17.3)  92,343.43  151,398.41  Loans to Public Sector Undertakings  - Considered Good  -    -     - Considered Doubtful  240.50  240.50  Less : Provision for Doubtful Loans  240.50  -   240.50 -    Loans & Advances to Associate (Secured)  367.84  745.33  Loans and Advances to Employees (Note-18.1)  - Secured and Considered Good  7,612.28  7,253.06   - Unsecured and Considered Good  502.58  492.70   - Unsecured and Considered Doubtful  1.73  7.75  Less : Provision for Doubtful Loans/Advances  1.73 8,114.86  7.75 7,745.76     Advance Recoverable in Cash or in kind or value to be received  - Considered Good (Note 18.3)  7,354.33  9,690.80   - Considered Doubtful (Note-18.2)  13,141.40  13,044.32  Less : Provision for Doubtful Claims/Advances  13,141.40  7,354.33  13,044.32  9,690.80  Cash Call Receivable from JV Partners  - Considered Good  340.27  257.27   - Considered Doubtful  6,245.07  5,920.29  Less : Provision for Doubtful Claims/Advances  6,245.07  340.27  5,920.29  257.27    MAT Credit Entitlement  2,800.00  -    Advance Payment of Income Tax  329,320.26  381,410.63  Less: Provision for Income Tax  281,031.74  48,288.52  345,969.76  35,440.87    Total  181,783.61  221,728.46  As at st  31 March, 2014 As at st  31 March, 2013 Particulars (` in million) 202 18.1 Loans and advances to employees include an  amount of ` 0.37 million (Previous Year ` 0.50  million) outstanding from whole time directors.
18.2 In Ravva Joint Venture, the demand towards  additional profit petroleum raised by the  Government of India (GoI), due to differences in  interpretation of the provisions of the Production  Sharing Contract (PSC) in respect of computation  of Post-Tax Rate of Return (PTRR), based on the  decision of the Malaysian High Court setting aside  an earlier arbitral tribunal award in favour of  operator, was disputed by the operator M/s Cairn  Energy India Pty Ltd.
The company is not a party  to the dispute but has agreed to abide by the  decision applicable to the operator.
The company  had made a provision towards the claim made by  the GoI in earlier years and the amount of provision st outstanding as on 31  March, 2014 is ` 10,080.75  million (equivalent to USD 167.84 million) after  adjustments for interest and exchange rate  fluctuations.
The GoI had recovered the above  amount [including interest thereon USD 54.88  million ( ` 3,296.09 million )] from the company in  earlier years which has been carried as  recoverable under Long Term Loans and advances st in the Balance Sheet as at 31  March, 2014.
In subsequent legal proceedings, the Appellate  Authority of the Honorable Malaysian High Court  of Kuala Lumpur had set aside the decision of the  Malaysian High Court and the earlier decision of  arbitral tribunal in favour of operator was restored,  against which the GoI had preferred an appeal  before the Federal Court of Malaysia.
The Federal th Court of Malaysia, vide its order dated 11   October, 2011, had dismissed the said appeal of  the GoI.
The company has taken up the matter regarding  refund of the recoveries made in view of the  favourable judgment of the Federal Court of  Malaysia with MoP&NG.
However, according to a th communication dated 13  January, 2012 received,  MoP&NG expressed the view that ONGC's  proposal would be examined when the issues of  ONGC carry under Ravva PSC is decided in its  entirety by the Government along with other  partners.
In view of the perceived uncertainties in obtaining  the refund at this stage, the provision made in the  books as above has been retained and netted off  against the amount recoverable as above in the st financial statements for the year ended 31  March,  2014.
18.3 During the financial year 2010-11, the Oil  Marketing Companies, nominees of the GoI  recovered USD 32.07 million ( `1,926.28 million ),  ONGC's share as per directives of GoI in respect of  Jointly Controlled Assets-Panna Mukta & Tapti.
The recovery is towards certain observations  raised by auditors appointed by the Director  General of Hydrocarbons (DGH) under Production  Sharing Contract (PSC) for the period 2002-03 to  2005-06 in respect of cost and profit petroleum  share payable to GoI.
BGEPIL along with RIL  ("Claimants") have served a notice of arbitration on  the GoI in respect of dispute, differences and  claims arisen in connection with the term of Panna,  Mukta and Tapti PSC's.
Since the company is not a  party to the arbitration proceedings, it had  requested MoP&NG that in case of an arbitral  award, the same be made applicable to ONGC  also, as a constituent of contractor for both the  PSC's.
Subsequently, vide letter dated July 4, 2011  MoPNG has advised ONGC not to participate in  the arbitration initiated by RIL & BGEPIL under  Panna, Mukta & Tapti PSC's.
MoP&NG has also  stated that in case of an arbitral award, the same  will be applicable to ONGC also as a constituent of  the contractor for both the PSC's.
Pending final  arbitral award, the same has been shown as  Receivable from GoI under 'Advance Recoverable  in Cash or kind or value to be received' under Long  Term Loans and Advances.
(Figures in INR is  reinstated) 19.
Deposit under Site Restoration Fund Scheme: A sum of ` 113,101.59 million till 31.03.2014  (previous year ` 101,331.21 million) has been  deposited with banks under section 33ABA of the  Income Tax Act, 1961 and can be withdrawn only  for the purposes specified in the Scheme i.e.
towards removal of equipments and installations in  a manner agreed with Central Government  pursuant to an abandonment plan to prevent  hazards to life, property, environment etc.
This  amount is considered as restricted cash and  hence not considered as 'cash and cash  equivalents'.
203 Annual Report 2013-14 21.
Inventories* Raw Materials (Condensate)  4.61  2.64  Finished Goods (Note 21.1)  6,997.45  8,040.10  Traded Goods  0.61  0.76  Stores and spare parts -  on hand  51,995.52  50,070.09  -  in transit (including inter-project transfers)  5,111.51  3,299.14   57,107.03  53,369.23  Less: Provision for non-moving items  5,411.10  51,695.93  4,543.43  48,825.80   Unserviceable Items  126.81  174.64  Total  58,825.41  57,043.94  As at st  31 March, 2014 As at st  31 March, 2013 20.
Other Non-Current Assets (Unsecured, Considered Good unless otherwise stated)  A.
Long Term Trade Receivables - Considered Good  863.62  1,017.68  - Considered Doubtful  947.99  16,664.14  Less : Provision for doubtful receivables  947.99 863.62  16,664.14  1,017.68     B.
Other Receivables - Considered Good  14.17  14.01  - Considered Doubtful  521.48  528.25  Less : Provision for doubtful receivables  521.48 14.17  528.25  14.01    C. Interest Accrued - On Employee Loans and Advances (Secured)  2,951.13 2,872.26 On Deposits  26.40  20.57  On Other Loans & Advances - Considered Good  100.32  86.12  - Considered Doubtful  41.89  41.89   168.61  148.58  Less : Provision for doubtful interest accrued  41.89  126.72  41.89  106.69  D. Unamortised Expenditure - Dry Docking Charges  6,621.33  9,026.80  - Mobilisation Charges  742.99  7,364.32  1,016.09  10,042.89    Total Other Non-Current Assets  11,319.96  14,053.53 As at st  31 March, 2014 As at st  31 March, 2013 (` in million) (` in million) *valued as per accounting policy no.
"n" 21.1     This includes an amount of ` 3.66 million (previous year ` 0.56 million) in respect of Carbon Credits.
Particulars Particulars 204 (` in million) (` in million) 22.
Trade Receivables 23.
Cash and Cash Equivalents As atst 31  March, 2014 As atst 31  March, 2014 As atst 31  March, 2013 As atst 31  March, 2013 (Unsecured, Considered Good unless otherwise stated)   - Outstanding for a period exceeding six months from the due date 3,396.05 3,634.93   - Others 78,260.65 65,002.28  Total  81,656.70 68,637.21  Balances with Banks  1,388.09 1,742.54  Cash on Hand  6.27  7.90  Short Term Investment in Mutual Funds  12,052.40  -    Bank Deposits  (Note-23.1)  94,300.00  130,210.00  Unclaimed Dividend Account (Note-23.2)  242.01  225.42  Total  107,988.77  132,185.86  23.1 The deposits maintained by the company with banks comprise time deposit, which can be withdrawn by the  company at any point without prior notice or penalty on the principal.
23.2 Amount deposited in unclaimed dividend account is earmarked for payment of dividend and cannot be used for  any other purpose.
24.
Short Term Loans and Advances (Unsecured, Considered Good unless otherwise stated)  Deposits      With Customs/Port Trusts etc.
4.49  4.84      Others (Note no.
24.1)  4,809.69  4,814.18  1,376.02 1,380.86     Loans to Associate (Secured)  350.45  310.84  Loans to Subsidiaries  6,857.20  4,778.57  Receivable from Subsidiaries  810.87  775.53  Loans to Public Sector Undertakings  -    -    Loans and Advances to Employees (Note 24.2)     Secured and Considered good  2,030.47  1,919.81      Unsecured and Considered good  473.78 2,504.25  391.51 2,311.32     Cash Call Receivable from JV Partners  8,389.09  10,153.00  Advance Recoverable in Cash or in kind or  value to be received  19,943.56  17,311.12  Total  43,669.60  37,021.24  As atst 31  March, 2014 As atst 31  March, 2013 (` in million) st 24.1 Includes ` 2,092.23 million towards differential royalty being deposited from 1  February, 2014 as per the interim  order of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India.
(also refer Note no.
42.3.2)  24.2 Loans and advances to employees include an amount of ` 0.13 million (Previous Year ` 0.39 million) outstanding  from whole time directors.
Particulars Particulars 205 Annual Report 2013-14 25.
Other Current Assets 26.
Revenue From Operations Secured, considered good Interest on Loan to Associate  -    9.86  Interest  accrued on Employee Loans and Advances  246.15  246.15  216.65 226.51    Unsecured, considered good  Interest Accrued  - On Investments  1.38  1.38   - On Deposits  1,270.20  3,566.23   - On Loans & Advances  24.92  1,296.50  5.62 3,573.23    Unamortised Expenditure  - Dry Docking Charges  2,933.68  3,783.05   - Mobilisation Charges  640.69  3,574.37  1,032.64  4,815.69  Other Current Assets *  1,175.50  764.95  Total  6,292.52  9,380.38  A.
Sale of Products Own Products  873,702.43  858,422.19  Less :- Transfer to  Wells in Progress  {includes levies of `148.65 million  (Previous year `53.60 million)}  522.58  164.55  Less :- Government of India's (GoI's)  share in  Profit Petroleum  38,526.99  32,586.55   834,652.86  825,671.09  Traded Products  44.42 834,697.28  43.16  825,714.25     B.
Other Operating Revenue Contractual Short Lifted Gas Receipts (Note 26.5)  80.21  51.72  Pipeline Transportation Receipts  691.61  826.90  North-East Gas Subsidy (Note 26.6)  2,366.91  2,122.91  Surplus from Gas Pool Account (Note 26.7)  3,720.47  3,597.73  Production Bonus  57.29  147.90  Processing Charges  414.03  7,330.52  628.17 7,375.33     Total  842,027.80  833,089.58  As at st 31  March, 2014 2013-14 As at st 31  March, 2013 2012-13 (` in million) (` in million) * Includes receivable of ` 442.80 million from gratuity trust as funded status is more than obligation.
26.1 In terms of the decision of Government of India (GOI), the company has shared under-recoveries of Oil Marketing  Companies (OMCs) on price sensitive products viz.
Diesel, Domestic LPG and PDS Kerosene for the year 2013-14  by extending the discount in the prices of Crude Oil, Domestic LPG and PDS Kerosene based on the rates of  discount communicated by Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) and Ministry of Petroleum and Natural  Gas (MoP&NG).
The impact of discount is as under:                                                                                                        Particulars Particulars 206 (` in million) 2013-14 2012-13 Gross Revenue 563,842.85 494,206.50 Less: Value Added Tax (VAT) 17,841.84 14,114.40 Sales Revenue 546,001.01 480,092.10 Less: Statutory Levies 68,440.26 59,502.49 Profit Before Tax 477,560.75 420,589.61 Decrease in 26.2 Crude Oil Sales Agreements (COSA) with  Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd.  (MRPL) has been signed on 31 July, 2013.
Since st  the COSA is made effective from 1 April, 2010,  necessary adjustments amounting to ` 1,118.85  million for the years 2010-11 to 2012-13  considering the revised crude price for supplies  made to MRPL for the period from 1 April, 2010 to st 31  March, 2013 have been made in books of  accounts during Financial Year 2013-14, by way of  issue of credit notes.
26.3 For Crude Oil produced in Assam, sales revenue is  based on the pricing formula provided by  MoP&NG.
Revenue from rest of nominated crude is  accounted in terms of Crude Oil Sales Agreements  (COSAs) already signed and made effective from st 1  April 2010.
26.4 Based on the directives issued by MoP&NG and  Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) vide  letters dated 31  May, 2012 and 1  June, 2012 st respectively, w.e.f.
1  April, 2012, refineries started  making deductions from ONGC payments towards  Octroi/ VAT/ CST on discounts allowed by ONGC to  refineries on supplies of crude oil.
Total deduction st made by refineries on this account from 1  April, th 2012 to 30  September, 2013 amounting to  25,032.60 million (includes ` 15,846.70 million for  the year 2012-13) was provided for.
During the year,  the company has decided to revise the sales  revenue and corresponding statutory levies w.e.f.
st 1  April 2012 onwards, considering deductions  st st   st st `  made by refineries based on MoP&NG directives.
Aforesaid provision made by the Company tillth 30  September, 2013 has also been written back.
26.5 Recognition of revenue on account of Short Lifted  Gas amounting to ` 1,253.74 million (Previous Year   571.42 million) has been postponed.
This will be  recognized when there is reasonable certainty  regarding ultimate collection as per the policy of  the company.
26.6 For APM consumers in North-East, consumer price  is 60% of the producer price, i.e., US$ 2.52/ mmbtu  inclusive of royalty and the difference between  producer price and consumer price is paid to the  company through GoI Budget up to allocated  quantity and shown as 'North-East Gas Subsidy.
26.7 The company is supplying majority of Natural gas  to Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) which also  purchases gas from other sources and sells to APM  and non-APM consumers.
Based on the  Government directives, excess in Gas Pool  Account at the end of financial year is transferred to  ONGC / OIL in accordance with their contribution.
Based on the details received from GAIL, an  amount of  3,508.10 million (Previous year `  3,700.00 million) for Gas Pool Receipts for the  current year, ` 212.37 million (Previous year `  339.23 million) on account of  interest on Gas Pool  Account and a reversal of nil (Previous year `  441.50 million) has been considered as 'Surplus  from Gas Pool Account'.
` ` 207 Annual Report 2013-14 2013-14 2012-13Products QuantityUnit QuantityValue (` in  million) Value (` in  million) 26.8   Quantitative Details of Sales Revenue  Crude Oil* MT  23,605,821  561,680.71  23,685,176  562,494.60  Less: From Exploratory areas  2,339  61.63  6,372  122.10  Less: Government of India's share in Profit Petroleum  35,885.46  525,733.62  29,103.95  533,268.55  3 Natural Gas* 000M  19,632,724  186,393.70  20,160,374  168,925.00  Less: From Exploratory areas  51,398  460.95  5,274  42.45  Less: Government of India's share in Profit Petroleum  2,641.53  183,291.22  3,482.60  165,399.95  Liquified Petroleum Gas MT  1,073,413  30,145.14  1,004,721  31,483.86  Naphtha MT  1,378,894  75,742.79  1,519,702  76,804.48  Ethane/Propane MT  428,399  14,836.58  425,450  13,439.58  Superior Kerosene Oil MT  85,187  2,779.17  105,623  3,686.34  Low Sulphur Heavy Stock MT  28,455  1,295.06  24,394  1,062.53  High Speed Diesel (HSD) MT  8,369  522.43  2,861  170.22  HSD incl.
ULS HSD (Trading) KL  54  2.95  21  1.16  Motor Spirit (Trading) KL  542  41.06  559  41.56  Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF) MT  3,301  220.03  5,400  317.50  Liquid Diesel Oil  26  1.70 - - Mineral Turpentine Oil MT  1,137  78.02  474  31.29  Others  7.51  7.23  Total  834,697.28  825,714.25  *Quantity includes share from Joint Ventures 208 27.
Other Income Interest  on: Long Term  Investments  165.79  427.52  Deposits with Banks/PSUs  15,125.80  18,474.71  {(Tax deducted at source ` 1,511.30 million; Previous year ` 1,855.29 million)} Loans and Advances to Subsidiaries and Associate  4,937.52  3,508.58  {(Tax deducted at source ` 944.11 million; Previous year `  343.91 million)} Loans and Advances to Employees 473.44  433.94  Income Tax Refund  2,395.49  94.86  Site Restoration Fund Deposit  9,432.74  8,303.24  Delayed Payment from Customers and Others  475.45  33,006.23  185.34  31,428.19  {(Tax deducted at source  ` 126.14 million; Previous year `  58.00 million)} Dividend Income from: Investment in Subsidiaries/Associates  11.46  1,255.35  Other Long Term Investments  2,173.11  1,893.12  Short Term -Debt Mutual Funds  1,559.80 3,744.37  1,466.28  4,614.75     Other Non Operating Income Excess Provisions written back (Note 26.4)  16,328.86  5,323.57  Liabilities no longer payable written back  2,836.39  5,522.81  Contractual Receipts  1,310.16  158.74  Profit on sale of Investments  23.59  Miscellaneous Receipts  9,882.39  30,381.39  7,319.36  18,324.48  Total  67,131.99  54,367.42  2013-14 2012-13 (` in million) (` in million)28.
(Increase)/Decrease in Inventories 2013-14 2012-13 Closing Stock- Finished Goods and Stock in Trade  6,998.06  8,040.86 Opening Stock-  Finished Goods and Stock in Trade  8,040.86  7,810.64  (Increase)/Decrease in Inventories  1,042.80  (230.22) Particulars Particulars 209 Annual Report 2013-14 As at 31.03.2014 As at 31.03.2013Particulars QuantityUnit QuantityValue (` in  million) Value ` in  million) 28.1    Details of Opening and Closing Inventories: Opening stock     Crude Oil* MT 977,410 7,341.29 1,013,741 7,371.16 Liquefied Petroleum Gas MT 15,529 108.60 11,997 74.44 Naphtha MT 91,829 482.04 75,868 294.64 Ethane/Propane MT 477 7.32 586 8.47 Superior Kerosene Oil MT 9,520 28.26 6,765 1.66 Aviation Turbine Fuel MT 1,204 8.60 1,192 9.08 Low Sulphur Heavy Stock MT 565 9.34 456 7.31 High Speed Diesel MT 4,286 37.95 4,102 25.79 Propane MT 90 0.34 120 0.43 Mineral Turpentine Oil MT 164 3.24 76 1.35 High Speed Diesel ** KL 5 0.26 15 0.62 Motor Spirit** KL 8 0.49 9 0.53 Carbon Credits Units 10,508 0.56 10,508 0.56 Others  12.57 14.60 Total  8,040.86 7,810.64 Closing stock   Crude Oil* MT 1,091,633 6,554.46 977,410 7,341.29 Liquefied Petroleum Gas MT 10,230 49.39 15,529 108.60 Naphtha MT 70,545 294.70 91,829 482.04 Ethane/Propane MT 650 11.01 477 7.32 Superior Kerosene Oil MT 8,690 30.95 9,520 28.26 Aviation Turbine Fuel MT 1,775 11.83 1,204 8.60 Low Sulphur Heavy Stock MT 102 1.64 565 9.34 High Speed Diesel MT 2,463 20.55 4,286 37.95 Propane MT - - 90 0.34 Mineral Turpentine Oil MT 144 2.79 164 3.24 High Speed Diesel ** KL 10 0.48 5 0.26 Motor Spirit** KL 1 0.13 8 0.49 Carbon Credits Units 140,277 3.66 10,508 0.56 Others 16.48 12.57 Total   6,998.06 8,040.86 * Includes Corporation's share in stock of Joint venture.
** Purchased for trading.
210 (` in million) 2013-14 2012-13 Royalty  114,889.79 108,094.31  Cess  99,736.74  99,970.75  National Calamity Contingent Duty  1,097.40 1,101.05  Excise Duty on stock (Net) (Note-29.1)  (48.87)  57.10  Sales Tax  3,122.96  3,834.14  Service Tax  438.76  352.81  Education cess  2,348.31  3,111.09  Octroi and Port Trust Charges  4,896.60  4,057.30  Staff Expenditure  19,356.57  19,452.24  Work over Operations  20,944.08 19,135.41  Water Injection, Desalting and Demulsification  11,794.01 12,854.60  Consumption of Stores and Spares  5,753.24  4,219.45  Consumption of Raw Materials  887.53 1,878.42  Pollution Control  6,189.78 5,901.46  Transport Expenses  3,971.37  3,517.40  Insurance  2,090.83 1,444.17  Power and Fuel  1,935.40  1,705.52  Repairs and Maintenance  9,143.15  8,454.43  Contractual payments including Hire charges etc.
14,403.13  9,365.62  Other Production Expenditure  5,100.75  4,740.74  Transportation and Freight of Products  11,559.67 11,821.98  Research and Development  6,014.37  6,002.02  General Administrative Expenses  38,236.23  33,257.04  Exchange Loss (Net)  1,020.68  921.53  Other Expenditure  8,452.42  10,088.31  Total  393,334.90  375,338.89  29.
Production, Transportation, Selling And Distribution Expenditure 29.1 Excise duty on sale of product has been deducted from Sales revenue and Excise duty shown above represents  the difference between Excise duty on opening and closing stock of finished goods.
Particulars 211 Annual Report 2013-14 (` in million) 2013-14 2012-13 29.2      Details of Nature wise Expenditure  Manpower Cost  (Note - 29.2.1) (a) Salaries, Wages, Ex-gratia etc.
64,241.44  68,170.10  (b) Contribution to Provident and other funds 9,026.52  4,459.99  (c) Provision for gratuity (495.95)  61.15  (d) Provision for leave 5,153.04  5,321.12  (e) Provision for Post Retirement Medical &  Terminal Benefits   2,721.44 7,487.18  (f)   Staff welfare expenses 23,404.04 17,802.12 Sub Total:  104,050.53  103,301.65 Consumption of Raw materials, Stores and Spares (Note - 42.6)  51,246.56  41,960.50  Cess  99,737.56  99,971.66  National Calamity Contingent Duty 1,097.39  1,101.05   Excise Duty  3,076.23  3,093.46  Royalty 114,889.82  108,166.71  Sales Tax  3,122.99  3,836.02  Octroi and Port Trust Charges  4,896.64  4,057.75  Service Tax  438.76  352.81  Education cess  2,349.09  3,115.73  Rent  3,454.80  3,634.99  Rates and taxes  93.86  88.45  Hire charges of equipments and vehicles  142,686.33  121,363.98  Power, fuel and water charges  3,807.67  3,349.63  Contractual drilling, logging, workover etc.
58,279.47  44,013.36  Contractual security  4,030.52  3,532.55  Repairs to building  726.24  961.99  Repairs to plant and machinery  5,737.39  5,987.84  Other repairs  2,410.41  1,906.75  Insurance  4,064.91  3,055.39  Expenditure on Tour / Travel  3,709.08  3,381.32  Contribution  1,805.31  2,073.91  Exchange Loss (Net)  1,020.68  921.53  Miscellaneous expenditure (Note - 29.2.2)  15,369.70  14,252.06   632,101.94  577,481.10  Less: Allocated to exploration, development drilling, capital jobs, recoverables etc.
233,032.75  198,880.04  Excise duty adjusted against sales revenue 3125.09  3,036.25  Prior Period Adjustment 2609.21  225.92  Production, Transportation, Selling and Distribution 393,334.90  375,338.89 Expenditure  29.2.1 During the previous year, the Company had  recognised additional liability of ` 5,079.53 million  towards revision in Long Service Rewards  Scheme.
Further, in terms of DPE guidelines, the  company had also recognized liability of `  18,504.79 million towards superannuation benefits  to employees.
These had been allocated to  activities as per the policy of the company.
29.2.2 An amount of ` 16,108.86 million  has been  provided during quarter ended 30th June,2013  (Cumulative ` 16,108.86 million till 31st March, 2014)  towards contribution for conversion of Post  Retirement Benefit Scheme (PRBS) from Defined  Benefit Scheme to Defined Contributory Scheme  based on guidelines of Department of Public  Enterprise.
The said amount has been allocated to  different activities as per the policy of the Company.
Particulars 212 (` in million) (` in million) (` in million) 29.2.3   Miscellaneous Expenditure in Note no 29.2 includes Statutory Auditors Remuneration  as under:  2013-14 2013-14 2013-14 2012-13 2012-13 2012-13 Audit Fees 11.24 11.24 Certification and Other Services 11.68 8.97 Travelling and Out of Pocket Expenses 21.44 16.02   Total 44.36 36.23 Capital Expenditure 213.31 118.66 Revenue Expenditure 5,296.06 5,263.16 i) Interest Expense  3.18  276.04  ii) Others  0.39  0.32  Total  3.57  276.36  Payment to Auditors (including service tax) Particulars Particulars 29.3 The expenditure incurred by various in house R&D institutes on scientific research eligible for deduction under section 35(2AB) of Income Tax Act, 1961 is as under: Depletion  85,106.88  66,290.31  Depreciation & Amortisation  90,262.39  79,220.40  Less : Allocated to :            Exploratory Drilling (Note - 16)  2,506.43  1,335.06             Development Drilling (Note - 16)  1,871.16  2,842.40             Depreciation on Facilities (Note - 13)  64,756.79  59,741.63             Others  162.25  20,965.76  113.94  15,187.37    Impairment Loss (Note - 40 & 13.3) Provided during the year  3,993.34  3,014.50  Less: Reversed during the year  807.08  3,186.26  756.47  2,258.03  Total 109,258.90  83,735.71  2013-14 2012-13 (` in million)30.
Depreciation, Depletion, Amortization and Impairment 31.
Finance Cost Particulars 213 Annual Report 2013-14 Provisions  For Doubtful Debts  130.55  16,855.66  For Doubtful Claims/Advances  771.45  1,247.72  For Dimunition in value of Investment  -    (375.68) For Non-Moving Inventories  976.04  927.08  For Others  96.16  65.01  Sub-Total  1,974.20  18,719.79  Write-offs Disposal/Condemnation of Fixed Assets (Net)  157.79  56.80  Claims/Advances  1.20  1.76  Inventory  55.31  84.83  Bad debts  129.96  1,101.31  Less: Provisions  129.96  1,101.31   -    -    Others  -    0.02  Sub-Total  214.30  143.41  Total  2,188.50  18,863.20  2013-14 2012-13 (` in million)32.
Provisions and Write Offs (` in million) 2013-14 2012-13 A.
Expenditure Statutory levies  -    40.47  Other production, selling & distribution expenditure  (255.98)  173.02  Excess Abandonment Provision written back (Refer Note No.
41)  (2,353.23)  -    Exchange Rate Difference  -    (58.47) Interest -Others  -    12.43  Survey  (6.30)  0.47  Dry Wells  82.55  455.38  Depletion  (29.93)  -    Depreciation  48.02  8.99  Sub-Total  (2,514.87)  632.29  B.
Income Sales  (13.36)  (193.96) Interest -Others  0.22  3.22  Other Income  0.13  291.54  Sub-Total  (13.01)  100.80  Total (A-B)  (2,501.86)  531.49  33.
Adjustments Relating to Prior Period (Net)  Particulars Particulars 214 2013-14 2012-13 Net Profit after Tax (` in million)  220,948.07  209,256.96  Weighted average number of equity shares (No.
in million)  8,555.49  8,555.49  Basic & Diluted earnings per equity share( ` )  25.83  24.46  Face Value per equity share ( ` )  5.00  5.00  34.
Earning Per Equity Share 35.
Disclosure under the Revised Accounting Standard -15 on "Employee Benefits” 35.1 Brief Description: A general description of the type of Employee Benefits Plans is as follows:  35.1.1 All the employee benefit plans of the Company are run as Group administration plans (Single Employer  Scheme) including employees seconded to ONGC Videsh Limited (OVL), 100% subsidiary.
35.1.2 Earned Leave (EL) Benefit   Accrual - 30 days per year Encashment while in service - 75% of Earned Leave balance subject to a maximum of 90 days per calendar year Encashment on retirement - maximum 300 days  During the year, the Company has changed the Earned leave benefit scheme from unfunded to funded scheme.
Scheme is funded through Life Insurance Corporation of India.
(LIC).
35.1.3 Good Health Reward (Half pay leave)  Accrual - 20 days per year Encashment while in service - Nil Encashment on retirement - 50% of Half Pay Leave balance.
During the year, the Company has changed the Earned leave benefit scheme from unfunded to funded scheme.
Scheme is funded through Life Insurance Corporation of India.
(LIC).
35.1.4 Gratuity  15 days salary for each completed year of service.
Vesting period is 5 years and the payment is restricted to ` 1.00 million.
35.1.5 Post-Retirement Medical Benefits - Upon payment of one time prescribed contribution by the employees, full medical benefits on superannuation and  on voluntary retirement subject to the completion of minimum 20 years of service and 50 years of age.
35.1.6 Terminal Benefits  At the time of superannuation, employees are entitled to settle at a place of their choice and they are eligible for Transfer  Travelling Allowance.
Employees are gifted gold coins also, depending upon their level and years of service.
35.1.7 In terms of DPE Guidelines, The Company has formulated a Post-Retirement Benefit Scheme (PRBS) as a defined  contribution scheme.
35.2 The amounts recognized in the financial statements for defined contribution plans are as under:  (` in million) Defined Contribution Plans Amount recognized  during the period Management Personnel Contributory Provident Fund (CPF) Employee Pension Scheme-95 (EPF) Composite Social Security Scheme 633.09 (0.16) Post Retirement Benefit Scheme 20,747.66                             (NA) Contribution for Key 3,544.51 1.27 (3,287.18) (1.12) 208.54 0.02 (209.54) (0.01) 0.14 (CSSS) (963.27) 1.59 (PRBS) (18,504.79)   Particulars 215 Annual Report 2013-14 35.3       The amounts recognized in the balance sheet for post-employment benefit plans are as under:                (` in million) Sl No.
Particulars Gratuity          Leave Post-Retirement Medical Benefits 1.
Present Value of Funded Obligation 20,890.48 (21,067.89) (19,840.15) 2.
Present Value of Unfunded Obligation - - 24,319.03 (21,562.76)            (6,302.64) 3.
Fair Value of Plan Assets 21,333.28 (21,079.98) 4.
Unrecognized Past Service Cost - - - - 5.
Net Obligation -442.80 (-12.09) (19,840.15) (21,562.76)          (6,302.64) 6.
Total  Provision -442.80 (-12.09) Terminal Benefits 21,867.14 NA NA   6,310.52 19,300.46 NA NA 2,566.68  24,319.03     6,310.52 2,566.68     24,319.03 6,310.52 (19,840.15) (21,562.76) (6,302.64) 35.4 The amounts included in the fair value of plan assets of gratuity fund in respect of Reporting Enterprise's own  financial instruments and any property occupied by, or other assets used by the reporting enterprise are  Nil  (Previous Year Nil)   35.5 Reconciliation showing the movements during the period in the net liability recognized in the balance  sheet:                                                                                            (` in million) Sl No.
Particulars Gratuity          Leave Post-Retirement Medical Benefits Terminal Benefits 1.
Opening defined benefit obligation 20,990.07 20,030.97 21,518.98 6,277.36 (20,534.66) (17,841.28) (19,203.33) (1,152.11) 2.
Current Service Cost 861.99 1,076.57 393.04 400.75 (843.88) (869.42) (329.58) (371.02) 3.
Past Service Cost - - - - 4.
Interest Cost 1,784.16 1,752.71 1,882.87 533.58 (1,745.45) (1,516.51) (1,632.28) (97.93) 5.
Actuarial losses/(-) gains -1,432.31 2,946.96 1,729.36 -884.01 (-1,052.98) (2,943.62) (1,714.98) (4,695.45) 6.
Exchange differences on foreign plans – - - - 7.
Benefits paid 1,313.43 -3,940.06 1,205.22 17.15 (1,003.12) (3,330.67) (1,317.41) (13.87) 8A Current Obligation 20,890.48 2,195.06 1,403.44 689.11 (21,067.89) (1,876.64) (1,296.03) (341.17) 8B Non-Current Obligation - 19,672.08 22,915.59 5,621.41 (17,963.52) (20,266.73) (5,961.48) Total (8A+8B) 20,890.48 21,867.14 24,319.03 6,310.52 (21,067.89) (19,840.16) (21,562.76) (6,302.64) 216 35.6                        The total amount recognized in the financial statements before allocation is as follows: (` in million) Sl No.
Particulars Gratuity          Leave Post-Retirement Medical Benefits Terminal Benefits 1.
Current Service Cost 861.99 1,076.57 393.04 400.75 (843.88) (869.42) (329.58) (371.02) 2.
Interest on Obligation 1,784.16 1,752.71 1,882.87 533.58 (1,745.45) (1,516.51) (1,632.28) (97.93) 3.
Expected return on plan assets 1,825.97 1,752.71 (1,772.05) (NA) NA NA 4.
Net actuarial  Losses/ (-) Gains -1,432.31 4,231.68 1,729.36 -884.01 recognized in period (-830.25) (2,943.61) (1,714.98) (4,695.45) 5.
Past Service Cost - - - - 6.
Losses (Gains) on curtailments and settlement - - - - 7.
Total included in 'employee benefit -462.78 5,308.25 4,005.27 50.31 expense'.
(-12.97) (5,329.55) (3,676.84) (5,164.41) 8.
Actual return on plan assets 1,676.61 467.99 (1,549.33) (NA) NA NA (` in million) Particulars 2013-14 Fair Value of Plan Asset at Beginning 21,079.98 20,114.96 Adjustment in opening corpus consequent to audit (115.90) (0.88) Expected Return on Plan Assets 1,825.97 1,772.05 Contribution by employer - 419.69 Benefits Paid -1,307.41 -1,003.12 Actuarial gain/loss on Plan Assets -149.36 -222.72 Fair Value of Plan Asset at the end of the period (Unaudited) 21,333.28 21,079.98 2012-13 35.7       Statement of Reconciliation of balance of Fair Value of Plan Assets in respect of Gratuity:- 217 Annual Report 2013-14 (` in million) Leave Encashment As at As at As at As at As at 31-03-2014 31-03-2013 31-03-2012 31-03-2011 31-03-2010 Present Value of unfunded NA 19,840.16 17,841.28 16,180.23 13,740.85  obligation as at the end of the period (Note No.
35.1.2 & 35.1.3) Experience Adjustment on plan NA (2,943.61) (2,062.27) (2,917.77 ) (2,440.88)  Liabilities (loss)/gain (` in million) (` in million) Gratuity As at As at As at As at As at 31-03-2014 31-03-2013 31-03-2012 31-03-2011 31-03-2010 Present Value of Funded 20,890.48 21,067.89 20,534.65 19,674.39 17,772.42 obligation as at the end of the period Fair Value of plan assets as at the end of the period 21,333.28 21,079.98 20,114.96 18,171.17 17,469.42 Surplus/(Deficit) 442.80 12.09 (419.69) (1,503.22) (303.00) Experience Adjustment on plan Liabilities (loss)/gain 1,107.26 1,052.97 526.08 (903.84) (234.16) Experience Adjustment on plan Assets (loss)/gain -170.32 (164.39) (217.84) (118.25) (176.08)Leave Encashment As at As at As at As at As at 31-03-2014 31-03-2013 31-03-2012 31-03-2011 31-03-2010 Present Value of Funded 21,867.14 NA NA NA NA obligation as at the end of the period (Note No.
35.1.2 & 35.1.3) Experience Adjustment on plan (2,946.96) - - - - Liabilities (loss)/gain 35.8    Other disclosures:- Expected Contribution in respect of Gratuity for next year will be ` 318.68 million (Previous Year ` 651.86 million) The company has recognized a gratuity liability of ` 75.28 million as on 31.03.2014 (Previous year ` 72.92) as per actuarial  valuation for 589 Contingent Employees engaged in different work centres.
218 (` in million) (` in million) (` in million) Terminal Benefits As at As at As at As at As at 31-03-2014 31-03-2013 31-03-2012 31-03-2011 31-03-2010 Present Value of Unfunded 6,310.52 6,302.64 1,152.11        1,058.67          642.39  obligation as at the end of the period Experience Adjustment on plan 884.01 (4,695.45) (23.05) (356.15) (132.45) Liabilities (loss)/gain Post Retirement Medical Benefits As at As at As at As at As at 31-03-2014 31-03-2013 31-03-2012 31-03-2011 31-03-2010 Present Value of Unfunded 24,319.03      21,562.76      19,203.33      16,495.66      14,077.09 obligation as at the end of the period Experience Adjustment on plan (1,729.36) (1,714.98) (2,072.83) (2,010.67 ) (3,392.32 ) Liabilities (loss)/gain Sensitivity Analysis ( In respect of Post-Retirement Medical Benefits) As at 31-03-2014 1.00 % (+) 1.00 % (-) Effect on service and interest cost 338.82 (218.01) Effect on PBO (Closing) 3,281.81 (2,207.33) Particulars As at 31.03.2014 As at 31.03.2013 Central Govt.
Securities 28.83 29.54 State Govt.
Securities 15.47 14.53 PSU Bonds 28.82 30.25 Treasury Bills 0.11 0.33 Insurance Investment 26.55 24.92 Equity Mutual Fund 0.22 0.43 Total 100.00 100.00 35.9      Investments of Gratuity Trust % of Investment 219 Annual Report 2013-14 Jointly Controlled Entity i. ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited v. ONGC Petro-additions Limited ii.
Petronet LNG Limited vi.
ONGC Tripura Power Co. Limited iii.
ONGC Teri Biotech Limited vii.
Dahej SEZ Limited iv.
Mangalore SEZ Limited 37.2 Key Management Personnel:   Whole-time Functional Directors: i) Shri D K Sarraf, Chairman and Managing Director from 01.03.2014 ii) Shri K.S.
Jamestin  iii) Shri A. K. Banerjee  iv) Shri Shashi Shanker  v) Shri N. K. Verma  vi) Shri T K Sengupta from 01.02.2014 vii) Shri Sudhir Vasudeva Chairman and Managing Director up to 28.02.2014 viii) Shri P. K. Borthakur up to 31.01.2014 35.10     Principal actuarial assumption at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages):  Sl No.
Particulars Gratuity Leave Post-Retirement Medical Benefits Benefits 1.
Discount rate 8.75% (8.5%) ( 2.
Expected return on plan assets 8.71% 3.
Annual increase in costs NA NA 6.00% (6.00%) 4.
Annual Increase in Salary 6.00% (6.00%) (6.00%) Terminal  8.75% 8.75% 8.75% 8.5%) (8.5%) (8.5%) 9.50% NA NA (8.81%) (NA) 6.00% (6.00%) 6.00% NA NA The discount rate is based upon the market yield available on Government bonds at the Accounting date with a  term that matches.
The salary growth rate takes account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant factor  on long term basis.
Expected rate of return on plan assets is based on market expectation, at the beginning of the year, for return over the entire life of the related obligation.
36.
Disclosure under Accounting Standard -17 on "Segment Reporting” The segment information is presented under the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as required under  the standard.
37.
Disclosure under Accounting Standard -18 on "Related Party Disclosure": 37.1 Name of related parties and description of relationship: 220 37.3 Details of Transactions: 37.3.1 Joint Ventures / Jointly Controlled Entities                                                                         (` in million) (` in million) 2012-132013-14Details Sale of Gas- ONGC Tripura Power Co. limited 1,236.49 184.79 Services Received from : a) ONGC Teri Biotech Limited b) Dahej SEZ Ltd. 9.33 c) ONGC Mangalore Petrochemical Limited - 0.02 d) Petronet LNG Limited - 0.78 e) Mangalore SEZ Limited 0.09 f) ONGC Tripura Power Co.  Limited 0.10 - Services Provided to : a) ONGC Petro-additions Limited 117.63 117.50 b) ONGC Teri Biotech Limited 0.12 - c) ONGC Mangalore Petrochemical Limited 5.90 5.01 d) Petronet LNG limited - 1.32 e) Mangalore SEZ Limited - 2.27 f) ONGC Tripura Power Co.  Limited 235.96 - Dividend Income - Petronet LNG Limited 234.38 Advance against Equity during Year: a) ONGC Petro-additions Limited b) ONGC Tripura Power Co.  Limited Amount Receivable :  a) ONGC Petro-additions Limited b) ONGC Mangalore Petrochemical Limited c) Mangalore SEZ Limited - 0.64 d) ONGC Tripura Power Co.  Limited Amount Payable :  a) ONGC Teri Biotech Limited b) Dahej SEZ Ltd. c) ONGC Tripura Power Co. limited d) Mangalore SEZ Limited Advance towards equity pending allotment  : a) ONGC Petro-addition Limited b) ONGC Tripura Power Co.  Limited c) ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited 112.42 182.34 9.12 0.09 234.38 6,985.60 - 2,925.10 103.32 54.69 42.96 1.85 4.97 373.80 - 51.55 115.98   7.54 7.00  0.02 0.86   0.09 - 6,709.24 3,328.69 2,925.10 - 9,199.77 9,199.77 37.3.2  Key Management Personnel Particulars 2013-14 2012-13 Remuneration to Directors  33.75 21.55 Amount Receivable 1.25 1.47 Amount Payable 10.32 6.33 221 Annual Report 2013-14 38.
Disclosure under Accounting Standard - 19 on 'Leases'  The company has certain office/residential premises on Operating Lease which are cancellable by giving  appropriate notice as per the respective agreements.
During the year ` 934.64 million (Previous year ` 914.03  million) had been paid towards cancellable Operating Lease.
39.
Disclosure under Accounting Standard - 27 on ‘Financial Reporting of Interest in Joint Ventures’: 39.1 Jointly Controlled Assets In respect of certain blocks, the Company's Joint Ventures (JV) with certain bodies corporate have entered into  Production Sharing Contracts (PSCs) with GoI.
Details of these blocks and JVs as on 31.03.2014 are as under: Sl.
Blocks Company's PI * Others Partners and their PI in the JV/Operatorship*** A Jointly Operated JVs 1 Panna,  Mukta and Tapti 40% (40%) BGEPIL 30%,  RIL  30% 2 AN-DWN-2009/3 60% (60%) OIL 40% B ONGC Operated JVs 3 CB-OS/1  Development Phase** 55.26% (55.26%) TPL  6.7%, HOEC  38.04% 4 MN-DWN-98/3** 100%  (60%) (PIBBV  40%) 5 MN-OSN-2000/2 40% (40%) GAIL  20%, IOC    20%, OIL    20% 6 AA-ONN-2001/2 80% (80%) IOC  20% 7 AA-ONN-2001/3 85% (85%) OIL  15% 8 KK-DWN-2002/2 80% ( 80%) HPCL 20% 9 CY-ONN-2002/2 60% (60%) BPRL  40% 10 AA-ONN-2002/4 90% (90%) OIL 10% 11 CY-DWN-2004/3 70% (70%) GSPC 10%, HPCL 10%, GAIL 10% 12 CY-PR-DWN-2004/1 70% (70%) GSPC 10%, HPCL 10%, GAIL 10% 13 CB-ONN-2004/1** 60% (50%) GSPC 40%, (HERA-MEC LTD 10%) 14 CB-ONN-2004/2 55% (55% ) GSPC 45%  15 CB-ONN-2004/3 65% (65%) GSPC 35%  16 CY-ONN-2004/1 80% (80%) BPRL 20% 17 CY-ONN-2004/2 80% (80%) BPRL 20% 18 MB-OSN-2005-1 80% (80%) GSPC  20% 19 MB-OSN-2005-5 70% (70%  ) GSPC  30% 20 MB-OSN-2005-6 80% (80% ) GSPC  20% 21 KG-DWN-2005/1 70% (70%  ) IOC 20%, GSPC 10% 22 KK-DWN-2005/2 90% (90%) GSPC 10% 23 KG-OSN-2005/1 60%(60% ) HMEL  20%, GSPC   20% 24 KG-OSN-2005/2 80% (80%) HMEL  20% 25 Raniganj 74% (74%) CIL  26% 26 Jharia 90% (90%) CIL  10% No.
222 Sl.
Blocks Company's PI * Others Partners and their PI in the JV/Operatorship***No.
27 NK-CBM-2001/1 80% (80%) IOC 20% 28 BK-CBM-2001/1 80% (80%) IOC  20% 29 CB-ONN-2005/4 51% (51%) GSPC 49% 30 CB-ONN-2005/10 51% (51%) GSPC 49% 31 PR-ONN-2005/1 80% (80%) TPL  20% 32 WB-ONN-2005/4 75% (75%) OIL  25% 33 AA-ONN-2005/1 60% (60%) OIL 30%,  ACIL -10% 34 GV-ONN-2005/3 80% (80%) TPL 20% 35 AN-DWN-2009/2 60% (60%) OIL 40% 36 AN-DWN-2009/1 70% (70%) OIL 30%  37 AN-DWN-2009/5** 100%(90%) (GSPC 10%) 38 AN-DWN-2009/13** 80% (70%) GAIL 10%, NTPC 10%, (GSPC 10%) 39 AN-DWN-2009/18 60% (60%) OIL 30%, GAIL 10% 40 GK-OSN-2009/1 40%(40%) AWEL  20%, GSPC 20%, IOC 20% 41 GK-OSN-2009/2 40%(40%) AWEL 30%, IOC 30% 42 KG-OSN-2009/1 80% (80%) APGIC 10%, NTPC 10% 43 KG-OSN-2009/2 90% (90%) APGIC 10% 44 KG-OSN-2009/4 50% (50%) APGIC 10%, OIL 30%, NTPC 10% 45 AA-ONN-2009/3 50% (50%) OIL 50% 46 CB-ONN-2009/4 50% (50%) GSPC 50% 47 GK-OSN-2010/1 60% (60%) OIL-30%, GAIL-10% 48 GK-OSN-2010/2 90% (90%) GAIL- 10% 49 CB-ONN-2010/6 80% (80%) IOC- 20% C Operated by JV Partners  50 Ravva 40% (40%) Cairn India (Operator) 22.5% ,  VIL  25%, ROPL 12.5% 51 CY-OS-90/1 (PY3) 40% (40%) HEPI (operator)  18%, HOEC 21%                                                                                           TPL 21% 52 RJ-ON-90/1 30% (30%) Cairn India (Operator) 35%, CEHL 35% 53 CB-OS/2 -Development Phase 50% (50%) Cairn India (operator) 40% ,                                                                  TPL 10% 54 CB-ON/7 -Development Phase 30% (30%) HOEC (Operator) 35%,  GSPC 35% 55 CB-ON/3 - Development Phase 30% (30%) EOL (Operator)70% 56 AA-ONN-2002/3 70% (70%) OIL (Operator) 30%                                                                              57 AN-DWN-2003/2 45%(45%) ENI (Operator) 40% GAIL 15% 58 KG-ONN-2003/1 51% (51%) Cairn India  49% (Operator),  223 Annual Report 2013-14 * PI - Participating Interest ** Approval towards assignment of PI is awaited from GoI *** There is no change in previous year details unless otherwise stated.
Abbreviations:- ACL- Assam Company (India) Ltd, APGIC- AP Gas Infrastructure Corporation Ltd, AWEL- Adani  Wels pun Exploration Ltd, BGEPIL- British Gas Exploration & Production India Ltd, BPRL- Bharat Petro Resources  Ltd, Cairn India-Cairn India Ltd, CEHL- Cairn Energy Hydrocarbons Ltd,  CIL- Coal India Ltd, ENI- Ente Nazionale  Idrocarburi, Ensearch- Enserach, EWP- East west Petroleum Canada, GAIL- Gas Authority of India Ltd, GGR- Geo  Global Resources, GSPC- Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Ltd, HEPI- Hardy Exploration & Production India  Ltd, Heramec- Heramec Ltd, HEPI-Hardy Exploration & Production (India), HEIBV-Hydro Oil & Energy India BV,  HMEL- HPCL Mittal Energy Ltd, HOEC- Hindustan Oil Exploration Company Ltd, HPCL- Hindustan Petroleum  Corporation Ltd, IOC- Indian Oil Corporation Ltd, INPEX- INPEX Offshore East India Ltd, NTPC- National Thermal  Power Corporation Ltd, OIL- Oil India Ltd, PIBBV-Petrobras International Braspero BV, VIL- Videocon Industries Ltd,  RIL- Reliance Industries Ltd, ROPL- Ravva Oil (Singapore) Private Ltd, SRL- Sunterra Resources  Ltd, TPL- Tata  Petrodyne Ltd 39.2 List of the blocks surrendered during the year are given below:  Sl.
No.
Joint Ventures / PSCs Company's PI * 1.
PA-ONN-2004/1 100% (100%) 2.
CB-ONN-2004/4 60%(60%) 3.
CY-DWN-2004/1 70% (70%) 4.
CY-DWN-2004/2 70% (70%) 5.
CY-DWN-2004/4 70% (70%) 6.
CY-PR-DWN-2004/2 70% (70%) 7.
GV-ONN-2004/1 100%(100%) 8.
KG-DWN-2004/1 70% (70%) 9.
KG-DWN-2004/2 60% (60%) 10.
KG-DWN-2004/3 70% (70%) 11.
KG-DWN-2004/5 50% (50%) 12.
KG-DWN-2004/6 34% (34%) 13.
AN-DWN-2005/1 90% (90%) * PI - Participating Interest Sl.
Blocks Company's PI * Others Partners and their PI in the JV/Operatorship***No.
59 PR-OSN-2004/1 35% (35%) Cairn India (Operator) 35%, TPL 30% 60 CB-ON/2- Development phase 30% (30%) GSPC (Operator) 56%,   Geo-Global Resources  14% 61 RJ-ONN-2005/3 40% (40%) GSPC (Operator) 60% 62 AA-ONN-2009/4 50% (50%) OIL(Operator) 50% 63 CY-OSN-2009/2 50% (50%) OIL  50% (Operator) 64 KG-DWN-2009/1 45% (45%) BGEPIL 30%(Operataor), OIL 15%, APGIC 10% 65 RJ-ON/6 - Development phase    30% (30%) Focus Energy Ltd (Operator) 7%                                                                       I services Investment Ltd, Mauritius 45.5% Newbury Oil Co. Ltd, Cyprus  17.5%                                                                              66 AA-ONN-2010/2 30% (30%) OIL -40%, GAIL-20%, EWP-10% 67 AA-ONN-2010/3 40%(40%) OIL-40%, BPRL-20% 224 39.3 The Financial position of the JV/NELP blocks are as under: No.
of JVs/ NELP Blocks NELP Block-100% PI* 19       (21)  Blocks with other 67       (78)  Surrendered 49       (41) Total 135 (140)  Assets Liabilities Income Expenditure Profit / (-) Loss before tax 37,773.90 341.84 96.45 20,154.93 -20,058.48 (15,654.33) (368.09) (71.51) (26,243.39) (-26,171.88) 103,668.42 44,450.57 182,462.92 142,405.71 40,057.21 partners (92,348.44) (28,134.96) (170,084.17) (106,303.27) (63,780.91) 5,209.85 9,565.83 0.37 2,045.23 -2,044.86 (3,346.44) (8,979.16) (613.22) (8,646.73) (-8,033.51) 146,652.16 54,358.23 182,559.73 164,605.87 17,953.87 (111,349.21) (37,482.21) (170,768.90) (141,193.38) (29,575.52) No.
of JVs/ NELP Blocks Assets Liabilities Income Expenditure Profit / (-) Loss before tax Audited 124 145,807.09 51,823.77 182,255.94 163,656.37 18,599.58 (129) (110,369.47) (34,943.33) (170,599.99) (139,865.63) (30,734.36) Unaudited 11 845.07 2,534.46 303.79 949.50 -645.71 (11) (979.74) (2,538.89) (168.91) (1,327.76) (-1,158.85) Total 135 146,652.16 54,358.23 182,559.73 164,605.87 17,953.87 (140) (111,349.21) (37,482.21) (170,768.90) (141,193.38) (29,575.52) 39.3.1 The financial statements of 124 (previous year 129) out of 135 (previous year 140) JVs/NELP have been  incorporated in the accounts to the extent of Company's participating interest in assets, liabilities, income,  expenditure and profit / (loss) before tax on the basis of statements certified in accordance with production sharing  contract and in respect of balance 11 (previous year 11) JVs/NELP, the figures have been incorporated on the basis  of uncertified statements prepared under the production sharing contracts.
Both the figures have been adjusted for  changes as per Note No.
2.1.1.The financial positions of JV/NELP are as under:  (` in million) (` in million) 39.3.2 In respect of 12 NELP blocks (previous year 16)  which have expired as on 31st March, 2014, the  Company's share of Unfinished Minimum Work  Programme (MWP) amounting to ` 18,014.12  million (previous year to ` 19,560.95 million) has  not been provided for since the company has  already applied for further extension of period in  these blocks as 'excusable delay'/ special  dispensations citing technical complexities, within  the extension policy of NELP Blocks, which are  under active consideration of GoI.
The delays have  occurred generally on account of pending  statutory clearances from various Govt.
authorities  like Ministry of Defense, Ministry of Commerce,  envir onmental clearances, State Gov t.  permissions etc.
The above MWP amount of ` 18,014.12 million (previous year ` 19,560.95  million) is included in MWP commitment under note  no.
42.2.1.
39.3.3 As per the Production Sharing Contracts signed by the Company with the GoI, the Company is  required to complete Minimum Work Programme  (MWP) within stipulated time.
In case of delay in completion of the MWP, Liquidated Damages (LD) is payable for extension of time to complete MWP.
Further, in case the Company does not  complete MWP or surrender the block without  completing the MWP, the estimated cost of  completing balance work programme is required to  be paid to the GoI.
LD amounting to ` 245.65 million  (Previous year ` 293.30 million) and cost of  unfinished MWP (net of reversal) ` (-) 59.14 million  (Previous year ` 217.14 million), paid/payable to the  GoI is included in survey and wells written off  expenditure respectively.
225 Annual Report 2013-14 39.3.4 The company had acquired Participating Interest (PI) of British Gas Exploration & Production India Ltd (BGEPIL) in  the following blocks, effective from the following dates as approved by the board of directors.
Name of the Block PI Date of Transfer of PI KG OSN 2004/1 45% 25.11.2011 KG DWN 98/4 30% 18.05.2011 MN DWN 2002/2 25% 01.12.2011 British Gas has agreed to pay a lump sum amount of USD 50 Million, towards full and final settlement of carry  costs/cash calls due in all the above blocks, subject to government approval for transfer of PI in all the above  blocks.
Since the government approval in respect of MN DWN 2002/2 is pending, no adjustment is made in the  accounts towards the lump sum amount due as above.
39.4 Jointly Controlled Entities: 39.4.1 Company has ownership interest in following Jointly Controlled Entities: Petronet LNG Limited India 12.50 12.50 Petronet MHB Limited India 28.77 28.77 Mangalore SEZ Limited India 26.00 26.00 ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited India 46.00 46.00 ONGC Petro-additions Limited India 49.36 49.00 ONGC Tripura Power Co. Limited India 49.52 49.52 ONGC Teri Biotech Limited India 49.98 49.98 Dahej SEZ Limited India 50.00 50.00 Ownership Interest (%) Name As at 31.03.2014            As at 31.03.2013 Country of  Incorporation 39.4.2 The Company's share in assets, liabilities, income, expenses, contingent liabilities and capital              commitments of Jointly Controlled Entities: (` in million) Description As at 31.03.2014 As at 31.03.2013 i) Assets   Fixed Assets 136,189.25 107,541.52 Other Non-Current Asset 19,794.25 20,755.45 Deferred Tax Assets 256.91 218.05 Current Asset 13,334.56 8,478.52 ii) Liabilities Long Term Borrowings 104,535.79 36,146.92 Other Non-Current liabilities and provisions 6,819.94 4,998.55 Deferred Tax Liability 896.17 603.43 Current liabilities and provisions 26,507.16 72,212.46 iii) Income 49,208.33     40,469.92  iv) Expenses 47,442.17     37,924.79  v) Contingent liabilities 8,868.61 7,749.88 vi) Capital commitments 18,372.56 29,017.22 226 40.
Disclosure under Accounting Standard - 28 and  Guidance note on Accounting for Oil and gas  producing Activities (Revised) on "Impairment  of Assets"  40.1 The Company is engaged mainly in the business of  oil and gas exploration and production in On-shore  and Offshore.
In case of onshore assets, the fields  are using common production/transportation  facilities and are suf ficiently economically  interdependent to constitute a single cash  generating unit (CGU).
Accordingly, impairment  test of all onshore fields are performed in aggregate  of all those fields at the Asset Level.
In case of  Offshore Assets, a field is generally considered as  CGU except for fields which are developed as a  Cluster, for which common facilities are used, in  which case the impairment testing is performed in  aggregate for all the fields included in the cluster.
40.2 The Value in Use of producing/developing CGUs is  determined under a multi-stage approach, wherein  future cash flows are initially estimated based on  P r o v e d  D e v e l o p e d  R e s e r v e s .
U n d e r   circumstances where the further development of  the fields in the CGUs is under progress and where  the carrying value of the CGUs is not likely to be  recovered through exploitation of proved  developed reserves alone, the Proved and  probable reserves (2P) of the CGUs are also taken  for the purpose of estimating future cash flows.
In  such cases, full estimate of the expected cost of  evaluation/development is also considered while  determining the value in use.
40.3 In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash  flows from the continuing use of the assets and  from its disposal at the end of its useful life are  discounted to their present value.
The present  value of cash flows are determined by applying  discount rates of 19.10% (previous year 20.10%)  for Rupee transactions and 13.00% (previous year  14.00 %) for crude oil and value added products  revenue, which are measured in USD.
Future cash  inflows from sale of crude oil and value added  products are computed using the future prices, on  the basis of market-based average prices of the  Dated Brent crude oil as per assessment by 'Platt's  Crude Oil Marketwire' and its co-relations with  benchmark crudes and other petroleum products.
Future cash flows from sale of natural gas is also  computed based on the expected future prices on  the basis of the notification issued by the  Government of India.
40.4 During the year ` 1,025.48 million (Previous Year ` 3,014.50 million) is provided as impairment loss.
Out of this, an amount of ` 355.97 million (Previous  Year ` 45.36 million) has been provided as  additional impairment in respect of onshore CGUs  - Jodhpur and Silchar.
` 91.25 million (Previous  Year ` 38.00 million)   has been provided for  already impaired offshore CGU- Ratna, D18, B 121  due to increase in the estimate of abandonment  cost has been provided.
In addition, ` 30.42 million  (Previous Year  ` 23.40 million) pertaining to block  CY-OS-90/1 (PY-3) has been provided as presently  the field does not have any potential to produce.
An  amount of ` 79.40 million (Previous Year ` 453.11  million) mainly represents additional impairment  charge in respect of certain onshore Pre- NELP  joint venture blocks (RJ ON 6, CB ON 2 and CB ON  3) due to adjustment of cost recovery from revenue  and sharing of 100% royalty.
Balance amount of  `441.87 million, ` 15.90 million and ` 10.68  million has been provided for Tapti, Hazira Plant  and CBX respectively.
40.5 Further, ` 806.08 million (Previous Year ` 756.47  million) impairment loss has been reversed based  on the impairment test carried out as at the balance  Sheet date.
The reversal as at 31.03.2014 is in  respect Offshore CGU G1-GS15 and Hazira SBM.
40.6 The following 2P reserves for the respective CGU  considered as a basis for the impairment    assessment.
Name of the CGU Quantity of Reserves used for Impairment Assessment(In Mmt) G1-GS 15 6.13 Jodhpur Onshore Asset 1.99 Silchar Onshore Asset 0.80 RJ-ON-06 (Pre NELP PSC Block) 0.88 CB-ON-02 (Pre NELP PSC Block) 0.08 Cluster B-193 13.36 227 Annual Report 2013-14 41.
Disclosure under Accounting Standard - 29 on "Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets": Movement in Provisions for Abandonment and others: Other provisions represent provision for Court cases, arbitration and others, where the timing of expected outflows  is upon settlement of the proceedings : (` in million) Particulars Provision for Abandonment                         Others 42.
Other Disclosures under Schedule VI to the  Companies Act, 1956: 42.1 Capital Commitments: Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be  executed on capital account:-  i) In respect of Company - ` 83,351.44 million  (Previous year ` 87,601.57 million).
ii) In respect of Joint Ventures - ` 4,367.54 million  (Previous year ` 5,611.71 million).
42.2 Other Commitments  42.2.1 Estimated amount of Minimum Work Programme  (MWP) committed under various 'Production  Sharing Contracts' with Government of India/  Nominated Blocks: I) In respect of Nominated Blocks  ` 441.59 million (Previous year ` 958.54  million).
ii) In respect of NELP blocks in which the Company has 100% participating interest - ` 9,600.47 million (Previous year ` 12,305.38 million).
iii) In respect of NELP blocks in Joint Ventures, company's share - ` 62,247.39  million (Previous year ` 62,127.36 million).
42.2.2 The Company has given an undertaking to The  State Bank of India, for a Rupee term loan  agreement amounting to ` 30,350 million  (previous year ` 2,223.80 million through Power  Finance Corporation limited) in respect of ONGC  Tripura Power Co. Limited (OTPC) for not to dilute  the shareholding till two years after Commercial  Operation Date (COD) of the project and to bear  any cost overrun to the extent of 10% of the  estimated project cost of  ` 40,470 million.
2013-14 2012-13 2013-14 2012-13 Opening Balance 177,454.45 176,529.96 761.86 914.57 Add: Provision made during the year 53,337.97 924.49 96.16 65.01 Less: Provision written back/ reclassified/ reduction during the year 2,353.23 - 52.16 217.72 Closing Balance 228,439.19 177,454.45 805.86 761.86 228 42.3      Contingent Liabilities:     Claims against the Company/ disputed demands not acknowledged as debt:-                                                                                   (` in million) I.
In respect of Company  i.
Income Tax  55,087.45 30,315.36 ii.
Excise Duty  9,406.06 8,498.82 iii.
Custom Duty    1,599.77 1,452.76 iv.
Royalty (Note - 42.3.2)  117,301.90 90,178.00 v. Cess  6.57 6.57 vi.
AP Mineral Bearing Lands (Infrastructure) Cess  2,211.27 1,962.84 vii.
Sales Tax  46,086.36 45,853.77 viii.Service Tax 4,225.07 5,036.08 ix.
Octroi  68.54 68.54 x.
Specified Land Tax (Assam)  3,528.89  3,194.73  xi.
Claims of contractors (Incl.
LAQ) in Arbitration / Court  50,783.08 29,270.46 xii.
Employees Provident Fund  66.35  66.35  xiii.
Others  53,911.41 36,596.25 Sub Total (A)  344,282.72 252,500.53 II.
In respect of Joint Ventures  i.
Income Tax  8.91 8.91 ii.
Excise Duty  4.17 - iii.
Custom Duty    3,798.73 3,744.00 iv.
Sales Tax and Service Tax  2,879.82 3,115.13 v.   Claims of contractors in Arbitration / Court  5,095.94 333.24 vi.
Others  854.74 5,193.84 Sub Total (B)  12,642.31  12,395.12  Total (A + B) 356,925.04 264,895.65 Particulars        As at st 31  March, 2013 As at st 31  March, 2014 42.3.1 The above claims / demands are at various stages  of appeal.
In the opinion of the management, these  claims / demands are not tenable.
42.3.2 In terms of the statutory provisions of Oilfields  (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948 (ORDA),  Petroleum & Natural Gas (PNG) Rules 1959 and  Notifications issued thereunder; the Company is  liable to pay royalty to Central Government and  State Governments, on production of Crude Oil  and Natural Gas from offshore fields and onshore  fields, respectively.
Since 2008-09, the company  has been paying royalty on crude oil at realized  price which is net of under-recovery of the OMCs  shared by the Company as per GoI directives.
On  an application filed by the  State of Gujarat, the  Hon'ble High Court of Gujarat in its order dated  30.11.2013 has directed the company to pay the  shortfall of royalty on crude oil produced from the  onshore fields in the State of Gujarat on pre- discount prices from 01.04.2008 onwards.
Based  on the Special Leave Petition filed by the  Company, pending further orders, Hon'ble  Supreme Court vide order dated 13.02.2014  stayed the operation of the impugned judgment  subject to the condition that the company pays  royalty to the State of Gujarat on pre-discounted  price of crude oil w.e.f.
01.02.2014 onwards.
Accordingly, possible obligation on this account  for the period from April 2008 to March 2014 has  been disclosed as Contingent Liability for  ` 116,326.96 million.
Differential royalty (royalty  on pre-discount price minus royalty on post- discount price) being deposited w.e.f.
Feb'14 in  terms of court order has been shown as deposit.
42.4 Corporate Guarantees executed by the Company  on behalf of its wholly owned subsidiary, ONGC  Videsh Limited (OVL) and Mangalore refinery and  Petrochemical Limited (Subsidiary): 42.4.1 Guarantees executed for financial obligations: I) Amount of Guarantee ` 321,657.40 million  (Previous year ` 91,285.50 million) ii) Amount outstanding ` 314,417.66 million (Previous year ` 73,774.85 million) 229 Annual Report 2013-14 42.4.2 Corporate Guarantees executed by the Company on behalf of its subsidiary, MRPL:  I) Amount of Guarantee ` 13,513.50 million (Previous year ` 12,237.75 million)  ii) Amount outstanding ` 7,370.56 million (Previous year ` 11,262.75 million) 42.5 Quantitative Details   42.5.1 Production Quantities (Certified by the Management): Products Unit 2013-14 2012-13 Crude Oil MT 25,994,105      26,127,115  3 Natural Gas 000 M 24,851,248      25,335,211  Liquefied Petroleum Gas MT 1,067,230 1,006,623  Ethane/Propane MT 430,447 427,708  Naphtha MT 1,358,414 1,533,817  Superior Kerosene Oil MT 84,305 108,326  Aviation Turbine Fuel MT 9,658 11,466  Low Sulphur Heavy Stock MT 27,992 24,503  High Speed Diesel MT 36,311 36,786  Mineral Turpentine Oil MT 1,117 562  Light Diesel Oil MT 50 - Notes: 1.
Production includes internal consumption and intermediary losses.
3  2.
Production of 1,521  MT (Previous year 0.206 MT) Crude Oil and 26,596 TM (Previous year 16,436  TM  ) of  Natural Gas is included being the difference between  participating interest and entitlement interest in  respect of  CB-ON/3, CB-ON/2 and RJ-ON/6 JVs.
3.
Crude oil production includes condensate of 1.819 MMT (Previous year 2.076 MMT).
42.5.2 Purchases (Traded Products): 3  2013-14 Quantity QuantityValue ( ` in million ) Value ( ` in million ) UnitParticulars 2012-13 High Speed Diesel KL 59 2.68 12 0.57 Motor Spirit KL 541 28.80 562 30.05 Others  0.32 0.42 Total  31.80 31.04 230 42.5.3 Raw  Material  Consumed: 2013-14 2013-14 Quantity QuantityValue at cost ( ` in million ) % %Amount ( ` in million ) Amount ( ` in million ) Value at cost ( ` in million ) Unit 2012-13 2012-13 2012-13 2012-13 2013-14 2013-14 Out of own production: Crude Oil MT 89,117 654.94     90,334              601.12  3 Natural Gas 000M 864,774 5,671.75 784,446           4,636.50  3 Gas Equivalent Condensate 000M 482,772 2,132.78 506,778           1,631.74  Purchases    Gas Equivalent Condensate MT 20,329 889.73     39,008           1,878.42  For production of Liquefied  Petroleum Gas, Ethane/Propane,  Naphtha, Superior Kerosene Oil,  Low Sulphur High Stock, Aviation  Turbine Fuel and High Speed  Diesel.
42.6    Consumption of Raw Material, Stores and Spare Parts: 42.7   Value of  Imports on CIF Basis : 42.8 Expenditure in Foreign Currency: Imported 10,766.35 21.01 11,819.27 28.17 Indigenous 40,480.21 78.99 30,141.23 71.83  Total 51,246.56 100.00 41,960.50 100.00 Capital items * 182,105.92 177,094.61 Stores and Spare Parts 18,009.91 16,768.58  Total 200,115.83 193,863.19 Services 182,380.14 178,750.38 Others 1,348.49 3,695.73  Total 183,728.64 182,446.11  (` in million)  (` in million) *Includes stage payments made against capital works.
Particulars 231 Annual Report 2013-14 2012-132013-14 42.9 Earnings in Foreign Currency: Interest - 58.92 Services           53.46 2.14 FOB value of Sales      74,818.30 74,121.51 Others            18.08 540.81  Total     74,889.85 74,723.38  (` in million)  Particulars 43.
Disclosure under Guidance Note on Accounting for "Oil & Gas Producing Activities" (Revised) Company's share of Proved Reserves on the geographical basis is as under: Crude Oil (MMT) Crude Oil (MMT) Gas (Billion Cubic Meter) Gas (Billion Cubic Meter) Total Oil Equivalent (MMTOE)* Total Oil Equivalent (MMTOE)* Details Details As at 31.03.2014 As at 31.03.2014 As at 31.03.2014 As at 31.03.2014 As at 31.03.2014 As at 31.03.2014 As at 31.03.2013 As at 31.03.2013 As at 31.03.2013 As at 31.03.2013 As at 31.03.2013 As at 31.03.2013 Opening 222.98 215.77 203.245 208.179 426.22 423.95 Addition 4.71 22.79 18.652 14.917 23.36 37.71 Production 15.54 15.58 19.174 19.851 34.71 35.43 Closing 212.16 222.98 202.723 203.245 414.87 426.22 Opening 190.81 190.46 155.897 156.074 346.71 346.53 Addition 7.94 9.87 0.020 5.170 7.96 15.04 Production 9.44 9.51 5.321 5.348 14.76 14.86 Closing 189.31 190.81 150.595 155.897 339.90 346.71 Opening 413.79 406.23 359.142 364.253 772.93 770.48 Addition 12.65 32.66 18.671 20.087 31.33 52.75 Production 24.97 25.10 24.496 25.199 49.47 50.29 Closing 401.47 413.79 353.318 359.142 754.78 772.93 Opening 160.62 153.50 110.254 114.690 270.87 268.19 Addition 13.90 22.70 41.630 15.431 55.53 38.13 Production 15.54 15.58 19.174 19.867 34.71 35.45 Closing 158.99 160.62 132.710 110.254 291.70 270.87 Opening 150.81 148.73 110.010 110.364 260.81 259.09 Addition 5.18 11.57 2.225 4.933 7.40 16.50 Production 9.39 9.49 5.251 5.287 14.64 14.78 Closing 146.60 150.81 106.984 110.010 253.58 260.81 Opening 311.43 302.23 220.264 225.055 531.69 527.28 Addition 19.09 34.27 43.855 20.364 62.93 54.63 Production 24.93 25.07 24.425 25.154 49.36 50.22 Closing 305.58 311.43 239.694 220.264 545.28 531.69 43.1     Company's share of Proved Developed Reserves on the geographical basis is as under: Offshore Onshore Total Offshore Onshore Total 232 *MMTOE denotes "Million Metric Tonne Oil Equivalent" and for calculating Oil equivalent of Gas, 1000 M3 of Gas has  been taken to be equal to 1 MT of Crude Oil.
Variations in totals, if any, are due to internal summation and rounding off.
43.2 The year-end reserves of the company have  been estimated by the Reserves Estimation  Committee (REC) which follows international  reservoir  engineering procedures consistently.
The company has adopted deterministic  approach for reserves estimation and is  following Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE)  - 1997 guidelines which defines reserves as  "estimated volumes of crude oils, condensate,  natural gas, natural gas liquids and associated  substances anticipated to be commercially  recoverable from known accumulations from a  given date forward, under existing economic  conditions, by established operating practices,  and under current Government regulations."
Volumetric estimation is the main procedure in  estimation, which uses reservoir rock and fluid  properties to calculate hydrocarbons in-place  and then estimate that portion which will be  recovered from it.
As the field gets matured with  reasonably good production history is available  then performance method such as material  balance, simulation, decline curve analysis are  applied to get more accurate assessments of  reserves.
The Company uses the services of third party  agencies for due diligence and it gets the reserves of  its assets audited by third party periodically by  internationally reputed consultants who adopt latest  industry practices for their evaluation.
The annual revision of estimates is based on the  yearly exploratory and development activities and  results thereof.
New In place Volume and Ultimate  Reserves are estimated for new field discoveries or  new pool discoveries in already discovered fields.
Also, appraisal activities lead to revision in estimates  due to new subsur face data.
Similarly,  reinterpretation exercise is also carried out for old  fields due to necessity of revision in petro-physical  parameters, updating of static & dynamic models  and performance analysis leading to change in  reserves.
Intervention of new technology, change in  classifications and contractual provisions also  necessitates revision in estimation of reserves.
44.
Disclosure pursuant to  clause 32 of the Listing Agreement:  (` in million) Outstanding  as at  31.03.2014 Parliculars Outstanding  as at  31.03.2013 Maximum Amount  Outstanding during the year 2013-14 Maximum Amount  Outstanding during the year 2012-13 a) Loans to Subsidiaries:* i) ONGC Videsh Limited (OVL)*  ii) Mangalore Refinery &  Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) b) Loan to Associate: i) Pawan Hans Limited (formerly  Pawan Hans Helicopter Ltd)   (PHL) c) Where there is no repayment  schedule:  i) ONGC Videsh Limited (OVL) d) Having repayment schedule  of beyond  seven years : i) Employees e) Where no interest or interest  below Section 372A of  Companies Act:  i) ONGC Videsh Limited (OVL)*  ii) Mangalore Refinery &  Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) f) In the nature of loans to  Firms\ companies in which  directors are interested: *Excludes Current account transactions 52,914.93 46,285.70 718.17 52,914.93       10,379.28 52,914.93 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 119,576.99 50,700.00                     1,056.17  119,576.99 10,379.28 119,576.99 119,576.99 36,600.00          1,056.17         119,576.99 9,854.79 119,576.99 170,619.29 37,500.00 1,319.24 170,619.29 9,854.79 170,619.29 233 Annual Report 2013-14 g) Investments by the ONGC Videsh Limited (OVL), loanee: Name of Subsidiary st As at 31  March, 2014 No.
of Shares No.
of Shares` in million ` in million st As at 31  March, 2013 a) ONGC Nile Ganga B.V. Equity Shares     Class A Class B Class C b) ONGC Narmada Limited Equity Shares  c)  ONGC Amazon Alaknanda  Limited Equity Shares  Preference Shares d) Imperial Energy Limited (formerly Jarpeno Limited) Equity Shares  Preference Shares e) Carabobo One AB  Equity Shares f) ONGC (BTC) Limited g) Beas Rovuma Energy Mozambique Limited  40  100  880 20,000,000 12,000 227,216,319 1,450 192,210      377,678 8,000,001 7,680 8,462.12 21,155.29 234.25  6.94 0.56 10,486.04 15,574.46 86,744.37 2,822.02 2,529.66 94,289.92 40  100  880 20,000,000 12,000 306,611,613 1,450 192,210      377,678 8,000,001 - 8,462.12 21,155.29 234.25 6.94 0.56 14,150.13 15,574.46 86,744.37 2,822.02 2,519.86 - Notes :  1.
Loan to OVL is repayable within a notice period of minimum one year and carries no interest during the year  2012-13  and 2013-14.
2.
Loan to MRPL carries interest @ SBI Prime Lending Rate (SBAR) with a spread of minus 385 basis points.
Repayment  of the loan will start in 28 equal instalment starting from 31.03.2014.
ONGC can call these loans on notice of 90 days.
MRPL can also prepay whole or part of the loan to ONGC as per its requirement.
3.
The Company has not advanced any money to its employees for the purposes of investment in the securities of the  Company.
234 45.
Disclosure under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006: Company had sought confirmation from the vendors whether they fall in the category of Micro or Small Enterprises.
Based on the information available, the required disclosure for Micro & Small Enterprises under the above Act is  given below:  (` in million) a)  Principal amount remaining unpaid but not due as at year end b) Interest due thereon as at year end c) Interest paid by the Company in terms of Section 16 of Micro,  Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006,  along with the amount of the payment made to the supplier  beyond the appointed day during the year d) Interest due and payable for the period of delay in making  payment (which have been paid but beyond the appointed day  during the year) but without adding the interest specified under  Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 e) Interest accrued and remaining unpaid as at year end f) Further interest remaining due and payable even in the  succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as  above are actually paid to the small enterprise  Particulars 2013-14 2012-13 81.44                      - - - - - 3.60                 - - - - - 46.
Disclosure on Foreign currency exposures at year end that have not been hedged by derivative  instrument or  otherwise: The Company has receivables and payables in foreign currency at the balance sheet date.
These foreign currency  exposures are not hedged by any derivative instruments or otherwise.
47.
The Company has a system of physical verification of Inventory, Fixed Assets and Capital Stores in a phased  manner to cover all items over a period of three years.
Adjustment of differences, if any, is carried out on completion  of reconciliation.
48.
Some balances of Trade/Other Receivables, Trade/Other Payables and Loans & Advances are subject to  confirmation/ reconciliation.
Adjustments, if any, will be accounted for on confirmation/ reconciliation of the same,  which will not have a material impact.
49.
Previous year's figures have been regrouped/ reclassified, wherever necessary, to conform to current year's  classification.
50.
Figures in parenthesis as given in these Notes to Financial Statement relate to previous year.
235 Annual Report 2013-14 Segment Information - Stand Alone 2013-14 2012-13 Total Unallocated Grand Total Un Grand Particulars Offshore Onshore Segments Total Offshore Onshore Segments Total Segment Revenue 599,403 242,612 842,015 - 842,015 576,643 256,252 832,895 - 832,895 Segment ResultsSegment Result Profit(+)/Loss(-) 266,862 35,847 302,709 302,709 243,197 40,953 284,150 284,150 Unallocated Corporate Expenses - 15,137 15,137 - 14,464 14,464 Operating Profit 266,862 35,847 302,709 (15,137) 287,572 243,197 40,953 284,150 (14,464) 269,686 Interest Expenses - 4 4 - 289 289 Interest/Dividend Income - 36,751 36,751 - 36,046 36,046 Income Taxes - 103,371 103,371 - 96,186 96,186 Profit from Ordinary Activities 266,862 35,847 302,709  (81,761) 220,948 243,197 40,953 284,150  (74,893) 209,257 Extraordinary Gain - - - - Net Profit 266,862 35,847 302,709  (81,761) 220,948 243,197 40,953 284,150  (74,893) 209,257 Other InformationSegment Assets 941,101 469,261 1,410,362 1,410,362 843,121 410,941 1,254,062 1,254,062 Unallocated Corporate Assets - 582,522 582,522 - 527,205 527,205 Total Assets 941,101 469,261 1,410,362 582,522 1,992,884 843,121 410,941 1,254,062 527,205 1,781,267 Segment Liabilities 325,744 101,478 427,222 427,222 291,247 100,901 392,148 392,148 Unallocated Corporate Liabilities - 198,412 198,412 - 144,586 144,586 Total Liabilities 325,744 101,478 427,222 198,412 625,634 291,247 100,901 392,148 144,586 536,734 Capital Expenditure 151,060 137,440 288,500 4,328 292,828 177,526 91,298 268,824 2 268,826 Depreciation, Depletion, Amortisation & Impairment 87,195 21,326 108,521 756 109,277  66,550 16,487 83,038 707 83,745 Non-cash Expenses 1,595 646 2,241 (53) 2,188 10,138 8,694 18,833  31 18,863 allocated  (` in million) 236 Annual Report 2013-14  Statement Pursuant to Section 212 of the Companies act, 1956 ONGC Group Performance at A Glance Auditors’ Report - ONGC Group  Consolidated Financial Statement of ONGC Group SI.
No.
Name of the Subsidiaries 1.
The Financial Year of the Subsidiary ends on 2.
Date from which it became Subsidiary 3.
(a) Number of shares held by Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. in the Subsidiary at the end of the financial  year of the Subsidiary* st 1 ONGC Videsh Limited 31  March, 2014 1  February,1994 100,000,000 Equity shares of Rs.
100 each 2 Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited 3 ONGC Nile Ganga B.V. 12  March, 2003 40 Class “A” & 100 Class "B" shares of Euro 453.78 each & 880 Class "C" Shares of Euro 1 each directly, rest 720 Class "C" shares are held by OMEL which is JV Company of OVL & Mittal Investment Sarl (MIS)  4 ONGC Narmada Limited 7  December, 2005 20 Million shares of one Naira each  5 ONGC Amazon Alaknanda Limited  st 6 ONGC Campos Ltda.
31  December, 2013 16  March, 2007  667,644,626 quotas of BRL  7 ONGC Nile Ganga (Cyprus) Ltd. 31  December, 2013 26  November, 2007  242,191 Shares of 0.01  8 ONGC Nile Ganga (San Cristobal) B.V.  9 ONGC Satpayev E & P B.V 31  December, 2013 7  June, 2010 18,000 shares of Euro 1 each  10 ONGC Caspian E & P B.V 31  March, 2014 7  June, 2010 36,000 shares of Euro 1 each  11 Imperial Energy Limited  knows as Jarpeno Optionally Convertible Redeemable Preference shares  of USD 1 each  12 Biancus Holdings Limited 31  March, 2014 13  January, 2009  1,000 shares of 1.71 EUR each  13 San Agio Investments Limited 31  March, 2014 13  January, 2009  1,000 shares of 1.71 EUR each  14 Redcliffe Holdings Limited 31  March, 2014 13  January, 2009  2,620 shares of 1 USD each  15 Imperial Energy Nord Limited 31  March, 2014 13  January, 2009  25,920 shares of 1 USD each  16 Imperial Energy (Cyprus) Limited 31  March, 2014 13  January, 2009  25,720 shares of  1 USD each  17 Imperial Energy Tomsk Limited 31  March, 2014 13  January, 2009  2,411 shares of  1 USD each  18 Imperial Frac Services (Cyprus) 31 March, 2014 13  January, 2009  1,000 shares of 1.71 EUR  19 LLC Nord Imperial 31  December, 2013 13  January, 2009  Full charter capital 300,000 RUR  20 LLC Allianceneftegaz 31  December, 2013 13  January, 2009  Full charter capital 50,000 RUR  21 LLC Sibinterneft 31  December, 2013 13  January, 2009  Charter capital 55,900 RUR  22 LLC Rus Imperial Group 31  December, 2013 13  January, 2009  Full charter capital 100,000 RUR  23 Carabobo One AB 31  March, 2014 25  February, 2010  377,678 ordinary shares  of SEK 100 each  24 Petro Carabobo Ganga B.V. 31 March, 2014 26  February, 2010 18,000 shares  of 1 Euro each 2,000 Cumulative  Preference Shares (5.25%) of Euro 1 each 25 ONGC (BTC) Limited 31  March, 2014 28  March, 2013  8,000,001 shares of 1 USD each  th  26 BREML 31  March, 2014 7 January, 2014  7,680 shares of No Par value  st st th  31  March, 2014 30  March, 2003 1,255,354,097 Equity shares of Rs.
10 each st th  31  March, 2014 st th  31  March, 2014 st th  31  March, 2014 8  August, 2006 12,000 Equity & 227,216,319 Preference shares of one USD each  th  1 each  st th  USD each  st th  31  March, 2014 29  February, 2008 54,000 shares of Euro 1 each  st th  st th  st th  31  March, 2014 12  August, 2008 1,450 Equity shares of 1 USD each & 192,210  (previously  Limited)  st th  st th  st th  st th  st th  st th  st th  each  Limited  st th  st th  st th  st th  st th  st th  st th  st *At the closing rate of exchange, there is a Foreign Exchange Translation Reserve of ` 22,232.44 million, which has not been adjusted.
(D K Sarraf)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Chairman & Managing Director (N K Sinha)             Company Secretary  (A K Banerjee)           Director (Finance)      Statement Pursuant to Section 212 of The Companies Act, 1956, Relating to Company’s interest in The Subsidiaries 240 3.
(b)  Extent of  interest of Holding  Company at the end  of the financial year  of the Subsidiary 4.
The net aggregate amount of the Subsidiary’s Profit/(Loss) so far it concerns the members of the Holding Company: 4.
(a) Not dealt within the Holding Company’s accounts 4.
(b) Dealt within the Holding Company’s accounts: 4.
(a)(I) For the periodst 1  April, 2013 tost  31 March, 2014  (` in million) 4.
(a)(ii) For the previous period(s) ofthe Subsidiary since it became the Holding Company's Subsidiary  (` in million) 4.
(b)(I) For the periodst 1  April, 2013 tost  31 March, 2014  (` in million) 4.
(b)(ii) For the  previous period(s) of the  Subsidiary since it  became the Holding  Company's Subsidiary :(` in million) 100%  25,140.49  108,380.09  -    1,050.00  71.63%  6,011.82  39,424.96  -    9,164.06  " Class A & B 100%  32,253.37  84,556.00  -    15,966.28  Class C 77.491% "  100%  (1.81)  (1,387.19)  -    -    100%  7,273.93  27,188.73  -    -    100%  (1,547.83)  (812.12)  -    -    100%  239.24  632.53  -    -    100%  7,576.13  19,662.32  -    -    100%  (0.25)  (0.76)  -    -    100%  281.25  186.01  -    -    100%  (209.26)  (20,015.88)  -    -    100%  (27.22)  100.13  -    -    100%  (15.72)  18.67  -    -    100%  (1.81)  (172.95)  -    -    100%  1.21  (1,325.40)  -    -    100%  (1.81)  (1,012.18)  -    -    100%  (1.81)  (122.12)  -    -    100%  22.98  (4.01)  -    -    100%  (648.95)  (17,587.96)  -    -    100%  (2,717.97)  (6,298.12)  -    -    55.9%  (221.36)  (768.16)  -    -    100%  (663.47)  (1,724.30)  -    -    100%  (4.72)  (155.19)  -    -    100%  (36.17)  (19.56)  -    -    1.00  918.69  -    -    -    60%  29.03  -    -    -    241 Annual Report 2013-14 ONGC Group Performance at a Glance  (` in million unless otherwise stated) 2013-14 2012-13 2011-12 2010-11 242 #  Exploration Costs written off towards Survey & Dry Wells have been regrouped from Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization since these represents cash expenditure and shown as a separate item.
In view of the Notification no.
S.O 447(E) dated 28.02.2011, issued by Ministry of Corportae Affairs, the Balance sheet of the Company isst mandatorily required to be prepared in Revised Schedule VI w.e.f 1  April, 2011 onwrads.
Accordingly, the figures of FY 2013-14, FY 2012-13, 2011-12 and FY 2010-11 are given as per the requirement of Revised Schedule VI and earlier years figures are as per Old Schedule VI.
FINANCIAL FINANCIAL Income form Operations 1,782,051  1,658,482  1,511,003  1,252,873 Income from Operations (Gross) 1,085,787 1,105,621 1,036,483 898,872 755,854 630,663  Other Non-operating Income 68,937  54,907  47,934  37,180 Statutory Levies 213,391 229,963 240,025 216,411 175,823 155,922  Total Revenue  1,850,988  1,713,389  1,558,937  1,290,053 Operating Expenses 407,693 430,150 374,072 307,502 255,258 186,967  Statutory Levies 299,175  284,369  269,402  247,631 Exchange Loss/(Gain) (10,671) 11,716 1,018 (2,675) (463) 203  Operating Expenses 901,396  824,465  639,629  488,606 Profit Before Interest Depreciation & Tax (PBIDT) 475,374 433,792 421,368 377,634 325,236 287,571  Exchange Loss/(Gain) (650)  4,206  11,925  42 Recouped Costs 187,391 155,705 139,533 124,154 103,549 73,940  # Exploration costs written off 84,881  110,457  105,136  92,620 Operating Income (PBIT) 287,983 278,087 281,835 253,480 221,687 213,631  Profit Before Interest, Depreciation & Tax (PBIDT)  566,186  489,892  532,845  461,154 Interest (Net) (16,431) (32,950) (27,375) (19,241) (11,715) (10,991) Depreciation, Depletion, Amortisation and Impairment  165,809  117,633  131,866  113,644 Profit before Tax and Extraordinary Items 304,414 311,037 309,210 272,721 233,402 224,622  Profit Before Interest & Tax (PBIT)  400,377  372,259  400,979  347,510 Extraordinary Items- Excess of Insurance Claims over Book Value - 658 - 4,751 6,405 - Interest Payment  6,243  4,838  4,349  4,377 Profit before Tax 304,414 311,695 309,210 277,472 239,807 224,622  Profit before Tax and Exceptional Items  394,134  367,421  396,630  343,133 Corporate Tax 107,138 110,094 106,999 98,454 84,932 79,416  Exceptional item  -    -    31,405  -   Profit after Tax 197,276 201,601 202,211 179,018 154,875 145,206  Profit before Tax  394,134  367,421  428,035  343,133 Share in Associates for the year 78 99 21 102 107 114  Corporate Tax 127,604  127,519  143,746  114,883 Profit relating to minority 3,319 3,747 3,509 1,424 1,006 1,930  Profit after Tax  266,530  239,902  284,289  228,250 Group Profit after Tax 194,035 197,953 198,723 177,696 153,976 143,390  Share in Associates for the year  118  38  (11)  30 Dividend 70,583 68,444 68,444 66,305 64,167 57,535  Profit relating to minority  1,583  (2,256)  2,842  3,720 Tax on Dividend 11,992 12,017 12,014 10,383 9,172 8,156  Group Profit after Tax  265,065  242,196  281,436  224,560 Share Capital 21,389 21,389 21,535 21,416 14,259 14,259  Dividend  81,277  81,277  83,416  74,859 Net Worth (Equity) 1,005,653 915,729 774,127 661,994 564,017 480,583  Tax on Dividend  13,842  13,053  13,611  12,528 Borrowings 51,769 13,091 9,427 12,964 22,342 23,870  Share Capital  42,778  42,778  42,778  42,778 Working Capital 192,787 172,257 240,202 202,408 173,164 135,348  Net Worth (Equity)  1,710,550  1,510,417  1,352,666  1,145,312 Capital Employed 869,009 752,781 693,329 618,263 513,037 430,333  Long-term Borrowings  316,810  88,428  52,086  39,771  Working Capital  (45,799)  63,899  96,213  75,237 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE RATIOS Capital Employed  1,447,992  1,183,203  1,003,223  909,267 PBIDT to Turnover (%) 43.78 39.2 40.7 42.0 43.0 45.6 PBDT to Turnover (%) 45.29 42.2 43.3 44.2 44.6 47.3 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE RATIOS Profit Margin(%)- incl.
extraordinary items 17.87 17.9 19.2 19.8 20.4 22.7 PBIDT to Turnover (%)  31.77  29.54  35.26  36.81 ROCE(PBIDT to Capital Employed) (%) 54.70 57.6 60.8 61.1 63.4 66.8 PBDT to Turnover (%)  31.42  29.25  34.98  36.46 Net Profit to Equity (%)- incl.
extraordinary items 19.29 21.6 25.7 26.8 27.3 29.8 Profit Margin (%)- incl.
exceptional items  14.87  14.60  18.63  17.92  ROCE(PBIDT to Capital Employed) (%)  39.10  41.40  53.11  50.72 BALANCE SHEET RATIOS Net Profit to Equity (%)- incl.
exceptional items  15.50  16.04  20.81  19.61 Current Ratio 1.38:1 1.31:1 1.75:1 1.79:1 1.97:1 1.74:1 Debt Equity Ratio 0.05 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.04 0.05 BALANCE SHEET RATIOS Debtors Turnover Ratio (Days) 24 24 25 20 21 27 Current Ratio 0.93:1 1.13:1 1.21:1 1.21:1 Debt Equity Ratio 0.19 0.06 0.04 0.03 PER SHARE DATA Debtors Turnover Ratio (Days)  32.83  33.88  28.31  29.05 Earning Per Share (Rs.
)- before extraordinary items* 22.68  23.09  23.23  20.40  17.50  16.76  Earning Per Share (Rs.
)- after extraordinary items* 22.68  23.14  23.23  20.77  18.00  16.76  PER SHARE DATA Dividend (%) 330 320 320 310 450 400 Earning Per Share (`) 30.98 28.31 32.90 26.25 Book Value Per Share(Rs.
)* 118 107 90 77 66 56 Dividend (%)  190  190  195  175  Book Value Per Share (`)  200  177  158  134  ONGC Group Performance at a Glance  (  in million unless otherwise stated) `  2009-10  2008-09  2007-08  2006-07  2005-06  2004-05 243 *restated Post Bonus & split  Annual Report 2013-14 Statement of Income and  Retained Earnings of ONGC Group  (  in million) ` REVENUES  Sales  Crude Oil  654,451  621,576  640,041  558,993  Natural Gas  194,172  174,558  151,320  135,329  LPG  30,145  31,484  23,711  18,368  Naptha  75,743  76,805  72,167  56,342  Ethane/Propane  14,837  13,440  12,741  8,796  Superior Kerosene Oil  2,779  3,686  1,520  679  HSD  522  170  103  134  Motor Spirit  -    -    30  -  Others  797,037  727,355  599,982  447,972  Price Revision Arrears - -  -    -  Sub- Total  1,769,686  1,649,074  1,501,615  1,226,613  Traded Products  44  43  34  172  Other Operating Revenue  12,321  9,365  9,354  26,088  Total Revenue from Operations  1,782,051  1,658,482  1,511,003  1,252,873  Other Non-operating Income  68,937  54,907  47,934  37,180 Total Revenues  1,850,988  1,713,389  1,558,937  1,290,053 COST & EXPENSES  Statutory Levies  (a) Royalties  150,102  137,210  155,316  126,529 (b) OIDB Cess  99,734  99,971  57,831  56,963 (c) Motor Spirit Cess  3  (d) Excise Duty  37,432  34,732  37,427  51,544 (e) Natural Calamity Contingent Duty -Crude Oil  1,097  1,101  1,097  1,114 (f) Sales Tax  3,123  3,834  3,339  3,112 (g) Service Tax  439  353  8,337  2,018 (h) Education Cess  2,348  3,111  1,871  1,828 (i) Octroi & Port Trust Charges  4,897  4,057  4,184  4,523 Sub-Total (a to i)  299,175  284,369  269,402  247,631 (Accretion)/Decretion  in stock  (7,193)  (11,205)  (4,641)  (8,917) Production, Transportation, Selling and Distribution Expenditure  900,449  813,428  632,912  487,776  Provisions and Writ-offs  10,563  22,243  11,599  9,635  Exchange Loss  (650)  4,206  11,925  42  Adjustments relating to Prior Period (Net)  (2,423)  (1)  (241)  112  Exploration Costs Written off     - Survey Costs  17,471  18,078  14,947  19,542 - Exploratory Well Costs  67,410  92,379  90,189  73,078 Profit Before Depreciation, Interest &Tax  566,186  489,892  532,845  461,154 Depreciation, Depletion, Amortisation and Impairment  165,809  117,633  131,866  113,644  Total Cost & Expenses  1,450,611  1,341,130  1,157,958  942,543  Operating Income Before Interest &Tax  400,377  372,259  400,979  347,510  Interest Payment  6,243  4,838  4,349  4,377  Profit before Tax and Exceptional Items  394,134  367,421  396,630  343,133 Exceptional item  -    -    31,405  - Profit before Tax   394,134  367,421  428,035  343,133 Corporate Tax ( Net)  127,604  127,519  143,746  114,883 Profit after Tax  266,530  239,902  284,289  228,250 Share in Associates for the year  118  38  (11)  30  Profit relating to minority  1,583  (2,256)  2,842  3,720  Group Profit after Tax  265,065  242,196  281,436  224,560  Profit & Loss Account Balance brought forward  205,773  179,959  144,332  116,377  Adjustments  due to change in share holding /other adjustment  36  59  44  (137) Transfer to Capital Redemption Reserve  -    46  46  - Dividend  81,277  81,277  83,416  74,859 Tax on Dividend  13,842  13,053  13,611  12,528 Transfer to general Reserve  132,250  117,757  144,461  104,773 Transfer to Debenture Redemption Reserve  10,400  4,308  4,319  4,308 Retained Earnings For The Year  233,105  205,773  179,959  144,332 2013-14 2012-13 2011-12 2010-11 244 In view of the Notification no.
S.O 447(E) dated 28.02.2011, issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the Balance sheet of the Company isst mandatorily required to be prepared in Revised Schedule VI w.e.f 1  April, 2011 onwards.
Accordingly, the figures of FY 2013-14, FY 2012-13, 2011-12 and FY 2010-11 are given as per the requirement of Revised Schedule VI and earlier years figures are as per Old Schedule VI.
Statement of Income and  Retained Earnings of ONGC Group  (` in million)  2009-10  2008-09  2007-08  2006-07  2005-06  2004-05 245 REVENUES  Sales Crude Oil  527,312  491,127  543,631  475,295  382,311  299,765  Natural Gas  81,405  82,835  78,560  80,117  73,383  57,759  LPG  21,924  22,752  20,169  14,867  16,279  12,066  Naptha/Aromatic Rich Naptha  47,137  48,406  43,848  37,907  35,679  29,260  Ethane/Propane  10,249  9,890  9,291  9,095  7,401  5,705  Superior Kerosene Oil  3,255  16,701  10,775  15,754  10,605  16,896  HSD  156  61,910  48,621  42,037  23,403  29,277  Motor Spirit  27  11,062  9,159  4,530  3,797  6,846  Others  370,250  349,257  254,297  183,064  188,892  164,217  Price Revision Arrears  -    -    -    11  156  584  Sub- Total  1,061,715  1,093,940  1,018,351  862,677  741,906  622,375  Write Back of Excess Liability  -    -    -    -    -    -    Pipeline Revenue  3,126  5,267  4,644  3,351  3,214  23  Other Receipts  17,217  9,858  12,387  23,029  11,279  6,989  Accretion /(Decretion)  in stock  3,729  (3,444)  1,101  9,815  (545)  1,276  Total Revenues  1,085,787  1,105,621  1,036,483  898,872  755,854  630,663  COST & EXPENSES Operating, Selling & General (a) Royalties  103,561  111,574  121,057  104,558  85,242  65,692  (b) OIDB Cess/ Excise Duty  98,831  103,571  108,838  100,160  76,755  68,556  (c) Natural Calamity Contingent Duty - Crude Oil  1,062  1,081  1,127  1,149  1,080  1,138  (d) Sales Tax  3,734  7,823  2,947  6,009  10,299  17,405  (e) Education Cess *  1,719  1,784  1,861  1,303  (f) Octroi & Port Trust Charges  4,484  4,130  4,195  3,232  2,447  3,131  (g) VAT  816  800  685  1,063  927  410  Sub-total (a to f)  213,391  229,963  240,025  216,411  175,823  155,922  Pipeline Operations (Excluding Depreciation)  11,967  10,725  10,343  9,122  7,732  10,320  Other Operating Costs  395,726  419,425  363,729  298,380  247,526  176,647  Exchange Loss/(Gain)  (10,671)  11,716  1,018  (2,675)  (463)  203  Recouped Costs (a) Depletion  62,242  55,883  49,259  46,439  34,318  27,802  (b) Depreciation  20,767  21,822  27,874  29,060  28,556  10,223  (c) Amortisation  104,815  81,110  62,837  46,925  41,001  35,774  (d) Impairment  (433)  (3,110)  (437)  1,730  (326)  141  Sub-Total (a to d)  187,391  155,705  139,533  124,154  103,549  73,940  Total Cost & Expenses  797,804  827,534  754,648  645,392  534,167  417,032  Operating Income Before Interest &Tax  287,983  278,087  281,835  253,480  221,687  213,631  Interest - Payments  5,564  2,386  1,135  1,906  1,597  1,644  - Receipts  21,995  35,336  28,510  21,147  13,312  12,635  Net Interest  (16,431)  (32,950)  (27,375)  (19,241)  (11,715)  (10,991) Profit before Tax and Extraordinary Items  304,414  311,037  309,210  272,721  233,402  224,622  Extraordinary Items- Excess of Insurance Claims over Book Value  -    658  -    4,751  6,405  -    Profit before Tax  304,414  311,695  309,210  277,472  239,807  224,622  Corporate Tax ( Net)  107,138  110,094  106,999  98,454  84,932  79,416  Profit after Tax  197,276  201,601  202,211  179,018  154,875  145,206  Share in Associates for the year  78  99  21  102  107  114  Profit relating to minority  3,319  3,747  3,509  1,424  1,006  1,930  Group Profit after Tax  194,035  197,953  198,723  177,696  153,976  143,390  Profit & Loss Account Balance brought forward  93,335  58,990  28,795  8,848  1  1  Adjustments  (21)  (107)  -    -    -    -    Dividend  70,583  68,444  68,444  66,305  64,167  57,535  Tax on Dividend  11,992  12,017  12,014  10,383  9,172  8,156  Retained Earnings For The Year  204,774  176,375  147,060  109,856  80,638  77,700  * upto 2005-06 Education Cess is included in respective heads of levies Annual Report 2013-14 Statement of Financial Position of ONGC Group (` in million) 2012-132013-14 2011-12 2010-11 246 In view of the Notification no.
S.O 447(E) dated 28.02.2011, issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the Balance sheet of the Company isst  mandatorily required to be prepared in Revised Schedule VI  w.e.f 1 April, 2011 onwards.
Accordingly, the figures of FY 2012-13, 2011-12 and FY 2010-11 are given as per the requirement of Revised Schedule VI and earlier years figures are as per Old Schedule VI.
(` in million) 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 2006-07 2005-06 2004-05 247 #  Excluded for  Current Ratio.
RESOURCES RESOURCES A.
Own A.
Own Net Worth 1.
Net Worth      (a) Equity      (a) Equity       i) Share Capital  42,778  42,778  42,778  42,778      i) Share Capital 21,389 21,389 21,535 21,416 14,259 14,259       ii) Reserves & Surplus  1,678,732  1,482,498  1,321,614  1,110,495       ii) Reserves & Surplus 992,677 900,846 759,331 645,719 553,421 471,941        Sub-Total  1,721,510  1,525,276  1,364,392  1,153,273 Sub-Total 1,014,066 922,235 780,866 667,135 567,680 486,200       (b) Less: Miscelaneous Expenditure 10960  14,859  11,726  7,961      (b) Less: Deffered Revenue Expenditure 8,413 6,506 6,739 5,141 3,663 5,617       Net Worth  1,710,550  1,510,417  1,352,666  1,145,312 Net Worth 1,005,653 915,729 774,127 661,994 564,017 480,583  B.
Long-term Borrowings  316,810  88,428  52,086  39,771 2.
Long Term Liabilities C. Deferred Tax Liability (Net)  178,635  142,251  121,846  111,526      Net Deferred Tax Liability 102,912 92,231 87,376 81,119 71,633 57,894  D. Minority Interest  29,126  19,466  22,240  19,891 Total Own Funds ( 1 + 2 ) 1,108,565 1,007,960 861,503 743,113 635,650 538,477  TOTAL RESOURCES ( A+B+C+D )  2,235,121  1,760,562  1,548,838  1,316,500 B.
Minority Interest 16,432 14,113 11,448 8,321 7,230 6,204  DISPOSITION OF RESOURCES C.  Outside A. Non-current assets 1.
Unsecured Loans 1.
Fixed Assets( Net)       a) Indian Loans 34,550 6,015 2,079 1,881 1,745 1,643     i) Tangible assets  462,254  406,745  306,080  266,924       b) Foreign Loans 10,260 1,492 1,458 4,526 13,181 11,718  ii) Producing Properties  912,681  705,395  608,004  571,896 Total Unsecured Loans 44,810 7,507 3,537 6,407 14,926 13,361  iii) Intangible assets  754  1,041  1,364  1,735  2.
Secured Loans 6,959 5,584 5,890 6,557 7,416 10,509       Total Block Capital  1,375,689  1,113,181  915,448  840,555 Total Outside Resources 51,769 13,091 9,427 12,964 22,342 23,870  2.
Goodwill on consolidation  183,545  83,255  77,976  89,928 TOTAL RESOURCES ( A+ B+C ) 1,176,766 1,035,164 882,378 764,398 665,222 568,551  3.
Long-term Loans and Advances(Excluding Capital Advance)  82,876  67,002  51,029  58,250  4.
Deposit with Bank Under Site Restoration Fund Scheme   120,830  106,349  94,753  81,262 DISPOSITION OF RESOURCES 5.
Other non-current Assets (Excluding DRE)  53,474  19,642  20,302  5,619 A.
Goodwill on consolidation 95,385 114,039 25,777 30,616 17,103 13,683  6.
Sub-Total = (1+2+3+4+5)  1,816,414  1,389,429  1,159,508  1,075,614 B.
Block Capital 7.
Less:  Non-current Liabilities 1.
Fixed Assets 243,762 184,956 193,961 185,355 138,806 116,689  a) Other Long Term Liabilities  18,525  17,163  10,758  9,731 2.
Producing Properties (Gross) 511,665 452,980 362,714 351,741 312,639 245,554  b) Libility for Abandonment Cost  274,266  207,255  203,982  198,469 Less: Liability for Abandonment Cost 174,590 171,451 129,325 151,857 128,675 80,941  c) Long Term Provisions  29,832  45,707  37,758  33,384 Total Block Capital 580,837 466,485 427,350 385,239 322,770 281,302  Sub-Total (7)  322,623  270,125  252,498  241,584 C. Working Capital Net Non Current Asset (A)=(6)-(7)  1,493,791  1,119,304  907,010  834,030 a) Current Assets B.
Net Working Capital i)  Inventories 82,400 65,424 72,985 58,744 49,432 43,730  1.
Current Assets ii)  Debtors (Net of Provision) 71,424 71,814 70,469 48,167 44,271 47,091  i) Inventories  148,015  127,726  131,680  85,676 iii)  Cash & Bank Balances 149,704 156,331 186,525 150,653 45,721 66,035  ii) Trade Receivables  160,284  153,956  117,181  99,730 iv) Deposit with Bank Under Site iii) Cash & Cash equivalents  244,801  196,190  278,914  208,158 Restoration Fund Scheme# 74,138 69,624 64,034 56,103 45,336 36,180  iv) Short-term Loans & Advances  68,199  59,766  52,210 40,124  v)   Loans & Advances and Others 127,998 143,953 81,332 74,738 120,683 77,192  v) Others Current Assets (Excluding DRE)  6,422  9,082  19,643  5,955  Sub-Total 505,664 507,146 475,345 388,405 305,443 270,228   Sub-Total  627,721  546,720  599,628  439,643  Less: Less: (b) Current Liabilities and Provisions 2.
Current Liabilities          and Short Term Loans 312,877 334,889 235,143 185,997 132,279 134,880  i)  Short-term borrowings  139,073  115,271  100,538  20,843 Working Capital 192,787 172,257 240,202 202,408 173,164 135,348     ii)  Trade payables  306,783  186,148  176,036  155,863  D. CAPITAL EMPLOYED 869,009 752,781 693,329 618,263 513,037 430,333     iii)  Other current liabilities  218,194  170,869  202,917  176,615 E. INVESTMENTS 51,593 34,803 44,821 35,832 35,579 26,555     iv)  Short-term provisions  9,470  10,533  23,924  11,085 F.   CAPITAL WORKS IN PROGRESS 176,039 165,222 86,351 64,055 76,292 87,775  Sub-Total  673,520  482,821  503,415  364,406 G. EXPLORATORY/DEVELOPMENT Net Working Capital  (45,799)  63,899  96,213  75,237 WELLS IN PROGRESS 80,125 82,358 57,877 46,248 40,314 23,888  C. Capital Employed  1,447,992  1,183,203  1,003,223  909,267 TOTAL DISPOSITION 1,176,766 1,035,164 882,378 764,398 665,222 568,551 D. Investments    i)  Non-current Investments  47,205  20,453  20,412  28,920     ii)  Current Investments  254  829  8,795  2,080  E. Capital Works in Progress (Including Capital Advance)  557,603  419,676  399,855  273,854  F. Exploratory/Development Wells in Progress  182,067  136,401  116,553  102,379  TOTAL DISPOSITION (C+D+E+F)  2,235,121  1,760,562  1,548,838  1,316,500  Annual Report 2013-14 Auditors’ Report - ONGC Group 248 To  The Board of Directors Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited 1.
Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated  financial statements of Oil and Natural Gas  Corporation Limited ("the Company") and its  subsidiaries, joint ventures and associate (hereinafter  referred to as "Group"), which comprise the  consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2014, and  the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss and the  consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then  ended, and a summary of significant accounting  policies and other explanatory information.
2.
Management's Responsibility for the Consolidated  Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation of  these consolidated financial statements that give a true  and fair view of the consolidated financial position,  consolidated financial performance and consolidated  cash flows of the Group in accordance with accounting  principles generally accepted in India.
This  responsibility includes the design, implementation  and maintenance of internal control relevant to the  preparation and presentation of the consolidated  financial statements that give a true and fair view and  are free from material misstatement, whether due to  fraud or error.
3.
Auditors' Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these  consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the  Standards on Auditing issued by the Institute of  Chartered Accountants of India.Those Standards  require that we comply with ethical requirements and  plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the consolidated financial  statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain  audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in  the consolidated financial statements.
The  procedures selected depend on the auditors'  judgement, including the assessment of the risks of  material misstatement of the consolidated financial  statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making  those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal  control relevant to the Group's preparation and  presentation of the consolidated financial statements  that give a true and fair view in order to design audit  procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances,  but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the  effectiveness of the Group's internal control.
An audit  also includes evaluating the appropriateness of  accounting policies used and the reasonableness of  the accounting estimates made by management, as  well as evaluating the overall presentation of the  consolidated financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is  sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our  audit opinion.
4.
Opinion In our opinion and to the best of our information and  according to the explanations given to us and based  on the consideration of the audit reports of the other  auditors in case of audited financial statements and  management certified accounts in case of unaudited  financial statements referred to in "Other Matters"  below, the consolidated financial statements give a  true and fair view in conformity with the accounting  principles generally accepted in India: i. in the case of the consolidated Balance Sheet, of the state of af fairs of the Group as at March 31, 2014; ii.
in the case of the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss, of the profit of the Group for the year ended on that date; and iii.
in the case of the consolidated Cash Flow Statement, of the cash flows of the Group for the year ended on that date.
5.
Emphasis of Matter We draw attention to Note No.
45.2.4 with regard to the  dispute between the company and the Government of  Gujarat in respect of payment of Royalty on the crude  oil produced in the State.
The accrual of the additional  liability of ` 1,16,326.96 millions, which also includes  an amount of ` 2,092.23 millions paid with effect from  February 1, 2014 and considered as deposit, would  depend on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court  of India.
The amount of ` 1,16,326.96 millions has  been disclosed as contingent liability.
Our opinion is not qualified in respect of this matter.
6.
Other Matters i.
The consolidated financial statements include the  Company's share in the total value of assets,  liabilities, expenditure and income of 135 blocks  under New Exploration Licensing Policy (NELPs) /  Joint Venture (JVs) accounts for exploration and  production out of which 8 NELPs / JVs accounts  have been certified by other firms of Chartered  Accountants and 11 NELP / JVs have been  certified by the management in respect of NELPs /  JVs operated by other operators.
Our opinion is  based solely on the reports of the other auditors  and management certified accounts ii.
We did not audit the consolidated financial  statements of Mangalore Refiner y and  Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL), a subsidiary,  whose consolidated financial statements reflect  total assets of ` 3,96,184.94 million as at March 31,  2014, total revenues of ` 7,18,744.06 million and  net cash inflows amounting to ` 90,971.86 million  for the year then ended.
These consolidated  financial statements and other financial information  of MRPL have been audited by other auditors  whose audit report has been furnished to us by the  Management, and our opinion is based solely on  the report of those auditors.
These consolidated  financial statements includes total assets of  `3,562.74 million as at March 31, 2014, total  Auditors’ Report - ONGC Group 249 revenues of ` 6,624.37 million and net cash inflows  amounting to ` 585.66 million of Shell MRPL  Aviation Fuel and Services Limited, a Joint Venture  company of MRPL, whose financial statements  have been audited by auditor other than the  auditors of MRPL.
iii.
We did not audit the consolidated financial  statements of ONGC Videsh Limited (OVL), a  subsidiar y, whose consolidated financial  statements reflect total assets of ` 9,42,986.92  million as at March 31, 2014, total revenues of ` 2,22,242.00 million and net cash outflows  amounting to ` 22,232.89 million for the year then  ended.
These consolidated financial statements  and other financial information of OVL have been  audited by other auditors whose audit report has  been furnished to us by the Management, and our  opinion is based solely on the report of those  auditors.
These consolidated financial statements of OVL  comprise of: a.
The consolidated financial statements of the  following Subsidiaries/Joint Venture Company  which are prepared under respective local laws /Production Sharing Contract/Joint Operating  Agreement: I.
Subsidiaries audited by local firm of auditors: Name of the Subsidiary Total Assets  as at 31.03.2014 ONGC Nile Ganga B.V. 2,49,853.29 66,575.02 84,904.51 10,794.29 ONGC Amazon Alaknanda Limited Imperial Energy Limited (Earlier Jarpeno Limited) Carabobo One AB 11,644.94 2,078.81 810.24 (4.72) Beas Rovuma Energy Mozambique Limited 22,225.73 2,666.60 - (29.00) Total Liabilities Total Revenue for Profit/ (loss) after tax for as at 31.03.2014 the year ended tax for the year ended 31.03.2014 March 31, 2014 (Consolidated) 52,231.18 4,916.66 21,244.42 7,290.88 85,271.95 8,236.18 14,131.10 (4,447.86) Name of the Subsidiary Total Assets  as at 31.03.2014 Total Liabilities Total Revenue for Profit/ (loss) after tax for as at 31.03.2014 the year ended tax for the year ended 31.03.2014 March 31, 2014 (Consolidated) ONGC Narmada Limited 104.96 1,933.12 - (1.59) ONGC (BTC) Limited 0.94 395.28 1,009.30 918.67 Name of the Subsidiary Total Assets  as at 31.03.2014 Total Liabilities Total Revenue for Profit/ (loss) after tax for as at 31.03.2014 the year ended tax for the year ended 31.03.2014 March 31, 2014 (Consolidated) ONGC Mittal Energy Limited 1,003.88 9,164.73 - (161.78) II.
Subsidiaries unaudited, as certified by the Management: III.
Joint Venture Company unaudited, as certified by the Management: In Respect of: I.
Item no.
(i) above so far it relates to amounts included, is  based solely on the report of the other auditors; and II.
Item no.
(ii) & (iii) above so far it relates to amounts  included, is based solely on the financial statements  certified by the management.
b.
Group's share of Assets, Liabilities, Revenues and  Expenditure in the joint ventures of OVL include 35  projects held in the books of the respective Subsidiaries  /Joint Venture Company as mentioned in 8 (a) above,  out of which financial statements of 23 projects certified  under respective local laws/Production Sharing  Contract/ Joint operating Agreement by local audit firms  and financial statements of 12 projects certified by the  management.
(` in million) (` in million) (` in million) Annual Report 2013-14 Auditors’ Report - ONGC Group 250 iv.
We did not audit the financial statements of the  following Joint Ventures, whose financial statements  reflect group's total assets as at March 31, 2014,  group's total revenues and group's net cash flows for  the year then ended as per the table given below.
Financial statements of 5 Joint Ventures have been  audited by other auditors whose report has been  furnished to us by the Management and financial  statements of 3 Joint Ventures are unaudited and have  been certified by the management of the respective  Joint Venture, and our opinion, so far as it relates to the  amounts included in respect of these Joint Ventures, is  based solely on the report of those auditors or  management certified accounts.
SI.
Name of the Joint Venture  Group's share of Total  Assets I Petronet LNG Limited 14,890.85 47,289.16 (44.75) Audited II Petronet MHB Limited  1,461.64  378.02  53.94 Audited III Mangalore SEZ Limited (Consolidated Financial Statements)  3,402.47  65.98 (125.10) Unaudited IV ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited 28,146.80 0.12  487.62 Audited V ONGC Petro Additions Limited 96,356.62  -    3,375.61 Audited VI ONGC Tripura Power Company Limited  (Consolidated Financial Statements) 20,322.54 1,123.74 (20.84) Unaudited VII ONGC Teri Biotech Limited  186.42  77.19  31.75 Audited VIII Dahej SEZ Limited  4,718.45  279.69 (47.86) Unaudited Group's share Group's share Audited /  No.
of Total of Net Unaudited Revenue Cash Flows evaluation by the Management in respect of  categorization of wells as exploratory, development  and producing, allocation of cost incurred on them,  depletion of producing properties on the basis of  proved developed hydrocarbon reserves, impairment,  liability for abandonment costs, liabilities under NELP  for under performance against Minimum Work  Programme and allocation of depreciation on process  platforms to transportation and facilities.
Our opinion is not qualified in respect of other matters.
v. For the purpose of considering the investment in  Pawan Hans Limited, an associate, in the consolidated  financial statements, the share of profit for the year  ended March 31, 2014 amounting to `118.15 million, is  based on unaudited accounts as certified by the  management.
We did not audit the financial statements  of this associate, and our opinion, so far as it relates to  the amounts included in respect of this associate, is  based solely on the financial statements certified by  the management.
vi.
We have placed reliance on technical / commercial  For M/s S Bhandari & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg No.
000560C (P. D. Baid) Partner (Mem.
No.
072625) For M/s Varma & Varma Chartered Accountants  Firm Reg No.
004532S (K. M. Sukumaran) Partner (Mem.
No.
015707) For M/s G. D. Apte & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg No.
100515W (C. M. Dixit) Partner (Mem.
No.
017532) Date  : May 29, 2014 Place : New Delhi For M/s Ray & Ray Chartered Accountants Firm Reg No.
301072E (B. K. Ghosh) Partner (Mem.
No.
051028) For M/s Mehra Goel & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg No.
000517N (R. K. Mehra) Partner (Mem.
No.
006102) (` in million) Annual Report 2013-14 Consolidated Balance Sheet st as at 31  March, 2014 I.
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1 Shareholders’ funds (a) Share capital 4  42,777.60  42,777.60  (b) Reserves and surplus 5  1,678,732.26  1,482,498.10  2 Minority Interest 29,125.42  19,466.49  3 Non-current liabilities (a) Long-term borrowings 6  316,808.58  88,427.47  (b) Deferred tax liabilities 7  185,521.07  148,490.07  (c) Other Long term liabilities 8  18,525.31  17,163.11  (d) Long-term provisions 9  304,098.13  252,962.77  4 Current liabilities (a) Short-term borrowings 10  139,072.72  115,270.96  (b) Trade payables 11  306,783.08  186,147.80  (c) Other current liabilities 12  218,193.90  170,869.13  (d) Short-term provisions 13  9,469.90  10,532.92  TOTAL 3,249,107.97  2,534,606.42  II.
ASSETS 1 Non-current assets (a) Fixed assets (i) Tangible assets 14  462,253.51  406,744.58  (ii) Producing Properties 15  912,681.47  705,395.44  (iii) Intangible assets 16  754.36  1,041.25  (iv) Capital work-in-progress 17  538,269.85  397,449.18  (v) Exploratory/Development Wells in Progress 18  182,066.98  136,400.94  (b) Goodwill on consolidation 19  183,544.90  83,254.88  (c) Non-current investments 20  47,204.63  20,452.81  (d) Deferred tax Asset 7  6,885.97  6,238.88  (e) Long-term loans and advances 21  102,208.45  89,229.01  (f) Deposit under  Site Restoration Fund Scheme 120,829.56  106,349.19  (g) Other non-current assets 22  60,859.14  29,685.30  2 Current assets (a) Current investments 23  254.37  829.02  (b) Inventories 24  148,014.59  127,725.91  (c) Trade receivables 25  160,283.56  153,956.09  (d) Cash and Cash Equivalents 26  244,801.26  196,190.51  (e) Short-term loans and advances 27  68,199.41  59,766.09  (f) Other current assets 28  9,995.96  13,897.34   3,249,107.97  2,534,606.42  Accompanying Notes are an integral part of this Financial Statements.
1 to 50 TOTAL Particulars Note No.
As atst 31  March, 2014 As atst 31  March, 2013 (` in million) (A K Banerjee) Director (Finance) (D.K.Sarraf) Chairman & Managing Director For and on behalf of the Board (N. K. Sinha) Company Secretary For  G D Apte & Co.        Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
100515W (C. M. Dixit)         Partner (M. No.
017532)   For Ray & Ray Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
301072E (B.K.Ghosh) Partner (M. No.
051028) New Delhith May 29 , 2014 For Varma & Varma Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
004532S (K.M.
Sukumaran) Partner (M. No.
015707) For  Mehra Goel & Co.       Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
000517N (R.K.Mehra)                                   Partner (M.No.
006102) For S. Bhandari & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
000560C (P. D. Baid) Partner (M. No.
072625 ) In terms of our report of even date attached 252 Consolidated Statement of Profit and Lossst for the year ended 31  March, 2014 I REVENUE Revenue from Operations (Gross) 29  1,782,051.84  1,658,481.91  Less: Excise Duty  37,281.28  34,456.70  Revenue from Operations (Net)  1,744,770.56  1,624,025.21  Other Income 30  68,937.11  54,906.91  TOTAL REVENUE  1,813,707.67  1,678,932.12  II EXPENSES            (Increase)/ Decrease in Inventories 31  (7,192.63)  (11,205.01) Purchases of stock-in-trade  0.32  0.42  Production, Transportation, Selling and Distribution Expenditure 32  1,161,692.53  1,067,545.05 Exploration Costs written off - Survey costs  17,471.47  18,077.72  - Exploratory well costs  67,409.85  92,378.82  Depreciation, Depletion, Amortisation and Impairment 33  165,809.04  117,633.04  Finance Costs 34  6,243.35  4,837.97  Provisions and Write-offs 35  10,563.05  22,243.59  Adjustments relating to Prior Period (Net) 36  (2,423.37)  (1.14) TOTAL  EXPENSES  1,419,573.61  1,311,510.46  Profit before Exceptional, Extraordinary items and Tax  394,134.06  367,421.65  Exceptional items  -    -    Profit before Extraordinary items and Tax  394,134.06  367,421.65 Extraordinary items  -    -    PROFIT BEFORE TAX  394,134.06  367,421.65  Tax Expenses   - Current Tax  90,449.09  112,139.08 - Earlier years  2,449.89  (4,849.02) - MAT Credit  (2,872.04)  19.34  - Deferred Tax  37,576.92  20,209.62  PROFIT AFTER TAX  266,530.20  239,902.63  Add: Share of Profit/(Loss) in Associate 20.4  118.15  37.94  Less: Share of Profit - Minority Interest  1,583.02  (2,255.87) GROUP PROFIT AFTER TAX  265,065.33  242,196.44  Earning per Equity Share-Basic and Diluted (`) 37  30.98  28.31  (Face Value ` 5/- per Share) Accompanying Notes are an integral part of this  Financial Statements.
1 to 50 Particulars Note No.
2013-14 2012-13 (` in million) 253 (A K Banerjee) Director (Finance) (D.K.Sarraf) Chairman & Managing Director For and on behalf of the Board (N. K. Sinha) Company Secretary For  G D Apte & Co.        Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
100515W (C. M. Dixit)         Partner (M. No.
017532)   For Ray & Ray Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
301072E (B.K.Ghosh) Partner (M. No.
051028) New Delhith May 29 , 2014 For Varma & Varma Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
004532S (K.M.
Sukumaran) Partner (M. No.
015707) For  Mehra Goel & Co.       Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
000517N (R.K.Mehra)                                   Partner (M.No.
006102) For S. Bhandari & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
000560C (P. D. Baid) Partner (M. No.
072625 ) In terms of our report of even date attached Annual Report 2013-14 A CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Profit before tax and extraordinary items 394,134.06 367,421.65  Adjustments For: -Prior Period Items  (2,423.37) (1.14) - Depreciation, Depletion  and Amortisation & Impairment 165,809.04 120,942.32  - Exploration Well Costs Written off 67,409.85 92,378.82  - Interest on Borrowings  6,243.35 4,837.97  - Foreign Exchange Loss/Translation Adjustment  21,188.73 11,109.43  - Provision for Employee Benefits  (14,509.31) 9,508.82  - Provision for Abandonment  243.56  -   - Profit/Loss on sale of fixed assets  15.55 27.97  - Lease Income (Net)  -    -    - Other Provision and Write offs  10,563.05 22,243.59  - Excess Provision/Liability written Back  (19,216.85)  (11,002.81) - Interest Income  (32,434.34) (31,218.82) - Deffered Government Grant  (2.87) (3.28) - Dividend Received  (3,550.25) (3,187.34) - Miscellaneous Expenditure written off  -   0.03  - Provision for Mark to Market loss on Derivative contracts  2,244.85 - - Profit on sale of investment  (14.50) 201,566.49 - 215,635.56 - Operating Profit before Working Capital Changes 595,700.55 583,057.21  Adjustments for:- -Receivables  5,713.05 (44,305.25) - Loans and Advances  (1,371.97) (8,810.72) - Other Current Assets  (148,012.35) (11,757.97) - Inventories  (22,016.15) 2,921.88  - Trade Payable and Other Liabilities  207,718.63  42,031.20 1,886.04 (60,066.02) Cash generated from Operations  637,731.75 522,991.19  Direct Taxes Paid (Net of tax refund) (105,666.61)  (124,162.45) Cash Flow before prior period and Extra ordinary Items  532,065.14 398,828.74  Prior period items  638.65 (86.96) NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 'A' 532,703.79 398,741.78  B.
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchase of Fixed Assets  (149,385.04) (179,608.84) Sale of Fixed Assets  29.04 172.44 Acquisition, Exploration and Development Cost (466,269.90) (243,193.21) Purchase of Investments  -   (825.50) Sale of Investments  651.49  8,791.86 Advance/Investment in Joint Controlled Entities/Associates  (4,664.61) 263.07  Loans to Public Sector Undertakings and Other Bodies Corporate  (26,707.48) 83.03  Gain on Foreign Exchange Forward exchange Contract  797.15 704.76  Deposit in Site Restoration Fund  (14,480.37) (11,596.32) Project Development/ Preoperative expenditure (net of advances)  (11,297.24) (26,125.67) Dividend Received  3,551.30 3,199.07  Interest Received  31,450.08  35,936.50 NET CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES 'B'  (636,325.59) (412,198.81) Year Endedst  31 March, 2014 Year Endedst  31 March, 2013 (` in million) Consolidated Cash Flow Statementst for  the  year  ended  31  March, 2014 254 (A K Banerjee) Director (Finance) (D.K.Sarraf) Chairman & Managing Director For and on behalf of the Board (N. K. Sinha) Company Secretary For  G D Apte & Co.        Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
100515W (C. M. Dixit)         Partner (M. No.
017532)   For Ray & Ray Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
301072E (B.K.Ghosh) Partner (M. No.
051028) New Delhith May 29 , 2014 For Varma & Varma Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
004532S (K.M.
Sukumaran) Partner (M. No.
015707) For  Mehra Goel & Co.       Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
000517N (R.K.Mehra)                                   Partner (M. No.
006102) For S. Bhandari & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
000560C (P. D. Baid) Partner (M. No.
072625 ) In terms of our report of even date attached 255 C. CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from issue of Share Capital  -   574.68  Advance Against Equity  1,781.72 1,462.94  Proceeds from Borrowings  331,987.96 104,318.58 Repayment of Borrowings  (84,764.56)  (58,640.99) Dividend Paid (83,453.45)  (94,960.30) Tax on Dividend  (14,170.69)  (15,060.42 Interest Paid  (7,090.21) (6,870.82) Change in Minority Interest  7,955.45  (93.94) NET CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 'C'  152,246.22  (69,270.27) Net increase/(decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents (A+B+C)  48,624.42  (82,727.30) st  Cash and Cash Equivalents as at 1 April, 2013 (Opening Balance) 26 196,007.99 278,735.07  Add: Other Adjustments to Cash and Cash Equivalent * -  0.23  196,007.99 278,735.30  st  Cash and Cash Equivalents as at 31 March,2014 (Closing Balance) ** 26 244,632.41 196,008.00   48,624.42  (82,727.30 *Adjustment on account of increase in shareholding in OPAL & OTPC Notes: 1.The above Cash Flow Statement has been prepared under the 'Indirect Method' as set out in the Accounting Standard-3 on Cash Flow Statements issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
2.
Cash and Cash equivalent excludes ` 168.85 million (Previous year ` 182.51 million) in current account/deposit account of  interest warrant/refund accounts, under lien, pledge with banks/Govt.
authorities in respect of  MRPL.
3.
** Cash and Cash equivalent  includes restricted amount of `  389.69 million (Previous year  ` 388.68 million) earmarked for payment of   unclaimed dividend.
4.
Cash Balance includes ` 7,769.03 million share of jointly controlled entity.
(Previous year ` 3,389.43 million).
5.
Bracket indicates cash outflow.
6.
Previous years figures have been regrouped wherever necessary to conform to current year's classification.
Year Endedst  31 March, 2014 Year Endedst  31 March, 2013 (` in million) Note Consolidated Cash Flow Statementst for  the  year  ended  31  March, 2014 Annual Report 2013-14 1.
Group information Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited ('ONGC' or 'the  Company') is a public limited company domiciled in  India and incorporated under the provisions of  Companies Act, 1956.
Its Shares are listed and traded on  Stock exchanges in India.
The Consolidated financial  statements relate to the Company, its Subsidiaries, Joint  Venture Entities and Associate.
The Group (comprising  of Company and its subsidiaries), Joint Venture Entities  and Associate are mainly engaged in Exploration &  Production (E&P) of Oil & Gas in India and abroad  including Refinery, Power Generation, Petrochemicals,  LNG supply, Pipeline Transportation, SEZ development  and Helicopter services.
2.
Significant Group Accounting Policies 2.1 Principles of Consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the following basis: - i) The financial statements of the Company  and its subsidiary companies are  combined on a line by-line basis by  adding together the book values of like  items of assets, liabilities, income and  expenses after eliminating intra-group  balances and intra-group transactions  resulting in unrealized profits or losses in  accordance with Accounting Standard  (AS) 21 - "Consolidated Financial  Statements".
ii) The financial statements of Joint Venture  entities are combined by applying  proportionate consolidation method on a line by line basis on like items of assets,  liabilities, income and expenses after  eliminating proportionate share of  unrealized profits or losses in  accordance with Accounting Standard  (AS) 27 - "Financial Reporting of Interests  in Joint Ventures".
iii) Investments in Associates are accounted  for using equity method in accordance  with Accounting Standard (AS) 23 -  "Accounting for Investments in Associates  in Consolidated Financial Statements".
iv) The consolidated financial statements are prepared using uniform accounting  policies for like transactions and other  events in similar circumstances and are  presented to the extent possible, in the  same manner as the Company's separate  Financial Statements except as  otherwise stated.
v) The difference between the cost of  investment in the subsidiaries/  associates/Joint ventures, and the net  assets at the time of acquisition of shares  in the subsidiaries/associates/joint  ventur es is r ecognized in the  Consolidated Financial Statements as  Goodwill or Capital Reserve, as the case  may be.
vi) Minorities' share in Net Profit/Loss of  subsidiaries for the year is identified  and adjusted against the income of the  group in order to arrive at the Net  Pr ofit/Loss at tributable to the  shareholders of the Company.
vii) Minorities' share of Net Assets of  subsidiaries is identified and presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheet  separately from liabilities and the equity  of the Company's shareholders.
viii) In case of foreign subsidiaries and joint  ventures, foreign currency transactions  are translated as per the provisions of  Accounting Standard (AS) 11 -  "Accounting for Effects of changes in  Foreign Exchange Rates" in the  Consolidated Financial Statements.
ix) The difference between the proceeds  from disposal of investments in a  subsidiary and the carrying amount of its  net assets as on the date of disposal is  recognized in the Consolidated  Statement of Profit and Loss.
2.2 Other significant Accounting Policies a.
Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared  under the historical cost convention on  accrual basis in accordance with Generally  Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP),  applying the Successful Efforts Method  as per the Guidance Note on Accounting  for Oil and Gas Producing Activities  (Revised) issued by the Institute of  Chartered Accountants of India and  Accounting Standards notified under the  Companies (Accounting Standards)  Rules, 2006 and provisions of the  Companies Act, 1956.
As the operating cycle cannot be  identified in normal course due to the  specific nature of industry, the same has  been assumed to have duration of 12  months.
Accordingly, all assets and  liabilities have been classified as current  or non-current as per the operating cycle  and other criteria set out in the Revised  Schedule VI to the Companies Act, 1956.
The financial statements are presented in  Indian Rupees and all values are rounded to  the nearest million except otherwise stated.
st Notes to Financial Statements for the year ended 31  March, 2014 256 b.
Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements  requires estimates and assumptions,  which affect the reported amount of  assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses  of the reporting period.
The difference  between the actual results and estimates  are recognized in the period in which the  results are known or materialized.
c. Government Grants Government Grant related to acquisition  of Fixed Assets is treated as 'Deferred  Government Grant' and amount equal to  proportionate depreciation of such  assets is credited to Statement of profit  and loss.
d. Fixed Assets d.1 Tangible Assets d.1.1 Fixed assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and  impairment.
Fixed assets received as  donations/gif ts are capitalised at  assessed values with corresponding  credit taken to Capital Reserve.
d.1.2 All costs, net of applicable tax credits,  relating to acquisition of fixed assets till  the time of bringing the assets to working  condition for intended use are  capitalised.
d.2 Intangible Assets Intangible assets are stated at cost of  acquisition, net of applicable tax credits,  less accumulated amortization and  impairment.
e. Exploration, Development and  Production Costs  e.1 Pre-acquisition cost Expenditure incurred before obtaining  the right(s) to explore, develop and  produce oil and gas are expensed as and  when incurred.
e.2 Acquisition Cost Acquisition costs of an oil and gas  property are the costs related to right to  acquire mineral interest and  are  accounted/ treated as follows:- Exploration and Development stage:  Acquisition cost relating to projects  under exploration or developments are  initially accounted as capital work in  progress.
Such costs are capitalized by  transferring to Producing Property when  a well is ready to commence commercial  production.
In case of abandonment/  relinquishment, such costs are written  off.
Production stage: Acquisition costs of a  producing oil and gas property is  capitalized as proved proper t y  acquisition cost under producing  properties and amortized over the  production profile of the underlying  asset using the unit of production  method over proved reserves.
e.3 Survey Cost Cost of Survey and prospecting activities  conducted in the search of oil and gas  are expensed as exploration cost in the  year in which these are incurred.
e.4 Exploratory/Development Wells in  Progress   e.4.1 All exploration costs incurred in drilling  and equipping exploratory and appraisal  wells, cost of drilling exploratory type  stratigraphic test wells are initially  capitalized as Exploratory Wells in  Progress till the time these are either  transferred to Producing Properties on  completion as per Note no.
2.2.f.1 or  expensed as exploration cost (including  allocated depreciation) as and when  determined to be dry or of no further use,  as the case may be.
e.4.2 Costs of exploratory wells are not carried  unless there are indications of sufficient  quantity of reserves; sufficient progress  is made in assessing the reserves and  the economic & operating viability of the  project.
All such carried costs are  subject to review for impairment as per  Note no.
2.2.j.
e.4.3 All costs relating to Development Wells  are initially capitalized as 'Development  Wells in Progress' and transferred to  'Producing Properties' on completion as  per Note no 2.2.f.1 and 2.2.f.2.
f. Producing Properties  f.1 Producing Properties are created in  respect of an area/field having proved  developed oil and gas reserves when the  well in the area/field is ready to  commence commercial production.
f.2 Cost of temporary occupation of land,  successful explorator y wells, all  development wells, depreciation on  related equipment, facilities and  estimated future abandonment costs are  capitalised and reflected as Producing  Properties.
g. Depletion of Producing Properties  Producing Properties are depleted using  the "Unit of Production Method".
The rate  257 Annual Report 2013-14 of depletion is computed with reference  to an area covered by individual lease/  license/asset/amor tization base by  considering the proved developed  reserves and related capital costs  incurred including estimated future  abandonment costs net of salvage value.
In case of acquisition cost, Producing  Properties is depleted by considering the  proved reserves.
These reserves are  estimated annually by the Reserve  Estimates Committee of the Company,  which follows the International Reservoir  Engineering Procedures.
h. Production Costs  Production costs include pre-well head  and post-well head expenses including  depreciation and applicable operating  costs of support equipment and facilities.
i.
Side tracking i.1 The cost of abandoned portion of side  tracked exploratory wells is expensed as  'Exploratory Well Cost'.
i.2 The cost of abandoned portion of side  tracked development wells is considered  as part of cost of development wells.
i.3 The cost of sidetracking in respect of  existing producing wells is capitalised if it  results in additional proved developed oil  & gas reserves or increases the future  economic benefits therefrom beyond  previously assessed standard of  performance, otherwise expensed as  'Workover  Expenditure'.
j. Impairment j.1 Producing Properties, Development  Wells in Progress (DWIP) and Fixed  Assets (including Capital Works in  Progress) of a "Cash Generating Unit"  (CGU) are reviewed for impairment at  each Balance Sheet date.
In case, events  and circumstances indicate any  impairment, recoverable amount of these  assets is determined.
An impairment loss  is recognized, whenever the carrying  amount of such assets exceeds the  recoverable amount.
The recoverable  amount is higher of its 'value in use' or 'net  selling price' (if determinable).
In  assessing value in use, the estimated  future cash flows from the use of assets  and from its disposal at the end of its  useful life are discounted to their present  value at appropriate rate.
An impairment loss is reversed if there is  increase in the recoverable amount and  such loss either no longer exists or has  decreased.
Impairment loss / reversal  thereof is adjusted to the carrying value  of the respective assets, which in case of  CGU, is allocated to its assets on a pro- rata basis.
Subsequent to impairment,  depreciation is provided on the revised  carrying value of the assets over the  remaining useful life.
j.2 Impairment testing during exploratory  phase is carried out at area level when  further exploration activities are not  planned in near future or when sufficient  data exists to indicate that although a  development in the specific area is likely  to proceed, the carrying amount of the  exploration asset is unlikely to be  recovered in full from successful  development or by sale.
Impairment is  reversed subsequently, to the extent that  conditions for impairment are no longer  present.
k. Abandonment Cost k.1 The full eventual estimated liability  towards costs relating to dismantling,  abandoning and restoring well sites and  allied facilitiesare recognized in  respective assets when the well is  completed / facilities are installed.
The  abandonment cost on dry well is  expensed as exploratory well cost.
k.2 Provision for abandonment cost is  updated based on the technical  assessment at current costs.
The effects  of changes resulting from revisions to  estimated liability are adjusted to the  carrying amount of the related Asset and  considered for depletion on a  prospective basis.
l. Jointly Controlled Assets Unincorporated Joint Ventures in the  nature of Production Sharing Contracts  (PSC) has been entered with the  Government of India/other countries and  various bodies corporate for exploration,  development and production and other  activities.
These unincorporated joint  ventures have been classified as Jointly  controlled Asset.
l.1 The share in the assets and liabilities  along with attributable income, and  expenditure, of the Jointly Controlled  Assets is  merged on line by line basis  with the similar items in the Consolidated  Financial Statements and adjusted for  depreciation, depletion, survey, dry  wells, abandonment, impairment and  258 sidetracking in accordance with the  accounting policies.
l.2 Disposal of Interest   Gain or loss on sale of interest in a cost  centre, is recognized in the statement of  profit and loss, except that no gain is  recognized at the time of such sale if  substantial uncertainty exists about the  recovery of the costs applicable to the  retained interest or if the company has  substantial obligation for future  performance.
The gain in such situation  is treated as recovery of cost related to  that cost centre l.3 The hydrocarbon reserves in such areas  are taken in propor tion to the  participating interest.
m. Investments Long-term investments are valued at  cost.
Provision is made for any  diminution, other than temporary, in the  value of such investments.
Current Investments are valued at lower  of cost and fair value.
n. Inventories n.1 Finished goods (other than Sulphur) and  stock in pipelines/tanks and carbon  credits are valued at Cost or net  realizable value whichever is lower.
Cost  of Finished goods is determined on  absorption costing method.
Sulphur is  valued at net realizable value.
The value  of inventories includes excise duty,  royalt y (wherever applicable) but  excludes Cess.
n.2 Crude oil in unfinished condition in flow  lines up to Group Gathering Stations/  platform and Natural Gas in Pipelines is  not valued.
n.3 Inventory of stores and spare parts is  valued at Weighted Average Cost or net  realizable value, whichever is lower.
Provisions are made for obsolete and  non-moving inventories.
n.4 Raw material and Stock in Process is  valued at lower of cost or net realizable  value.
Crude oil as raw material is valued  based on First in First Out (FIFO) cost,  Condensate & LNG as raw material is  valued on weighted average cost.
Cost of  Stock in Process comprise of raw  material cost and propor tionate  Conversion cost.
n.5 Unserviceable and scrap items, when  determined, are valued at estimated net  realizable value.
o.
Revenue Recognition o.1 Revenue from sale of products is  recognized on transfer of custody to  customers.
o.2 Any difference as of the reporting date  between the entitlement quantity minus  the quantities sold in respect of crude oil  (including condensate), if positive (i.e.
under lift quantity) the proportionate  production expenditure is treated as  prepaid expenses and, if negative (i.e.
over lift quantity), a liability for the best  estimate of the group's proportionate  share of production expenses as per the  Joint Operating Agreement / Production  Sharing Agreement is created in respect  of the quantity of crude oil to be foregone  in future period towards settlement of  the over-lift quantity of crude oil with  corresponding charge to the Statement   of Profit & Loss.
o.3 Any payment received in respect of short  lif ted gas quantit y for which an  obligation exists to supply such gas in  subsequent periods is recognized as  Deferred Revenue in the year of receipt.
The same is recognized as revenue in  the year in which such gas is actually  supplied for the quantity supplied or in  the year in which the obligation to supply  such gas ceases, whichever is earlier.
o.4 Sale of crude oil and gas (net of levies)  produced from Wells in Progress is  deducted from expenditure on such wells.
o.5 Sales are inclusive of all statutory levies  except Value Added Tax (VAT).
Any  retrospective revision in prices is  accounted for in the year of such revision.
o.6 Revenue in respect of fixed price  contracts is recognized for the quantum  of work done on the basis of percentage  of completion method.
The quantum of  work done is measured in proportion of  cost incurred to date to the estimated  total cost of the contract or based on  reports of physical work done.
o.7 Finance income in respect of assets  given on finance lease is recognized  based on a pattern reflecting a constant  periodic rate of return on the net  investment outstanding in respect of the  finance lease.
o.8 Dividend income is recognized when  right to receive is established.
Interest  income is recognized on time proportion  basis taking into account the amount  outstanding and rate applicable.
259 Annual Report 2013-14 o.9 Lease Premium from the lease of land is  recognized over primary lease period as  per the agreement.
Lease rental income  is accounted for on the time proportion  basis as per the terms agreed with  lessees.
o.10 Revenue in respect of the following is  recognized when there is reasonable  certainty regarding ultimate collection: a.
Gas pipeline transportation charges b.Reimbursable subsidies and grants c. Surplus from Gas Pool Account d.Interest on delayed realization from customers e. Liquidated damages from contractors/ suppliers p. Depreciation and Amortization  p.1 Depreciation on fixed assets is provided for under the written down value method  in accordance with the rates specified in Schedule XIV to the Companies Act,  1956. p.2 Depreciation on additions/deletions during the year is provided on pro rata  basis with reference to the date of  additions/deletions except items of Plant  and Machinery used in wells with 100%  rate of depreciation and low value items  not exceeding ` 5,000/- which are fully  depreciated at the time of addition.
p.3 Depreciation on subsequent expenditure  on fixed assets arising on account of  capital improvement or other factors is  provided for prospectively.
Depreciation on refurbished/revamped  assets which are capitalized separately is  provided for over the reassessed useful  life at rates which are not less than the  rates specified in Schedule XIV to the  Companies Act, 1956. p.4 Depreciation on fixed assets (including  support equipment, facilities and those  taken on lease) used for exploratory/  development drilling and on production  facilitiesis initially capitalised as part of  drilling cost or producing properties and  expensed/ depleted as stated in note no  2.2.f & 2.2.g  above.
Depreciation on  equipment/ assets deployed for survey  activities is charged to Statement of Profit  and Loss.
p.5 Leasehold land is amortized over the  lease period except perpetual leases.
p.6 Right of way/Right of use of land are  amortized on Straight Line Method (SLM)  over the estimated life of associated  Asset.
p.7 Other Intangible Assets ( software, copy  right, patents etc.
)are amortized on  Straight Line Method (SLM) over the  useful life not exceeding ten years from  the date of capitalization q.
Foreign Exchange Transactions q.1 Foreign currency transactions on initial  recognition in the reporting currency are  accounted for at the exchange rates  prevailing on the date of transaction.
q.2 At each Balance Sheet date, foreign  currency monetary items are translated  using the mean exchange rates  prevailing on the balance sheet date and  non-monetary items are translated using  the exchange rate prevailing on the date  of transaction or on the date when the fair  value of such item was determined.
q.3 The loss or gain thereon and also the  exchange differences on settlement of  the foreign currency transactions during  the year are recognized as income or  expense and adjusted to the  statement  of profit & loss except where such  liabilities and /or transactions relate to  fixed assets/ projects and these were  incurred/ entered into before 1.4.2004; in  which case, these are adjusted to the  cost of respective fixed assets.
q.4 In respect of integral foreign operations: q.4.1 The foreign currency transactions on  initial recognition in the reporting  currency are recorded following the note  no2.2.q.1.
For practical reasons, the  average exchange rate of the relevant  month is taken for the transactions of the  month in respect of joint venture  operations, where actual date of  transaction is not available.
q.4.2 At each Balance Sheet date, monetary  and non-monetary items are translated  following the policy stated in note no.
2.2.q.2.
q.4.3 All exchange differences are treated  following the policy stated in  note no.2.2.q.3.
q.5 The financial statements of the non- integral foreign operations are  incorporated in the financial statements  using the following principles: q.5.1 The assets and liabilities, both monetary  and non-monetary, of the non-integral  foreign operation are translated at the  average of the exchange rate prevailing  on the date of the balance sheet; q.5.2 Income and expense items of the non- integral foreign operation are translated  260 at the average exchange rates for the  period to which the financial statements  relate.
q.5.3 The resulting exchange differences are  accumulated in a foreign currency  translation reserve until the disposal of  the net investment in the non-integral  foreign operation.
q.5.4 Exchange differences arising on net  investment in a non-integral foreign  operation are accumulated in a foreign  currency translation reserve until the  disposal of such investment, at which  time they are recognized as income or as  expenses.
q.6 In the case of forward exchange contracts,  the premium or discount arising at the  inception of such contracts, is amortized as  income or expense over the life of the contract  as well as exchange difference on such  contracts, i.e.
difference between the  exchange rate at the reporting/settlement  date and the exchange rate on the date of  inception/the last reporting date, is  recognized as income/expense for the  period.
r. Employee Benefits r.1 All short term employee benefits are  recognized at their undiscounted amount  in the accounting period in which they are  incurred.
r.2 Employee Benefit under defined  contribution plans comprising provident  fund etc.
is recognized based on the  undiscounted amount of obligations of  the group to contribute to the plan.
The  same is paid to a fund administered  through a separate trust.
r.3 Employee benefits under defined benefit  plans comprising of gratuity, leave  encashment, compensated absences,  post-retirement medical benefits and  other terminal benefits are recognized  based on the present value of defined  benefit obligation, which is computed on  the basis of actuarial valuation using the  Projected Unit Credit Method.
Actuarial  Liability in excess of respective plan  assets is recognized during the year.
Actuarial gains and losses in respect of  post-employment and other long-term  benefits are recognized in the statement  of profit & loss.
s. Voluntary Retirement Scheme Expenditure on Voluntary Retirement  Scheme (VRS) is charged to statement of  profit & loss when incurred.
t. General Administrative Expenses  General administrative expenses which  are directly or specifically attributable  are allocated to activities and the  balance is charged to Statement of Profit  & Loss.
u.
Insurance claims The insurance claims are accounted for  as under :- u.1 In case of total loss of asset, by  transferring either the carrying cost of  the relevant asset or insurance value  (subject to deductibles), whichever is  lower under the head "Claims  Recoverable-Insurance" on intimation to  Insurer.
In case insurance claim is less  than carrying cost, the difference is  charged to statement of profit & loss.
u.2 In case of partial or other losses,  expenditure incurred/payments made to  put such assets back into use, to meet  third party or other liabilities (less policy  deductibles) if any, are accounted for as  "Claims Recoverable-Insurance".
Insurance Policy deductibles are  expensed in the year the corresponding  expenditure is incurred.
u.3 As and when claims are finally received  from insurer, the difference, if any,  between Claims Recoverable-Insurance  and claims received is adjusted to  statement of profit & loss.
v. Research Expenditure Revenue expenses on Research are  charged to statement of profit & loss,  when incurred.
w. Taxes on Income Provision for current tax is made as per  the provisions of the Income Tax Act,  1961/other applicable tax laws.
Deferred  Tax Liability / Asset resulting from 'timing  difference' between book profit and  ta xable profit is accounted for  considering the tax rate and laws that  have been enacted or substantively  enacted as on the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred Tax Asset is recognized and  carried forward only to the extent that  there is reasonable certainty that the  asset will be realized in future.
x.
Borrowing Costs  Borrowing Cost specifically identified to  the acquisition or construction of  qualifying assets is capitalized as part of  such assets.
A qualifying asset is one  261 Annual Report 2013-14 that necessarily takes substantial period  of time to get ready for intended use.
All  other borrowing costs are charged to  statement of profit & loss.
y. Rig Days Costs Rig movement costs are booked to the  next location drilled/planned for drilling.
Abnormal Rig days' costs are considered  as un-allocable and charged to statement  of profit & loss.
z. Unamortized Expenditure z.1 Dr y docking char ges of Rigs/  Multipurpose Supply Vessels (MSVs),  Geo Technical Vessels (GTVs), Well  Stimulation Vessels, Offshore Supply  Vessels (OSVs), Rig/ equipment  mobilization expenses and other related  expenditure are amortized over the  period of use not exceeding five years  and balance is carried under head  "Unamor tized Expenditure" in the   balance sheet.
za.
Transportation Costs  Transportation Costs in respect of the  quantity of gas short transported, for  which the right exists to transport such  gas in subsequent periods at no charge,  is treated as Deferred Expenditure in the  year of payment.
The same is treated as  cost in the year in which the gas is  actually transported for the quantity  transported or in the year in which the  right to transport such gas ceases,  whichever is earlier.
zb.
Lease zb.1 Assets given on Lease: zb.1.1 Assets given on finance lease are  accounted for as per Accounting  Standard (AS) 19 "Leases".
Such assets  are included as a receivable at an amount  equal to the net investment in the lease.
zb.1.2 Initial direct costs incurred in respect of  finance leases are recognized in the  statement of profit and loss in the year in  which such costs are incurred.
zb.2 Assets taken on Lease zb.2.1 Assets taken on finance lease are  capitalized and recognized at the lower of  the fair value of the asset and the  discounted value of the minimum lease  installments.
The lease payments are  bifurcated into repayment and interest  components, based on a fixed interest  rate and installment as derived from the  underlying agreement.
The lease  commitments are carried under liabilities  exclusive of interest.
The interest  component is recognized in the   statement of profit & loss in accordance  with the lease installments.
zb.2.2 Assets acquired on lease where a  significant portion of the risks and  rewards of ownership are retained by the  lessor are classified as operating leases.
Lease rentals are charged to the  statement of profit & loss on accrual  basis.
zc.
Claims Claims/Surrenders on/to Petroleum  Planning and Analysis Cell, Government  of India are booked on 'in principle  acceptance'  thereof on the basis of  available instructions/ clarifications  subject to final adjustments, as  stipulated.
All other claims and  provisions are booked on the merits of  each case.
zd.
Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and  Contingent Assets Provisions involving substantial degree  of estimation in measurement are  recognized when there is a present  obligation as a result of past events and it  is probable that there will be an outflow  of resources embodying economic  benefits.
Contingent Assets are neither  recognized nor disclosed in the financial  statements.
Contingent liabilities are  disclosed by way of notes to accounts.
ze.
Accounting for derivatives Accounting for Derivatives, other than  those covered under Accounting  Standard (AS) 11, is done on mark to  market basis and the losses are charged  to statement of Profit & Loss.
Unrealized  gains are ignored.
zf.
Goodwill on Consolidation Goodwill arising on Consolidation of  Companies having Hydrocarbon  reserves are amortized based on "Unit of  Production Method" considering the  related Proved Reserves.
Other goodwill  on consolidation is not amortized 262 3.
The consolidated financial statements represent consolidation of accounts of "Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited", its subsidiaries, Joint ventures entities and associate as detailed below:- A               Subsidiaries 1 ONGC Videsh Limited (OVL) India 100% 100% Audited 1.1 ONGC Nile Ganga B.V. (ONGBV) The Netherlands Class A and   Class B 100% 1.1 (i) ONGC Campos Ltda.
Brazil 100% 100% Audited 1.1 (ii) ONGC Nile Ganga (Cyprus) Ltd. Cyprus 100% 100% Audited 1.1 (iii) ONGC Nile Ganga (San Cristobal) B.V.
The Netherlands 100% 100% Audited 1.1 (iv) ONGC Satpayev E&P B.V.
The Netherlands 100% 100% Audited 1.1 (v) ONGC Caspian E&P B.V.
The Netherlands 100% 100% Audited 1.2 ONGC Nile Ganga B.V. (ONGBV) The Netherlands Class C 55%  direct  (balance  45%   1.3 ONGC Narmada Limited (ONL) Nigeria 100% 100% Unaudited 1.4 ONGC Amazon Alaknanda Limited (OAAL) Bermuda 100% 100% Audited 1.5 Imperial Energy Limited (*) Cyprus 100% 100% Audited 1.5 (i) Imperial Energy Tomsk Limited Cyprus 100% 100% Audited 1.5 (ii) Imperial Energy (Cyprus) Limited Cyprus 100% 100% Audited 1.5 (iii) Imperial Energy Nord Limited Cyprus 100% 100% Audited 1.5 (iv) RK Imperial Energy (Kostanai) Limited ($) Cyprus  100%  100% 1.5 (v) Freshspring Investments Limited ($) Cyprus 100% 100% 1.5 (vi) Nefsilius Holdings Limited ($) Cyprus 100% 100% 1.5 (vii) Biancus Holdings Limited Cyprus 100% 100% Audited 1.5 (viii) Redcliffe Holdings Limited Cyprus 100% 100% Audited 1.5 (ix) Imperial Energy Gas Limited ($) Cyprus 100% 100% 1.5 (x) Imperial Frac Services (Cyprus) Limited Cyprus 100% 100% Audited 1.5 (xi) San Agio Investments Limited Cyprus 100% 100% Audited 1.5 (xii) LLC Sibinterneft (**) Russia 47.52% 47.52% Audited up to  1.5 (xiii) LLC Allianceneftegaz Russia 100% 100% 1.5 (xiv) LLC Nord Imperial Russia 100% 100% 1.5 (xv) LLC Imperial Trans service ($$) Russia 100% 100% 1.5 (xvi) LLC Rus Imperial Group Russia 100% 100% 1.5 (xvii) LLC Stratum ($$) Russia 100% 100% 1.5 (xviii) LLC Imperial Frac Services Russia 50% 50% 1.6 Carabobo One AB Sweden 100% 100% Audited 1.6 (i) Petro Carabobo Ganga B.V.
The Netherlands 100% 100% Audited 1.7 ONGC (BTC) Ltd Cayman Islands 100% 100% 1.8 Beas Rovuma Energy Mozambique Ltd British Virgin island 60% - Audited 1.9 ONGC Hydrocarbons Ltd (#) Mauritus 100% - 1.10 Krishna Rovuma Energy Mozambique Ltd (# ) Mauritius 100% - 2.
Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL) India 71.63% 71.63% Audited B Joint Venture Entities 1.
Petronet LNG Limited (PLL) India 12.50% 12.50% Audited 2.
Petronet MHB Ltd (PMHBL) India 28.77% 28.77% Audited 3.
Mangalore SEZ Ltd (MSEZ) (note 3.1) India 26.46% 26.46% Unaudited 4.
ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Ltd. (OMPL) (note 3.2) India 48.15% 48.15% Audited 5.
ONGC Petro Additions Ltd. (OPaL) India 49.36% 49% Audited 6.
ONGC Tripura Power Company Ltd. ( OTPC) India 49.52% 49.52% Unaudited 7.
ONGC Teri Biotech Ltd. (OTBL) India 49.98% 49.98% Audited 8.
Dahej SEZ Limited (DSEZ) India 50.00 % 50.00 % Unaudited 9.
ONGC Mittal Energy Limited  (OMEL) (through OVL) Cyprus 49.98% 49.98% Unaudited 10.
Shell MRPL Aviation Fuels & Services Pvt.
Limited  (SMASL)(through MRPL) India 50% 50% Audited 11.
North East Transmission Company Ltd.  (NETC) (through OTPC) India 30.00% 30.00% Unaudited 12.
Mangalore STP Limited (through MSEZ) India 70.00% 70.00% Unaudited C Associates 1.
Pawan Hans Ltd. (PHL) India 49.00 % 49.00 % Unaudited Class A and Audited Class B 100% Class C 55%  direct Audited (balance  45%  held by OMEL) held by OMEL) Unaudited Unaudited Unaudited Unaudited 31.12.13 Audited up to 31.12.13 Audited up to 31.12.13 Audited up to 31.12.13 Audited up to 31.12.13 Audited up to 31.12.13 Audited up to 31.12.13 Unaudited Unaudited Unaudited Name of the Subsidiaries/  Joint Venture and Associates Country of  Incorporation Proportion Ownership Interest As on Status of Audit  As on 31.03.2014 31.03.2014 Sl No.
31.03.2013 263 Annual Report 2013-14 (*)  Jarpeno Limited has been rechristened as Imperialth Energy Limited with effect from 19 April 2013.
(**) Although the Company has 47.52 percent effective  ownership interest, it has 55.9 percent of voting  rights in LLC Sibinterneft.
LLC Sibinterneft is  therefore a subsidiary of the Company, in  accordance with the Companies Act, 1956 of India  and included in consolidation of accounts  accordingly.
rd ($) These companies have been liquidated w.e.f.
23   March, 2014 ($$) These two companies have now merged with LLC th Nord Imperial w.e.f 29  November, 2013 (#)   These companies are under liquidation.
3.1 Includes holding of 0.96% by OMPL.
3.2 Includes holding of 3% by MRPL   3.3 In view of different sets of environment/prevalent  laws in respect of respective countries in which the  subsidiaries/JV are operating, the accounting  policies followed (for treatment of depreciation of  Tangible Assets, sales revenue and royalty etc.)
by  the subsidiaries/JVs are dif ferent from the  accounting policies of the Company.
For  consolidation of financial statement, the  transactions reported which have been arrived  using such different accounting policies by the  group companies have been considered and  disclosed at Note no.
9.2, 14.2, 14.5, & 14.6, 15.2,  16.2, 17.1(c), 17.1(d), 17.1(e), 17.1(f), 24.3, 24.4,  24.5, 28.2, 29.6, 29.7, 32.2, 32.6, 45.2.3 & 48.
3.4 During the period group has changed the  accounting policies to align with the  Guidance Note  on Accounting for Oil and Gas Producing Activities   (Revised) notified by the Institute of Chartered  Accountants of India and Expert advisory opinion of  ICAI on treatment of right of way.
The impact of such  changes in policies resulted in net increase of profit  before tax by `10,128.20 million and same has been  disclosed in note no.
5.8, 9.3, 15.3, 15.4, 16.1  (c),18.1(b), 18.1(c) & 18.1(d).
As atst 31  March, 2013 (` in million)4.
Share Capital 4.2 Terms/rights attached to equity shares The company has only one class of equity shares  having a par value of `5 per share.
Each holder of  equity shares is entitled to one vote per share.
The  dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is  subject to the approval of the shareholders in the  ensuing Annual General Meeting.
In the event of liquidation of the company, the  holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive  remaining assets of the company, after distribution  of all preferential amounts.
The distribution will be in  proportion to the number of equity shares held by  the shareholders.
4.1 Reconciliation of the equity shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the reporting period Outstanding at the beginning of the year 8,555.49 42,777.45 8,555.49 42,777.45 Changes during year - - - - Outstanding at the end of the year 8,555.49 42,777.45 8,555.49 42,777.45 st  As at 31 March, 2014 As at 31  March, 2013st  No.
in  million No.
in  million ` in  million ` in  million Particulars Particulars 264 Authorised: 30,000,000,000 Equity Shares of ` 5 each 150,000.00 150,000.00 (Previous Year 30,000,000,000 Equity Shares of  5 each) Issued and Subscribed: 8,555,528,064 Equity Shares of  5 each 42,777.64 42,777.64 (Previous Year 8,555,528,064 Equity Shares of  5 each) Paid up : 8,555,490,120 Equity Shares of  5 each 42,777.45 42,777.45 (Previous Year 8,555,490,120 Equity Shares of  5 each) Add: Shares forfeited 0.15 Total  42,777.60  42,777.60  ` ` ` ` ` 0.15 As atst 31  March, 2014 4.5 Shares reserved for issue under option : Nil (previous year Nil) 5 Reserves and Surplus 4.3 Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the company are as under:- Capital Reserve  (Note 5.1) a) As per last Balance Sheet  1,154.05  1,104.97  b) Addition/(deduction) during the year  80.92  1,234.97  49.08  1,154.05  Capital Redemption Reserve   (Note 5.3) a) As per Last Balance Sheet  91.95 46.02 b) Add: Transfer from FE Translation Reserve  0.02  -   c) Add: Transferred from P&L Account -  91.97  45.93  91.95  Securities Premium Account  a) As per last Balance Sheet  144.33  144.33  b) Less: Bonus Share issued  -    144.33  -    144.33 Debenture Redemption Reserve (Note no.
5.4) a) As per Last Balance Sheet  14,088.91  9,781.27 b) Add: Transferred from Surplus Account  10,399.95  24,488.86  4,307.64  14,088.91 Deferred Government Grant (Note 2.2.c) a) As per last Balance Sheet  27.53  30.82  b) Addition during the year  17.07  -   c) Less: Deduction during the year  (note 5.5)  2.87  41.73  3.29  27.53  Foreign Exchange Translation Reserve (Note 5.6) a) As per Last Balance Sheet  37,554.33  24,639.98  b) Addition/(deletion)  33,209.48 12,914.35  c) Less: Transfer to Capital Redemption Reserve  0.02  70,763.79  -    37,554.33 Foreign Currency Monetary Item Exchange Account ( note 5.7)  (3,925.56)  - Hedging Reserve ( note 32.6)  15.53 - General Reserve a) As per last Balance Sheet  1,223,664.23  1,105,907.56  b) Add: Adj.
with opening reserve ( Note no.
5.8)  (3,143.02) - c) Add: Transferred from Surplus Accounts  132,250.48  1,352,771.69  117,756.67  1,223,664.23 Surplus a) As per last Balance Sheet  205,772.77  179,958.75  b) Add: Transferred from Statement of Profit and Loss  265,065.33  242,196.44  c) Add:   Adjustment due to change in holding/other adjustment  36.06  58.45  d) Less: Proposed Dividend ( note 5.2)  2,138.87  4,277.75  e) Less: Interim Dividend  79,138.31  76,999.41  f) Less: Tax on Dividend  13,841.60  13,053.47  g) Less: Transfer to Capital Redemption Reserve  -    45.93  h) Less: Transfer to Debenture redemption Reserve  10,399.95  4,307.64  i) Less: Transferred to General Reserve  132,250.48  233,104.95  117,756.67  205,772.77  Total  1,678,732.26  1,482,498.10  President of India 5,897.76 68.94 5,922.55 69.23 Life Insurance Corporation of India 666.70 7.79 662.85 7.75 Indian Oil Corporation Limited 657.92 7.69 657.92 7.69 As at st 31  March, 2014 st As at 31  March, 2014 As at st 31  March, 2013 As at 31  March, 2013st No.
in  million No.
in  million %holding %holding Name of the share holder Particulars 4.4 Pursuant to the approval of the members dated  28.01.2011, during the financial year 2010-11, one  equity share having face value of  10/- each had  been sub-divided into two equity shares of  5/-  each and bonus shares in proportion of one new  equity bonus share of 5/- each for every one fully  ` ` ` (` in million) 265 paid up equity share of  5/- each held on  09.02.2011 (record date) had been allotted.
The  company has issued total 4,277.75 million equity  shares of face value of  5 each issued as fully paid  up by way of bonus shares during the period of five  years immediately preceding the reporting date.
` `  ` Annual Report 2013-14 5.1 Includes ` 159.44 million (Previous year ` 159.44  million)  being assessed value of assets received  as gift and ` 4.18 million (Previous year ` 4.18  million) being Capital Reserve on Consolidation.
5.2 The Board of Directors have recommended a final  dividend of ` 0.25 per share (previous year ` 0.50  per share) which is subject to the approval of the  5.7 Foreign Currency Monetary Item Exchange Account: The subsidiary, ONGC Videsh Limited has foreign exchange difference on the foreign currency bonds till  31.03.2014 amounting to ` 4,616.00 million (refer note no.
6.3.2) has been amortized over the outstanding tenure  of the loan as per the provision of paragraph 46A of AS 11 as below:- 5.5 Represents the amount equivalent to depreciation  transferred to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
5.6 Foreign Exchange Translation Reserve:  The subsidiary, ONGC Videsh Limited has  followed the Accounting Standard (AS) 11 - Effects  of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates (revised  2003) for incorporating in the consolidated  shareholders in the ensuing Annual General  Meeting over and above the interim dividend of ` 9.25 per share (Previous year ` 9.00 per share).
5.3 Includes ` 91.86 Million (Previous year ` 91.86  million) Capital Redemption Reserve towards  redemption of Preference share capital during 2011-12  and  2012-13 in respect of subsidiary, MRPL.
(` in million) (` in million) 8.40 % 5 Years Unsecured Non-Convertible Redeemable  Bonds in the nature of Debentures- Series I 12,892.38 3,937.84 16,830.22 8.54 % 10 Years Unsecured Non- Convertible Redeemable Bonds in the nature of Debentures- Series II 1,196.53 369.80 1,566.33 Total (A) 14,088.91 4,307.64 18,396.55 Unsecured 3.75%  10 years USD Bonds - 3,312.85 3,312.85 Unsecured 2.50%  5 years USD Bonds Total (B) - 6,073.56 6,073.56 Total (A+B) 14,088.91 10,381.20 24,470.11 - 2,760.71 2,760.71 Particulars Particulars Balance as on st 31  March,  2013 As at st 31  March,  2014 Addition  during the period Balance as onst  31 March,  2014 As at st 31  March,  2013 Opening Balance                   -                     -    Additions during the year         (4,616.00)                   -    Amortized during the year 690.44                   -    Closing Balance (3,925.56)                   -   5.8 The Company has implemented the Guidance note  on Oil & Gas Producing activities (revised)issued by  the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India w.e.f.
01.04.2013.
The company has carried out  impairment testing of assets in exploratory phase  (Exploratory Wells in Progress) as on 01.04.2013  and accordingly, an amount of 3,143.01 million `  (net of deferred tax of ` 1,618.41 million)has been  accounted as provision and adjusted against  reserve as on 01.04.2013.
(Refer note no.
18.1.b) 5.9 Above Reserve and Surplus includes ` (-) 3,575.69  million share of jointly controlled entities(Previous  year  (-) 3,532.52 million).` 266 5.4 Debenture Redemption Reserve: - Debenture Redemption Reserve includes ` 24,470.11 million in respect of subsidiary  company OVL, as follows: financial statements following the principles for  translation of the financial statements of Non- integral Foreign Operations.
Accordingly, the foreign exchange difference of ` 33,209.48  Million (Previous year ` 12,914.34 Million)has been accounted as foreign currency translation  reserve.
6.1 Above include Secured long term borrowings of ` 112,385.66 million share of jointly controlled  entities (Previous year ` 43,595.31 million) and  Unsecured long term borrowings of ` 7,823.39  million share of jointly controlled entities (Previous  year ` 6,881.69 million).
6.2 Secured Loan 6.2.1 Zero coupon bond (ZCB): The Joint Venture,  PMHBL has issued Zero Coupon Bonds to  Lenders as per Corporate Debt Restructuring  (CDR) Approved Scheme, repayable in 36  quarterly installments commencing from Sept  2006 and ending on June, 2015.
The ZCBs are  secured by first mortgage on Immovable  Properties- present & future, first charge on  movable properties - present & future and charge  on all receivables from the project on pari-passu st basis.
Balance outstanding as on 31  March, 2014  is  ` 12.65 million (Previous year ` 94.88 million)  out of which Group's share is ` 3.64 million  (Previous year  ` 27.29 million).
6.2.2 The Subsidiary, MRPL has external commercial  borrowing (ECB) of ` 38,948.00 million (Previous  year ` 16,293.00 million), secured by first pari- passu charge over immovable and movable fixed  assets both present and future.
The interest rate  for ECB are based on 6 month LIBOR plus spread.
The effective interest rate are 3.26%, 3.63%,  2.82%, 2.44% and 2.79% on ` 5,992.00 million, `  8,988.00 million, ` 17,976.00 million, ` 2,996.00  million and ` 2,996.00 million respectively to be  repaid by 2020-21.
6.2.3 The Joint Venture, PLL has outstanding loan from  Banks, secured by first ranking mortgage and first  charge on pari-passu basis on all movable and  immovable properties, both present and future  including current assets except on trade  receivables on which second charge is created on  pari-passu basis at an average interest rate of st 10.02% p.a.
applicable on 31  March, 2014. st Balance outstanding as on 31  March, 2014 is ` 9,706.30 million (Previous year ` 10,941.10  million) out of which group's share is ` 1,213.29  million (Previous year  ` 1,367.64 million)  6.2.4 The joint venture, OMPL has external commercial  borrowing (ECB) arrangement from a consortium  of banks for USD 310 million, secured by first  charge on all fixed asset and second charge of the  current assets.
The rate of interest for ECB-I (USD  250 million) and ECB-II (USD 60 million) are  LIBOR+3.13% and LIBOR+3.15% respectively.
ECB-I & ECB-II are repayable in 14 equal half st yearly installments commencing from 1  April, st 2015 and 31  October, 2015 respectively.
Balance st outstanding as on 31  March 2014 is ` 18,618.60  million (Previous year ` 13,597.50 million) out of  which group's share is ` 89,64.65 million  (Previous year  ` 6,547.05 million) 6.2.5 The Joint venture, OMPL has borrowed  Rupee  Term Loan from a Consortium of Banks at the  interest rate which is "SBI base rate+1.25%"  secured by first charge on all fixed assets and second charge on the current assets.
The  Rupee Term Loan is repayable in 36 equal st quarterly installments from 31  December, 2014. st Balance outstanding as on 31  March 2014 is ` 17,293.90 million (Previous year ` 10,000.00  million) out of which group's share is ` 8,326.82  million (Previous year ` 4,814.89 million).
(` in million)6 Long-term borrowings A.
Secured (a) Zero Coupon Bond  (note no.
6.2.1)  3.64  27.29  (b) Term Loan  -        From Banks  100,654.50  34,089.49  -        From Others  42,450.65 143,108.79  18,323.14  52,439.92  B.
Unsecured (a) Non Convertible Redeemable Bonds ( Note 6.3.1)  48,423.00  -   (b) Non Convertible Redeemable Debentures  3,700.00 23,400.00  (c) Term Loan  - From Banks  106,606.50  -    - From Others  8,000.00  6,999.98  (d) Non - Recourse deferred credit  (Note 6.3.4)  -   134.98  (e) Non-current maturities of finance lease obligations ( note 6.3.5)  4,811.12 2,759.08  (f) Sales Tax Deferment Loan ( Note 6.3.7)  2,159.17 173,699.79  2,693.51 35,987.55   Total Long Term Borrowing (A+B)  316,808.58 88,427.47  As at st 31  March, 2014 As at st 31  March, 2013 Particulars 267 Annual Report 2013-14 Corporation Washington D.C., USA, Proparco,  France and Asian Development Bank at an  average cost of 8.85% p.a.
(inclusive of hedge  cost) and loan from Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance  Company Ltd (Indian lender) at an  average st interest rate of 10.02% p.a.
as applicable as on 31   March, 2014.
In respect of external commercial  borrowings from International Finance  Corporation Washington D.C., USA and Proparco,  France,  PLL, has entered into derivative contracts  to hedge the loan including interest.
Balance st outstanding as on 31  March, 2014, is  ` 13,771.10  million (Previous year ` 16,241.10 million) out of  which group's share is ` 1,721.39 million (Previous  year  `  2,030.14 million).
6.3 Unsecured Loan 6.3.1 Non-conver tible redeemable debenture  (Rupee Bonds): During the financial year 2009-10, the subsidiary,  OVL, had raised funds from the financial markets  by issuance of non-convertible redeemable  debenture (Rupee Bonds) in the nature of  debentures as per following:- 8.54 % 10 Years Unsecured Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds in the nature of Debentures- Series II 3,700.00 6-Jan-2010 6-Jan-2020 8.40 % 5 Years Unsecured Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds in the nature of Debentures- Series I ( refer note no 12.3) 19,700.00 23-Dec-2009 23-Dec-2014 Total 23,400.00 USD 500Million Unsecured Non-Convertible Reg S Bonds ( Coupon-3.75% payable semi-annually in arrears) 27,145.00 7-May-2013 7-May-2023 USD 300Million Unsecured Non-Convertible Reg S Bonds ( Coupon-2.50% payable semi-annually in arrears) 16,287.00 7-May-2013 7-May-2018 Foreign Exchange difference (note 5.7) 4,616.00 Total 48,048.00 Particulars Particulars Amount  Amount  (` in million) (` in million) Date of issue Date of issue Date repayable on Date repayable on The above securities have been listed in National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE).
Further the Company is  required to maintain 100% asset cover as per SEBI guidelines.
There is no put / call option on these bonds.
The  bonds are repayable in full (bullet repayment) on maturity date.
6.3.2 Foreign Currency Bonds During the year 2013-14, the subsidiary, OVL, had raised funds from the international financial markets by issuance  of non-convertible redeemable Reg-S foreign currency bonds as per following: The above securities have been listed in Singapore 8.94%, 9.27%, 9.06%, 9.15% and 9.27% on ` 2,737.50  Exchange (SGX).
The USD 300 million Reg S bonds million, ` 262.50 million, ` 1,250.00 million, 2,750.00  were issued at price of 99.655% and USD 500 million, ` 87.90 million,  ` 1,537.50 million, ` 399.60  million Reg S bonds were issued at price of 99.950% million, ` 282.50 million and ` 692.50 million  .
The bonds have been issued in denomination of respectively, repayment up to 2018-19.
USD 200,000 and integral multiples of USD 1,000 in 6.3.4 The Subsidiary, OVL has unsecured non-recourse  excess thereof.
There is no periodical put/call deferred credit ` nil (previous year ` 134.98 million)  option.
The bonds are repayable in full (bullet from contractors of pipeline project executed in  repayment) on maturity date.
Sudan.
The Non recourse deferred credit is  6.3.3 The Subsidiary, MRPL has unsecured term loan from repayable from the instalments of pipeline lease  Oil Industry Development Board (OIDB) of ` 8,000.00 rentals from the Ministry of Energy and Mining  million (previous year ` 6,999.98 million).
The interest (MEM), Sudan.
The position of non-recourse  rates on the same are 8.89%, 9.04%, 8.73%, 8.98%, deferred credit is as under:- `  269 6.2.6 The joint venture, OPaL has borrowed Secured term loan from a Consortium of Banks & External Commercial  Borrowings (ECB), by first ranking pari-passu mortgage / charge on immovable and movable properties and  assets both present and future and second ranking pari-passu charge on  the current assets.
The details of rate,  repayable period & outstanding amount are as below:- 6.2.7 The Joint Venture, MSEZ has term loan from a  Consortium of Banks at the interest rate "base  rate+agreed spread (i.e.
at 11.25%) " secured by  mortgage and hypothecation of immovable and  movable assets  repayable in 36 unequal quarterly  installment commencing after moratorium period  of 6 month from commercial operation date (COD st is expected to be 1 April, 2015).
Balance st outstanding as on 31  March, 2014 is ` 5,546.62  million (Previous year ` 4,333.00 million) out of  which group's share ` 1,467.76 million (Previous  year ` 1,146.61 million).
6.2.8 The Rupee term loan (RTL) of the Joint Venture,  OTPC executed with Power Finance Corporation st Ltd (PFC) has been repaid by OTPC on 31  Jan,  2014 and has been taken over by the State Bank of  India (SBI).
The outstanding loan from SBI is  secured by first rank pari-passu charge on all  immoveable properties - present and future,  relating to the project and first charge by way of  hypothecation on all moveable properties -  present and future, relating to project and first  charge on all the receivables, Letter of credit and  Escrow Account.
Interest on the RTL is at SBI base  rate (floating)+ 0.50% (spread) and is repayable  in 60 equal quarterly installments commencing st from the 31  March, 2014.
Balance outstanding for st the same on 31  March, 2014 is ` 23,131.10 million  (Previous year ` 20,142.65 million)  out of which  group's share is ` 11,455.49 million (Previous year ` 9,975.43 million).
Further, the Joint venture  company NETC of OTPC (NETC), still continue to  avail loan from PFC by creating a first charge on its  immovable properties acquired for the project  along with the revenue and receivables from the  project - present and future against which Group's  share is `1,885.86 million (previous yearst ` 2,035.27 million) as on 31  March, 2014.
6.2.9 The Joint Venture, PLL has external commercial  borrowings from International Finance  (` in million) Bank-Medium Term loan  Bank-Long Term Loan from Q4 FY 2015-16 to Q4 FY 2025-26 Sub Debt Base rate+ spread 0.75% (11.00% effectively) External commercial borrowings USD 50 Million to Q4 FY 2019-20 External commercial borrowings USD 250 Million Total 140,046.03 16,740.00 69,126.72 8,262.86 11.00% By 31.12.2014 - 16,740.00 8,262.86 11.75% 41 quarterly installments starting 110,303.61 - 54,445.86 - Repayable after 3 year from date of disbursement 16,434.62 - 8,112.13 -  (i.e.
Dec, 2016).
6 month 9 half yearly USD LIBOR installment +324 basis starting from 3,024.50 - 1,492.89 - points Q4 FY 2015-16 6 month 15 half yearly USD LIBOR installments +range 347 starting from 10,283.30 - 5,075.84 - to  355 basis Q4 FY 2015-16 points to Q4 FY 2022-23 Type of loan Effective Rate Repayable period Outstanding Amount as on 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Group’s share in  outstanding on 268 Annual Report 2013-14 6.3.5 The subsidiary, OVL has unsecured non-current  maturity of finance lease obligation of ` 4,811.12  million (Previous year ` 2,759.08 million).
6.3.6 The subsidiary, OVL has availed a term loan from  Bank amounting to ` 106,606.50 million (USD  1,775 million) (Previous year ` nil) for the purpose  of acquisition of block in Mozambique.
6.3.7 The Subsidiary, MRPL, has deferred payment  liability on account of sale tax deferment liability of ` 2,159.17 million (Previous year ` 2,693.51 million)  with nil interest rate, to be repaid by 2019-20.
6.3.8 The Joint Venture, PLL has raised the fund by  issuing "Bonds- 8.35% Debenture - Series I" which  are unsecured, non-convertible debentures  repayable in financial year 2018-19.
Balance st outstanding as on 31  March, 2014 is ` 3,000.00  million (Previous year Nil) out of which group's  share ` 375.00 million (Previous year Nil).
(` in million) Non - Recourse Deferred (unsecured) As atst 31  March,  2014 As atst 31  March,  2013 Current (Note 12.3) 1,043.37 809.89 Non-Current (Note 6) - 134.98 Total 1,043.37 944.87 (` in million) Particulars As atst 31  March,  2014 As atst 31  March,  2013 (i)  Liabilities    Depletion of Producing Properties 218,766.58 177,977.15 Depreciation Allocated to Wells in Progress & expenses 23,002.57 14,799.59 relating to NELP Deferred Revenue Expenditure written off 3,718.06 5,050.44 Development wells-in Progress 10,052.58 12,045.58 Depreciation 18,419.18 7,898.11 Others 7,300.79 3,707.51 Deferred tax liability of ONGBV, OAAL- Subsidiary of OVL 7,347.57 11,714.50 Total (i) 288,607.33 233,192.88 (ii) Assets    Depreciation 22,690.58 13,710.90 Unabsorbed losses and allowances (1,581.49) - Dry wells written off 18,340.46 10,650.76 Provision for Non-Moving Inventories 1,876.75 1,584.30 Provision for Doubtful Debts/ Claims /Advances/ Interest 4,270.17 9,501.06 Provision for Abandonment 38,633.84 24,029.48 Provision for Leave Encashment\PRBS 1.73 1.56 Provision toward Additional Profit Petroleum & interest 3,426.45 3,102.97 Statutory duties unpaid u/s 43B 778.74 14,894.44 Others (note no.
7.1) 14,649.07 7,227.40 Deferred tax asset of ONGBV - Subsidiary of OVL 6,885.93 6,238.82 Total (ii) 109,972.23 90,941.69 270 7.
Deferred Tax Liabilities  st The Deferred Tax Liability/Asset of the company, its subsidiaries and joint ventures as at 31  March, 2014 comprises  of the major components of Deferred Tax Liabilities and Deferred Tax Assets under Accounting Standard-22 on  'Accounting for Taxes on Income' the details of the same given here under:  7.1 Includes deferred tax asset of  1,618.41 million  (Previous Year Nil) created consequent to  assessment of impairment during exploration  ` phase as at 01.04.2013 in terms of the Guidance  Note on Oil and Gas Producing Activities  (Revised) as referred at note no.
5.8 & 18.1(b) (` in million) (` in million) Particulars As atst 31  March,  2014 As atst 31  March,  2014 As atst 31  March,  2013 As atst 31  March,  2013 Net Deferred Tax Liability of ONGC       165,786.79   128,879.81 Net Deferred Tax Liability of OVL           6,921.94       3,649.86 Net Deferred Tax Liability of ONGBV           6,965.31  7,733.56  Net Deferred Tax Liability of OAAL              328.23             261.47  Net Deferred Tax Liability of Carabobo One AB               54.02               69.61  Net Deferred Tax Liability of MRPL           4,703.24           7,343.14  Net Deferred Tax Liability of PLL              691.25             488.75  Net Deferred Tax Liability of OTPC               70.29               63.87  Net Deferred Tax Liability of DSL  -  - Consolidated Net Deferred Tax Liability 185,521.07 148,490.07 Net Deferred Tax Asset of ONGBV           6,763.69           5,840.86  Net Deferred Tax Asset of OAAL                    -               230.79  Net Deferred Tax Asset of PMHBL              122.24             167.17  Net Deferred Tax Asset of OTBL                 0.04                 0.06  Consolidated Net Deferred Tax Asset           6,885.97           6,238.88 Trade payables - Outstanding dues to Micro & Small Enterprises  -   -    - Outstanding dues to other than Micro & Small Enterprises  1,020.45 1,301.85  Others - Advance from customers  3,374.39  3,275.51  - Deposits from Suppliers and Contractors  31.23  52.49  - Liability for Capital Goods  1,773.16  1,662.97  - Liabilities for  Liquidated Damages  9,904.05 9,250.07   - Other Liabilities  2,422.03 1,620.22  Total  18,525.31  17,163.11 8.
Other Long Term Liabilities 8.1 Above other long term liabilities includes 7,261.96 million share of jointly controlled entities (Previous year ` 6,244.16 million).
`  Particulars 271 7.2 The above includes Deferred Tax Asset of ` 6,885.97 million (Previous year  6,238.88 million) and Deferred Tax  Liability of  185,521.07 million (Previous Year  148,490.07 million)in respect of various components of entities  consolidated as below: ` ` ` Annual Report 2013-14 (` in million) (` in million) As atst 31  March,  2014 As atst 31  March,  2014 As atst 31  March,  2013 As atst 31  March,  2013 Provision for Employee benefits - Unavailed Leave  386.24 18,509.05  - Gratuity  3.52  3.85  - Post Retirement Medical & Terminal Benefits  28,778.25  26,563.42  Provision for Abandonment (Note no.
9.3 & 44) 274266.03 207,255.35 Other Provisions (Note no.
44)  664.09  631.10  Total  304,098.13  252,962.77 Secured  Short Term Loans from Banks  810.75  738.30  Unsecured  Loans Repayable on demand from Bank  3,868.75  66,479.09  Other Short Term Loans : From Banks  133,633.50  48,053.57  From Others  759.72 -    Total  139,072.72  115,270.96  9.
Long Term Provisions 10.
Short Term Borrowings 9.1 Above long term provisions includes ` 15.73  million share of jointly controlled entities (Previous  year ` 11.07 million).
9.2 Subsidiaries and the Joint Venture Companies of  OVL provide for the retirement benefits in  accordance with the laws of Countries of their  respective jurisdictions.
The net impact on  account of the difference in accounting policy is  not ascertainable.
Above Secured short term borrowing includes ` 810.75 million (Previous year ` 696.46 million)  shares of jointly controlled entities and unsecured  short term borrowing includes ` 3,868.75 million  (Previous year ` 54,530.89 million) shares of jointly  controlled entities.
10.1 Short Term  Loan - Secured 10.1.1 The subsidiary, MRPL has outstanding secured  short term Loan of ` 471.51 million (Previous year ` 158.95 million) from Bank secured by way of  hypothecation of MRPL's stock of raw materials,  finished goods, stock-in-process, stores, spares,  components, book debts, outstanding moneys  receivable, claim, bills, contracts, engagements,  securities, both present and future and further  secured by second ranking pari-passu charge  9.3 Change in policy of accounting in respect of  provision for abandonment net of salvage value to  gross basis (refer accounting policy no.
2.2.k.1)  has resulted in an increase in provision by ` 26,969.32 million with corresponding increase in  producing property by ` 26,729.88 million,  Exploratory well in Progress by ` 59.04 million,  Development well in progress by ` 42.97 million as  on 31.03.2014 and decrease in profit before tax  amounting to  ` 137.43 million for the year ended  31.03.2014. against company's immovable and movable fixed  Asset both present and future.
This includes  ` 471.51 million (Previous year ` 117.12 million) in  respect of joint venture company of MRPL, Shell  MRPL Aviation Fuels & Services Pvt Ltd. 10.1.2 The Joint venture company, OTPC has borrowed  short term loan from bank repayable within one  year from date of first disbursement, that is byth 30  September, 2014 unless otherwise extended  further.
The short term loan is secured by first rank  pari-passu charge on all immovable properties,  present and future relating to project and first charge on all the receivable, letter of credit and Escrow Account at interest rate SBI base rate  (floating)+.75% (spread).
The balance  outstanding as on 31.03.2014 is of ` 685.00 million Particulars Particulars 272 (Previous year ` 1,169.84 million) out of which  group's share is ` 339.24 million (Previous year ` 579.35 million).
10.2 Short term Loan-Unsecured 10.2.1 The Joint venture, OPaL has borrowed short term  loan from bank repayable on demand of ` Nil (Previous year ` 104,003.95 million) out of  which group's share is ` Nil (Previous year ` 50,961.94 million).
10.2.2 The Joint venture, OMPL has borrowed short term  loan from bank repayable on demand of ` 7,389.26  million (Previous year ` 7,412.31 million) out of  which group's share is ` 3,557.85  million (Previous  year ` 3,568.95 million).
(` in million) As atst 31  March,  2014 As atst 31  March,  2013 - Outstanding dues to Micro & Small Enterprises  82.20  3.60  - Outstanding dues to other than Micro & Small Enterprises (note 11.3)  291,894.47  185,848.16  - Deferred Credit  on Gas Sale (note 11.2)  14,806.41  296.04  Total  306,783.08  186,147.80  (` in million) As atst 31  March,  2014 As atst 31  March,  2013 Current Maturity of Long Term Borrowings (note 12.2 & 12.3)  34,028.47 2,268.60  Current Maturity of Finance Lease Obligations  1,217.72 889.04  Interest Accrued but not due on Borrowings  2,098.79 1,181.89  Interest Accrued and due on Borrowings  135.33 272.99  Advance from Customers  27,087.38 5,184.07  Unclaimed Dividend ( note 12.4)  248.59 232.11  Liability for Capital Goods 28,044.22 40,037.21  Liability for Statutory Payments  19,634.39 19,954.87  Liability for Gratuity  18.22 155.98  Deposits from Suppliers and Contractors  7,061.07 4,024.10  Cash Call payable to JV Partners  31,299.06 22,186.46  Liability for Employees  9,641.61 6,586.84  Liability for Superannuation Benefits  427.31 20,204.79  Liabilities for Liquidated Damages  10,666.22 9,061.49  Other Liabilities ( note 12.5)  46,585.52 38,628.69  Total  218,193.90  170,869.13  12.
Other Current liabilities 11.
Trade Payables 10.2.3 The Joint venture, PLL has borrowed short term  buyers credit from bank repayable on demand of  ` 2,487.20 million (Previous year ` Nil) out of which  group's share is ` 310.90 million (Previous year ` Nil).
10.2.4 The Subsidiary, MRPL has availed ` Nil (Previous  year ` 11,948.20 million) in the form of buyers  credit from banks.
10.2.5 The subsidiary OVL has availed bridge/short term loan of `133,633.50 million (Previous year ` 48,053.57 million) for the purpose of participating  interest in Area 1 of fshore, Mozambique.
Borrowings in previous year were taken for  acquisition of participating interest in ACG fields  and BTC pipeline, Azerbaijan which has been  repaid in current year.
11.1 Above trade payable includes ` 3,597.75 million  share of jointly controlled entities (Previous year ` 5,109.40 million).
11.2 Deferred credit on gas sales represents amounts  received from gas customers against "Take or Pay"  obligations under relevant gas sales agreements.
The amounts are to be utilized to supply gas in  subsequent year(s) free of charge to such  customers.
11.3 In case of subsidiary MRPL, the trade payables   includes ` 79,141.99 million being overdue  amount payable to National Iranian Oil Company  (NIOC) pending settlement due to non finalisation  of remittance channel arising out of UN/US/EU  backed sanctions.
Particulars Particulars 273 Annual Report 2013-14 12.1 Above other current liabilities includes `18,812.81  million share of jointly controlled entities (Previous  year  ` 11,812.55 million).
12.2 Above includes, outstanding current maturity of  unsecured Long Term Borrowings of ` 2,534.34  million (Previous year ` Nil) in respect of the  subsidiary, MRPL.
Refer note no.
6.3.3.
12.3 Above includes, in respect of Subsidiary company,  OVL, outstanding current maturity of non- convertible redeemable debentures amounting to  ` 19,700 million(Previous year ` Nil), which are due for redemption on Dec 23, 2014  and current maturity of non-recourse deferred credit  (unsecured) of ` 1,043.37 million (Previous year ` 809.89 million) (refer note 6.3.1 & 6.3.4).
12.4 No amount is due for payment to Investor  Education and Protection Fund.
12.5 The joint venture OTPC has transferred the equity  share (16,456,000 no.
of ` 10/- each fully paid-up) of  North East Transmission Company Ltd (OTPC's JV  Company) to the Govt of Nagaland during current  year against amount received of ` Nil (Previous year  ` 164.56 million) from Govt of Nagaland out of which  group share included above is ` Nil (Previous year  `  81.66 million) as transfer of these shares were  pending, under "other liabilities" above.
(` in million) As atst  31 March,  2014 As atst  31 March,  2013 Provision for Employees Benefits Unavailed Leave 2,701.14 2,015.05 Gratuity  0.33  59.76  Post Retirement Medical & Terminal Benefits  2,142.42  1,677.22  Provision for Abandonment (note 9.3 & 44)  424.39  436.77 Provision for Others Proposed Dividend  2,138.87 4,277.75  Tax on Proposed Dividend  397.92  768.88  Provision for wealth Tax  126.00  102.00  Less: Paid  58.82 67.18  52.27 49.73   Provision for taxation  1.33  1.60  MAT Payable  72.32 44.81  Other Provisions (note no.
13.2 & 44)  1,524.00  1,201.35  Total  9,469.90 10,532.92  13.
Short Term provisions 13.1 Above short term provisions includes ` 324.85  million share of jointly controlled entities  (Previous  year ` 206.76 million).
13.2 Other provisions The subsidiary, MRPL, had recognized liability  Particulars 274 based on substantial degree of estimation for excise  duty payable on clearance of goods lying in stock as st  on 31 March, 2014 for ` 1,155.18 million (Previous  year ` 961.75 million).
275 14.
Tangible Assets Land Freehold  3,260.44  1,077.86  18.10  4,320.20  -    -    -    -   - -  -    -    4,320.20  3,260.44  Land Leasehold  17,733.63  191.68  (23.20)  17,948.51  1,146.23  331.20  (40.22)  1,517.65  -   - -  -    -    16,430.86  16,587.40  Building & Bunk Houses  31,636.57  8,077.01  46.06  39,667.52  11,497.02  1,626.89  31.78  13,092.13  87.40  38.45  0.01  125.84  26,449.55  20,052.15  Plant & Equipment  1,154,129.54  156,257.62  2,529.90  1,307,857.26  793,960.43  111,272.35  2,489.52  902,743.26  1,915.69  38.70  39.38  (12.17)  1,927.18  403,186.82  358,253.42  Furnitures & Fixtures  15,361.76  707.29  (287.83)  16,356.88  10,648.73  860.06  (32.66)  11,541.45  11.81  0.59  0.18  0.35  11.87  4,803.56  4,701.22  Office Equipment  6,248.71  2,483.26  736.20  7,995.77  4,495.35  818.03  738.34  4,575.04  22.65  0.69  0.13  1.40  21.81  3,398.92  1,730.71  Vehicles includes Survey Ships, Crew Boats and Helicopters (note14.1(k))   Total  1,235,984.90  170,978.92  3,291.40  1,403,672.42  827,192.32  115,612.15  3,482.51  939,321.96  2,048.00  78.43  40.05  (10.57)  2,096.95  462,253.51  406,744.58  Previous Year  1,114,091.87  193,130.20  71,237.17  1,235,984.90  806,279.39  92,761.78  71,848.85  827,192.32  1,732.62  755.35  437.22  2.75  2,048.00  406,744.58  The above includes the company's share in Joint Venture Assets    Previous Year  183,855.28  37,133.99  (751.50)  221,740.77  118,380.73  12,977.62  48.90  131,309.45  182.52  615.01 - -  797.53  89,633.79  7,614.25  2,184.20  272.17  9,526.28  5,444.56  703.62  295.75  5,852.43  10.45 -  0.36  (0.16)  10.25  3,663.60  2,159.24 222,828.42  46,552.29  1,645.20  267,735.51  131,477.52  20,801.96  (948.56)  153,228.04  797.53  -    -    -    797.53  113,709.94  89,633.79 Description st At 1    April, 2013 st At 1   April, 2013 st At 1 April, 2013 For the year For the year Written back Re classificationAdditions Gross Block Accumulated Depreclation Accumulated Impairment Net Block Deletion/ Adjustment Deletion/ Adjustment st At 31    March, 2014 st At 31    March, 2014 st At 31   March, 2014 st As 31   March, 2014 st At 31    March, 2013 14.1 Above includes:- (a) Additions to Tangible Fixed Assets are net of ` 2,195.48 million on account of foreign  currency translation adjustment during the year (Previous year ` 1,107.95 million).
(b) Land includes land in respect of certain projects for which execution of  lease/conveyance deeds are in process.
(c) Registration of title deeds in respect of certain Buildings is pending execution.
(d) In respect of subsidiary MRPL, ` 249.66 million (Previous year ` 253.74 million) which  has not been amortized in view of the fact that eventually the ownership will get  transferred to the company on expiry of the lease period, of which ` 7.75 million  (Previous year ` 11.52 million) is in the process being surrendered to competent  Authority.
Net Block  ` 7.75 million (Previous year ` 11.52 million).
(e) Plant & Equipment includes an amount of ` 782.98 million (Previous year ` 782.98  million) being MRPL's share of an asset jointly owned with another company.
Net Block  `38.04  million (Previous year  ` 79.39 million).
(f) In respect of subsidiary MRPL Lease land value ` 36.56 million (previous year ` 40.34  million) which is in possession of the company towards which formal lease deeds are  yet to be executed.
Net block  ` 36.56 million (previous year 40.34 million).
(g) Net Tangible Assets include ` 30,606.58 million share of jointly controlled  entities(Previous year  ` 16,308.36 million).
`  (` in million) (h) Depreciation for the year includes ` (-) 85.79 million pertaining to   prior period  (Previous year  ` (-) 20.24 million).
(i) Plant & Equipment includes Jetty & Trestle having Gross block of ` 8,368.90 million  (Previous year  ` 4,543.80 million) (Dahej) and ` 3,825.20 million (Previous year ` Nil)  (Kochi) in the books of Joint Venture Company, Petronet LNG Ltd, out of which Group  share is  ` 1,046.11 million (Previous year ` 567.98 million)( Dahej) and 478.15  million (Previous year ` Nil) .
As per the agreement, ownership of Jetty & Trestle  (Dahej) would be transferred to the Gujarat Maritime Board in the year 2035 and  ownership of Jetty & Trestle (Kochi)  would be transferred to the Cochin Port Trust in the  year 2039.
(j) Building includes cost of undivided interest in land.
(k)  Vehicles include Survey Ships, Crew Boats and Helicopters.
Vehicles also include cost  of 10 Immediate support vessels (ISV) amounting to ` 1,079.50 million (previous year  Nil) handed over to Indian Navy for manning, maintenance and operations.
(l) The subsidiary company, MRPL is in possession of certain land provisionally  measuring 39.76 acres ceded by HPCL for use by MRPL Phase III expansion and  upgradation work.
The consideration for such land is mutually agreed to be by way of  swapping land in possession of MRPL.
The final documentation in this regards is  pending to be executed.
`   (Kochi) `  Annual Report 2013-14 (` in million) 14.2 The accounting policies for treatment of depreciation of fixed assets by the subsidiaries/ Joint Venture/Associate Entities are different from the accounting policies of the Group.
Such different  policy of depreciation of Fixed Assets have been adopted in respect of the following:- 14.3 Title to Fixed Assets under Production Sharing  Agreements The Subsidiary OVL and its subsidiaries and joint  ventures, in consortium with other partners  (Consortium) carries on its business in respect of  exploration, development and production of  hydrocarbons under agreements with the host  governments.
Several of these agreements,  governing OVL's activities in the fields / projects,  provide that the title to the fixed assets and other  ancillar y installations shall pass to host  Government or its nominated entities either upon  acquisition / first use of such assets or upon 100%  recovery of such costs through allocation of "Cost  Oil" and "Cost Gas" or upon relinquishment of the  relevant contract areas or termination of the  relevant agreement.
However, as per the terms of  the agreements, the Consortium and/ or Operator  has the custody of all such assets and is entitled to  use, free of charge all such assets for Petroleum  Operations throughout the term of the respective  agreements.
The Consortium also has the custody  and maintenance of such assets and bears all risks  of accidental loss and damage and all costs  necessary to maintain such assets and to replace  or repair such damage or loss.
Under the  circumstances, such assets are kept in the records  of the OVL during the currency of the respective  agreements.
14.4 Apart from the above assets, the joint venture  company, Petronet MHB Limited (PMHBL) has  taken lease land from HPCL for its stations at  Mangalore, Hassan and Devangonthi on a long  term lease basis for the period of 30 years on  annual rental basis.
Also, there are six pieces of  land acquired by PMHBL through KIADB for  sectionalized valve stations for which absolute sale  deeds are yet to be registered in the name of the  PMHBL and the amount paid ` 0.28 million  (Previous year ` 0.53 million) is shown as capital  advance  under note 21.
14.5 The Subsidiary of OVL "OAAL" and joint venture  company of OVL "OMEL" provide depreciation on  fixed assets using the straight line method.
The  amount involved is ` 1,132.80 million (Previous  year ` 981.73 million) shown as depreciation under Note 33.
14.6 Due to different nature of their operation, PHL, an  Associate of the Company, follows different  accounting policies in respect to depreciation.
Depreciation is charged by PHL on straight line  method rates specified in Schedule XIV whereas  the company provides Written Down Value  Method rates specified in Schedule XIV.
It is not  practicable for the Company to make adjustment  for the purposes of applying the equity method.
MRPL 7,044.75 6,008.29 59,929.42 57,776.45 Petronet LNG Ltd. 381.97 231.47 7,826.58 2,939.98 Petronet MHB  Ltd. 144.37 140.35 306.25 443.46 Mangalore SEZ Ltd. 0.54 0.52 927.61 926.50 OMPL 30.78 27.95 1,230.69 1,252.98 OPaL 202.77 202.72 5,008.17 5,159.23 OTPC* 206.57 33.01 11,578.79 1,863.17 Total- Proportion 8,011.75 6,644.31 86,807.51 70,361.77 Group Total 115,612.15 92,804.83 462,303.70 406,857.57 Straight Line Method st  * Depreciation has been provided on the basis of CERC Tariff Regulations 2009 with effect from 1 April, 2009,  as notified by Central Electricity Regulatory Commission.
Written  Down Value Method at the rates specified in Schedule  XIV.
Name of  Subsidiaries / JV/ Associate Accounting Policies 2013-14 2012-13 2012-13Company Subsidiaries/ JV 2013-14 Proportionate Depreciation Proportionate Net block 276 15 Producing Properties Gross Cost Opening Balance 1,486,412.69 1,298,462.89  Expenditure during year 56,865.77 32,418.91  Transfer from Exploratory Wells-in-Progress 12,159.44 5,417.69  Transfer from Development Wells-in-Progress 124,450.52 84,202.26  Depreciation on Facilities 64,756.79 59,741.63  Increase/(Decrease) in estimated Abandonment costs (note 9.3) 68,078.85 1,168.42  Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments (note 15.2) 10,825.86 5,000.89  Other Adjustments (59.05) 1,823,490.87 - 1,486,412.69 Less: Depletion & Impairment Depletion Opening Balance 777,720.44 687,904.12  Depletion for the year (note 15.5) 121,130.77 86,228.54  Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments 8,118.80 3,533.72  Other Adjustments (refer note no.
42.5.4)  241.72  907,211.73 54.06  777,720.44  Impairment Opening Balance 3,296.81 2,554.40  Impairment provided for the period  417.20  742.41  Write back of Impairment (116.34)  3,597.67 - 3,296.81  NET PRODUCING PROPERTIES 912,681.47 705,395.44  As at st  31 March, 2014 As at st  31 March, 2013 15.1 Above includes ` Nil share of jointly controlled entities (previous year  il) 15.2 In respect of  subsidiary OVL, above includes Foreign currency translation differences in respect of sakhlian-1, in  pursuance to para 46A of Accounting standard 11 (change in foreign exchange rate) as follows:- ` N (` in million) Particulars Year endedst  31 March, 2014 Year endedst  31 March, 2013 Exchange loss arising on reporting of long-term foreign currency monetary items relating to depreciable assets:    Amount remaining to be amortized at the beginning of the year       1,120.37           -    Exchange loss/(gain) arising during the year 2,231.12 1,246.83  Less: Depletion charged to statement of profit and loss for the year             285.36 126.46  Amount remaining to be amortized at the end of the year 3,066.13 1,120.37  (` in million) Particulars 277 Annual Report 2013-14 15.3 Change in policy of capitalizing the cost of side  tracking of producing wells, only if it results in  increased proved developed reserves, to  capitalizing the cost if it results in increased proved  developed reserves or future economic benefits  therefrom beyond previously assessed standard  of performance (refer accounting policy no.
2.2.i.3), has the impact of increase in profit before  tax by ` 7,879.28 million with corresponding  increase in Producing Properties by ` 7,328.59  million and Development Wells in Progress by ` 550.69 million during the year ended 31.03.2014.
15.4 Change in policy of transferring development wells  to producing properties upon establishment of  proved developed reserves and connectivity for  production, to only upon establishment of proved  developed reserves irrespective of connectivity,  has the impact of decrease in profit before tax by ` 247.48 million on account of increase in  depletion on Development wells in progress  (DWIP) capitalized to Producing Properties with  corr esponding decr ease in DWIP by ` 5,444.14 million and increase in net Producing  property by ` 5,196.66 million for the year ended  31.03.2014 (refer accounting policy no.
2.2.e.4.3).
15.5 During the year, in respect of Company's Joint  Asset, PMT JV has downgraded reserves for the  Mid and South Tapti fields due to geological  surprises.
As a result, the production profile is  envisaged only up to 2015-16 and the sale  realization (net of statutory levies) will be  transferred to Site Restoration Fund pursuant to  the Profit Sharing Contract.
Under these  circumstances, the field has been fully depleted  and depletion aggregating to ` 9,090.44 million  has been charged to the Statement of Profit and  Loss.
Similarly, a provision for impairment of ` 441.87 million representing the salvage value of  Tapti field and Tapti Capital Work in Progress has  been made in the financial statements.
278  279 16.
Intangible Assets Computer Software  6,795.58  188.65  81.85  6,902.38  5,831.62  509.84  79.49  6,261.97  22.27 - - -  22.27  618.14  941.69 Copyrights & Patents  -    -    (56.50)  56.50  -    -    (56.50)  56.50  -   - - -  -    -    -    Goodwill (note 16.4)  20.13  -    -    20.13  12.07  2.01  -    14.08  -   - - -  -    6.05  8.06  Right of way  142.10  9.93  5.49  146.54  50.60  14.45  48.68  16.37  -   - - -  -    130.17  91.50  Total  6,957.81  198.58  30.84  7,125.55  5,894.29  526.30  71.67  6,348.92  22.27  -    -    -    22.27  754.36  1,041.25  Previous Year  6,667.51  339.92  49.62  6,957.81  5,281.14  664.76  51.61  5,894.29  22.27  -    -    -    22.27  1,041.25  The above includes the Company's share in Joint  508.96  88.95  58.23  539.68  299.63  103.61  49.22  354.02  -    -    -    -    -    185.66  149.77  Venture Assets Previous Year  303.00  76.09  6.70  372.39  230.79  (6.68)  1.49  222.62  -   - - - -  149.77  Description st At 1 April, 2013 st At 1    April, 2013 st At 1    April, 2013 For the year For the year Written back Re classificationAdditions Gross Block Accumulated Depreclation Accumulated Impairment Net Block Deletion/ Adjustment Deletion/ Adjustment st At 31    March, 2014 st At 31    March, 2014 st At 31    March, 2014 st At 31   March, 2014 st At 31    March, 2013 16.1 Above includes:- opinion on "Accounting of right of way".
This change in policy has resulted in decrease  (a) Addition to Intangible Asset are net of ` (-) 24.28 million on account of in  profit before tax by ` 11.84 million, foreign currency translation adjustment during the year(previous year ` (-) 24.28 16.2 The Associate, Pawan Hans Ltd, is charging cost of software purchased/ million).
developed in-house up to  ` 0.50 million each to statement of profit & loss in the year of  (b) Net Intangible asset include ` 91.21 million shares of jointly controlled purchase.
entities(previous year  ` 101.72 million).
16.3 The Joint Venture Company, OTPC has paid amount of ` 197.40 million (previous year  (c) In respect of Joint Venture  Company, Petronet MHB Ltd (PMHBL), Cost of Right of ` 109.65 million)  out of which group's share is ` 97.76 million (previous year ` 54.29  way for laying pipeline amounting to ` 38.86 million(previous year ` 38.86 million)as million) to take possession of Forest land which has been accounted as right to use  group share included above is capitalized as intangible asset and said amount is being land" by the OTPC.
The said amount is being amortized over a period of 25 years being  amortized over period of 35 years being the estimated design life of pipeline.
The the estimated operating life of the Project.
company has changed its accounting policy on deprecation of intangible asset in case 16.4 Represents consideration for purchase of business (Nitrogen Plant) in excess of book  of right of way (refer revised accounting policy no.
2.2.p.6) in line with recent ICAI value of net assets acquired by subsidiary MRPL. "
(` in million) Annual Report 2013-14 17 Capital Works in Progress A Tangible Assets In Progress Buildings  6,935.01  5,331.81  Plant and Equipment  368,822.19  369,415.20  Others  4,996.12  7,332.35  Capital Stores (including in transit)  7,686.30  3,032.07  Less: Provision for Non-Moving Items  77.51 388,362.11  117.65  384,993.78     B Less: Impairment Opening Balance  2,331.14  1,295.90  Provided for the year  686.78  1,377.05  Write back of Impairment  (616.69)  (319.68) Other adjustments -  2,401.23  (22.13)  2,331.14    C Intangible Assets In Progress Acquisition Costs-E&P Asset  149,005.00  11,917.47  ( note no.
17.1.h & 17.1.g) Intangible Asset under Development 3,303.97 152,308.97  2,869.07  14,786.54  NET CAPITAL WORKS-IN-PROGRESS(A-B+C)  538,269.85  397,449.18  As at st 31  March, 2014 As at st 31  March, 2013 17.1 Above includes:- (a) Plant & Equipment includes an amount of ` 8,436.64 million (Previous Year ` 8,176.05  million) in respect of Capital Works in Progress  (CWIP) for C2-C3 plant which is mechanically  complete and will be capitalized on completion of  test run.
Further, C3-C4 blending facility and  recycling facility of C2 is mechanically completed  in February 2014 and pending test run the same  has been carried forward as CWIP.
(b) CWIP of ` 106,279.69 million share of jointly controlled  entities (Previous year ` 91,845.88 million).
(c) In respect of subsidiary company, MRPL, an  amount of  ` 1,710.35 million (previous year `(-) 56.88 million)  has been capitalized under  CWIP on account of exchange difference arising  on reporting of long term foreign  currency  monetary items pursuant to Notification no.
GSR th (914)E dated 29  December, 2011 issued by MCA,  st from the financial year ending 31  March, 2012, to  adjust exchange difference arising on reporting of  long term foreign currency monetary items, in so  far as , they relate to the acquisition of depreciable  assets, against the cost of such assets and  depreciate the said adjustment, over the balance  life of the assets.
(d) In respect of Joint Venture Company, OPaL, an  amount of  ` 10.28 million (Previous year ` 98.70  million) has been capitalized under CWIP on  account of exchange difference arising on reporting  of long term foreign currency monetary items  instead of charging to Statement of profit & loss.
(e) In respect of Joint Venture Company, OMPL, an  amount of  ` 825.05 million (Previous year ` Nil)  has been capitalized under CWIP on account of  exchange difference arising on reporting of long  term foreign  currency monetary items,  pursuant th to notification no.
GSR(914)E dated 29   December, 2011 issued by Ministry of Corporate  Affairs, Govt.
of India.
(f) In respect of Joint Venture Company, OTPC, an  amount of  ` 108.51 million  (Previous year ` 181.87  million) has been capitalized under CWIP on  account of exchange difference arising on reporting  of long term foreign  currency monetary items  instead of charging to Statement of profit & loss, th pursuant to notification no.
GSR(914)E dated 29   December, 2011 issued by Ministry of Corporate  Affairs, Govt.
of India.
(g) The subsidiary OVL computes acquisition cost  relates to the cost for acquiring property or mineral  right of proved or unproved oil and gas properties  which are currently under exploration/Development  stage, such cost will be transferred to producing  property on commercial production from the project or  written of f in case of relinquishment of project.
Accordingly, acquisition cost of ` 137,058.94  million (Previous year ` 11,917.47 million) has been  capitalized during the year under CWIP.
(h) The company has paid lump sum amount of ` 28.59 million (previous year nil) as   commercial  bonus to MoPNG, Govt.
of India which is  accounted as acquisition cost for acquiring the  right of mining lease in CBM Block (NK-CBM- 2001/1 & BK-CBM-2001/1).
(i) In respect of Joint Venture Company, MSEZ,has an  obligation vide Government order no.
RD 309REH  dated 20.06.2007 to provide various compensation  to the Project Displaced Families (PDFs) including  (` in million)(` in million) Particulars 280 one job per family and site for construction.
The  PDFs can opt for cash in lieu of site and cash in lieu  of job.
The estimated provision in respect of various  compensations is included in capital work in progress  of ` 59.50 million  (previous year ` 74.35 million) as  group share.
Capital work in progress includes of 18.1 Above includes:- (a) During the Financial year 2004-05, the company  had acquired 90% Participating Interest in  Exploration Block KG-DWN-98/2 from M/s Cairn  Energy India Ltd. for a lump sum consideration of `  3,711.22 million which, together with subsequent  exploratory drilling costs of wells had been  capitalised under exploratory wells in progress.
Initial in-place reserves have been established in  this block and a conceptual development plan as  ` 168.34 million  (previous year ` 165.82 million) as  group share on account of mandatory and unavoidable  expenditure incurred on creation of infrastructure at  R&R colony, pursuant to Government of Karnataka  Order no.
KE309REH, 2006, Bangalore dated  20.06.2007.
The expenditure will be transferred to the  cost of land in the year in which the obligation is  completed.
par t of the proposal for Declaration of  commerciality (DOC) had been submitted on  21.12.2009 for Southern Discovery Area and on  15.07.2010 for Northern Discovery Area to the  Management Committee (MC) for review as per  original time lines.
The exploration period of this  block has been restructured by Government upto  29.12.2013 in accordance with the Rig Holiday  Policy and taking into account the delay in grant of  PEL.
Additional appraisal drilling along with  18 Exploratory/Development Wells In Progress A)  EXPLORATORY WELLS-IN-PROGRESS      Gross Cost Opening Balance  99,601.32  82,929.40  Acqusition Cost  -    2,124.44  Expenditure during the year  131,660.13  102,699.83  Less : Sale proceeds of Oil and Gas (Net of levies)  470.54 131,189.59  123.05 102,576.78 Depreciation during the year  2,506.44  1,335.06  233,297.35  188,965.68  Less : Transfer to Producing Properties  12,159.44  5,417.69  Wells written off during the year  67,473.61  84,592.02  Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments  (10,828.10)  (587.58) Other adjustments  (16.66)  68,788.29  (57.77)  89,364.36  164,509.06  99,601.32  Less : Provision/Impairment  (Note 18.1 (a), (b), (e) & (f))  27,935.56  20,579.93  EXPLORATORY WELLS-IN-PROGRESS (A)  136,573.50  79,021.39  B) DEVELOPMENT WELLS-IN-PROGRESS Opening Balance  57,845.32  44,775.19  Expenditure during the year  109,654.09  94,175.85  Depreciation during the year  1,871.16  2,842.41  Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments  1,269.70  254.14  Less: Transfer to Producing Properties  124,450.52  (11,655.57)  84,202.26  13,070.14  46,189.75  57,845.33       Less: Impairment      Opening Balance  465.78  260.73       Provision for the year  264.49  205.05       Write back during the year  (34.00)  696.27  -   465.78    DEVELOPMENT WELLS-IN-PROGRESS (B)  45,493.48  57,379.55 EXPLORATORY/DEVELOPMENT WELLS-IN-PROGRESS (A+B)  182,066.98  136,400.94 As at st 31  March, 2014 As at st 31  March, 2013 (` in million) Particulars 281 Annual Report 2013-14 exploratory drilling is in progress.
During the  financial year 2012-13, the company had acquired  the remaining 10% participating interest in the block  from M/s Cairn Energy India Ltd. on actual past cost  basis for a consideration of ` 2,124.44 million Revised DOC has been submitted on 26.12.2013  to Directorate General of Hydrocarbon (DGH) for  review.
Further, the Operator has applied to DGH  for continuation of appraisal / drilling activities for a  period of 2 years or till grant of ML.
Pending final  decision on the DOC by the MC, as a matter of  abundant caution, the company has retained a  provision of ` 17,210.82 million (Previous Year ` 17,169.79 million) towards acquisition costs and  cost of exploratory wells.
(b) In accordance with policy no.
2.2.j and as per the  requirement of the Guidance Note on accounting  for oil and gas producing activities (Revised), the  company has carried out impairment testing of  assets under exploratory phase (Exploratory Wells  in Progress) as on 01.04.2013.
Accordingly, an  amount of ` 4,761.42 million has been accounted as  provision for impairment with corresponding  amount of ` 3,143.01 million (net of deferred tax  of ` 1,618.41 million) adjusted against reserves as  on 01.04.2013.
Further, additional impairment testing of assets  under exploratory phase (Exploratory Wells in  Progress) has been carried out as on 31.03.2014,  and an additional amount of ` 2,546.46 million has  been provided during the year 2013-14 as  impairment loss in the statement of profit & loss.
(c) Change in policy of expensing the cost of  stratigraphic test wells (expendable wells) on their  completion irrespective of their status to carrying  the cost of only those stratigraphic test wells      having indications of sufficient quantity of reserves  (refer accounting policy no.
2.2.e.4.1 & 2.2.e.4.2),  has an impact of increase in profit before tax by ` 2,702.95 million with corresponding increase in  Exploratory Wells in Progress during the year  ended 31.03.2014.
(d) Change in policy of expensing the cost of  exploratory wells which are more than two years  from date of completion of drilling to carrying the  cost of only those exploratory wells having  indications of sufficient quantity of reserves (refer  accounting policy no.
2.2.e.4.2), has an impact of  increase in profit before tax by ` 2,489.18 million  with corresponding increase in Exploratory Wells  in Progress during the year ended 31.03.2014.
(e) In respect of Farsi Block, Iran, the Subsidiary  company, OVL in consortium with other partners  entered into an Exploration Service Contract (ESC)  with National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) onth 25  December, 2002.
After exploratory drilling, FB  area of the block proved to be a gas discovery and  was later rechristened as Farzad-B.
NIOC  announced the Date of Commerciality for Farzad-B th as 18  August, 2008.
However, the Development  Service Contract is pending.
Provision has been  made in respect of the OVL's investment in  exploration in the Farsi Block amounting to ` 1,502.56 million till 31.03.2014 (previous year  ` 1,495.85 million).
(f) The Subsidiary company OVL, has 60% PI in Block  XXIV, Syria where the development is currently  suspended.
In view of deteriorating law and order  situation in Syria, operations of the project are  temporarily suspended since May 2012.
In view of  the same provision has been made in respect of  cost of development wells in progress amounting  to ` 83.74 million (Previous year: ` 83.74 Million)  and successful exploratory wells amounting to ` 1,914.29 million (Previous year: ` 1,914.29  Million)  in respect of the project.
18.2 Above Exploratory well in progress/ Development  well in progress includes ` Nil share of jointly  controlled entities (previous year  ` Nil).
31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Gross Goodwill 244,982.36 136,424.74 Less : Accumulated Amortization 41,903.77 33,636.17 Less : Provision for Impairment     19,533.69 19,533.69 Total 183,544.90 83,254.88 (` in million) 19.1 The Subsidiary Company, OVL has carried out st impairment assessment as on 31  March, 2014 as  per Accounting Standard (AS) 28 viz.
Impairment  of Assets and no impairment provision was  required to be created as the value in use of the  Cash Generating Units (CGU) were higher than the  carrying cost in respect of CGUs for which  indication was noticed (Refer note no.
43.5).
19.
Goodwill on Consolidation: Particulars 282 20   Non-Current Investment A TRADE INVESTMENTS Investment in Equity Instruments (i)  Investment in Associate (a)  Pawan Hans  Limited- (Unquoted)  120,350  10,000.00  2,189.39  2,082.70  Extent of holding 49% (previous year 49%)  (Net of Capital reserve of ` 285.32 million) (note 20.3) (ii) Investment in Others (a) Indian Oil Corporation Limited- (Quoted)  334,303,814  10.00  40,427.97  13,720.49  (212,906,190) (b) GAIL (India) Limited (Quoted)  61,259,323  10.00  2,451.06  2,451.06  (c) Oil Spill Response Ltd. (Unquoted)  100  (note 20.1)  0.01  0.01  (d) Adani Petronet (Dahej) Port Pvt.
Ltd.(Unquoted) (note 20.5)  11,250,000  10.00  112.50  112.50  (e) Bharuch Dahej Railway Company  5,000,000  10.00  50.00  50.00  Limited (BDRCL)-(Unquoted) B NON-TRADE INVESTMENTS  Investment in Government or Trust Securities (Unquoted) (i) 8.40% Oil Co. GOI Spl.
Bonds 2025  197,370  10,000.00  1,973.70  1,973.70  (ii) Other Central Govt Securities  -    62.35  Total Non-current Investment  47,204.63  20,452.81  Total Quoted Investments  42,879.03  16,171.55 Total Unquoted Investments  4,325.60  4,281.26  Total  47,204.63  20,452.81  Total Market value of Quoted Investments  117,188.95  79,450.16  No.
of Shares/ Bonds/Units Face Value per Share/ Bond/Unit (in `) As atst 31  March, 2014 As atst 31  March, 2013 (` in million) 20.1 Shares of Oil Spill response limited valued at GBP  one each at the time of issuance.
Total value in INR at  the time of issuance of shares was   6,885/-.
20.2  Above includes:- (a) Figures in parenthesis relate to previous year.
(b) Long term investment includes  299.99 million share of jointly controlled entities (previous year  349.57 million).
(c) Long-term investments are valued at cost.
Provision is made for any diminution, other than  temporary, in the value of such investments.
20.3 In the financial year 2010-11, Company had  acquired an additional number of 95,850 equity  shares of ` 10,000/- each in its Associate Pawan Hans  Ltd. (PHL) for ` 958.50 million resulting in increase in  the holding to 49.00% from 21.54%.
The above  acquisition has resulted in Capital Reserve of ` 285.32  million, computed in accordance with Accounting  Standard (AS) 23 on 'Accounting for Investments in  Associates in Consolidated Financial Statements'.
20.4 In respect of PHL (Associate), the Audited Accounts  ` ` ` for the Financial year 2013-14, have not been  received.
For the purpose of consolidation of PHL, the  audited Annual Accounts for the year 2012-13 and  unaudited accounts for the year 2013-14 have been  considered.
The difference in share of profit  amounting to ` 19.57 million between audited Profit  After Tax (PAT) and unaudited PAT for the year 2012- 13 has been considered as share of profit in  Associate.
The share of profit (unaudited) for the year  2013-14 amounting to ` 98.58 million has also been  considered as share of profit in Associate.
During the  year, dividend of ` 11.46 million has been received  from Associate and same has been adjusted against  carrying value of investment.
20.5 The joint venture company PLL has investment in its  joint venture company "Adani Petronet (Dahej) Port  Pvt.
Ltd.
This investment is under lock in for a period  of 5 years from the date of commercial operation  (i.e.
01.09.2010) of the investee as per the Dahej  LNG Port Terminal Concession Agreement dated th 20  December, 2005 with Gujarat Maritime Board.
Particulars 283 Annual Report 2013-14 21 Long - Term Loans And Advances Secured and Considered good Loans & Advances to Associates  367.84  745.33  Loans and Advances to Employees  7,612.28  7,253.06  Loans and advances to Others  119.17 8,099.29  119.55  8,117.94  Unsecured (Considered Good unless otherwise stated)  Capital Advances  19,332.69  22,227.16 Public Sector Undertakings Considered Good  -    -    Considered Doubtful  240.50  240.50  Less : Provision for doubtful Advances  240.50  -  240.50 -       Advances against Equity pending allotment  9,953.78  6,779.42  Loans and Advances to Employees Considered Good  739.16  688.79  Considered Doubtful  1.73  7.75  Less : Provision for Doubtful Loan/Advances  1.73  739.16  7.75  688.79  Adv Recoverable in Cash or in kind Considered Good ( note no.
21.3)  8,220.40  10,378.73  Considered Doubtful (Note 21.2 )  13,141.40  13,044.32  Less : Provision for Doubtful Claims/Advances  13,141.40  8,220.40  13,044.32 10,378.73     Loans & Advances to Others Considered Good  27.67  27.48  Considered Doubtful  (Note 21.
4)  1,687.30  1,022.10  Less : Provision for Doubtful Loan/Advances  1,687.30  27.67  1,022.10  27.48    Cash Call Receivable from Jv partners Considered Good  340.27  257.27  Considered Doubtful  6,245.07  5,920.29  Less : Provision for Doubtful cash call  6,245.07  340.27  5,920.29  257.27    MAT Credit Entitlement  2,909.32  24.65  Advance payment of Tax  329,690.97  382,492.76  Less : Provision for Taxation  281,031.74  48,659.23  345,969.76  36,523.00   Deposits  With Customs/Port Trusts etc.
37.89  37.97  Security Deposits  157.81  86.37  Other Deposit Considered Good  3,730.94  4,080.23  Considered Doubtful  629.88  608.06  Less: Provision for Doubtful Deposits  629.88  3,926.64  608.06  4,204.57  Total  102,208.45  89,229.01  As at st 31  March, 2014 As at st 31  March, 2013 (` in million) Particulars 284 21.1 Above long term loan & advances includes ` 9,898.49 million share of jointly controlled entities  (Previous Year  ` 13,932.37 million).
21.2 In Ravva Joint Venture, the demand towards  additional profit petroleum raised by the  Government of India (GoI), due to differences in  interpretation of the provisions of the Production  Sharing Contract (PSC) in respect of computation  of Post-Tax Rate of Return (PTRR), based on the  decision of the Malaysian High Court setting aside  an earlier arbitral tribunal award in favour of  operator, was disputed by the operator M/s Cairn  Energy India Pty Ltd.
The company is not a party  to the dispute but has agreed to abide by the  decision applicable to the operator.
The company  had made a provision towards the claim made by  the GoI in earlier years and the amount of provision st outstanding as on 31  March, 2014 is ` 10,080.75  million (equivalent to USD 167.84 million) after  adjustments for interest and exchange rate  fluctuations.
The GoI had recovered the above  amount [including interest thereon USD 54.88  million (` 3296.09 million )] from the company in  earlier years which has been carried as  recoverable under Long Term Loans and advances st in the Balance Sheet as at 31  March, 2014.
In subsequent legal proceedings, the Appellate  Authority of the Honorable Malaysian High Court  of Kuala Lumpur had set aside the decision of the  Malaysian High Court and the earlier decision of  arbitral tribunal in favour of operator was restored,  against which the GoI had preferred an appeal  before the Federal Court of Malaysia.
The Federal  Cour t of Malaysia, vide its order datedth 11  October, 2011, had dismissed the said appeal  of the GoI.
The company has taken up the matter regarding  refund of the recoveries made in view of the  favourable judgment of the Federal Court of  Malaysia with MoP&NG.
However, according to a th communication dated 13  January, 2012 received,  MoP&NG expressed the view that ONGC's  proposal would be examined when the issues of  ONGC carry under Ravva PSC is decided in its  entirety by the Government along with other  partners.
In view of the perceived uncertainties in obtaining  the refund at this stage, the provision made in the  books as above has been retained and netted off  against the amount recoverable as above in the st financial statements for the year ended 31  March,  2014.
21.3 During the financial year 2010-11, the Oil Marketing  Companies, nominees of the GoI recovered USD  32.07 million (`1,926.28 million), ONGC's share as  per directives of GoI in respect of Jointly Controlled  Assets-Panna, Mukta & Tapti.
The recovery is  towards certain observations raised by auditors  appointed by the Director General of  Hydrocarbons (DGH) under Production Sharing  Contract (PSC) for the period 2002-03 to 2005-06  in respect of cost and profit petroleum share  payable to GoI.
BGEPIL along with RIL  ("Claimants") have served a notice of arbitration on  the GoI in respect of dispute, differences and  claims arisen in connection with the term of Panna,  Mukta and Tapti PSC's.
Since the company is not a  party to the arbitration proceedings, it had  requested MoP&NG that in case of an arbitral  award, the same be made applicable to ONGC  also, as a constituent of contractor for both the  PSC's.
Subsequently, vide letter dated July 4, 2011  MoPNG has advised ONGC not to participate in  the arbitration initiated by RIL & BGEPIL under  Panna, Mukta & Tapti PSC's.
MoP&NG has also  stated that in case of an arbitral award, the same  will be applicable to ONGC also as a constituent of  the contractor for both the PSC's.
Pending final  arbitral award, the same has been shown as  Receivable form GoI under 'Advance Recoverable  in Cash or kind or value to be received' under 'Long  Term Loans and Advances.
(Figures in INR is  reinstated).
21.4 The subsidiar y company OVL has 25%  participating interest (PI) in the exploration Block  Satpayev Area Kazakhstan, and 75% PI is hold by  KMG the national oil company of Kazakhstan.
As  per the carry agreement, OVL is financing KMG's  share of expenditure in the exploration block  during the exploratory period (carry loan).
The  amount of carry loan will be refunded by KMG  along with accrued interest in the event of  commercial discovery and production from the  project.
The KMG's share of expenditure financed  by OVL in the Block has been accounted for as  loan to KMG.
The interest on the carry loan has not  been accounted for in view of uncertainty of  recovery.
Provision has been made towards the  amount of carry loan of ` 1,687.30 million as onst 31  March, 2014 (Previous year ` 1,022.10 million)  to KMG in view of the block being under exploration  as there is no certainty of commercial discovery and  has been depicted as other loans and advances- Doubtful.
(Refer note 35.2) 285 Annual Report 2013-14 22 Other Non - Current Assets A Secured and Considered good   Investment in Lease  -    675.83  Interest accrued on loan & advances  - Employees  3,029.45  3,029.45  2,934.90  3,610.73  Unsecured, Considered Good unless otherwise stated  B  Trade Receivables    - Considered Good  38,287.59  10,638.68    - Considered doubtful  3,712.40  16,666.44   Less : Provision for doubtful receivables  3,712.40  38,287.59  16,666.44 10,638.68  C  Other Receivables    - Considered Good 12,029.84  5,283.30    - Considered Doubtful  4,932.46  4,563.40   Less : Provision for doubtful receivables  4,932.46 12,029.84  4,563.40 5,283.30 D  Interest Accrued    - On Deposits  26.40  23.58    - On Loans & Advances        - Considered Good  100.32  86.12         - Considered doubtful  41.89  41.89  Less : Provision for interest Accrued  41.89 126.72  41.89  109.70  E Unamortised Expenditure  - Dry Docking Charges  6,621.33  9,026.80   - Mobilisation charges  764.21 7,385.54  1,016.09 10,042.89  Total Other Non-current Assets  60,859.14  29,685.30  As at st 31  March, 2014 As at st 31  March, 2013 (` in million) 23 Current Investments (Valued at the lower of Cost and Fair Value): Non Trade  Current Maturity of Long Term Investment - - Other Investments Investments in Mutual Funds (Quoted)  -    421.21  Investments in Govt.
Securities (unquoted)  62.35  -    Other Investments (unquoted)  192.02  407.81  Total Current investments  254.37  829.02  Total Quoted Investments  -    421.20  Total Unquoted Investments  254.37  407.81  As at st 31  March, 2014 As at st 31  March, 2013 (` in million) 22.1 Above other non-current Asset includes ` 29.92 million share of jointly controlled entities (previous year ` 3.02 million).
23.1 Above Current investment includes ` 254.37 million share of jointly controlled entities (previous year ` 829.02 million).
Particulars Particulars 286 (Unsecured, Considered Good unless otherwise stated)  Trade Receivables - Outstanding for a period exceeding six months :    -   Considered Good  10,054.53  19,014.97     -   Considered Doubtful  759.35  666.86  Less: Provision for Doubtful debts  759.35 10,054.53  666.86  19,014.97 Other:    -   Considered Good  150,229.03  134,941.12     -   Considered Doubtful  126.56  220.84  Less: Provision for Doubtful debts  126.56  150,229.03  220.84  134,941.12  Total  160,283.56  153,956.09  As at st 31  March, 2014 As at st 31  March, 2013 (` in million) Raw Material   26,856.29  4,305.19  Raw Material  in transit  13,515.24 40,371.53  26,029.22  30,334.41  Stock in Process  4,661.66  2,351.30  Finished Goods (note 24.2)  42,575.23  39,624.96  Less: Provision for Stock loss  5.91  42,569.32  5.91  39,619.05    Traded Goods  0.61  0.76  Stores and spare parts - on hand  62,498.54  57,642.41  - in transit  5,276.40  3,468.33   67,774.94  61,110.74  Less: Provision for non-moving  7,490.28  60,284.66  5,864.99 55,245.75  Unserviceable Items  126.81  174.64  Total  148,014.59  127,725.91  As at st 31  March, 2014 As at st 31  March, 2013 (` in million)24 Inventories 25 Trade Receivables 24.1 Above inventories includes ` 1,930.74 million the stock of crude oil till such delivery point is not  share of jointly controlled entities (Previous year recognized.
`1,354.56 million).
24.4 The subsidiary company, MRPL has valued its  24.2 This includes an amount of ` 3.66 million (Previous finished good including sulfur at lower of cost or  year ` 0.56 million) in respect of Carbon Credits.
net realizable value of ` 19.99 million (previous  year ` 25.02 million).24.3 In respect of joint venture arrangements of OVL,  where the property in crude oil produced 24.5 The subsidiary company, MRPL does not quantify  does not pass on up-to a specific delivery point, or value the scrap and unserviceable items.
25.1 Above trade receivable includes  ` 3,942.17 million share of jointly controlled (Previous year ` 3,446.69 million).
entities  Particulars Particulars 287 Annual Report 2013-14 26 Cash and Cash Equivalents Balance with Bank on Current Accounts  8,533.78  11,655.54  Cash on hand  4,529.90  17.31  Short Term Investment in Mutual Funds  12,372.59  19.75  Bank Deposit  218,904.03  183,322.00  Deposit  towards margin money against guarantees issued   66.51  62.44  On Deposit Accounts for more than 12 months maturity  4.76  724.79  Unclaimed Dividend Account (Note 26.2 & 26.3)  389.69  388.68  Total  244,801.26  196,190.51  As at st 31  March, 2014 As at st 31  March, 2013 (` in million) 26.1 Amount deposited in unclaimed dividend account 26.3 Above Cash and Bank balance include ` 7,769.03  is earmarked for payment of dividend and cannot million share of jointly controlled entities (Previous  be used for any other purpose year  ` 3,389.43 million).
26.2 Unpaid dividend includes ` 140.91 million 26.4 The deposits maintained by the company with  (previous year ` 156.38 million) is pertaining banks comprise time deposit, which can be  to minority shares in subsidiary company withdrawn by the company at any point without  MRPL.
prior notice or penalty on the principal (Secured, Considered Good) Loan & Advances to Associate 350.45 310.84 Loans and Advances to Employees 2085.35  2,435.80 1966.37 2,277.21     (Unsecured, Considered Good unless otherwise stated)  Loan to Public Sector Undertakings  2,367.70  -    Loan & advances to Employees  517.38  429.94  Balance with Tax Authorities  228.73  319.21  Cash Call Receivable from JV Partners  8,359.22  10,153.00  Prepaid expenses for underleft  1,667.24  262.94  Adv Recoverable in Cash or in kind Considered Good  35,263.56  30,807.31  Considered Doutful  3,030.84  3,476.94  Less: Provision for doutful  3,030.84  35,263.56  3,476.94  30,807.31    Advance payment of Tax  20,419.24  22,227.91  Less : Provision for Taxation  12,833.84  7,585.40  12,987.79  9,240.12  MAT Credit  28.21  -    Deposits  With Customs/Port Trusts etc.
3,295.19  3,063.91  Other Deposits ( note no.
27.2)  6,450.98  9,746.17  3,212.45  6,276.36  Total  68,199.41  59,766.09  As at st 31  March, 2014 As at st 31  March, 2013 (` in million)27 Short Term Loans And Advances 27.1 Above, short term loans And advances includes royalty being deposited by the company fromst ` 362.28 million share of jointly controlled entities 1  February, 2014 as per the interim order of the  (Previous year  ` 748.92 million).
Hon'ble Supreme Court of India.
(also refer Note 27.2 Includes ` 2,092.23 million towards differential no.
45.2.4).
Particulars Particulars 288 Secured and Considered good Interest Accrued on Loans & Advances - Employee  246.15  216.65  - Associates  -    246.15  9.86  226.51  (Unsecured, Considered Good unless otherwise stated)  Interest Accrued - On Investments  1.38  1.38  - On Deposits  2,214.85  4,023.11  - On Loans & Advances  793.02 3,009.25  769.13 4,793.62    Other Current Assets  (note 28.3)  3,103.32  4,011.55  Cost of Ongoing Project (note 28.2) 62.87  49.97  Unamortised Expenditure - Dry Docking Charges  2,933.68 3,783.05 - Mobilisation charges 640.69 3,574.37 1,032.64 4,815.69 Total  9,995.96  13,897.34 A.
Sale of Products Own Product  1,808,736.23  1,681,824.57  Less :  Transfer to Exploratory Wells in Progress  522.58  164.55  Government of India's (GoI's) share in  Profit Petroleum  38,526.99  39,049.57  32,586.55  32,751.10   1,769,686.66  1,649,073.47  Traded Products Revenue  44.42  43.16  B.
Other Operating Revenue Pipeline Transportation Receipts  4,170.92  1,057.92  Contractual Short Lifted Gas Receipts  80.21  51.72  Surplus from Gas pool Account (note 29.8)  3,720.47  3,597.73  North-East Gas Subsidy (note 29.7)  2,366.91  2,122.91  SEZ Lease Income  234.77  209.06  Other Operation Income  1,276.16  1,556.35  Processing Charges  414.03  621.69  Production Bonus  57.29 12,320.76  147.90  9,365.28  Total  1,782,051.84  1,658,481.91 As at st 31  March, 2014 2013-14 2012-13 As at st 31  March, 2013 (` in million) (` in million) 28 Other Current Assets 29 Revenue From Operations 28.1 Above other current assets includes 335.08 recognized on full completion or substantial  million share of jointly controlled entities (Previous completion.
Till the time of completion of project  year   237.40 million).
same are being carried as costs of ongoing project.
28.2 In respect of Joint venture Company OTBL, 28.3 The subsidiary company, OVL has lease  revenue from projects based on execution and investment in Khartoum-Port Sudan Pipeline  costs attributable and allocable thereto are Project.
(refer note 41.1).
`  `  Particulars Particulars 289 Annual Report 2013-14 29.1 In terms of the decision of Government of India  (GOI), the company has shared under-recoveries  of Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) on price  sensitive products viz.
Diesel, Domestic LPG and  PDS Kerosene for the year 2013-14 by extending  the discount in the prices of Crude Oil, Domestic  29.2 For Crude Oil produced in Assam, sales revenue is  based on the pricing formula provided by  MoP&NG.
Revenue from rest of nominated crude  is accounted in terms of Crude Oil Sales  Agreements (COSAs) already signed and made st effective from 1  April, 2010.
29.3 Based on the directives issued by MoP&NG and  Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) vide st st letters dated 31  May, 2012 and 1  June, 2012 st respectively, w.e.f.
1  April, 2012, refineries started  making deductions from ONGC payments  towards Octroi/ VAT/ CST on discounts allowed by  ONGC to refineries on supplies of crude oil.
Total  deduction made by refineries on this accountst th from 1  April, 2012 to 30  September, 2013  amounting to ` 25,032.60 million (includes  `15,846.70 million for the year 2012-13) was  provided for.
During the year, the company has  decided to revise the sales revenue and st corresponding statutory levies w.e.f.
1 April, 2012  onwards, considering deductions made by  refineries based on MoP&NG directives.
Aforesaid  pr ovision made by the Company tillth 30  September, 2013 has also been written back.
29.4 Recognition of revenue on account of Short Lifted  Gas amounting to ` 1,253.74 million (Previous Year   ` 571.42 million) has been postponed.
This will be  recognized when there is reasonable certainty  regarding ultimate collection.
29.5 For APM consumers in North-East, consumer  price is 60% of the producer price, i.e., US$ 2.52/  mmbtu inclusive of royalty and the difference  between producer price and consumer price is  paid to the company through GoI Budget up to  allocated quantity and shown as 'North-East Gas  Subsidy’.
29.6 In respect of Joint venture company PLL, revenue  from services of ` 253.83 million (previous year ` 213.10 million) are net of service tax.
29.7 The OVL's Subsidiary- ONGBV follows the  entitlement method for revenue recognition  associated with sale of crude oil and liquids for its  share of petroleum production as specified in the  Exploration Production Sharing Agreement  (EPSA) and Crude Oil Pipeline Agreement  (COPA).
The amount reported using such method  is  ` 39,747.98 Million (previous year  `  28,534.95  million).
29.8 The company is supplying majority of Natural gas  to Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) which also  purchases gas from other sources and sells to APM and non-APM consumers.
Based on the  Government directives, excess in Gas Pool  Account at the end of financial year is transferred to  ONGC/ OIL in accordance with their contribution.
Based on the details received from GAIL, an  amount of ` 3,508.10 million (Previous year ` 3,700.00 million) for Gas Pool Receipts for the  current year, ` 212.37 million (Previous year ` 339.23 million)on account of  interest on Gas  Pool Account and a reversal of nil (Previous year ` 441.50 million) has been considered as 'Surplus  from Gas Pool Account'.
29.9 Above revenue from operation includes ` 50,232.74 million share of jointly controlled  entities (previous year ` 42,411.52 million).
LPG and PDS Kerosene based on the rates of discount communicated by Petroleum Planning  and Analysis Cell (PPAC) and Ministry of  Petroleum and Natural Gas (MoP&NG).
The  impact of discount is as under: Gross Revenue 563,842.85 494,206.50 Less: Value Added Tax (VAT) 17,841.84 14,114.40 Sales Revenue 5,46,001.01 480,092.10 Less: Statutory Levies 68,440.26 59,502.49 Profit Before Tax 4,77,560.75 420,589.61 2013-14Decrease in 2012-13 (` in million) 290 Interest Income  Long Term  Investments  169.59  439.76  Deposits with Banks/PSUs  18,388.08  20,333.50  Loans and Advances to Associate  493.81  144.62  Loans and Advances to Employees  100.92  450.84  Income Tax Refund  2,395.65  95.00  Site Restoration Fund Deposit  9,432.74  8,303.24  Delayed Payment from Customers and Others  523.60  31,504.39  1,250.16  31,017.12  Dividend Income  Long Term Investments  1,938.74  1,658.74  Short Term -Debt Mutual Funds  2,444.30  4,383.04  1,644.53  3,303.27  Other Non Operating Income Excess Provisions written back ( note 29.3)  16,343.62  5,340.34  Liabilities no longer required written back  2,873.23  5,663.20  Profit on sale of investment  38.09  -    Contractual Receipts  1,486.27  650.06  Miscellaneous Receipts  12,308.47  33,049.68  8,932.92  20,586.52          Total     68,937.11     54,906.91  Closing Stock - Stock in Process  4,661.66  2,351.30     - Finished Goods and Stock in trade  44,471.54 49,133.20  39,625.72  41,977.02    Opening Stock    - Stock in Process  2,351.30  3,525.35     - Finished Goods and Stock in trade  39,625.72  28,838.12     Less: Adjustment  36.45  41,940.57  1,591.46  30,772.01   NET (INCREASE)/DECREASE IN INVENTORIES  (7,192.63)  (11,205.01) 2013-14 2013-14 2012-13 2012-13 (` in million) (` in million) 30 Other Income 31 (Increase)/Decrease Inventories 30.1 Above other income includes `345.06 million share of jointly controlled entities (previous year ` 302.11 million).
31.1 Above includes ` (-) 26.59 million share of jointly controlled entities (previous year ` (-) 2,303.21 million).
Particulars Particulars 291 Annual Report 2013-14 Royalty (Note 32.2)  150,101.83  137,209.63  Cess  99,733.91  99,970.75  Motor Spirit Cess  2.83  -    Natural Calamity Contingent Duty  1,097.40  1,101.05  Excise Duty on stock (Net) (Note 32.3)  150.76  275.09  Sales Tax  3,122.96  3,834.14  Service Tax  438.76  352.81  Education cess  2,348.31  3,111.09  Octroi and Port Trust Charges  4,896.60  4,057.30  Staff Expenditure  25,308.78  24,579.93  Workover Operations  20,944.08  19,135.41  Water Injection, Desalting and Demulsification  11,794.01 12,854.60  Consumption of Raw Materials, Stores and Spares  682,767.17  617,263.53  Pollution Control  6,133.59  5,810.33  Transport Expenses  9,419.99  8,891.83  Insurance  2,516.25  1,653.25  Power and Fuel  2,865.98  2,182.51  Repairs and Maintenance  10,787.12  9,603.95  Contractual payments including Hire charges etc.
14,407.07  9,418.05  Other Production Expenditure  35,608.46  27,205.00  Transportation and Freight of Products  11,559.67  11,821.98  Research and Development  6,014.37  6,002.02  General Administrative Expenses  38,401.83  33,369.51  Exchange Loss (Net) (2,894.69)  2,599.04  Provision for mark to market loss on derivative contracts ( note-32.7)  2,244.85  1,606.76  Adjustments for overlift/(underlift)  503.46  546.00  Loss on sale of investment  16.12  28.79  Other Expenditure  21,401.06  23,060.70  Total  1,161,692.53  1,067,545.05  2013-14 2012-13 (` in million)32 Production, Transportation, Selling and Distribution Expenditure 32.1 Above production, transportation, selling and  distribution expenditure includes ` 43,919.03  million, share of jointly controlled entities (previous  year ` 36,997.64 million).
32.2 The Subsidiary of OVL- ONGBV conducts its  operations in Sudan jointly with Sudapet the  national oil company of Sudan among others.
All  government stakes other than income taxes are  considered to be royalty interest.
Royalties on  production represent the entitlement of the  government of Sudan to a portion of ONGBV's  share of crude oil and liquid production and are  recorded using the rates in effect under the terms  of the contract at the time of production.
Royalties /  taxes in Syrian concession are accounted similarly  by ONGBV.
The amount of royalty reported in  respect of Sudan and Syrian concession is  `15,863.65 Million under Royalty above (previous  year ` 11,833.19 million).
32.3 Excise duty on sale of product has been deducted  from Sales revenue and Excise duty shown above  represents the difference between excise duty on  opening and closing stock of finished goods.
32.4 During the previous year, the Company had  recognised additional liability of ` 5,079.53 million   towards revision in Long Service Rewards  Scheme.
Further, in terms of DPE guidelines, the  company had also recognized liability of ` 18,504.79 million towards superannuation  benefits to employees.
These had been allocated  to activities as per the policy of the company.
32.5 An amount of ` 16,108.86 million has been provided th during  quarter ended 30  June, 2013 (Cumulative ` st 16,108.86 million till 31  March, 2014) towards  contribution for conversion of Post Retirement  Benefit Scheme (PRBS) from Defined Benefit  Scheme to Defined Contributory Scheme based on  guidelines of Department of Public Enterprise.
The  said amount has been allocated to different  activities as per the policy of the Company.
Particulars 292 32.6 Derivative Contracts accounting as per the Accounting Standard(AS) 30  "Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement" The Joint venture company (SMASL) through  in respect of those derivative transactions which are subsidiary company MRPL, in line with its risk  not covered by the existing Accounting Standard management policy, the financial risks mainly  (AS) 11.
This treatment has resulted in net gain of relating to changes in the exchange rates are  `15.53 million (group share) (previous year ` Nil) hedged by using forward contracts.
arising out of fair valuation of outstanding derivative The Joint venture company (SMASL) through contracts which has been recognized in "Hedging subsidiary company MRPLhas adopted, during the Reserve" under "Reserve and Surplus".year under review, the principles of hedge  Forward contracts for receivables including firm commitments and highly probable forecasted transactions 389.45 Receivables, including firm commitments and highly probable forecasted transactions 3.24 Category of derivative Instruments Particulars Group share as onst  31 March, 2014 Group share as onst  31 March, 2014 (` in million) (` in million) st Un-hedged foreign currency exposures as at 31  March,2014 are as under :- 32.7 Derivative instruments and un-hedged foreign banks whereby it has swapped the principal currency exposure:  and interest amounts payable towards Bonds  issued in domestic markets into USD liability as The subsidiary company, OVL has entered into  follows:cross currency swap transactions with various  Underlying Notional Principal  Amount (` in Million) Amount ( USD in Million)  Date 8.40% 5 Years Unsecured  Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds in the nature of rd  Debentures- Series I 15,000.00 299.23 23 Dec., 2014 8.54% 10 Years Unsecured Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds in the nature of th  Debentures- Series II 3,700.00 73.93 6 Jan., 2020 Total 18,700.00 373.16  Notional Principal Termination The business of  the subsidiary company, OVL is The above swap positions were outstanding on carried out entirely outside India.
The revenues of the 31  March, 2014 and have been revalued on that date  OVL are received entirely in foreign currency and based on Mark-to-market positions reported by  substantially all the expenses are incurred in foreign counter-party banks.
During the year endedst currency.
Accordingly, the Company has swapped the  31  March, 2014 Mark-to-market loss amounting to Bonds issued in Indian Rupees into USD so as to  align ` 2,244.85 Million (Previous period ` 1606.76 Millions)  the currency of its liabilities and assets, thereby has been charged in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
hedging the resulting  exposure.
st 293 Particulars of derivative contracts entered into for hedging foreign currency exchange risks, which st are outstanding as at 31  March,  2014 are as under:- Annual Report 2013-14 35.1 Above provisions and write offs includes 26.68 million shares of jointly controlled entities (previous year  ` 5.97 million).
`  Depletion (refer note 15.5)  121,160.69  86,228.54  Amortisation of Goodwill  4,544.99  4,161.72  Depreciation  115,896.63  93,227.56  Less : Allocated to :            Exploratory Drilling  2,506.43  1,335.06             Development Drilling  1,871.16  2,842.40             Depreciation on Facilities  64,756.79  59,741.63             Others  9,845.15 36,917.10  4,323.72  24,984.75    Impairment Loss (note 18.1(b) & 43) During the year  3,993.34  3,014.50  Less: Reversal during the period  807.08  3,186.26  756.47  2,258.03    Total  165,809.04  117,633.04 I) Interest expenses  4,776.07  3,492.98  ii) Other borrowing costs 392.66 175.55  iii) Lease Finance Charges  411.55  388.73  iv) Foreign Exchange Fluctuation considred as Borrowing Cost  663.07  780.71  Total  6,243.35  4,837.97  2013-14 2013-14 2012-13 2012-13 (` in million) (` in million) 33 Depreciation, Depletion, Amortization And Impairment PROVISIONS  For Doubtful Debts ( note-35.2)  3,305.11  16,940.14  For Doubtful Advances  4,483.48  2,461.97  For Non-Moving Inventory  1,780.50  1,066.51  For Others  102.88  2,079.73  Sub-Total  9,671.97  22,548.35  WRITE-OFFS Disposal/Condemnation of Fixed Assets (Net)  157.79  56.80  Claims/Advances  1.22  2.18  Inventory  55.31  84.83  Bad debts  129.96  1,101.31  Less: Provisions  129.96  -    1,101.31  -  Acquision Cost Written off  -    254.37  Others  676.76  (702.94) Sub-Total  891.08  (304.76) Total  10,563.05  22,243.59  2013-14 2012-13 (` in million)35 Provisions And Write Offs 34 Finance Costs 33.1 Above depreciation, depletion, amortization and impairment, includes ` 832.44 million share of jointly controlled entities.
(previous year ` 522.82 Million).
34.1 Above finance Costs includes ` 765.03 million share of jointly controlled entities (previous year ` 494.19 Million).
Particulars Particulars Particulars 294 35.2 In respect of subsidiary company OVL, provision for doubtful debts/claims includes carry loan of 665.20 million (previous year  487.94  million) to KMG in view of the block being under exploration and there is  no certainty of commercial discovery and hence the recovery of the loan.
(refer note 21.4) ` ` A.
EXPENDITURE Statutory levies  -    51.86  Other production, selling & distribution expenditure  (188.93)  (434.96) Excess Abandonment Provision written back (note no.44)  (2,353.23) - Interest -Others  343.82  12.43  Exchange Fluctuation  -    (58.47) Survey  (6.30)  0.47  Dry Wells  82.55  455.38  Depletion  164.56  82.55  Depreciation  (85.79)  (20.24) Sub-Total  (2,043.32)  89.02  B.
INCOME Sales  (104.88)  (193.96) Interest -Others  0.23  3.22  Other Income 484.70  280.90  Sub-Total  380.05  90.16  Total (Net)  (2,423.37)  (1.14) 2013-14 2012-13 (` in million)36 Adjustments Relating to Prior Period (Net) :  36.1 Above adjustments relating to prior period include ` 64.28 million share of jointly controlled entities (Previous year ` 22.04 million).
Net Profit after Tax ( ` in million)  265,065.33  242,196.44    Weighted Average Number of Shares  (Nos.
in million)  8,555.49 8,555.49  Basic & Diluted earnings per equity share( ` )  30.98  28.31  Face Value per equity Share ( ` )  5.00  5.00  2013-14 2012-13 37 Earnings Per Equity Share 38 Disclosure under Accounting Standard-16 on "Borrowing Costs” : Borrowing cost capitalized during the period is `13,659.16 million (previous year ` 8,413.24 million).
Particulars Particulars 295 Annual Report 2013-14 39.2 Notes :  39.2.1 The annexed matrix presentation depicts the  geographical segments based on assets as  primary segments and business segments as  secondary segments.
39.2.2 Segments have been identified and reported  taking into account the differing risks and returns,  the organization structure and the internal  reporting systems.
These have been organized  into the following main geographical and business  segments: Geographical Segments a) In India -   Offshore                         -   Onshore  b) Outside India.
Business Segments a) Exploration & Production b) Refining 39.2.3 Segment Revenue, Results, Assets and Liabilities  include the respective amounts identifiable to  each of the segments and amount allocated on  reasonable basis.
Un-allocated includes common  expenditure incurred for all the segments and  expenses incurred at the corporate level.
39.2.4 Inter Segment Sales have been priced at  prevailing market rates.
39.2.5 Segment Assets includes ` 754.36 million of  Intangible Assets (Previous year  ` 1,041.25 million).
Revenue from operation (Gross) 29 1,782,051.84 1,658,481.91 Prior period Sales 36 (104.88) (193.96) Total 1,781,946.96 1,658,287.95 Segment Revenue as per note no.
39.1 1,781,946.96 1,658,287.95 2013-14Particulars Note 2012-13 (` in million) 40 Disclosure under Accounting Standard -18 on "Related Party Disclosure : 40.1 Name of related parties and description of relationship : 40.1.1 Joint Ventures/Jointly Controlled Entities : "  Sl No.
Name Relationship A Jointly Controlled Entities in India i ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Ltd Jointly Controlled Entity in India  ii Petronet LNG Limited Jointly Controlled Entity in India  iii ONGC Teri Biotech Limited Jointly Controlled Entity in India  iv Mangalore SEZ Limited Jointly Controlled Entity in India  v ONGC Petro-additions Limited Jointly Controlled Entity in India  vi ONGC Tripura Power Co. Limited Jointly Controlled Entity in India  vii Dahej SEZ Limited Jointly Controlled Entity in India   viii North East Transmission Company Ltd.  Limited (NETC) (through OTPC) ix Mangalore STP Limited (through MSEZ) Jointly Controlled Entity in India x Adani Petronet (Dahej) Port Pvt.
Ltd Jointly Controlled Entity in India xi Shell MRPL Aviation Fuels & Services Pvt.
Limited (through MRPL) Jointly Controlled Entity in India xii Mangalam Retail Services Limited (through MRPL) Jointly Controlled Entity in India B Joint Ventures/Associates of  Subsidiary i ONGC Mittal Energy Limited, Cyprus Joint Venture (Outside India) through OVL Jointly Controlled Entity in India 39.2.6   Reconciliation of the Segment Revenue with the Revenue as per note 29 & 36 is given below: 297296 (` in million) Revenue External Sales  525,036.94  239,788.50  752,463.76  217,771.52  46,886.24  1,781,946.96  499,727.85  254,709.05  688,329.15  175,578.25  39,943.65  1,658,287.95  Inter Segment Sales  74,365.85  39.58  -   -  74,405.43  76,915.36 -  30.61  -   -  76,945.97  Total Revenue  599,402.79  239,788.50  752,503.34  217,771.52  46,886.24  1,856,352.39  576,643.21  254,709.05  688,359.76  175,578.25  39,943.65  1,735,233.92  ResultsSegment Result Profit (+)/Loss(-)  266,862.14  33,957.36  6,603.10  72,991.66 -  380,414.26  243,196.92  40,217.27  (1,600.02)  68,136.20 -  349,950.37  Unallocated Corporate  Expenses  15,580.67  15,580.67  11,118.12  11,118.12  Operating Profit  266,862.14  33,957.36  6,603.10  72,991.66  (15,580.67)  364,833.59  243,196.92  40,217.27  (1,600.02)  68,136.20  (11,118.12)  338,832.25  Interest Expenses  6,587.18  6,587.18  4,850.40  4,850.40  Interest/Dividend Income  35,887.65  35,887.65  33,439.77  33,439.77  Income Taxes  127,603.86  127,603.86  127,519.02  127,519.02  Profit from Ordinary Activities  266,862.14  33,957.36  6,603.10  72,991.66  (113,884.06)  266,530.20  243,196.92  40,217.27  (1,600.02)  68,136.20  (110,047.77)  239,902.60  Extraordinary Gain -        Net Profit  266,862.14  33,957.36  6,603.10  72,991.66  (113,884.06)  266,530.20  243,196.92  40,217.27  (1,600.02)  68,136.20  (110,047.77)  239,902.60  Other InformationSegment Assets 941,100.53  469,170.12  377,393.24  942,986.92 -  2,730,650.81  843,120.65  410,709.23  254,979.85  594,095.28 -  2,102,905.01  Unallocated Corporate Assets  518,457.16  518,457.16  431,668.36  431,668.36  Total Assets  941,100.53  469,170.12  377,393.24  942,986.92  518,457.16  3,249,107.97  843,120.65  410,709.23  254,979.85  594,095.28  431,668.36  2,534,573.37  Segment Liabilities  325,744.15  101,389.08  299,210.81  474,171.17 -  1,200,515.21  291,247.23  100,824.29  184,961.53  182,509.89 -  759,542.94  Unallocated Corporate Liabilities  327,082.90  327,082.90  249,750.38  249,750.38  Total Liabilities  325,744.15  101,389.08  299,210.81  474,171.17  327,082.90  1,527,598.11  291,247.23  100,824.29  184,961.53  182,509.89  249,750.38  1,009,293.32  Capital Expenditure  151,060.11  137,423.11  19,205.29  214,888.69  34,257.28  556,834.48  177,525.61  91,283.07  28,079.41  73,537.67  42,819.52  413,245.28  Depreciation*  87,194.91  21,326.18  7,063.03  48,742.40  1,561.29  165,887.81  66,550.20  16,393.35  6,140.16  27,367.22  1,244.42  117,695.35  Other Non-cash Expenses  1,595.17  645.85  164.54  8,210.01  (52.55)  10,563.02  10,138.48  8,694.15  92.42  2,912.30  406.22  22,243.57  2013-14 Particulars In India In India E&P E&P Offshore OffshoreOnshore OnshoreRefining Refining 2012-13 Outside India Outside India Unallocated UnallocatedGrand  Total Grand  Total * Also Includes Depletion,Amortization and Impairment Loss.
39.1   The Consolidated Segment Information as per Accounting Standard AS-17 for the Company is given below : 39    Disclosure under Accounting Standard -17 on "Segment Reporting” Annual Report 2013-14 40.2      Key Management Personnel:   298 Sl No.
Whole-time Functional Directors: A Parent Company i) Shri.
D K Sarraf, Chairman and Managing Director from 01.03.2014. ii) Shri.
K.S.
Jamestin iii) Shri.
A K Banerjee iv) Shri.
Shashi Shankar v) Shri.
N K Verma vi) Shri.
T K Sengupta from 01.02.2014 vii) Shri.
Sudhir Vasudeva, Chairman and Managing Director up to 28.02.2014. viii) Shri.
P K Borthakur, up to 31.01.2014.
B Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures i) Shri.
D K Sarraf, Managing Director , OVL (up to 28.02.2014) ii) Shri.
S P Garg, Director (Finance)& Managing Director, OVL iii) Shri.
S Bhattacharya, Director (Operations) OVL th  iv) Shri.
Anil Bhandari, Director (Exploration) from 6 March, 2014 v) Shri.
P. P. Upadhya, Managing Director , MRPL  vi) Shri.
Vishnu Agarwal, Director (Finance), MRPL vii) Shri.
V.G.Joshi,  Director (Refinery), MRPL from  04.04.2013 viii) Ir.
A R Baron Mackay Holding B.V., Director, ONGC Nile Ganga B.V. ix) Mr. Costas Christoforou, Director, Imperial Energy Limited x) Ms. Arlene Nahikian, Director, Imperial Energy Limited xi) Ms. K. Antoniadou, Director, Imperial Energy Limited xii) Ms. E. Chrysanthou, Director, Imperial Energy Limited xiii) Mr. A. Loizou, Director, Imperial Energy Limited xiv) Mr. Roland Göransson, Director, Carabobo One AB xv) Mr. Richard Chindt, Director, Carabobo One AB xvi) Dr. A.K.
Balyan, (Managing Director & CEO),  PLL xvii) Shri.
R K Garg, Director - Finance, PLL xviii) Shri.
Rajendra Singh, Director(Technical), PLL xix) Shri.
Rajiv Banga, Managing Director & CEO, MSEZ xx) Shri.
Anil Khurana, Managing Director, PMHBL xxi) Shri.
Sudhindra Kumar Dube, Managing Director, OTPC xxii) Dr. P. S. V. Rao, CEO, OPaL Sale of Products to a) Shell MRPL Aviation Fuels & Services Pvt.
Limited 5,877.10 4,022.24 b) ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Ltd 2,564.58 - c) ONGC Tripura Power Co. limited 1236.49 184.79 Services Received from : a) ONGC Teri Biotech Ltd 112.42 182.34 b) Dahej SEZ Ltd. 9.12 9.33 c) ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Ltd. 1.01 1.03 d) Petronet MHB Ltd 62.57 - e) Mangalore SEZ Ltd. 13.68 1.42 f) Petronet LNG Ltd - 0.78 Services Provided to : a) ONGC Petro-additions Ltd. 117.63 117.50 b) ONGC Teri Biotech Limited 0.12 - c) Mangalore SEZ Ltd. - 5.80 d) ONGC Tripura Power Co.  Ltd. 235.96 220.35 e) ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited 7.16 11.75 f) Petronet MHBLtd 29.18 - g) Petronet LNG Ltd - 1.32 h) Shell MRPL Aviation Fuels & Services Pvt.
Limited 0.33 0.29 Advance against Equity during year : a) ONGC Petro-addition Ltd 6,985.60 - b) Dahej SEZ Ltd - - c) ONGC Tripura Power Co. Limited 2,925.10 103.32 Dividend Income a) Petronet LNG Limited 234.38 234.38 b) Shell MRPL Aviation Fuels & Services Pvt.
Limited 12.00 - Amount Receivable :  a) ONGC Petro-additions Limited 54.69 42.96 b) ONGC Tripura Power Co.  Ltd 373.80 - c) Mangalam Retail Services Limited - 0.05 d) Mangalore SEZ Ltd. 119.37 134.19 e) ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited 685.32 17.42 f) Shell MRPL Aviation Fuels & Services Pvt.
Limited 622.96 406.91 g) Petronet MHBLtd 6.59 - Amount Payable :  a) ONGC Teri Biotech Ltd 51.55 115.98 b) Petronet MHBLtd - 1.83 c) Dahej SEZ Ltd. 7.54 7.00 d) ONGC Tripura Power Co. Ltd 0.02 - e) Mangalore SEZ Ltd 0.09 - Advance against Equity outstanding : a) ONGC Petro-addition Limited 6709.24 3,328.69 b) ONGC Tripura Power Co. Ltd 2925.10 - c) ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Ltd. 9,799.76 9,799.76 d) Mangalam Retail Services Ltd 0.50 0.50 2013-14 2012-13 (` in million) 40.3 Details of Transactions 40.3.1 Joint Ventures/ Jointly Controlled Entities : Details 40.3.2 Key Management Personnel Remuneration Paid to Key Management Personnel ` 69.08 million (previous year ` 70.86 million).
299 Annual Report 2013-14 41 Disclosure under Accounting Standard - 19 on  'Leases'  41.1 Khartoum - Port Sudan Pipeline Project: The subsidiary company , OVL had completed the  12"X741 Kms multi-product pipeline from  Khartoum refinery to Port Sudan for the Ministry of  Energy and Mining of the Government of Sudan  (GOS) on Build, Own, Lease and Transfer (BOLT)  basis and handed over the same to GOS during the  financial year 2005-06.
The project was  implemented in consortium with Oil India Limited,  Company's share being 90%.
The payment under the contract with GOS were  scheduled to be received over a period of 10 years  including a moratorium of one year from the date of th the contract (30  June, 2004) in 18 equal semi- annual installments along with lease rental.
The  lease period commenced from the date of handing  over of the pipeline system and will continue till all  payments by GOS are completed.
All titles in the  works and the transportation system shall vest in  the Company and the title shall pass to GOS in  proportion to the payments made by GOS against  total payments due to Company under the  contract.
Further, subject to regular payments on  due dates by GOS to the Company, GOS shall  have the exclusive right to use and operate the  pipeline system and the Company shall not  assign, transfer, sub-let, sub-contract, mortgage  or create any rights to any third party or  encumbrances or make any disposition to any  third party.
Accordingly, the amount of net  investment in the lease (i.e.
aggregate of Minimum  Lease Payments minus unearned Finance  Income) is recognized and recorded as  receivables under the lease.
The finance income  thereon has been recognized based upon the  pattern reflecting the constant periodic rate of return  on the outstanding net investment in the lease.
The first 11 installments under the contract due tillth 30  December, 2010 have been received.
The th th th th th th 12 ,13 , 14 , 15 , 16  and 17  installment of ` 5,091.89 Million (Company's share ` 4,582.70 th th Million ) due on 30  June, 2011, 30  December, th th th 2011, 30  June, 2012, 30  December, 2012, 30  th June, 2013, 30  December, 2013 respectively  have not yet been received.
As per an insurance  policy, the company has received the claim for the th th 12  and 13  installments from ECGC.
No insurance th th is available for further installments (14  to 18 ).
a) Reconciliation between the total gross investment in the lease and the present value of minimum lease payments as at year end - Not later than one year 1,516.48 1,504.53 4,119.95 4,035.15  - Later than one year and not later than five   years - -     686.65  675.83  - Later than five years -   -   - - Total 1,516.48 1,504.53 4,806.60 4,710.98 b) Unearned Finance Income 11.95 95.62 c) Unguaranteed residual value accruing to OVL's benefit Nil Nil d) Accumulated provision for uncollectible minimum lease payments receivable Nil Nil e) Contingent rents recognised in the statement of profit and loss for the period Nil Nil f) General description of the significant leasing arrangement As described in para above  g) Accounting Policy followed in respect of initial direct costs  no.
2.2.zb.1 As described in para above  As per note As per note  no.
2.2.zb.1 st 31  March, 2014 Gross GrossNet Net st  31 March, 2013 The disclosure in accordance with the Accounting Standard (AS) 19 viz.
Leases is as under: (` in million) Particulars 300 The EPC contractor executing the project claimed  additional costs aggregating to ` 2,231.23 million  (Previous year ` 2,020.59 million), Company's  90% share being ` 2,008.11 million (Previous year ` 1,818.53 million), which have not been accepted  by the Company.
The Company, in turn has filed a  claim as per the contract with GOS for their  approval of an aggregate amount of ` 2,773.57  million (Previous year ` 2,511.73 million),  Company's share being ` 2,496.21 million   (Previous year  ` 2,260.56 million).
No revenue in  respect of the claim on GOS has been recognized  since the claim has not been accepted by  GOS.
OVL has served a pre-arbitral notice on GOS  which is a requirement prior to initiating any legal  proceedings in Sudan.
The EPC contractor has  initiated arbitration with a claim for ` 1,530.93  million  (Previous year  ` 1,386.40 million) plus  interest against the Company.
Pending settlement  with the EPC contractor, an amount of ` 1,377.84 million (Previous year ` 1,247.76  million), being the Company's 90% share out of  total claim of ` 1,530.93 million  (Previous year ` 1,386.40 million) has been accounted as liability  in the relevant year of claim.
The arbitration award th has been pronounced on 27  March, 2014.
The  award provides for the payment of ` 204.88 million  (US$ 3.31 million) and interest ` 15.78 million (US$  0.26 million).
The parties have option to go to  court within 90 days of the arbitration award.
Since  the company has already accounted for the claim  amount as expenditure for ` 2,008.11 million  (Previous year ` 1,818.53 million).
The differential  of the amount accounted for and award will be  adjusted subject to further action on the expiry of  90 days period.
The estimated reversal of  expenditure is ` 1,334.23 million (US$ 22.21  million).
The interest amount would be treated on  clarity of further action by either parties within 90  days of the arbitration award.
41.2  Financial Lease for BC-10 Project ONGBV owns 15% equity shares in Tamba B.V.
The Netherlands; with the balance held by Shell E & P  Offshore Services B.V., The Netherlands ("SEPBV"),  and Petrobras Netherlands B.V.
The Netherlands  ("PNBV").Tamba B.V. has been established to  facilitate the development and production of  hydrocarbons in the BC-10 concession, Campos  Basin area in Brazil.
Tamba B.V. has a third party lease  for a major oil field equipment (FPSO) and  constructed other sub-sea assets for onwards lease  to BC-10 Project.
Both financial leases commenced st on 31   December,  2008.
Tamba B.V. leases part of its assets from a third party,  Brazilian Deepwater and re-leased these to BC-10  joint venture operated by Shell Brasil Ltda.
The risks  and rewards incidental to ownership are largely  transferred to the lessee.
These assets are capitalised  and recognized in the balance sheet of BC-10 as from  the date the lease contract is concluded, at the lower  of the fair value of the asset and the discounted value  of the minimum lease installments.
The lease  installments payable are broken down into  repayment and interest components, based on a  fixed interest rate and installments as derived from the  underlying agreement.
The lease commitments are  carried under long-term liabilities exclusive of interest.
The interest component is recognized in the profit and  loss account in accordance with the lease  installments.
Revenue of finance lease contracts represents the  transfer of economic ownership from Tamba B.V.  (lessor) to the lessee of the asset, being an  affiliate.
Cost of sales represents the costs  associated with the finance lease contracts.
Lease liability Opening balance as at 01.04.2013               3,648.12  Interest                 399.19  Lease Payments               1,161.14  Addition of Lease Liabilities due to increase of Shares by 12% 2,776.34 Foreign Currency Translation Adjustment                 820.38  Closing balance as at 31.03.2014               6,028.83  The Company's 27% share of future estimated minimum lease expenses in the year and their present  values are scheduled to be as follows: < 1Year   1-5 Years   >5Years   Total Future minimum lease payments 1,258.65 4,827.72 1,994.30 8,080.68  Present value of minimum lease payments 1,217.72 3,768.86 1,042.26 6,028.84  (` in million) (` in million) The Company's share of the lease liability ( at USD 1= ` 61.84) are is tabulated below:- Particulars 301 Annual Report 2013-14 Tamba B.V., JV company of ONGBV (27%) has  entered into a 15-year lease contract for the supply  of the FPSO with a third party.
The lease contract  contains priced termination options for each of the  15 years and priced extension options for the 4  years following the initial 15-year term.
The  Company can exercise a priced purchase option  during the term of the lease.
The interest rate  implicit in the lease is 9.5% (Previous year 9.5%).
41.3 The company has certain of fice/residential  premises on Operating Lease which are  cancellable by giving appropriate notice as per the  respective agreements.
During the year ` 1,020.78  million (Previous year ` 1,011.83 million) had been  paid towards cancellable Operating Lease.
41.4 The Joint venture company, OTPC, has certain  office premises under operating lease non- cancellable agreements.
The lease rental expense  recognized in the Statement of Capital Work-in-st  Progress for the period ended 31 March, 2014 is ` 9.24 million (previous year ` 9.24 million) as  group share.
Liability amounting to ` 3.73 million (previous year ` 2.79 million) as group share has  been provided for rent equalization reserve tillst  31 March, 2014.
Particulars As at 31.03.2014 As at 31.03.2013 Not later than one year                                11.55 9.24 Later than one year and not later than five years          43.91 46.22 Later than five years                               - 6.93 Total                                             55.46 62.39 (` in million) 42.
Disclosure under Accounting Standard - 27 on Financial Reporting of Interest in Joint Ventures: 42.1 Jointly Controlled Assets in India In respect of certain blocks, the Company's Joint Ventures (JV) with certain body corporates have entered  into Production Sharing Contracts (PSCs) with GoI.
Details of these blocks and JVs as on 31.03.2014 are as  under: Sl.
No.
Blocks Company's PI * Others Partners and their PI in the  JV/Operatorship*** A Jointly Operated JVs 1 Panna,  Mukta and Tapti 40% (40%) BGEPIL 30%,  RIL  30% 2 AN-DWN-2009/3 60% (60%) OIL 40% B ONGC Operated JVs 3 CB-OS/1  Development Phase** 55.26% (55.26%) TPL  6.7%, HOEC  38.04% 4 MN-DWN-98/3** 100%  (60%) (PIBBV  40%) 5 MN-OSN-2000/2 40% (40%) GAIL  20%, IOC    20%, OIL    20% 6 AA-ONN-2001/2 80% (80%) IOC  20% 7 AA-ONN-2001/3 85% (85%) OIL  15% 8 KK-DWN-2002/2 80% ( 80%) HPCL 20% 9 CY-ONN-2002/2 60% (60%) BPRL  40% 10 AA-ONN-2002/4 90% (90%) OIL 10% 11 CY-DWN-2004/3 70% (70%) GSPC 10%, HPCL 10%, GAIL 10% 12 CY-PR-DWN-2004/1 70% (70%) GSPC 10%, HPCL 10%, GAIL 10% 13 CB-ONN-2004/1** 60% (50%) GSPC 40%, (HERA-MEC LTD 10%) 14 CB-ONN-2004/2 55% (55% ) GSPC 45%  15 CB-ONN-2004/3 65% (65%) GSPC 35%  16 CY-ONN-2004/1 80% (80%) BPRL 20% The group share in future minimum lease payments and payment profile under the non-cancelable operating leases are as follows: 302 Sl.
No.
Blocks Company's PI * Others Partners and their PI in the  JV/Operatorship*** 303 17 CY-ONN-2004/2 80% (80%) BPRL 20% 18 MB-OSN-2005-1 80% (80%) GSPC  20% 19 MB-OSN-2005-5 70% (70%  ) GSPC  30% 28 BK-CBM-2001/1 80% (80%) IOC  20% 29 CB-ONN-2005/4 51% (51%) GSPC 49% 30 CB-ONN-2005/10 51% (51%) GSPC 49% 31 PR-ONN-2005/1 80% (80%) TPL  20% 32 WB-ONN-2005/4 75% (75%) OIL  25% 33 AA-ONN-2005/1 60% (60%) OIL 30%,  ACIL -10% 34 GV-ONN-2005/3 80% (80%) TPL 20% 35 AN-DWN-2009/2 60% (60%) OIL 40% 36 AN-DWN-2009/1 70% (70%) OIL 30%  37 AN-DWN-2009/5** 100%(90%) (GSPC 10%) 38 AN-DWN-2009/13** 80% (70%) GAIL 10%, NTPC 10%, (GSPC 10%) 39 AN-DWN-2009/18 60% (60%) OIL 30%, GAIL 10% 40 GK-OSN-2009/1 40%(40%) AWEL  20%, GSPC 20%, IOC 20% 41 GK-OSN-2009/2 40%(40%) AWEL 30%, IOC 30% 42 KG-OSN-2009/1 80% (80%) APGIC 10%, NTPC 10% 43 KG-OSN-2009/2 90% (90%) APGIC 10% 44 KG-OSN-2009/4 50% (50%) APGIC 10%, OIL 30%, NTPC 10% 45 AA-ONN-2009/3 50% (50%) OIL 50% 46 CB-ONN-2009/4 50% (50%) GSPC 50% 47 GK-OSN-2010/1 60% (60%) OIL-30%, GAIL-10% 48 GK-OSN-2010/2 90% (90%) GAIL- 10% 49 CB-ONN-2010/6 80% (80%) IOC- 20% C. Operated by JV Partners  50 Ravva 40% (40%) Cairn India (Operator) 22.5% ,  VIL  25%, ROPL 12.5% 51 CY-OS-90/1 (PY3) 40% (40%) HEPI (operator)  18%, HOEC 21%                                                                                           TPL 21% 52 RJ-ON-90/1 30% (30%) Cairn India (Operator) 35%, CEHL 35% 53 CB-OS/2 -Development Phase 50% (50%) Cairn India (operator) 40% ,                                                                  TPL 10% 54 CB-ON/7 -Development Phase 30% (30%) HOEC (Operator) 35%,  GSPC 35% 55 CB-ON/3 - Development Phase 30% (30%) EOL (Operator)70% 56 AA-ONN-2002/3 70% (70%) OIL (Operator) 30%                                                                              57 AN-DWN-2003/2 45%(45%) ENI (Operator) 40% GAIL 15% 58 KG-ONN-2003/1 51% (51%) Cairn India  49% (Operator) 20 MB-OSN-2005-6 80% (80% ) GSPC  20% 21 KG-DWN-2005/1 70% (70%  ) IOC 20%, GSPC 10% 22 KK-DWN-2005/2 90% (90%) GSPC 10% 23 KG-OSN-2005/1 60%(60% ) HMEL  20%, GSPC   20% 24 KG-OSN-2005/2 80% (80%) HMEL  20% 25 Raniganj 74% (74%) CIL  26% 26 Jharia 90% (90%) CIL  10% 27 NK-CBM-2001/1 80% (80%) IOC 20% Annual Report 2013-14 59 PR-OSN-2004/1 35% (35%) Cairn India (Operator) 35%,    TPL 30% 60 CB-ON/2- Development phase 30% (30%) GSPC (Operator) 56%,   Geo-Global Resources  14% 61 RJ-ONN-2005/3 40% (40%) GSPC (Operator) 60% 62 AA-ONN-2009/4 50% (50%) OIL(Operator) 50% 63 CY-OSN-2009/2 50% (50%) OIL  50% (Operator) 64 KG-DWN-2009/1 45% (45%) BGEPIL 30%(Operataor), OIL 15%, APGIC 10% 65 RJ-ON/6 - Development phase    30% (30%) Focus Energy Ltd (Operator) 7%                                                                       I services Investment Ltd, Mauritius 45.5%,  Newbury Oil Co. Ltd, Cyprus 17.5%                                                                                     66 AA-ONN-2010/2 30% (30%) OIL-40%, GAIL-20%, EWP-10% 67 AA-ONN-2010/3 40%(40%) OIL-40%, BPRL-20% * PI - Participating Interest ** Approval towards assignment of PI is awaited from GoI *** There is no change in previous year details unless otherwise stated.
Abbreviations:-ACL- Assam Company (India) Ltd, Hardy Exploration & Production (India), HEIBV-Hydro  APGIC- AP Gas Infrastructure Corporation Ltd, AWEL- Oil & Energy India BV, HMEL- HPCL Mittal Energy Ltd,  Adani Welspun Exploration Ltd, BGEPIL- British Gas HOEC- Hindustan Oil Exploration Company Ltd, HPCL-  Exploration & Production India Ltd, BPRL- Bharat Petro Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd, IOC- Indian Oil  Resources Ltd, Cairn India-Cairn India Ltd, CEHL- Cairn Corporation Ltd, INPEX- INPEX Offshore East India Ltd,  Energy Hydrocarbons Ltd,  CIL- Coal India Ltd, ENI Ente NTPC- National Thermal Power Corporation Ltd, OIL- Oil  Nazional eIdrocarburi, Ensearch- Enserach, EWP- East India Ltd, PIBBV-Petrobras International Braspero west Petroleum Canada, GAIL- Gas Authority of India BV, VIL- Videocon Industries Ltd, RIL- Reliance  Ltd, GGR- Geo Global Resources, GSPC- Gujarat State Industries Ltd, ROPL- Ravva Oil (Singapore) Private Petroleum Corporation Ltd, HEPI- Hardy Exploration & Ltd, SRL- Sunterra Resources  Ltd, TPL- Tata Petrodyne  Production India Ltd, Heramec- Heramec Ltd, HEPI- Ltd. Sl.
No.
Joint Ventures / PSCs Company's PI * 1 PA-ONN-2004/1 100% (100%) 2 CB-ONN-2004/4 60%(60%) 3.
CY-DWN-2004/1 70% (70%) 4.
CY-DWN-2004/2 70% (70%) 5.
CY-DWN-2004/4 70% (70%) 6.
CY-PR-DWN-2004/2 70% (70%) 7.
GV-ONN-2004/1 100%(100%) 8.
KG-DWN-2004/1 70% (70%) 9.
KG-DWN-2004/2 60% (60%) 10.
KG-DWN-2004/3 70% (70%) 11.
KG-DWN-2004/5 50% (50%) 12.
KG-DWN-2004/6 34% (34%) 13.
AN-DWN-2005/1 90% (90%)   * PI - Participating Interest Sl.
No.
Blocks Company's PI * Others Partners and their PI in the  JV/Operatorship*** 304 42.2      List of the blocks surrendered during the year are given below: 42.3 The Financial position of the JV/NELP blocks are as under : (` in million) (` in million) No.
of Jvs/ Assets Liabilities Income ExpenditureNELP Blocks before tax NELP Block-100% PI* 19            (21) (15,654.33) (368.09) (71.51) (26,243.39) (-26,171.88) 67            (78)       (92,348.44) (28,134.96) (170,084.17) (106,303.27) (63,780.91) Surrendered 49            (41) Total 135 (140) (111,349.21) (37,482.21) (170,768.90) (141,193.38) (29,575.52) Profit / (-) Loss 37,773.90 341.84 96.45 20,154.93 -20,058.48 Blocks with 103,668.42 44,450.57 182,462.92 142,405.71 40,057.21 other partners 5,209.85 9,565.83 0.37 2,045.23 -2,044.86 (3,346.44) (8,979.16) (613.22) (8,646.73) (-8,033.51) 146,652.16 54,358.23 182,559.73 164,605.87 17,953.87 No.
of JVs/ NELP Blocks before tax Profit / (-) LossAssets Liabilities Income Expenditure Audited 124 145,807.09 51,823.77 182,255.94 163,656.37 18,599.58  (129) (110,369.47) (34,943.33) (170,599.99) (139,865.63) (30,734.36) Unaudited 11 845.07 2,534.46 303.79 949.50 -645.71 (11) (979.74) (2,538.89) (168.91) (1,327.76) (-1,158.85) Total 135 146,652.16 54,358.23 182,559.73 164,605.87 17,953.87 (140) (111,349.21) (37,482.21) (170,768.90) (141,193.38) (29,575.52) 42.3.1 The financial statements of 124 (previous year 129)  out of 135 (previous year 140) JVs/NELP have  been incorporated in the accounts to the extent of  Company's participating interest in assets,  liabilities, income, expenditure and profit / (loss)  before tax on the basis of statements certified in accordance with production sharing contract  and in respect of balance 11 (previous year 11)  JVs/NELP, the figures have been incorporated on  the basis of uncertified statements prepared under  the production sharing contracts.
Both the figures  have been adjusted for changes as per Note No.
2.l.1.
42.3.2 In respect of 12 NELP blocks (previous year 16) st which have expired as on 31  March, 2014, the  Company's share of Unfinished Minimum Work  Programme (MWP) amounting to ` 18,014.12  million (previous year to ` 19,560.95 million) has not  been provided for since the company has already  applied for further extension of period in these  blocks  as 'excusable delay'/ special dispensations  citing technical complexities, within the extension  policy of NELP Blocks, which are under active  consideration of GoI.
The delays have occurred  generally on account of pending statutory  clearances from various Govt.
authorities like  Ministry of Defense, Ministry of Commerce,  environmental clearances, State Govt.
permissions  etc.
The above MWP amount of  ` 18,014.12 million  (previous year ` 19,560.95 million) is included in  MWP commitment under note no.
45.1.2.
42.3.3 As per the Production Sharing Contracts signed  by the Company with the GoI, the Company is  required to complete Minimum Work Programme  (MWP) within stipulated time.
In case of delay in  completion of the MWP, Liquidated Damages (LD)  is payable for extension of time to complete MWP.
Further, in case the Company does not complete  MWP or surrender the block without completing  the MWP, the estimated cost of completing  balance work programme is required to be paid to  the GoI.
LD amounting to ` 245.65 million (Previous year  ` 293.30 million) and cost of unfinished MWP (net of  reversal) ` (-) 59.14 million (Previous year  ` 217.14 million), paid/payable to the GoI is included in  survey and wells written off expenditure.
The financial positions of JV/NELP are as under: Particulars Particulars 305 Annual Report 2013-14 British Gas has agreed to pay a lump sum amount of the above blocks.
Since the government approval in  USD 50 Million, towards full and final settlement of respect of MN DWN 2002/2 is pending, no adjustment  carry costs/cash calls due in all the above blocks, is made in the accounts towards the lump sum amount  subject to government approval for transfer of PI in all due as above.
42.4 Company's share in Joint Ventures (Outside India) through Subsidiary - OVL Sl.
No.
participating  share (%) 1 Block 06.1 Vietnam,  Offshore 45% TNK Vietnam B.V. -35% Petrovietnam - 20%   production 2 Block  2a, 2b & 4, GNPOC.
Sudan, Onshore (Through ONGC Nile Ganga B.V.)Onshore  3 Block 1a, 1b, & 4, GPOC South Sudan, Onshore  (Through ONGC Nile Ganga B.V.)Onshore  4 Block 5A  South Sudan, Onshore shutdown due to security situation.
5 Sakhalin -1 Project, Russia, Offshore SODECO - 30% SMNG - 11.5% R N Astra - 8.5% 6 AFPC Project Syria, Onshore  (Through ONGC Nile Ganga B.V.) * 7 MECL  Colombia, Onshore  (Through ONGC Amazon Alaknanda Limited) 8 Block BC-10 Brazil, Offshore  (Through ONGC Nile Ganga B.V.)** 9 OOO Imperial Frac Service  (Through Imperial Energy Ltd) 10 San Cristobal Project Venezuela, Onshore  (Through ONGC Nile Ganga B.V.) Name of the Project and Company's Other Operator Status  Country of Operation Consortium Members TNK Vietnam The project is under B.V. development and  25% CNPC - 40% Joint  The project is under  Petronas - 30% Operatorship production.
Sudapet  - 5% (GNPOC) 25% CNPC - 40% Joint The project is under Petronas - 30% Operatorship production.
Currently Nilepet  - 5% (GPOC) under temporary shutdown due to security situation 24.125% Petronas - 67.875% Joint The project is under Nilepet - 8% Operatorship development and  (SPOC) production.
Currently under temporary 20% ENL - 30% ENL The project is under  development and  production 38.75% Fulin - 50% SSPD * The project is under Mittals - 11.25% production.
50% Sinopec - 50% Joint The project is under Operatorship exploration, development and production 27% Shell - 73% Shell The project is under development and production 50% Mr. Vladimir OVL The company Aleksandrovich provides Fraccing Borisov - 50% Services 40% CVP- 60% Joint The project is under Operatorship development and production 306 Name of the Block PI Date of Transfer of PI KG OSN 2004/1 45% 25.11.2011 KG DWN 98/4 30% 18.05.2011 MN DWN 2002/2 25% 01.12.2011 42.3.4 The company had acquired Participating Interest (PI) (BGEPIL) in the following blocks, effective from the  of British Gas Exploration & Production India Ltd following dates as approved by the board of directors.
307 Sl.
No.
participating  share (%) Name of the Project and Company's Other Operator Status  Country of Operation Consortium Members 11 Block A-1 Myanmar, Offshore 17% Daewoo - 51% Daewoo The project is MOGE- 15% under production.
KOGAS - 8.5% GAIL - 8.5% 12 Block A-3 Myanmar, Offshore 17% Daewoo - 51% Daewoo The project is under KOGAS - 8.5% production.
GAIL - 8.5% MOGE- 15% 13 Farsi Block Project Iran, Offshore 40% IOC - 40%  OVL The project 's exploration OIL - 20% period  ended on 24 June 2009.
Agreement on MDP and Development service contract is pending.
14 Block X XIV Syria, Onshore 60% IPRMEL - 25% IPR MEL IPRMEL the Operator Triocean-15% declared Force Majeure effective 29 April 2012 15 Khartoum-Port Sudan Pipeline 90% OIL - 10% OVL The pipeline has been Project Sudan, Onshore completed and is under lease.
16 Block RC-8 Colombia, Offshore 40% Ecopetrol - 40% OVL The project is under Petrobras - 20% exploration 17 Block RC-9 Colombia, Offshore 50% Ecopetrol - 50% Ecopetrol The project is under exploration 18 Block RC-10 Colombia, Offshore 50% Ecopetrol - 50% OVL The project is under exploration 19 Block BM-SEAL-4,Brazil, 25% Petrobras- 75% Petrobras The project is under Offshore (Through ONGC Nile exploration Ganga B.V) 20 LLA - 69  (Through MECL) 50% SINOPEC- 50% Joint The project is under Operatorship exploration 21 Block SSJN-7 Colombia, 50% Pacific -  50% Pacific The project is under  Onshore exploration 22 Block CPO-5 Colombia, Onshore 70% Petro Dorado - 30% OVL The project is under exploration 23 SHWE Offshore Pipeline Project, 17% Daewoo - 51% Daewoo Pipeline is completed and Myanmar, Offshore KOGAS - 8.5% transportation of Block GAIL - 8.5% Myanmar A1/A3 Gas MOGE - 15% 24 Onshore Gas Pipeline Project 8.35% CNPC-SEAP- 50.9% CNPC-SEAP The project is under (SEAGPCL), Myanmar, Onshore Daewoo - 25.04% operation.
(Through ONGC Nile Ganga KOGAS- 4.17% B.V.) GAIL - 4.17%  MOGE - 7.37% 25 Carabobo Project, Venezuela 11% CVP - 60% Joint The project is under Onshore (Through Carabobo Petronas Ve-11% operatorship development and One AB) Repsol Exp-11% production.
INDOIL-7% 26 Satpayev Contract Area 3575, 25% KMG - 75% SOLLP The project is under Kazakhstan, Offshore Exploration Annual Report 2013-14 Sl.
No.
participating  share (%) Name of the Project and Company's Other Operator Status  Country of Operation Consortium Members 27 Azeri, Chirag, Guneshli fields 2.72% BP - 35.79% BP The project is under Azerbaijan, Offshore SOCAR - 11.65% development and Chevron - 11.27% production Inpex - 10.96% Statoil - 8.56% Exxon-Mobil - 8.00% TPAO - 6.75% Itochu - 4.30% 28 BTC Pipeline Azerbaijan, 2.36% BP - 30.1% BP The project is under Onshore (Through ONGC SOCAR - 25% operation (BTC)) Chevron - 8.9% Statoil - 8.71% TPAO - 6.53% Eni - 5% Total - 5% Itochu - 3.40% Inpex - 2.5% Conoco Philips -2.5% 29 Area 1 offshore Block, 16.00% Anadarko- 26.5% Anadarko The project is under Mozambique*** Mitsui-20% development PTTEP-8.5% BPRL-10% OIL-4% ENH-15% 30 Block SS 04, Bangladesh 45.00% OIL-45% OVL The project is under offshore BAPEX-10% exploration 31 Block SS 09, Bangladesh 45.00% OIL-45% OVL The project is under offshore BAPEX-10% exploration Abbreviations used: CNPC - China National Petroleum Sakhalinmorneftegas Shelf; SODECO - Sakhalin Oil  Corporation; CNPC-SEAP-CNPC South-East Asia Development Company Limited; SOLLP - Satpayev  Pipeline Co Ltd; CVP - CorporacionVenezolana Del Operating Company LLP (100% subsidiary of KMG);  Petroleo S.A.; Daewoo - Daewoo International SSPD: Syria Shell Petroleum Development B.V.; Sudapet  Corporation; ENL - Exxon Neftegas Limited; Fulin - Fulin - Sudapet Limited;  Triocean: Tri-Ocean Mediterranean;   Investments Sarl; GAIL - GAIL (India) Limited; GNPOC - SOCAR: State Oil Company of Azerbaijan Republic; TPAO -  Greater Nile Petroleum operating Company; GPOC - Turkish Petroleum Corporation; BREML - Beas Rovuma  Greater Pioneer Operating Company; SPOC - Sudd Energy Mozambique Ltd; ENH - Empresa Nacional De  Petroleum Operating Company;IOC - Indian Oil Hidrocarbonates, E.P.
Corporation Limited; INDOIL- Indoil Netherlands B.V.; # Ovl holds 60% shares in BREML IPRMEL - IPR Mediterranean Exploration Limited; KMG * OVL has effectively 38.75% interest in Himalaya Energy  KazMunayGas; KOGAS - Korea Gas Corporation; B.V; Syria B.V. (HESBV) with Mittals and Fulin effectively  Mittals - Mittal Investments Sarl; MOGE- Myanmar Oil holding 11.25% and 50% interest respectively.
HESBV,  and Gas Enterprise; Nilepet - Nilepet Limited, South through its subsidiaries, holds 33.33%, 37.5% and 36%  Sudan; OCL - ONGC Campos Ltda.. OIL - Oil India interest in Ash Sham (including deep and lateral)  Limited; Pacific - Pacific Stratus Energy, Colombia;  concession, Deir-Ez-Zor and Annexure-IV (including  Petrobras - PetroleoBrasileiro S.A.; Petro-Dorado - Petro- deep and lateral) concessions and a gas utilization  Dorado South America S.A.; Petronas - Petronas Carigali agreement in Syria; the balance interest in the  Overseas Sdn Bhd; PetronasVe: PC Venezuela Ltd; concessions being held by SSPD- the Operator.
Petrovietnam - Vietnam Oil and Gas Group; Repsol - **In case of Block BC-10 Brazil, Offshore additional 12% th Repsol YPF Cuba SA; Repsol Exp- Repsol Exploracion stake was acquired on 30  December, 2013.
S.A.;  SEAGPCL - South East Asia Gas Pipeline Company ***In case of Area 1 offshore Block, Mozambique, 10% is  Ltd.; Shell - Shell Brazil Ltda; Sinopec - Sinopec directly held by ONGC Videsh Ltd. and 6% through  O v e r s e a s  O i l  a n d  G a s  L i m i t e d ;  S M N G  -  subsidiary BREML.
308 42.5 Company's share in Joint Ventures The Company, its Subsidiaries' and the Joint Venture Company's share of assets, liabilities, income and expenses  in the Joint Ventures as furnished by the Operator has been incorporated in the financial statements as given  below:  (` in million) Project Asset Liabilities Income Expenditure* (Including Loss depreciation) st A.
Audited as of 31  March, 2014   Block 06.1, Vietnam       10,194.97 1,571.18 8,951.34        5,698.91      3,252.43  Farsi Block, Iran (0.30) 62.23   0.24             12.59          (12.35) Sudan Pipeline,  OVL's Share (90%)           689.96 4,618.35 93.21        3,372.35      (3,279.14) LLC Imperial Frac Service-Jarpeno           310.96 11.22 465.95           332.51         133.44  Block 2a, 2b & 4, Sudan       24,736.09 5,967.80 31,872.39      25,491.99       6,380.40  Block 1a, 1b, & 4, South Sudan        6,785.99 1,032.52 8,752.55        6,395.05        2,357.50  Block BC-10 & Exploratory Blocks, Brazil 73,934.48 37,064.75 14,853.02      12,764.99        2,088.03  PIVSA (San Cristobal), Venezuela       22,570.80 38,054.57 27,615.66      17,070.72      10,544.94  Pipeco 1 onshore Project, Myanmar (SEAGP)        5,923.11 681.28 403.30           413.40          (10.10) Tamba B.V.       26,685.63 7,653.40 7,373.96       5,363.00       2,010.96  AFPC, Syria        5,166.20 742.90                  -          202.82   (202.82) MECL, Colombia       27,344.03 4,916.66 20,104.51      10,143.26       9,961.25  Petro Carabobo, Venezuela**       11,641.94 2,078.81 699.71           851.77         (152.06) BREML, Mozambique       16,776.06 2,666.60                  -            29.00     (29.00) Total (A)     232,759.93 107,122.28 121,185.84      88,142.36     33,043.48  st B.
Audited as of 31  December, 2013   Sakhalin 1 Russia     169,247.67 46,714.49 69,417.10     32,601.99     36,815.11  Block RC-8, Colombia (0.48) 583.08                  -        124.29     (124.29) Block RC-10,  Colombia               0.98 789.72                  -      183.31     (183.31) Block RC-9, Colombia             40.49 6.26 0.34           122.76          (122.42) Blocks 25-29, & 36, Cuba               2.39 (470.59) 0.02 (70.23)        70.25  Block A-1, Myanmar       13,950.01 3,212.85 331.53         1,097.98         (766.45) Block A-3, Myanmar        4,824.51 745.03 2,091.78         1,270.92         820.86  CPO 5 Block, Colombia        1,004.02 386.55 0.37       718.44        (718.07) SHWE Offshore Pipeline Myanmar        2,006.39 (35.31) 453.92        1,967.31     (1,513.39) Total (B)     191,075.98 51,932.08 72,295.06     38,016.77       34,278.29  C. Unaudited   Block XXIV, Syria             28.68 498.93                  -           403.21    (403.21) Block GUA offshore, Colombia               6.71 59.81                  -           51.60       (51.60) Block SSJN-7, Colombia                  -   7.58 0.35            56.46           (56.11) Block 81 (1), Libya               0.03 125.96                  -               0.02            (0.02) Block Area 1, Mozambique     163,373.85 453.82                  -               3.91             (3.91) Block 128, Vietnam           165.41 286.34                  -             36.66        (36.66) Block 6 North Ramadan, Egypt                  -   71.49                  -  (2.12)           2.12  Block 5A, South Sudan       10,426.66 805.80 744.99        1,464.73        (719.74) Block NC-188, Libya               1.89 (0.81)                  -              3.55            (3.55) Block NEMED, Egypt                  -   (2.21)                  -                0.07             (0.07) Satpayev Block, Kazakhstan        4,838.79 6.83                  -             740.61       (740.61) ACG, Azerbaijan       50,274.72 262,308.30 18,480.13        5,539.22       12,940.91  Total (C)     229,116.74 264,621.84 19,225.47       8,297.92     10,927.55  Grand Total     652,952.65 423,676.20 212,706.37 134,457.05       78,249.32  Profit/(-) before Tax 309 Annual Report 2013-14 * Represents expenditure as per joint venture  statement.
In the accounts of the Company, the  amount is reflected after netting off as per the  Accounting Standard (AS) 27 viz.
Financial  Reporting of interests in Joint Ventures.
** Excludes signature bonus paid by Subsidiary and classified under capital work-in-progress 42.5.1 The OVL's share of assets, liabilities, income and  expenses has been converted into the reporting  currency at the average exchange rate over the  period for which the details are provided by the  Operators.
Generally the details are provided by  the operators on monthly basis except in respect  of Sakhalin-1, Russia, where the details are  provided by the Operator on quarterly basis.
42.5.2 Block 5A,  Blocks 1,2 &4  in Republic of South  Sudan The subsidiary company, OVL has 24.125%  participating interest in Block 5A, South Sudan.
The  project is jointly operated by the partners Petronas  Carigali Nile Ltd, ONGC Videsh Limited and Nilepet,  the national oil company of South Sudan..
In view of security situation due to internal conflict  in the country all petroleum operation in Block 5A nd is temporarily shut down from 22  December,  2013.
However recently ceasefire agreement has  been signed by the waring parties & the  negotiations is under progress under the  mediation of African union countries and inter  government authorities on development (IGAD).
All actions are taken by the partners to resume  production swiftly on security clearance by the  host government.
In view of above there is an  indication of impairment in the project &  impairment test was conducted considering 2 years deferment of production.
Based on the  impairment evaluation as per the procedure of the  company in accordance with the requirement of  Accounting Standard-28 (AS-28), no impairment  provision is required.
42.5.3 Satpayev Block, Kazakhstan:  th Effective 12  October, 2011, the subsidiary  Company, OVL has acquired 25% Subsoil use  rights from National Company JSC KazMunayGas  (KMG) in the Contract for Exploration and  Production of Hydrocarbon (Contract) in Satpayev  Area which was signed on 15 June, 2010 between  Ministry of Oil and Gas (MOG), Kazakhstan and  KMG.
KMG now holds subsoil use rights of 75% in  the Block.
The amounts paid toward initial  payment and signature bonus amounting to  4,753.53 million (Previous year:  4,753.53  million) are disclosed as Capital-Work-in-Progress  in Note 19, as part of acquisition cost to be treated  as per the final status of the project.
` ` 42.5.4 AFPC, Syria ONGC Nile Ganga BV (ONGBV) and Fulin  Investments Sarl, a subsidiary of China National  Petroleum Company International (CNPCI), hold  50% shareholding each in the Dutch joint venture  company, named Himalaya Energy Syria B.V.  (HESBV).
HES B.V. in turn through three German  entities i.e.
HES Sham, HES Dez and HES Gas  Syria holds 33.33% to 37.5% Participating Interest  (PI) in four Production Sharing Contracts (PSCs) in  Syria.
The Syria business for the above PSC of  ONGBV is structured as separate class of business  (Class C).
st Effective 1  December 2011, Al Furat Petroleum  Company (AFPC) an Operating Company jointly  held by the Syria Shell Petroleum Development B.V.  (SSPD) a company acting as an operator for the  Contractor and HESBV (collectively the Contractor)  and General Petroleum Company (GPC), Syria,  which represents Government of Syria in the  Operating Company, were included in the list of  sanctioned enterprises by the European Union  (EU) as part of the strengthening of the sanctions  on Syria.
Due to the sanctions, HESBV, as an EU  company, has been forbidden to directly or  indirectly make funds or resources available to or  for the benefit of AFPC and GPC th st On the 16  May, 2012, the Syrian court (the 1   degree cour t) ruled in favour of "single  management", provided that Contractor will be kept  informed of all transactions.
In addition the court  considered that Contractor's share of profits should  be set aside in a separate bank account.
AFPC  Chairman  appealed for three motives (i) to  challenge the above two court-determined  measures  that allows  Contractor to monitor the   Chairman powers; (ii) to exercise all powers  required for running AFPC and solely  operate the  bank accounts;  and to (iii) challenge the th requirement to set aside profits.
On 28  of  November, 2012, the Court of appeal in Syrian  Court rejected the appeal of the Chairman.
As a  result, the first degree court judgment became  final.
As per the financials prepared by HESBV for the st year ended 31  March, 2014, ONGBV's share of   net fixed assets in HESBV is  USD 40.97 million  (Previous year USD 38.05 million) and net  trade  receivables of  USD 31.01 million (Previous year  USD 30.28 million).
Due to the prevailing political  situation in Syria and the EU sanction, this Cash  Generating Unit (CGU), including the above  mentioned assets and receivables was tested for  impairment by comparing the carrying value with st the recoverable value as on 31  March, 2014.
No  310 impairment provision was required in view of the  recoverable value being higher than the carrying  value.
Although there is no production due to  Force Majeure, a provision towards depletion  amounting to USD 3.99 million  (` 241.72 million)   has been made based on the estimated % of  depletion for previous year.
42.5.5 Blocks SS-04 & SS-09, Bangladesh: The subsidiary company, OVL in consortium with  Oil India Ltd. (OIL) was awarded two shallow water  Blocks SS-04 and SS-09 located in the offshore  area in People's Republic of Bangladesh onth 20  August, 2013 and the Production Sharing  Contracts (PSCs) of the Blocks were signed by  Government of People's Republic of Bangladesh  represented by Ministry of Power, Energy and  Mineral Resources, Bangladesh Oil and Gas & Mineral Corporation (PETROBANGLA),  consortium of OVL & OIL and Bangladesh  Petroleum Exploration and Production Company th Limited (BAPEX) on 17  February, 2014.
PSCs  envisage the exploration, appraisal, development  and production of petroleum in contract area of the  Blocks SS-04 and SS-09 measuring 7,269 square  kilometers and 7,026 square kilometers  respectively.
The exploration term consists of 8  (eight) consecutive contract years comprising 5  (five) years as Initial exploration term and 3 (three)  years as Subsequent exploration term.
OVL will act  as the Operator of the Blocks and has PI of 45%,  OIL holds 45% PI and BAPEX 10% PI.
BAPEX's  10% PI shall be carried by OVL and OIL in  proportion to their respective interests in respect  of all expenditure up to the date of first commercial  discovery and shall be re-paid from the first  available cost recover Petroleum.
.42.5.6  ACG Abandonment Cost: The subsidiary company, OVL, has provided  Abandonment Provisions for ACG project as on  31.03.2014 based on the total Capital Cost  incurred on the project since inception till  31.03.2014.
The Total Capital Cost till 31.03.2014 is  USD 28,397.70 million for the AIOC joint venture.
OVL's share of the cost (@ 2.7213 %) is USD  772.78 million.
Accordingly, maximum provision  of 10 % i.e.
USD 77.28 million towards  Abandonment Fund as per PSA provisions has  been made on 31.03.2014.
42.5.7 Mozambique Offshore Area 1: (a) The company has acquired 10% participating interest (PI) in the Rovuma Area 1 offshore Block, Mozambique from Anadarko Moçambique  Area 1 Limitada (Anadarko) during the year.
The  transaction has been completed on 28  February,  2014 and total purchase consideration was USD  2,640 Million (` 163,944.00 Million).
th The Rovuma Area 1 of fshore Block is in development stage.
As per Note No 2.2.e.2 of the significant accounting policies, the net assets less liabilities pertaining to Company's 10% PI in Area 1 of fshore block as on February, 2014 was accounted for in the  respective assets and liabilities.
The difference between the purchase consideration and net  book value of assets less liabilities has been accounted as acquisition cost as per the significant policy 2.2.e.2.
th  28 accounting  Details ( USD in Million ) ( ` in Million) Purchase Price 2,640.00 163,944.00  Less: Net share of  assets as on closingth date (28  February 14)  316.75 19,670.22  Acquisition Cost 2,323.25 144,273.78  311 (b) Capitalization of borrowing cost:   The consideration amount of USD 2,640 million was  financed by way of USD 725 million one year term  bridge loan, USD 1,775 million five year term Loan  and balance through the Company's internal st resources.
The total borrowing cost upto to 31   March 2014 with respect to the loans, amounts to ` 2,140.58 million.
As per Note No.
2.2.x of the  accounting policy of the group, borrowing cost of 2,092.85 million directly related to the assets under  construction has been capitalised to the related assets.
(c) Foreign exchange variation on long term foreign  currency monetary items: The subsidiary company, OVL, the exchange  difference amounting to ` 3,543.16 million arising  on the USD 1,775 million five year term loan has  been capitalised to the related assets.
(d) The subsidiary Company, OVL, in joint venture with  Oil India Limited (OIL) acquired 6% PI in the Rovuma  Area 1 offshore Block, Mozambique from Videocon  Mauritius Energy Limited (Videocon) by acquiring  60% shares and OIL acquiring 40% shares of  Videocon Mozambique Rovuma 1 Limited  (renamed as Beas Rovuma Energy Mozambique th Limited  (BREML) with effect from 30  January,  2014).
BREML holds 10% PI in the Rovuma Area 1  offshore Block, Mozambique.
The transaction was  completed on 7  January, 2014.
(e) As per the condition of sale and purchase  agreement with Videocon for acquiring the shares  of BREML, the consideration is subject to  adjustment for the seller's final statements of  accounts which will be submitted within 120 days th from the date of closing i.e.
by 7  May, 2014.
`  th Annual Report 2013-14 Closing Statement has been received from nd  Videocon on 2 May, 2014.
The adjustment to the  purchase price of USD 31.457 million payable to nd seller was received from seller on 2  May, 2014.
The same is under review and the response has to  be submitted within 30 days from the date of receipt  of statements.
Adjustment to the consideration, if  any, shall be accounted on finalization of seller's  final statement of accounts.
42.6   Jointly Controlled Entities: 42.6.1  Group ownership interests in Jointly Controlled  Entities are as mentioned in note 3.B.
Particulars As at 31.03.2014 As at 31.03.2013 I) Assets    Fixed Assets 136,977.47 108,255.96  Other Non Current Asset 19,929.43 20,815.01  Deferred Tax Assets 256.91 168.92  Current Asset 15,196.41 10,124.66 ii) Liabilities    Long Term Borrowings 112,760.66 43,595.31  Other Non Current liabilities and provisions 7,431.17 6,369.02  Deferred Tax Liability 896.72 554.18  Current liabilities and provisions 28,271.87 72,775.81 iii) Income 52,520.52 42,832.21 iv) Expenses 50,824.14 40,508.05 v) Contingent liabilities 8,868.61 7,749.88 vi) Capital commitments 18,372.56 29,017.22 (` in million) 312 42.6.2 The Group's share in assets, liabilities, income, expenses, contingent liabilities and capital commitments of Jointly  Controlled Entities: 43 Disclosure under Accounting Standard-28 and  Guidance note on Accounting for Oil and gas  producing Activities (Revised) on"Impairment of  Assets"  43.1 The Company is engaged mainly in the business  of oil and gas exploration and production in On- shore and Offshore.
In case of onshore assets, the fields are using common production/  transportation facilities and are suf ficiently  economically interdependent to constitute a  single cash generating unit (CGU).
Accordingly,  impairment test of all onshore fields are performed  in aggregate of all those fields at the Asset Level.
In  case of Offshore Assets, a field is generally  considered as CGU except for fields which are  developed as a Cluster, for which common  facilities are used, in which case the impairment  testing is performed in aggregate for all the fields  included in the cluster.
43.2 The Value in Use of producing/developing CGUs  is determined under a multi-stage approach,  wherein future cash flows are initially estimated  based on Proved Developed Reserves.
Under  circumstances where the further development of  the fields in the CGUs is under progress and where  the carrying value of the CGUs is not likely to be  recovered through exploitation of proved  developed reserves alone, the Proved and  probable reserves (2P) of the CGUs are also taken  for the purpose of estimating future cash flows.
In  such cases, full estimate of the expected cost of  evaluation/development is also considered while  determining the value in use.
43.3 In assessing value in use, the estimated future  cash flows from the continuing use of the assets  and from its disposal at the end of its useful life are  discounted to their present value.
The present  value of cash flows are determined by applying  discount rates of 19.10% (previous year 20.10 %)  for Rupee transactions and 13.00% (previous year  14.00 %) for crude oil and value added products  revenue, which are measured in USD.
Future cash  inflows from sale of crude oil and value added  products are computed using the future prices, on  the basis of market-based average prices of the  Dated Brent crude oil as per assessment by 'Platt's  Crude Oil Marketwire' and its co-relations with  benchmark crudes and other petroleum products.
Future cash flows from sale of natural gas is also  computed based on the expected future prices on  the basis of the notification issued by the  Government of India.
43.4 During the year ` 1,025.48 million (Previous Year ` 3,014.50 million) is provided as impairment loss.
Out of this, an amount of ` 355.97 million (Previous  Year ` 45.36 million) has been provided as  additional impairment in respect of onshore CGUs - Jodhpur and Silchar.
` 91.25 million  (Previous Year ` 38.00 million) has been provided  for already impaired offshore CGU- Ratna, D18, B 121 due to increase in the estimate of  abandonment cost has been provided.
In  addition, ` 30.42 million (Previous Year ` 23.40  million) pertaining to block CY-OS-90/1 (PY-3) has  been provided as presently the field does not have  any potential to produce.
An amount of ` 79.40  million (Previous Year ` 453.11 million) mainly  represents additional impairment charge in  respect of certain onshore Pre- NELP joint venture  blocks (RJ ON 6, CB ON 2 and CB ON 3) due to  adjustment of cost recovery from revenue and  sharing of 100% royalty.
Balance amount of ` 441.87 million, ` 15.90 million and ` 10.68 million  has been provided for Tapti, Hazira Plant and CBX  respectively.
Further, ` 806.08 million (Previous Year ` 756.47  million) impairment loss has been reversed based  on the impairment test carried out as at the balance  Sheet date.
The reversal as at 31.03.2014 is in  respect of offshore CGU G1-GS15 and Hazira SBM The following 2P reserves for the respective CGU are considered as a basis for the impairment assessment:- Name of the CGU Quantity of Reserves used for  Impairment Assessment (in MMT) G1-GS 15 6.13 Jodhpur Onshore Asset 1.99 Silchar Onshore Asset 0.80 RJ-ON-06 (Pre NELP PSC Block) 0.88 CB-ON-02 (Pre NELP PSC Block) 0.08 Cluster B-193 13.36 313 Annual Report 2013-14 43.5 The subsidiary company OVL, has assessed  indicators for impairment and carried out  impairment test in respect of Cash Generating  Units (CGUs) based on value in use method as on st 31  March, 2014 where indicators were observed.
However, no impairment in any of the CGU was  required since the value in use of the CGU's is  higher than their respective carrying value.
In  respect of the projects Imperial Energy, Russia,  AFPC, Syria, GPOC and Block 5A, South Sudan  operations are carried out with common production  and transportation facilities, catering the various  fields in the project which are suf ficiently  economically interdependent and hence constitute  a single cash generating unit for the purposes of  Accounting Standard 28 (AS-28) -Impairment of  Assets and impairment test is performed in aggregate  for all the fields in the respective project which are  considered as single cash generating unit.
The following 2P reserves for the respective CGU  considered as a basis for the impairment  assessment:- Projects (CGU) Proved and  Probable Reserves (MMT)   Imperial Energy , Russia 90.063 AFPC, Syria 3.108 Block 5A, South Sudan 4.774 GPOC, South Sudan 5.705 44 Disclosure under Accounting Standard - 29 on "Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets": Movement in Provisions - Abandonment liability & others For Court cases, arbitration and others, where the timing of expected outflows is upon settlement of the  proceedings and in case of provision for abandonment expected out flow after end of : (` in million) Provision for Abandonment Others 2013-14 2012-13 2013-14 2012-13 Opening Balance   207,692.12 204,138.82 1,832.45 1,942.45 Add: Provision made during the year 69,351.54 3,553.30 355.64 351.25 Less: Provision written back/ reclassified/ reduction during the year Closing Balance   274,690.43 207,692.12 2,188.09 1,832.45 2,353.23 - - 461.25 45 Disclosures under Schedule VI to the Companies Act, 1956: 45.1 Capital Commitment not provided for:- 45.1.1 Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account:-  i) In respect of the Company, its subsidiaries and Joint Venture Entities- `260,496.14 million (previous year ` 146,670.94 million).
ii) In respect of Joint Ventures -  ` 27,708.70 million (previous year ` 27,834.64 million).
45.1.2 Estimated amount of Minimum Work Programme (MWP) committed under various 'Production Sharing  Contracts':- i) In respect Nominated Blocks  ` 441.59 million (previous year ` 958.54 million).
ii) In respect of NELP blocks in which the Company has 100% participating interest of ` 9,600.47million ( previous year  `12,305.38 million) .
iii) In respect of NELP blocks in Joint Ventures, company's share is  `  62,247.39  million (previous year  ` 62,127.36  million).
314 Particulars Sl.
Particulars As at As atst st No.
31 March, 2014  31  March, 2013 I.
In respect of Company :    i.
Income tax matters 63,951.09 39,121.76  ii.
Excise Duty matters 9,702.14          8,840.67  iii.
Custom Duty matters 2,319.33          2,219.95  iv.
Royalty 117,301.90 90,178.00  v. Cess 6.57          6.57  vi.
Sales Tax 46,118.72 45,853.77 vii.
Octroi 68.54        68.54 viii.
AP Mineral Bearing Land  (Infrastructure) Cess 2,211.27 1,986.94 ix Specified Land Tax (Assam) 3,528.89   3,194.73  x.
Claims of contractors in Arbitration/Court.
55,814.99  30,583.20  xi.
In respect of other matters 73,906.78 54,182.76  xii.
Service Tax 53,768.09 44,859.97  xiii.
EPF 66.35       66.35  Sub Total 428,764.66 321,163.21 II In respect of  Joint Ventures :   i.
Income tax matters  8.91 8.91 ii.
Excise Duty matters 4.17 - iii.
Custom Duty matters 3,798.73 3744.00 iv.
Cess - - v. Sales Tax 2,649.81 2,950.00 vi.
Claim of GoI for additional profit petroleum 4,732.63 4286.17 vii.
Claims of contractors in Arbitration/Court 363.31 333.24 viii.
Service Tax 230.02 165.13 ix.
In respect of other matters 854.74 907.67 Sub Total 12,642.32 12,395.12 Total (I+II) 441,406.98 333,558.32 (` in million) 45.2.1 The above claims / demands are at various stages  of appeal and in the opinion of the Company are not  tenable.
45.2.2 In addition, in respect of the company, liability for  payment to contractual workers for regularization  of their services is pending with labour court under  civil suit.
The amount of liability is not ascertainable.
45.2.3 In respect of subsidiary company OVL, all known  contingent liabilities have been indicated.
The  contingent liabilities, if any, in respect of joint  ventures, where the Company is the non-operator  are not ascertainable except Sakhalin-1 where the  Operator has intimated that the status of  contingent liability is Nil.
45.2.4 In terms of the statutory provisions of Oilfields  (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948 (ORDA),  Petroleum & Natural Gas (PNG) Rules 1959 and  Notifications issued thereunder; the Company is  liable to pay royalty to Central Government and  State Governments, on production of Crude Oil  and Natural Gas from offshore fields and onshore  fields, respectively.
Since 2008-09, the company  has been paying royalty on crude oil at realized  price which is net of under-recovery of the OMCs  shared by the Company as per GoI directives.
On  an application filed by the  State of Gujarat, the  Hon'ble High Court of Gujarat in its order dated  30.11.2013 has directed the company to pay the  shortfall of royalty on crude oil produced from the  onshore fields in the State of Gujarat on pre- discount prices from 01.04.2008 onwards.
Based  on the Special Leave Petition filed by the Company,  pending further orders, Hon'ble Supreme Court  vide order dated 13.02.2014 stayed the operation  of the impugned judgment subject to the condition  that the company pays royalty to the State of  Gujarat on pre-discounted price of crude oil w.e.f.
01.02.2014 onwards.
Accordingly, possible  obligation on this account for the period from April  2008 to March 2014 has been disclosed as  Contingent Liability for ` 1,16,326.96 million.
Differential royalty (royalty on pre-discount price  minus royalty on post-discount price) being  deposited w.e.f.
Feb'14 in terms of court order has  been shown as deposit.
45.2.5 In respect of joint venture company, Petronet MHB  Limited, there are 127 cases (previous year 127  cases) regarding enhancement of land  compensation pending with Karnataka High Court  against Order of Principal Judge Bangalore Rural  District Court.
34 Cases for enhancement of land  and malkies Compensation was dismissed by  Hassan District Court, against 15 dismissed cases  45.2      Contingent Liabilities: Claims against the Company/ disputed demands not acknowledged as debt:- 315 Annual Report 2013-14 the petitioners filed their Writ petition in High Court  of Karnataka.
Out of 3 cases for enhancement of  land and malkies compensation & damage outside  the ROU pending with Mangalore District Court,  one case is dismissed and 02 cases are in  progress.
In the dismissed case petitioner filed the  writ petition in Hon'ble High Court of Karnataka of  which the proceedings is in progress.
The  contingent liability are not ascertainable at present  in above cases.
45.2.6 In respect of joint venture company, Petronet MHB  Limited, had submitted onetime settlement (OTS)  Proposal for payment of balance outstanding Zero  Coupon Bond (ZCB) to lenders as per CDR.
The  Lender Banks have raised the issue of payment of  recompense amount.
As per Legal Opinion, the  liability for the recompense amount has triggered.
The liability on this amount is ascertainable only at  the time of final acceptance of the proposal.
45.2.7 In respect of joint venture company, Petronet MHB  Limited, party "Petronet India Ltd (PIL)" has  initiated Arbitration proceedings for recovery of  their Operationalization Fees.
The company has  contested the liability on this account.
45.2.8 Performance Guarantees executed under the  contracts: I.
The Company has given an undertaking to State  bank of India (SBI), for an additional funding up to  ` 2,223.50 million (previous year ` 2,234.00 million)  in respect of joint venture company "ONGC Tripura  Power Co. Limited (OTPC)" for cost overrun, if any.
ii.
The subsidiary, OVL has given a Performance  Guarantee on behalf of Petro Carabobo Ganga B.V.   to Government of Venezuela in respect of  Carabobo 1 Project.
The total investment  commitment is estimated at USD 1,333 million.
The  outstanding guarantee obligation of the OVL was ` st 80,059.98 million as at 31  March, 2014 (previous  year ` 72,501.87 million) The Company is confident  that Petro Carabobo Ganga B.V. will be able to  honor its obligations.
iii.
The OVL subsidiary, ONGBV has given counter  guarantee to the State Bank of India for the issue of  performance bonds in favour of Nigerian National  Petroleum Corporation, on behalf of ONGC Mittal  Energy Limited, with a maximum of 51% of the  guaranteed amounts.
The outstanding guarantee  obligation of the company was `4,594.59 million  (USD 76.50 million) (previous year ` 4,160.84  million (USD 76.50 million) as at 31.03.2014. iv.
The subsidiary company OVL, has issued  Performance Guarantee in respect of concessionary  contract for Block BC-10, Brazil and Blocks BM-S- 73 and BM-ES-42 on behalf of ONGC Campos Ltda  (OCL).
The Company is confident that OCL will be  able to honor its obligations.
v. The OVL subsidiar y, ONGBV has given  performance guarantee to ANP, the regulatory  authority in Brazil, favoring ONGC Campos Ltda  (OCL) for BC-10 Project where OCL has a 27%  participating interest (previous year 15%) and  Shell Brazil is the operator.
As at 31.03.14 Opening 222.98 215.77 203.245 208.179 426.22 423.95 Addition 4.71 22.79 18.652 14.917 23.36 37.71 Production 15.54 15.58 19.174 19.851 34.71 35.43 Closing 212.16 222.98 202.723 203.245 414.87 426.22 Opening 190.81 190.46 155.897 156.074 346.71 346.53 Addition 7.94 9.87 0.020 5.170 7.96 15.04 Production 9.44 9.51 5.321 5.348 14.76 14.86 Closing 189.31 190.81 150.595 155.897 339.90 346.71 Opening 413.79 406.23 359.142 364.253 772.93 770.48 Addition 12.65 32.66 18.671 20.087 31.33 52.75 Production 24.97 25.10 24.496 25.199 49.47 50.29 Closing 401.47 413.79 353.318 359.142 754.78 772.93 As at As at As at As at As at 31.03.13 31.03.14 31.03.13 31.03.14 31.03.13 A.
In India Crude Oil (MMT)Details Gas (Billion Cubic Meter) Total Oil Equivalent (MMTOE) (note 46.2.1) Offshore Onshore Total in India 46         Disclosure under Guidance Note on "Accounting for Oil & Gas Producing Activities"              (approved by Reserve Estimates Committee): 46.1      Company's share of Proved Reserves on the geographical basis is as under: 316 As at 31.03.14 Opening 9.956 16.971 -  - 9.956 16.971  Addition 0.286 0.176 -  - 0.286 0.176  Ded/Adj -  6.595 -  - -  6.595  Production 0.741 0.596 -   0.741 0.596  Closing 9.501 9.956 -  -  9.501 9.956  Opening 6.595 -  -  -  6.595 -   Addition -  -  -  -  -  -   -  (6.595) -  -  -  (6.595) Production 0.218 -  -  -  0.218 -   Closing 6.377 6.595 -  -  6.377 6.595  Opening 5.921 6.348 -  - 5.921 6.348  Addition -  (0.428) -  - -  (0.428) Ded/Adj -  (0.001) -  - -  (0.001) Production 0.034 -  -   0.034 -   Closing 5.887 5.921 -  -  5.887 5.921 As at As at As at As at As at 31.03.13 31.03.14 31.03.13 31.03.14 31.03.13 Ded/Adj Opening 32.894 34.261 70.531 71.182 103.425 105.443  Addition 5.499 0.003 3.399 (0.001) 8.898 0.002  Ded/Adj -  -  -  -  -  -   Production 1.488 1.370 0.576 0.650 2.064 2.020  Closing 36.905 32.894 73.354 70.531 110.259 103.425  Opening 0.598 0.635 6.414 8.518 7.012 9.153  Addition -  -  -  -  -  -   Ded/Adj -  -  0.001 -  0.001 -   Production 0.032 0.037 1.851 2.104 1.883 2.141  Closing 0.566 0.598 4.562 6.414 5.128 7.012  Opening 2.581 2.707 -  - 2.581 2.707  Addition -  -  -  - -  -   Ded/Adj -  -  -  - -  -   Production -  0.126 -  - -  0.126  Closing 2.581 2.581 -  -  2.581 2.581  Opening 4.717 4.778 0.334 0.399 5.051 5.177  Addition 3.342 0.230 0.335 (0.053) 3.677 0.177  Ded/Adj -  -  -  -  -  -   Production 0.318 0.291 0.013 0.012 0.331 0.303  Closing 7.741 4.717 0.656 0.334 8.397 5.051  Opening 3.453 3.504 -  -  3.453 3.504  Addition 0.626 0.501 -  - 0.626 0.501  Ded/Adj (0.001) -  -  - (0.001) -   Production 0.597 0.552 -  - 0.597 0.552  Closing 3.483 3.453 -  -  3.483 3.453  B.
Outside India Crude Oil (MMT) Details Gas (Billion Cubic Meter) Total Oil Equivalent (MMTOE) (note 46.2.1) GNOP, Sudan GPOC, South Sudan Block 5A, South Sudan AFPC, Syria BC-10, Brazil MECL, Colombia Sakhalin-1,  Russia Block 06.1,  Vietnam 317 Annual Report 2013-14 As at 31.03.14 As at As at As at As at As at 31.03.13 31.03.14 31.03.13 31.03.14 31.03.13 Opening 14.970 15.530 4.721 4.683 19.691 20.213  Addition -  -  -  0.109 -  0.109  Ded/Adj -  -  -  -  -  -   Production 0.387 0.560 0.036 0.071 0.423 0.631  Closing 14.583 14.970 4.685 4.721 19.268 19.691  Opening 10.966 11.766 -  - 10.966 11.766  Addition -  -  -  - -  -   Ded/Adj -  -  -  - -  - Production 0.767 0.800 -   0.767 0.800  Closing 10.199 10.966 -  -  10.199 10.966  Opening 0.022 -  -  -  0.022 - Addition 3.795 0.023 -  -  3.795 0.023  Ded/Adj -  -  -  -  -  -   Production 0.021 0.001 -  -  0.021 0.001  Closing 3.796 0.022 -  -  3.796 0.022  Opening 1.803 1.804 -  -  1.803 1.804 Addition -  -  -   - -  -   Ded/Adj -  -  -  - -  -   Production  0.001 -   - -  0.001  Closing 1.803 1.803 -  -  1.803 1.803  Opening -  -  10.297 10.297 10.297 10.297  Addition -  -  1.595 -  1.595 -   Ded/Adj -  -  -  -  -  -   Production -  -  0.201 -  0.201 -   Closing -  -  11.691 10.297 11.691 10.297  Opening 9.646 -  -  - 9.646 -   Addition -  9.656 -  - -  9.656 Ded/Adj -  -  -  - - - Production 0.883 0.010 -  - 0.883 0.010  Closing 8.763 9.646 -  -  8.763 9.646 Opening 104.122 98.304 92.297 95.079 196.419 193.383 Addition 13.548 10.161 5.329 0.055 18.877 10.216 Ded/Adj (0.001) 0.003 0.001 0.001 -  0.004 Production 5.486 4.343 2.677 2.837 8.163 7.180 Closing 112.185 104.119 94.948 92.296 207.133 196.415  Crude Oil (MMT)Details Gas (Billion Cubic Meter) Total Oil Equivalent (MMTOE) (note 46.2.1) IEC, Russia PIVSA, Venezuela Carabobo - 1, Venezuela BLOCK- XXIV, Syria BLOCK-A1  & A3,  Myanmar ACG, Azerbaijan Total Outside India 318 46.2    Company's share of Proved Developed Reserves on the geographical basis is as under: As at 31.03.14 As at As at As at As at As at 31.03.13 31.03.14 31.03.13 31.03.14 31.03.13 Opening 160.62 153.50 110.254 114.690 270.87 268.19 Addition 13.90 22.70 41.630 15.431 55.53 38.13 Production 15.54 15.58 19.174 19.867 34.71 35.45 Closing 158.99 160.62 132.710 110.254 291.70 270.87 Opening 150.81 148.73 110.010 110.364 260.81 259.09 Addition 5.18 11.57 2.225 4.933 7.40 16.50 Production 9.39 9.49 5.251 5.287 14.64 14.78 Closing 146.60 150.81 106.984 110.010 253.58 260.81 Opening 311.43 302.23 220.264 225.055 531.69 527.28 Addition 19.09 34.27 43.855 20.364 62.93 54.63 Production 24.93 25.07 24.425 25.154 49.36 50.22 Closing 305.58 311.43 239.694 220.264 545.28 531.69 A.
In India B.
Outside India Crude Oil (MMT) Details Gas (Billion Cubic Meter) Total Oil Equivalent (MMTOE) (note 46.2.1) Offshore Onshore Total in India Opening 2.784 6.707 -  - 2.784 6.707  Addition 0.413 1.203 -  - 0.413 1.203  Ded/Adj -  4.530 -  - -  4.530  Production 0.741 0.596 -  - 0.741 0.596  Closing 2.456 2.784 -  -  2.456 2.784  Opening 4.530 -  -  -  4.530 -   Addition -  -  -  -  -  -   Ded/Adj - (4.530) -  -  -  (4.530) Production 0.218 -  -  -  0.218 -   Closing 4.312 4.530 -  -  4.312 4.530  Opening 2.599 2.599 -  - 2.599 2.599  Addition -  -  -  - -  -   Ded/Adj -  -  -  - -  -   Production 0.034 -  -  - 0.034 -   Closing 2.565 2.599 -  -  2.565 2.599  Opening 13.391 9.122 10.163 10.794 23.554 19.916  Addition -  5.638 0.689 0.019 0.689 5.657  Ded/Adj -  (0.001) -  -  -  (0.001) Production 1.488 1.370 0.576 0.650 2.064 2.020  Closing 11.903 13.391 10.276 10.163 22.179 23.554  GNOP,  Sudan GPOC, South Sudan Block 5A, South Sudan Sakhalin-1, Russia 319 Annual Report 2013-14 As at 31.03.14 As at As at As at As at As at 31.03.13 31.03.14 31.03.13 31.03.14 31.03.13 Opening 0.598 0.626 6.414 4.963 7.012 5.589 Addition -  0.009 -  3.555 -  3.564 Ded/Adj -  -  -  -  -  - Production 0.032 0.037 1.851 2.104 1.883 2.141 Closing 0.566 0.598 4.563 6.414 5.129 7.012 Opening 2.206 2.332 -  - 2.206 2.332 Addition -  -  -  - -  -   Ded/Adj -  -  -  - -  - Production -  0.126 -  - -  0.126  Closing 2.206 2.206 -  -  2.206 2.206  Opening 1.626 1.437 0.137 0.155 1.763 1.592  Addition 2.016 0.480 0.120 (0.006) 2.136 0.474  Ded/Adj -  -  -  (0.001) -  (0.001) Production 0.318 0.291 0.013 0.012 0.331 0.303  Closing 3.324 1.626 0.244 0.138 3.568 1.764  Opening 3.000 3.371 -  - 3.000 3.371 Addition 0.787 0.181 -  - 0.787 0.181 Ded/Adj -  -  -  - -  - Production 0.597 0.552 -  - 0.597 0.552  Closing 3.190 3.000 -  -  3.190 3.000 Opening 4.831 5.391 1.131 -  5.962 5.391 Addition -  -  -  1.202 -  1.202 Ded/Adj -  -  -  -  -  - Production 0.387 0.560 0.036 0.071 0.423 0.631 Closing 4.444 4.831 1.095 1.131 5.539 5.962 Opening 1.660 1.019 -  - 1.660 1.019 Addition 1.154 1.440 -  - 1.154 1.440 Ded/Adj -  (0.001) -  - -  (0.001) Production 0.767 0.800 -  - 0.767 0.800 Closing 2.047 1.660 -  -  2.047 1.660 Opening 0.022 -  -  -  0.022 - Addition 0.534 0.023 -  -  0.534 0.023 Ded/Adj -  -  -  -  -  - Production 0.021 0.001 -  -  0.021 0.001 Closing 0.535 0.022 -  -  0.535 0.022 Crude Oil (MMT)Details Gas (Billion Cubic Meter) Total Oil Equivalent (MMTOE) (note 46.2.1) Block 06.1, Vietnam AFPC, Syria BC-10, Brazil MECL, Colombia IEC, Russia PIVSA, Venezuela Carabobo - 1, Venezuela 320 As at 31.03.14 As at As at As at As at As at 31.03.13 31.03.14 31.03.13 31.03.14 31.03.13 Opening 0.049 0.050 -  - 0.049 0.050 Addition -  -  -  - -   Ded/Adj -  -  -  - -  -   Production -  0.001 -  - -  0.001  Closing 0.049 0.049 -  -  0.049 0.049  Opening -  -  -  -  -  -   Addition -  -  2.815 -  2.815 -   Ded/Adj -  -  -  -  -  -   Production -  -  0.201 -  0.201 -   Closing -  -  2.614 -  2.614 -   Opening 4.267 -  -  -  4.267 -   Addition -  4.277 -  -  -  4.277  Ded/Adj -  -  -  -  -  -   Production 0.883 0.010 -  -  0.883 0.010  Closing 3.384 4.267 -  -  3.384 4.267 Opening 41.563 32.654 17.845 15.912 59.408 48.566  Addition 4.904 13.251 3.624 4.770 8.528 18.021  Ded/Adj -  -  -  (0.001) -  (0.001) Production 5.486 4.343 2.677 2.837 8.163 7.180  Closing 40.981 41.562 18.792 17.846 59.773 59.408 Crude Oil (MMT) Details Gas (Billion Cubic Meter) Total Oil Equivalent (MMTOE) (note 46.2.1) BLOCK-XXIV, Syria BLOCK-A1  & A3,  Myanmar ACG,  Azerbaijan Total  Outside India 321 Annual Report 2013-14 322 46.2.1 MMTOE denotes "Million Metric Tone Oil  Equivalent" and for calculating Oil equivalent of  Gas, 1000 M3 of Gas has been taken to be equal to  1 MT of Crude Oil.
Variations in totals, if any, are  due to internal summation and rounding off.
46.2.2 The year-end reserves of the company and its  subsidiary, OVL have been estimated by the  Reserves Estimation Committee (REC) which  follows international reservoir engineering  procedures consistently.
The company and its subsidiary, OVL has adopted  deterministic approach for reserves estimation  and is following Society of Petroleum Engineers  (SPE) - 1997 guidelines which defines reserves as  "estimated volumes of crude oils, condensate,  natural gas, natural gas liquids and associated  substances anticipated to be commercially  recoverable from known accumulations from a  given date forward, under existing economic  conditions, by established operating practices,  and under current Government regulations.” Volumetric estimation is the main procedure in  estimation, which uses reservoir rock and fluid  properties to calculate hydrocarbons in-place and  then estimate that portion which will be recovered  from it.
As the field gets matured with reasonably  good production history is available then  performance method such as material balance,  simulation, decline curve analysis are applied to  get more accurate assessments of reserves.
The Company uses the services of third party  agencies for due diligence and it gets the reserves  of its assets audited by third party periodically by  internationally reputed consultants who adopt  latest industry practices for their evaluation.
The annual revision of estimates is based on the  yearly exploratory and development activities and  results thereof.
New In place Volume and Ultimate  Reserves are estimated for new field discoveries or  new pool discoveries in already discovered fields.
Also, appraisal activities lead to revision in estimates due to new subsurface data.
Similarly,  reinterpretation exercise is also carried out for old  fields due to necessity of revision in petro-physical  parameters, updating of static & dynamic models  and performance analysis leading to change in  reserves.
Intervention of new technology, change  in classifications and contractual provisions also  necessitates revision in estimation of reserves.
47.
The figures in respect of the company,  Subsidiaries/Joint Venture Companies have been  regrouped/rearranged based upon the details  obtained from the management as part of  consolidation process, Audited/unaudited  accounts of respective group companies.
48.
In view of the several subsidiaries and Joint  Ventures of the company, with each entity  operating under different regulatory requirements  in different countries and adopting different  policies and disclosure, the information required  under Accounting Standard (AS) -15  on  Employee Benefit is not disclosed in Consolidated  Financial statement due to impracticability.
49.
Disclosure on Foreign currency exposures at year  end that have not been hedged by derivative   instrument or otherwise: The Company has receivables and payables in  foreign currency as at the balance sheet date.
These foreign currency exposures are not hedged  by any derivative instruments or otherwise (Refer  note 32.6 & 32.7).
50.
Some balances of Trade/Other Receivables,  Trade/Other Payables and Loans & Advances are  subject to confirmation/ reconciliation.
Adjustments, if any, will be accounted for on  confirmation/ reconciliation of the same, which will  not have a material impact.
Annual Report 2013-14 Electronic Clearing Services (ECS) Request Form 325 The Company extends the ECS facility to shareholders so as to enable them to receive dividend through electronic mode to  their bank.
This facility will be available in the following centres: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Bhubaneswar, Chandigarh,  Chennai, Delhi, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Jaipur, Kanpur, Kolkata, Mumbai, Nagpur, Patna, Thiruvananthapuram, Agra,  Allahabad, Amritsar, Aurangabad, Baroda, Bhopal, Calicut, Cochin, Coimbatore, Dehradun, Erode, Gorakhpur, Gwalior,  Hubli, Indore, Jabalpur, Jalandhar, Jammu, Jamshedpur, Jodhpur, Kolhapur, Lucknow, Ludhiana, Madurai, Mangalore,  Mysore, Nasik, Panjim, Pune, Raipur, Rajkot, Salem, Shimla, Surat, Trichur, Trichy, Udaipur, Varanasi, Vijayawada,  Visakhapatnam.
Those who wish to avail the facility may fill up the ECS form given below and send the same to the Share  Transfer Agent of the Company - M/s Karvy Computershare Private Limited in case of shares held in physical form and to  their respective Depository Participant in case of shares held in Electronic/Demat form.
Electronic Clearing Services (ECS) Request form (Note: If you are already receiving through ECS, please ignore this form) Karvy Computershare Pvt.
Ltd Unit - ONGC, 17-24, Vittal Rao Nagar Madhapur, Hyderabad - 500 081 Andhra Pradesh - India Tel: 040 23420818 Fax: 040 23420814 SHAREHOLDERS IN PHYSICAL FORM SHAREHOLDERS IN DEMAT FORM To be sent to your Depositary participant (DP) Dear Sir, Subject  : ECS Mandate/ Bank form for Dividend Payment I the undersigned, shareholder of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC), wish to opt for ECS facility for payment  of dividend.
The following is a confirmation of my details and I hereby confirm my choice to opt for payment of dividend  payable to me by a physical dividend warrant/demand draft, on account of any circumstances beyond the control of ONGC,  that may affect payment of dividend through ECS.
1) For shares held in physical form Folio No: 2) For shares held in Electronic form  [Shareholders holding shares in electronic form should forward this form to their respective Depositary Participant (DP)].
DP ID Client ID 3) Name & Address  : 4)   Bank Particulars : Bank Name Branch Name & Address Account No.
(as appearing in cheque book) Account type 9 digit MICR code as appearing on the cheque 326 Proxy form [Pursuant to section 105(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 19(3) of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014] I/We, being the member (s) of ………….
shares of the above named company, hereby appoint  1.
.....................…………………… of ............................………………….
having e-mail Id……………….......... or failing him  2.   of  having e-mail Id  or failing him  3.
.....................…………………… ............................………………….
……………….......... .....................…………………… of ............................………………….
having e-mail Id……………….......... or failing him  And whose signature(s) are appended below as my/our proxy to attend and vote (on a poll) for me/us and on my/our behalf at the 21st Annual General Meeting of the  company, to be held on Friday, 19th September, 2014 at 10.00 A.M. at NDMC Indoor Stadium, Talkatora Garden, New Delhi and at any adjournment thereof in  respect of such resolutions as are indicated below:  Sl No.
RESOLUTIONS ORDINARY BUSINESS 1 To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Financial Statement of the Company for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2014, together with the Reports  of the Directors and the Auditors’ thereon and comments of the Comptroller & Auditor General of India, in terms of Section 143(6) of the Companies Act,  2013.
2 To confirm the payment of two interim dividends and declare final dividend on equity shares for the year 2013-14.
3 To appoint a Director in place of Shri A K Banerjee (DIN-05287459) who retires by rotation and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
4 To authorise Board of Directors of the Company to fix the remuneration of the Joint Statutory Auditors of the Company for the Financial Year 2014-15, in  terms of the provisions of section 139(5) read with section 142 of the Companies Act, 2013.
SPECIAL BUSINESS 5 To appoint Shri Tapas Kumar Sengupta (DIN-06802877) as Director of the Company.
6 To appoint Shri Dinesh Kumar Sarraf (DIN-00147870) as Director of the Company.
7 To appoint Dr. Subhash C. Khuntia (DIN-05344972)  as Director of the Company.
8 To appoint Shri Ashok Varma (DIN-06909494) as Director of the Company.
9 To appoint Shri Desh Deepak Misra (DIN-06926783) as Director of the Company.
10 To ratify the remuneration of the Cost Auditors for the financial year ending 31st March, 2015.
Affix revenue stamp of `1 Signed this…… day of……… 2014 Signature of shareholder  Signature of first Proxy holder     Signature of second Proxy holder      Signature of third Proxy holder  Note: This form of proxy in order to be effective should be duly completed and deposited at the Registered Office of the Company,  not less than 48 hours before the commencement of the Meeting.
OIL AND NATURAL GAS CORPORATION LIMITED  CIN: L74899DL1993GOI054155 Reg.
office: JEEVAN BHARATI, 124 INDIRA CHOWK, NEW DELHI- 110001 Website: www.ongcindia.com  email: secretariat@ongc.co.in Tel: 011-23301277/1299 Name of the member (s):  Registered address:  E-mail Id:  Folio No/ Client Id:  DP ID:   Attendance Slip OIL AND NATURAL GAS CORPORATION LIMITED  CIN: L74899DL1993GOI054155 Reg.
office: JEEVAN BHARATI, 124 INDIRA CHOWK, NEW DELHI- 110001 Website: www.ongcindia.com  email: secretariat@ongc.co.in Tel: 011-23301277/1299 Please fill in this attendance slip and hand it over at the entrance of the meeting venue.
Client ID* D.P ID* Folio No.
No.
of share(s) held I certify that I am a member/proxy for the member of the Company.
I hereby record my presence at the 21st Annual General Meeting of the Oil And Natural Gas Corporation Limited held on  Friday, 19th September, 2014 at 10.00 A.M. at NDMC Indoor Stadium, Talkatora Garden, New Delhi.
Members/proxy’s name in Block Letters *Applicable for investor holding Share(s) in electronic form.
Signature of Member/Proxy 327 Annual Report 2013-14 321328 Notes Annual Report 2013-14 Notes The Anchors of the Maharatna Annual Report 2013-14