ONGC’s quest for energy goes deeper than setting new  benchmarks in deep-water drilling in the Krishna Godavari  Basin or finding new frontiers of energy.
Global decline in  crude prices notwithstanding, we have taken significant  investment decisions diligently and aggressively, reversing  the production trend in offshore.
And now we are venturing into deeper offshore plays in our  quest for energy security.
It is this journey that has placed  us among Fortune “World’s Most Admired Companies”  rd and ranked us 3  in the E&P industry globally on the Platts  T op 250 Rankings 2014.
It is this spirit of going beyond boundaries that is depicted  on the cover of this Annual Report.
(L-R) Geo-scientists  acquiring exploratory data from fields in difficult terrains; A  typical sub-sea production system installed on deep  seabed; ONGC's downstream subsidiary Mangalore  Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd (MRPL); ONGC Videsh  operations at Sakhalin, Russia.
Chairman’s Message Dear Shareholder, If I were to sum up the last one year in the global oil  and gas business, ‘interesting’ will be an  understatement despite the largely familiar nature of  events and the manner in which they unfolded in the  then prevailing scenario over the course of time,  changing and redefining, to a large extent, not just  some of our firmly-held beliefs on markets but also  challenging many established players to vastly alter  their strategies for the future.
Oil prices tumbled, not  without precedent but certainly beyond anticipation,  and the market reality we inhabit presently is  anything but similar to the one we were in a little  more than a year ago.
It is in this context of surrounding volatility, that I, on  behalf of the Board of Directors of Oil & Natural Gas  Corporation Ltd, the country’s most valued Public  Sector enterprise, and over 33,000 committed  ONGCians, present to you ONGC’s Annual Report  for the financial year 2014-15; highlighting the  Company’s per formance in operational and  financial metrics through the period.
Globally, it has been an uneasy and turbulent year  for many in the industry and our performance as the  country’s flagship energy explorer assumes even  more significance in times like these, in view of our  enduring commitment to the aspirations of this  country and the trust placed in us through the years  by our many shareholders.
I believe value resides in  the ways a company chooses to grow, it is  manifested through the consistency and reliability  with which a company delivers on its myriad  commitments – financial, social or environmental.
In  FY’2014-15, we put a check on all of those fronts.
Notwithstanding the increasingly challenging  business environment, it marked another year of  solid performance from ONGC and reaffirmed the  Company’s proven capabilities in sustainable value  creation.
Beyond impressive operational and  financial numbers, what must hearten ONGC’s  many shareholders further is that the resilience of  our business is also underpinned by a strong focus  on Safety and an environmentally-aware approach,  making our model not only robust but equally  adaptable to the emergent needs in this evolving  landscape.
Coming to specifics of our performance, at ONGC,  a strong exploratory performance has always  featured high among the company’s priorities.
We remain steadfast in our commitment to organic growth through steady and continuous  enhancement of our already substantial reserve  position.
FY’2014-15 was a strong step in that  direction.
We made 22 oil and gas discoveries in the  last financial year.
On 2P basis, we made cumulative  reserve accretion of 61.05 Million Metric T onnes of  Oil Equivalent (MMtoe).
With a Reser ve  Replacement Ratio (RRR) for the year at 1.38 we  have also ensured a stronger pipeline of future  hydrocarbon supplies.
However, the biggest positive, most undoubtedly,  from last year comes from the arena of production  as we reversed the trend of declining indigenous  crude oil output.
Our standalone domestic crude  output was 22.26 MMT compared to 22.25 in the  previous fiscal (FY’14).
The increase is marginal, yet  it shows the rich possibilities of a focused  operational approach and effective deployment of  technology in a portfolio that is predominantly  mature.
The results of our technology-intensive  schemes, geared to improve ONGC’s recovery  rates, are the most outstanding in the prolific  Mumbai Offshore fields, the mainstay of ONGC’s  domestic portfolio, where production shot up by  4.3 percent on a year-on-year basis.
In fact,  supplies unlocked through these schemes  accounted for over 34 percent of our domestic  Dinesh K Sarraf Chairman & Managing Director supplies in FY’14-15.
There is potential for more and  promising projects like Mumbai High North Phase- III and Mumbai High South Phase-III form part of our  plans to realize additional volumes from our legacy  assets.
However, our gas output for the year dipped  as a result of which total standalone domestic  supplies of crude oil and gas from ONGC-operated  fields declined to 44.28 MMtoe from 45.53 MMtoe a year ago.
Beyond our commitment to maximizing output from  the producing assets, we are also actively focused  on monetizing fresh reserves through several  meaningful development projects which upon  execution has the potential to add meaningful  material volumes to our current production profile.
Six major field development projects worth over ` 24,000 Crore were approved by the Board of  ONGC during the past one year, of which the  development of Daman and Nagyalanka are the  more significant ones.
Marginal fields otherwise  deemed commercially unviable for their pocket- sized reserves and issues with accessibility have  been developed through a clustered approach and  they combined to contribute a healthy 13.8 percent  of the company’s standalone domestic crude oil  output.
Overall, ONGC remained the largest producer of oil  and natural gas within the country, contributing over  69 percent and 70 percent to country’s production  of oil and gas respectively.
The total output of ONGC  group (including ONGC Videsh and ONGC’s share  in PSC-JVs) stood at 58.34 MMtoe (59.2 MMtoe in  FY’14).
Financially as well, FY’2014-15 was an encouraging  year for ONGC considering the widespread  pessimism around the earnings outlook in the  sector due to the depressed oil prices.
The oil price  slump did dent our earnings but we still managed to  register annual revenue of ` 830,935 million.
Our  combined group revenue for the fiscal was ` 1,660,668 million.
Standalone Profit-After-T ax was  ` 177,330 million (down 19.7 percent) while the  Group PAT was ` 183,335 million (down 30.8  percent).Staying on the earnings front, we realized  a higher value for our produced barrel ($44.87/bbl)  of crude compared to the previous year  ($40.97/bbl) largely on account of our lower  contribution towards sharing of under-recoveries of  OMCs which at ` 362,996 million was significantly  lower than our subsidy burden of FY’14 (` 563,842  million).
The Government’s progressive stance on  key policy matters related to the oil and gas sector  has played a key part in this regard.
ONGC has consistently been among the top  dividend payers in the country and FY’15 was no  different.
What’s more significant is that even in a year  where businesses were severely impacted by  diminished cashflows ONGC’s overall dividend pay- out ratio (with dividend tax) was higher (55 percent)  than that in the preceding fiscal (43 percent).
T otal  dividend pay-out to shareholders was ` 81,277 million.
This amply illustrates the strength and flexibility of  ONGC’s balance sheet; it also contrasts ONGC’s  enduring conviction in the strength of its highly valued  long-term relationship with its shareholders with the  short-term cyclicality of the markets.
Our international E&P operations, too, is on a  stronger footing relative to last year.
ONGC Videsh,  over the last few years, has aggressively expanded  the scope and presence of our operations on the  global map with a view to creating a more balanced  and diversified portfolio, a necessary hedge  against the characteristic volatility of our functional  environment.
We grew our exploration position  during the year, having secured blocks in Myanmar,  Bangladesh and New Zealand, which crucially  marks our first entry into the Asia-Pacific region.
Also, our production, in spite of our interrupted  supplies in South Sudan and Syria, registered an  uptick as we pumped output to 8.87 MMtoe in FY’15  from 8.36 MMtoe in FY’14.
This marks the second  consecutive year of growth for our overseas  business in terms of production performance.
T oday, ONGC Videsh is present in 17 countries  across 36 projects of which 13 are producing  proper ties.
Success of our forays in the  international arena is central to realizing ONGC’s  long-term growth plans.
Management, accordingly,  has invested significant resources towards further  expansion of our global business in a manner that  new properties not only play to our growing  strengths but also bring in desired level of exposure  to new plays and technologies.
A stronger ONGC  Videsh, eventually, will greatly augment the  country’s energy security.
All the while, we remain committed to our vision of  evolving into an integrated energy major of  international repute.
In that respect, progress and  per formance of our domestic value-chain  integration ventures have provided us with much- needed assurance regarding our exposure in that  business domain.
It was a major year for our  downstream subsidiary, MRPL.
All units under the  15 MMTPA refinery’s Phase-II expansion plan have  been commissioned.
Having achieved its highest  ever throughput of 14.65 MMT in FY’15, the  management, buoyed by an improved market  outlook and a facilitating policy regime, is actively  considering the expansion of its retail footprint.
ONGC T ripura Power Company Ltd (OTPC), our  venture in the Power segment, is a fine example of  ONGC’s successful diversification into non-E&P  business as well as its promotion of energy within  the framework of sustainability.
The 726.6 MW  combined cycle power plant is not only the biggest  energy project in the country’s North-eastern  region in terms of investment, it is also one of largest  UNFCCC-registered CDM projects in the world  earning an estimated annual CER of 1.6 million.
Our strong endorsement of a sustainable approach  to doing business in the energy industry stems from  our understanding that businesses exist to create  value that is meaningful and relevant across the  broad spectrum of its community of stakeholders.
Energy is essential to motoring not just the global  economic engine but equally important for the  improvement of the human condition.
Right now,  there are countless global citizens and fellow  countrymen who are bereft of the bare minimum  necessities of life.
And every form of energy, be it  fossil fuels, renewables or alternative, has its own  unique role to play in alleviating this reality.
It is not  merely about the kind of fuels we use but also so  much more about how we find, produce and  consume those fuels that is largely going to  determine how sustainability influences overall  business decisions.
At ONGC, we are continuously  trying to improve our performance on this  parameter by reducing the energy intensity of our  operations and by bringing in an element of  reusability in our resource consumption patterns.
This, along with our Corporate Social Responsibility  (CSR) initiatives, designed to positively integrate  our business with communities and the social  environment around our operational areas, lend a  healthy dimension to the ONGC model.
ONGC’s sustained performance and contribution in  the energy arena continue to be acknowledged in  the industry.
We are rated highly among our  corporate peers in such respected listings such as  Platts 250 Global Energy Rankings, Forbes Global  2000 and Fortune’s World’s Most Admired  Companies.
I firmly believe that strong relationships at every  level remain at the core of a company’s success in  the long run.
From that perspective, our relationship  with the Government, particularly the Ministry of  Petroleum & Natural Gas, our most significant  stakeholder, has been marked with great  understanding and fulfilment.
It is a partnership  spurred by the urgency to achieve the common  goal of greater energy independence for the  country, and the support and consideration  extended by it to the organization through all the  many eventful years of ONGC’s existence has been  nothing less than outstanding.
Stability in the energy industry is a chimera, an  overused concept that seldom encounters real- world translation.
But you are looking at a company  that can look ahead to the future with as much  confidence as it can look back upon its more than  50 years of rich legacy, and with the potential to  deliver even more value for the investment you have  committed it through the years.
ONGC continues to  be a worthy exemplar of consistency in a world  where change is the most abiding norm.
In the same  vein, you have remained steady with your support  for this company.
We sincerely acknowledge the  confidence and trust you have placed in us, right  along the journey, equally through periods of  growth and turmoil.
You, our valued shareholder,  are the cornerstone of our motivation for greater  success.
Dinesh Kumar Sarraf Chairman & Managing Director Leading from the front: Hon'ble MoS (I/C), Petroleum & Natural Gas  Shri Dharmendra Pradhan during his review visit of the Mumbai  Offshore operations.
VISION T o be the global leader in integrated energy business through sustainable  growth, knowledge excellence and exemplary governance practices.
MISSION World Class • Dedicated to excellence by leveraging competitive advantages in R&D  and technology with involved people.
• Imbibe high standards of business ethics and organizational values.
• Abiding commitment to safety, health and environment to enrich quality  of community life.
• Foster a culture of trust, openness and mutual concern to make working a  stimulating and challenging experience for our people.
• Strive for customer delight through quality products and services.
Integrated In Energy Business • Focus on domestic and international oil and gas exploration and  production business opportunities.
• Provide value linkages in other sectors of energy business.
• Create growth opportunities and maximize shareholder value.
Dominant Indian Leadership • Retain dominant position in Indian petroleum sector and enhance India's  energy availability.
Carbon Neutrality  • ONGC will continually strive to reduce CO  emissions across its activity 2 chain with the objective of achieving carbon neutrality.
Contents Board of Directors 14 Notice 23 Performance at a Glance 34 Board's Report 48 Annexure to Board's Report 80 Comments of C&AG 113 Management Discussion & Analysis 118  Report Corporate Governance Report 143 Auditors Certificate on Corporate 172 Governance Contents Business Responsibility Report 174 Secretarial Audit Report 197 Independent Auditors’ Report on Standalone  Financial Statements 202 Standalone Financial Statement 208 Statement Pursuant to Section 129 (AOC-1) 264 Group Performance at a Glance 266 Auditors’ Report on Consolidated Financial  Statement 272 Consolidated Financial Statement 283 ONGC places utmost importance to safety at work place.
Fire and safety drills are held  regularly to enable our people to be prepared to face any eventuality.
Notice Board of Directors Performance at a Glance  Financial Highlights FY'15 13 661,549 761,291 825,714 834,697 823,488 FY'11 FY'12 FY'13 FY'14 FY'15 SALES INCOME (` MILLION) CAGR: 5.64% NET PROFIT (` MILLION) CAGR: (-) 1.61% 189,240 251,229 209,257 220,948 177,330 FY'11 FY'12 FY'13 FY'14 FY'15 CONTRIBUTION TO EXCHEQUER (` MILLION) CAGR: 7.29% 317,759 382,873 408,806 405,750 421,074 FY'11 FY'12 FY'13 FY'14 FY'15 74,861 83,416 81,277 81,277 81,277 FY'11 FY'12 FY'13 FY'14 FY'15 DIVIDEND (  MILLION)` NET WORTH (` MILLION) 967,084 1,117,841 1,229,674 1,356,311 1,436,229 FY'11 FY'12 FY'13 FY'14 FY'15 CAPEX (` MILLION) 282,755 292,466 295,079 324,695 299,975 FY'11 FY'12 FY'13 FY'14 FY'15 CAGR: 10.39% Financial Highlights  FY’15 V P MahawarV P Mahawar Director (Onshore) A K DwivediA K Dwivedi Director (Exploration) T K Sengupta Director (Offshore) V P Mahawar Director (Onshore) A K Dwivedi Director (Exploration) T K Sengupta Director (Offshore) K N Murthy Independent Director BOARD OF  DIRECTORS st As on 1  August, 2015 D K Sarraf Chairman &  Managing Director U P Singh Govt.
Nominee  Director  Atreyee Das Govt.
Nominee  Director Atreyee Das Govt.
Nominee  Director Shashi Shanker Director (T&FS) Shashi Shanker Director (T&FS) D D Misra Director (HR) Annual Report 2014-15 Brief Profiles of the Board of Directors 16 Chairman and Managing Director Brief Profiles of the Board of Directors As on 01.08.2015 Functional Directors Shri Shashi Shanker, Director (T&FS) joined ONGC Board on 01.12.2012.
He holds a B.T ech  degree in Petroleum Engineering from Indian School of Mines, Dhanbad and MBA with  specialization in Financial Management from IGNOU.
He undertook General Management T raining from IIM, Lucknow and Leadership Development  Programme at ISB, Hyderabad under "Shangsaptak" programme.
He has more than 32 years of  experience in Oil Industry and having wide exposure in diverse E&P activities both in on land &  offshore operations, R&D activities and spearheading the deep/ultradeep water drilling campaign  of ONGC.
Shri  D. K. Sarraf, 57, is the Chairman & Managing Director of Oil and  Natural Gas Corporation Ltd (ONGC), India's one of the most valuable public  sector enterprises and one of the most premier E&P companies in the world.
He is also the Chairman of ONGC Videsh Limited, Mangalore Refinery and  Petrochemicals Ltd and other ONGC Group companies ONGC Petro- additions Ltd, ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Ltd, Mangalore SEZ Ltd and  ONGC T ripura Power Company Ltd. Shri Sarraf graduated in Commerce from the prestigious Shri Ram College  of Commerce, Delhi University and holds a post graduate degree in  Commerce from the same University.
He is an Associate member of the  Institute of Cost Accountants of India and the Institute of Company  Secretaries of India.
He has experience of over three decades in the oil and gas industry, having  started his oil and gas career in India's second largest upstream oil  company – Oil India Limited and worked there till 1991 where he inculcated  the experience in various facets of E&P at oil field level.
He joined ONGC in 1991 and handled various key  assignments at corporate offices.
He was elevated to the post of Director (Finance) in ONGC Videsh in February,  2005 where he served till December, 2007.
During this period, ONGC Videsh made significant acquisitions in Syria,  Brazil, Colombia, Venezuela, Cuba, Egypt and Myanmar.
In December 2007, took over as Director (Finance), ONGC.
In September 2011, Shri Sarraf went back to ONGC Videsh assuming the charge of its Managing Director.
In March  2014, he took over as  Chairman & Managing Director of ONGC.
In recognition of his excellence in financial management and various other outstanding contributions, he has  been conferred with several accolades including the Best CFO Award in Oil & Gas sector in India by CNBC in  2009 and 2011.
He has been conferred Distinguished Fellowship 2015 by the Institute of Directors (IOD) for  practicing highest standards of corporate governance while steering the boards of ONGC, a Maharatna firm and  its group companies.
Brief Profiles of the Board of Directors 17 Shri Tapas Kumar Sengupta, Director (Offshore) joined ONGC Board on 01.02.2014.
He holds a first-class B.T ech degree in Chemical Engineering from Jadavpur University,  Calcutta, and a Diploma in Management from Indira Gandhi National Open University.
Prior to becoming Director(Offshore), he was Chief of Well Services looking after  operations, technological needs apart from manpower and material support for all  Onshore and Offshore assets in respect of Well Services and  Deepwater projects of  Eastern Coast of India Shri Sengupta is one of the select club of production engineers who has a balanced  exposure to both onshore and offshore oilfields operation.
His onshore experience  portfolio comprises of Well Services in Gujarat and Assam for 11 long years and 4 years in  Sudan as part of ONGC Videsh.
Of his 18 years in Offshore fields off Mumbai, he served for 12 years in Mumbai High in  Well Services, successfully handling a number of production-enhancement  assignments.
Shri Sengupta was also instrumental in improving performances of  ONGC’s Offshore sick well inventory.
He was the recipient of the CMD award for Best  Production Engineer in 1996 & Best Professional Engineer in 2001 for the same.
Shri Desh Deepak Misra, Director (Human Resource) joined ONGC Board on 01.08.2014.
He  holds a Master's Degree in Public Administration (MPA) from University of Lucknow.
Prior to his  appointment as Director (HR), ONGC he was Head Corporate Administration at ONGC  Dehradun.
Starting his career as Graduate T rainee, Shri Misra has left his imprint in diverse assignments  given to him in three decades with the company.
Despite holding high pressure assignments,  Shri Misra has always found time to nurture his other interests, particularly his passion for  wildlife photography.
His maiden Coffee T able photo book "The Karjat diaries" profiling bio- diversity of Western Ghats was launched in January-2014 at Petrotech.
Shri Ajay Kumar Dwivedi, Director (Exploration) 16.03.2015.
A post- graduate from Kanpur University, Shri Dwivedi has a distinguished career of more than 34  years in ONGC, holding key exploration-related assignments at different work centers starting  from Mumbai, moving to Dehradun in North, to Chennai in South, then Jorhat in the east,  Vadodara in the west and as Basin Manager MBA Basin, Kolkata, before finally taking over  Western Offshore as Basin Manager.
Shri Dwivedi has managed ONGC’s prime exploration  portfolios in Western Offshore-Kutch-Saurashtra, Mumbai Offshore and Kerala-Konkan  Basin.
His keen analytical acumen coupled with a people-centric approach has been his forte.
His  strength has been to encourage Multi-Disciplinary team working in various capacities across the  organization.
As a core team member of joint project team on organizational change program,  Shri Dwivedi was involved with redesign of structure, systems and business processes aligned to  Asset based model and their implementation in two pilot projects.
With his rich academic lineage,  Shri Dwivedi has authored a number of technical papers.
Shri Dwivedi has undergone various  development programs, including those at Indian School of Business, Hyderabad and University of  Alberta School of Business, Alberta, Canada.
He is affiliated to SPG - India, AEG – India and SPE  and presently holds the office of President, SPG-India.
joined ONGC Board on   Annual Report 2014-15 Brief Profiles of the Board of Directors 18 Smt Atreyee Das is the Govt Nominee Director of your Company and joined the Board on  14.05.2015 and is Director General, Project Planning & Analysis Cell of Ministry of Petroleum &  Natural Gas.
She belongs to 1989 batch of Indian Audit and Accounts Service under the  Comptroller and Auditor General of India.
She has more than 24 years of experience in the field  of public auditing and conducted several performance audits, financial audits and compliance  audits.
Before taking charge of Director General, Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell,  Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, New Delhi since September 2014 she held various  important positions viz.
Director General, Office of the Director General of Commercial Audit  and ex-officio Member Audit Board-IV, New Delhi from May 2013 to September 2014, Principal  Director (State Receipt Audit) and Central Region in the O/o The Comptroller and Auditor  General of India, New Delhi from April 2010 to June 2013, Accountant General (Commercial,  Works and Receipt Audit), Orissa from September 2006 to April 2010, Principal Director of  Audit, East Coast Railway, Bhubaneswar from April 2006 to September 2006, on deputation to  the United Nations from September 2004 to December 2005, Director of Audit, Northern  Railway from March 2002 to September 2004 etc.
Shri U. P .
Singh, Additional Secretary (Exploration), Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas is the  Govt Nominee Director of your Company and joined the Board on 16.10.2014.
Shri Singh is  B.T ech (Mechanical Engineering) and M.T ech in Industrial & Management Engineering from  IIT, Kanpur.
He belongs to 1985 batch of IAS (Odisha Cadre).
During his rich and varied experience as an IAS officer, he has held various administrative  positions in the areas of Revenue, Social Justice & Empowerment, District Administration,  T ransport, Commercial T axes, Water Resources, Industries, Steel, Energy and Agriculture &  Cooperation, etc.
in the State Government and in the Ministries of Ocean Development,  Parliamentary Affairs, Surface T ransport and Finance in the Central Government.
Prior to  joining as Joint Secretary, Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas, he was Joint Secretary,  Ministry of Steel and earlier to that he was Principal Secretary, Agriculture Department in the  State Government of Odisha.
He has been on the Board of Steel Authority of India Ltd. as a  Government nominee.
Government Nominee Directors Shri V. P .
Mahawar has taken over as Director (Onshore), ONGC on 01.08.
2015.
Shri Mahawar  is a Graduate in Mechanical Engineering from Pandit Ravi Shankar Shukla University, Raipur.
He joined ONGC as Driller in the year 1982.
He is the first sub-sea engineer of ONGC.
He was  awarded as CMD’s Young Executive of the year in 1987 and CMD’s Manager of the year award  in the year 1999.
He has 33 years of oil field experience in various capacities across entire  spectrum of ONGC.
He pioneered in establishment of Well Control School at Institute of  Drilling T echnology (IDT), Dehradun, which has been imparting training to ONGCians and oil  personnel from Indian as well as foreign oil companies, in understanding the well control  techniques & equipment leading to upward change in drilling fraternity’s skill & knowledge.
Shri Mahawar is a veteran of numerous Blow-out control jobs and an expert in handling the  complicated well control problems.
He has authored and developed “Well Control Manual for  Offshore Operations” as part of the team to develop OISD Standard 174 for Well Control  Practices.
Brief Profiles of the Board of Directors 19 Shri S Ravi, an Independent Director of your Company, had joined the ONGC Board on 29.11.
2013 on 19.09.2014 He is a Fellow Member of the Institute of  Chartered Accountants of India and holds a Master’s Degree in Commerce.
He is a Senior  Partner of Ravi Rajan & Co. Chartered Accountants having vast experience in the profession.
He has handled various assignments in the field of Restructuring & Rehabilitation of  companies, T akeover, Mergers & Acquisitions and Business and Brand valuation.
He has  specialised in the fields of Accounting & Audit, Financial & Management Consulting, Business  Valuations, Mergers & Acquisitions and Business Advisory Services.
and ceased to be a director  Shri P .
Uma Shankar, an Independent Director of your Company, had joined the ONGC Board  on 29.11.
2013 and ceased to be a director on 19.09.2014.
He holds a Masters Degree of  Science in Mathematics from IIT, Madras and M.Sc in Social Policy and Planning in  Developing Countries from London School of Economics.
Belonging to IAS of 1976 batch (UP  Cadre), He has 33 years of leadership experience in Government spanning revenue, law and  order, development work, rural infrastructure, finance, housing & urban development,  industries, municipal affairs and relief.
He has during his long and distinguished career served  both in the Central and State Government.
Directors whose term ceased since last  Annual General Meeting  Shri K. Narasimha Murthy, aged 57 years, an Independent Director of your Company.
He has  a brilliant academic record, getting ranks in both CA & ICWA courses.
He entered the  Profession of Cost & Management Accountancy in 1983.
He is associated with the  development of Cost & Management Information Systems for more than 150 Companies  covering more than 45 Industries.
In addition, he is closely associated with turning around of  many large Corporates, focusing on systems improvement with Cost Reduction approach.
He is closely involved with several National level Financial Institutions and is on the Board of  various companies.
Independent Directors Special Invitee Shri Narendra Kumar Verma is the Managing Director of ONGC Videsh Ltd, the wholly owned  subsidiary of your company.
He has more than 32 years of experience.
He holds a Master Degree  in Applied Geology, an M. T ech degree in Petroleum Exploration and MBA in Finance.
He has also  completed One Year Global Manager's Program at IIM Kolkata.
Recipient of many national  awards and international commendations, the crowning moment of his technical career came  with the prestigious 'National Mineral Award', the highest recognition by the Government of India  in the field of geosciences, mining and allied areas, that was conferred upon him for his  outstanding contribution to Petroleum Exploration in Mumbai Offshore, ONGC.
Shri  Verma has  demonstrated remarkable competence in challenging roles in the domain of 'Exploration' and  technological research, ranging from management of overseas exploration and Business  Development; Management of exploration activities in Frontier Basin, Mumbai Offshore and  Assam-Arakan Basin; and Head of Interpretation Group at the prestigious Geodata Processing  and Interpretation Centre (GEOPIC) of ONGC.
Annual Report 2014-15 Brief Profiles of the Board of Directors 20 Shri Aloke Kumar Banerjee, Former Director (Finance) of ONGC superannuated from the  services of ONGC on 30.04.2015.
A member of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India,  Institute of Cost Accountants of India and Institute of Company Secretaries of India, he had 33  years of diversified experience in Financial Management and Strategic Planning in upstream  Oil & Gas Industry with specialization in Corporate Accounts, Corporate Budget, Cost  Management, Risk Analysis & Financial Planning, Procurement & Contracts, Performance  Benchmarking & Evaluation, Audit, Corporate Governance, Insurance, etc.
He had introduced  & implemented Financial Benchmarking Concept and Zero-base Budgeting in ONGC.
Shri Om Prakash Bhatt, an Independent Director of your Company, had joined the ONGC  Board on 14.12.
2011 on 13.12.2014.
He started his career as a  probationary officer with SBI in 1972.
During his career span of 36 years with SBI, he has held  several important assignments in India and abroad including stints at the Bank's London and  Washington offices.
Under the leadership of Shri Bhatt, SBI steadily improved its global  ranking in the list of Fortune 500 companies.
Shri Bhatt made rapid strides arresting falling  market share, rapid branch expansion with the bank opening 11,000th branch under him, the  first Indian bank and only the second in the world to do so, and entering a number of new  businesses.
and ceased to be a director  Prof. Samir Kumar Barua, an Independent Director of your Company, had joined the ONGC  Board on 14.12.2011  on 13.12.2014.
He holds a Master’s degree  in Industrial Engineering and Operations Research and holds a Doctorate degree in  Management.
He joined the faculty of Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad in 1980.
His specific areas of interest include Capital Market, International Finance, Operations  Research, Decision Support System and Corporate Financial Management.
He is a visiting  professor to academic institutions in USA, Netherlands, Singapore & Cyprus.
He has authored  a number of books and case studies in Management.
He is a consultant to many public and  private organizations in the manufacturing, banking, and financial services sectors.
He has  handled various assignments as advisor to Reserve Bank of India, FICCI and the Bombay and  National Stock Exchanges.
and ceased to be a director Shri R. K. Singh, an Independent Director of your Company, had joined the ONGC Board on  23.05.2014  on 19.09.2014.
He has done his graduation in  Mechanical Engineering from Banaras Hindu University, India.
He has 38 years of experience  including 35 years in Oil Industry.
He had associated with Bharat Petroleum Corporation of  India for 36 years and held Board level Position of Director (Refineries) and Chairman &  Managing Director for over 7 years.
As Chairman & Managing Director of BPCL, he stewarded  BPCL group companies to new heights and making BPCL a global organization.
He held  various positions and made significant contribution in the growth aspiration of BPCL and  served as a working group member of T echnology T ransfer of LPG Equipment to India.
and ceased to be a director Brief Profiles of the Board of Directors 21 Chief Vigilance Officer Dr Akhilesh Kumar Ambasht, an Indian Forest Service officer of cadre AGMUT - 1987, is the  Chief Vigilance Officer of ONGC.
Dr Ambasht holds a Master's degree in Botany from the  Gorakhpur University and was awarded a Ph.D. in Botany (Ecology) from Banaras Hindu  University.
Prior to joining ONGC, Dr Ambasht has held important assignments such as CVO of Delhi Jal  Board, Member Secretary, Delhi Pollution Control Committee and Assessor & Collector of  Municipal Corporation of Delhi.
He has a wide ranging experience in various assignments of  Ministry of Human Resources and various departments of Government of Goa.
Dr Ambasht is  also M.Sc.
in Forestry and has an in-depth knowledge of forestry.
He has published around 14  Research papers in various National & International journals.
Shri Ashok Varma, Former Director (Onshore) superannuated from the services of ONGC on  31.07.2015.
Shri Ashok Varma is a graduate in Petroleum Engineering from Indian School of  Mines, Dhanbad and joined ONGC in 1978 as Assistant Engineer at Assam.
During his early  years at ONGC, he was actively engaged in design and engineering of offshore platforms in  western Offshore.
Subsequently, he served in Western Onshore at Ankleshwar where he  extensively worked on water injections leading to initiation of pressure maintenance in  Gandhar field.
He steered the Imperial Energy in Russia, a subsidiary of the ONGC Videsh  Limited, as the Chief Executive Officer and was instrumental in acquiring 20% participating  interest in Sakhalin-1 project in Russia by ONGC Videsh in 2001.
He also headed ONGC’s  Assam operations as Asset Manager from 2008 to 2009.
Dr Subhash C. Khuntia, earlier Special Secretary & Financial Advisor, Ministry of Petroleum  & Natural Gas, Govt of India, was a Government Nominee Director of ONGC and ceased to  be a Director on 26.06.2015.
He holds Masters Degree in Physics, Economics, Sociology  and Doctorate in Art Economics from St. Stephen’s College, Delhi University.
Belonging to  1981 batch of IAS (Karnataka cadre), He has handled various key assignments including  District administration, Land revenue management, Rural development in the Karnataka  State Government as well as in the Ministries of Agriculture, Finance and Human Resource  Development in the Central Government.
He is presently Secretary, School Education and  Literacy, Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India.
Annual Report 2014-15 Reference Information 22 Registered Office T ower II, Jeevan Bharati Building 124, Indira Chowk, New Delhi - 110 001 Statutory Auditors M/s Varma & Varma, Chennai M/s Khandelwal Jain & Co., Mumbai M/s Lodha & Co, Kolkata M/s Mehra Goel & Co., New Delhi M/s G D Apte & Co. Mumbai Secretarial Auditor M/s P P Agarwal & Co. New Delhi Subsidiaries ONGC Videsh Ltd. Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. Registrar & Share T ransfer Agent M/s Karvy Computershare Private Ltd.                                            Karvy Selenium, T ower B,  Plot 31-32, Gachibowli Financial District, Nanakramguda,  Hyderabad-500 032 Bankers State Bank of India Website : www.ongcindia.com email: secretariat@ongc.co.in Company Secretary N.K.
Sinha (upto 30.06.2015) V N Murthy (from 01.07.2015) Corporate Office T el Bhavan, Dehradun - 248 003 Uttarakhand Cost Auditors Listed at Bombay Stock Exchange Ltd. National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. M/s Rao Murthy & Associates, Bangalore M/s.
R Nanabhoy & Co. Mumbai  M/s.
R J Goel & Co., Delhi M/s Shome & Banerjee, Kolkata  M/s Rohit &  Associates, Mumbai M/s Dhananjay V .
Joshi & Associates, Pune  Depositories National Securities Depository Ltd. Central Depository Services (India) Ltd. Reference Information CIN : L74899DL1993GOI054155 Notice 23 nd Notice is hereby given that the 22  Annual General  Meeting of the Members of OIL AND NATURAL GAS  CORPORATION LIMITED will be held on T uesday, the  th 15  September, 2015 at 10:00 hrs.
at NDMC Indoor  Stadium, Talkatora Garden, New Delhi, to transact the  following business: ORDINARY BUSINESS: 1.
T o receive, consider and adopt the Audited Financial  Statements including Consolidated Financial  Statements of the Company for the financial year ended  st on 31  March, 2015, together with the Board's Report,  the Report of Auditors’ thereon and Comments of the  Comptroller & Auditor General of India, in terms of  Section 143(6) of the Companies Act, 2013.
2.
T o confirm the payment of two interim dividends and  declare final dividend on equity shares for the year  2014-15.
3.
T o appoint a Director in place of Shri Shashi Shanker  (DIN-06447938) who retires by rotation and being  eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
4.
T o authorise Board of Directors of the Company to fix the  remuneration of the Joint Statutory Auditors of the  Company for the Financial Year 2015-16, in terms of the  provisions of Section 139(5) read with Section 142 of  the Companies Act, 2013 and to pass the following  resolution, with or without modification(s), as Ordinary  Resolution: “RESOLVED THAT the Board of Directors of the  Company be and are hereby authorised to decide and  fix the remuneration of the Joint Statutory Auditors of  the Company for the Financial Year 2015-16, as may be  deemed fit by the Board”.
SPECIAL BUSINESS: ITEM No.
5 T o consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without  modification(s), the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: “RESOLVED THAT Shri U. P .
Singh (DIN- 00354985)  who was appointed as an Additional Director (Govt.
Director) under Section 161 of the Companies Act,  th 2013, effective 16  October, 2014 and holds office  nd upto the 22  Annual General meeting and the  Company having received a notice in writing, under  Section 160 of the Companies Act, 2013, from a  member proposing his candidature for the office of  director, be and is hereby appointed as a Director of  the Company, liable to retire by rotation.” ITEM No.
6 T o consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without  modification(s), the following resolution as an  Ordinary Resolution: “RESOLVED THAT Shri Ajay Kumar Dwivedi (DIN-  07048874) who was appointed as an Additional  Director and designated as Director (Exploration)  under Section 161 of the Companies Act, 2013,  th effective 16  March, 2015 and holds office upto the  nd 22  Annual General meeting and the Company  having received a notice in writing, under  Section 160 of the Companies Act, 2013, from  Shri A. K. Dwivedi proposing his candidature for the  office of director, be and is hereby appointed as a  Director of the Company, liable to retire by  rotation.” ITEM No.
7 T o consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without  modification(s), the following resolution as an  Ordinary Resolution: “RESOLVED THAT Smt.
Atreyee Das (DIN-  07194189)who was appointed as an Additional  Director (Govt.
Director) under Section 161 of the  th Companies Act, 2013, effective 14  May, 2015 and  nd holds office upto the 22  Annual General meeting  and the Company having received a notice in  writing, under Section 160 of the Companies Act,  2013, from a member proposing her candidature for  the office of director, be and is hereby appointed as  a Director of the Company, liable to retire by  rotation.” NOTICE OIL AND NATURAL GAS CORPORATION LIMITED  CIN: L74899DL1993GOI054155 Reg.
office: JEEVAN BHARATI, 124 INDIRA CHOWK, NEW DELHI- 110001 Website: www.ongcindia.com  email: secretariat@ongc.co.in Tel: 011-23301277/1299 Annual Report 2014-15 Notice 24 ITEM No.
8 T o consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without  modification(s), the following resolution as an  Ordinary Resolution: “RESOLVED THAT Shri V. P .
Mahawar(DIN-  07208090) who has been appointed as an Additional  Director by the Board of Directors and designated  as Director (Onshore) under Section 161 of the  st Companies Act, 2013, effective 1  August, 2015 and  nd holds office upto the 22  Annual General meeting  and the Company having received a notice in  writing, under Section 160 of the Companies Act,  2013, from Shri V. P .
Mahawar proposing his  candidature for the office of director, be and is  hereby appointed as a Director of the Company,  liable to retire by rotation.” ITEM No.
9 T o consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without  modifications, the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:  “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of  Section 148 and  other applicable provisions of the  Companies Act, 2013 and rule 14(a)(ii) of the  Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014  (including any statutory modification(s) or re- enactment thereof, for the time being in force), the  aggregate remuneration of `19.50 lakhs plus  applicable taxes and out of pocket expenses  payable to  the six Joint Cost Auditors appointed by  the Board of Directors of the Company, to conduct  the audit of the cost records of the various units of  the Company for the financial year ending st 31  March, 2016, be and is hereby ratified.” Regd.
Office: Jeevan Bharti Building T ower II, 124 Indira Chowk, New Delhi  - 110 001 st 1  August, 2015 (V N Murthy) Company Secretary By Order of the Board of Directors Notice 25 NOTES: 1.
A MEMBER ENTITLED TO ATTEND AND VOTE AT  THE MEETING IS ENTITLED TO APPOINT A  PROXY TO ATTEND AND VOTE INSTEAD OF  HIMSELF AND THE PROXY NEED NOT BE A  MEMBER OF THE COMPANY .
THE PROXY FORM  DUL Y COMPLETED MUST BE DEPOSITED AT THE  REGISTERED OFFICE OF THE COMPANY NOT  LESS THAN FORTY-EIGHT HOURS (48 HRS.)
BEFORE THE COMMENCEMENT OF THE  MEETING.
BLANK PROXY FORM IS ATTACHED.
A  PERSON CAN ACT AS A PROXY ON BEHALF OF  MEMBERS NOT EXCEEDING 50(FIFT Y)  MEMBERS AND HOLDING IN AGGREGATE NOT  MORE THAN TEN PERCENT OF THE TOTAL  SHARE CAPITAL OF THE COMPANY .
PROXIES  S U B M I T T E D  O N  B E H A L F  O F  L I M I T E D   COMPANIES, SOCIETIES ETC MUST BE  SUPPORTED BY APPROPRIATE RESOLUTION/  AUTHORITY, AS APPLICABLE.
2.
Relevant Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section  102(2) of the Companies Act, 2013, in respect of  Special Business, as set out above is annexed hereto.
3.
Brief profile of the Directors seeking appointment/re- appointment as mandated under Clause 49 of the  Listing Agreement with the Stock Exchanges is  annexed hereto and forms part of the Notice.
The  directors have furnished consent/declaration for their  appointment /re-appointment as required under the  Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules thereunder.
4.
The Register of Members and Share T ransfer Books of  the Company will remain closed from Wednesday,  th  the 9 September, 2015 to Tuesday, the  th  15 September, 2015 (both days inclusive).
5.
The Board had recommended a final Dividend of `0.50  per equity share of `5/- each fully paid up, at its  meeting held on 28th May, 2015.
The dividend, if  approved by the Members at the said Annual General  Meeting, will be paid within a period of 30 days from  the date of declaration, to the members whose  names appear on the Register of Members of the  Company after giving effect to all valid share  transfers in physical form lodged with the  Company on or before Tuesday, the 8th  September, 2015 and the respective Beneficial  Owners as at the close of business hours on  T uesday, the 8th September, 2015, as per details  thereof to be furnished by the depositories.
6.
The Register of Directors and Key Managerial  Personnel and their shareholding maintained under  Section 170 of the Companies Act, 2013 & the Register  of Contracts or arrangements in which the Directors  are interested, maintained under Section 189 of the  Companies Act, 2013 will be available for inspection  by the members at the AGM venue.
7.
Relevant documents referred to in the accompanying  notice are open for inspection by the members at the  Registered office of the Company on all working days  i.e Monday to Friday between 10.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m.  upto the date of Annual General Meeting.
8.
Share transfer documents and all correspondence  relating thereto, should be addressed to the Registrar  and T ransfer Agent of the Company – M/s.
Karvy  Computershare Private Ltd. (Karvy), Karvy Selenium  T ower B, Plot 31-32, Gachibowli Financial District,  Nanakramguda, Hyderabad – 500 032, Phone Nos.
040 - 6716 2222, Fax No.
040 - 2300 1153; e-mail :  einward.ris@karvy.com.
Karvy is also the depository  interface of the Company with both NSDL and CDSL.
However, keeping in view the convenience of the  Shareholders, documents relating to shares will  continue to be accepted at Karvy Computershare  rd Private Ltd. 305, 3  Floor, New Delhi House, 27,  Barakhamba Road, Connaught Place, New Delhi- 110001, Phone Nos.
011-41036370 (tele-fax) &  43528522; e-mail: delhi@karvy.com and at the  th Registered Office of the Company at 8  Floor, Jeevan  Bharati, T ower-II, 124, Indira Chowk, New Delhi-  110001, Phone No.011-23301277/23301299; e-mail: secretariat@ongc.co.in .
9.
The Company has designated an exclusive e-mail ID  called secretariat@ongc.co.in for redressal of  shareholders’/investors’ complaints/grievances.
In  case you have any queries/complaints or grievances,  then please write to us at the above e-mail address.
10.
Members holding shares in electronic form may  please note that the bank account details and 9-digit  MICR Code of their Bankers, as noted in the records of  their depository, shall be used for the purpose of  remittance of dividend through Electronic Clearing  Service (ECS), or for printing on dividend warrants,  wherever applicable.
Members are, therefore,  requested to update their bank account particulars,  change of address and other details with their  respective Depository Participants for shares held in  demat mode and to the Registrar and Share T ransfer  Annual Report 2014-15 Notice 26 Agent for shares held in physical form.
11.
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is providing ECS/NECS  facility for payment of dividend in select cities.
Members holding shares in physical form are advised  to submit particulars of their bank account, viz., names  and address of the branch of the bank, 9 digit MICR  code of the branch, type of account and account  th number latest by 8  September, 2015 to M/s Karvy  Computershare Private Ltd. 12.
Pursuant to Section 124(5) and 125(c ) of the  Companies Act, 2013, the Company has transferred  the unpaid/unclaimed amount of final dividend   th declared on 19  September, 2007 for the financial year  nd 2006-07 and interim dividend declared on  22   December, 2007 for the financial year 2007-08, to the  Investor Education and Protection Fund of the Central  Government.
The unpaid/unclaimed amount of  th Final Dividend declared on 19  September, 2008  th and Interim Dividend declared on 19  December,  2008 will be transferred to the Investor Education  and Protection Fund (IEPF) of the Central  th th Government by 18  October, 2015 and 18  January,  2016 respectively.
Members who have not  encashed their dividend warrants pertaining to the  said years may approach the Company or its  Registrar & Share T ransfer Agent for obtaining  payment there of.
13.
In order to avoid the incidence of fraudulent  encashment of dividend warrants, the Members  holding shares in physical form are requested to  provide their Bank Account Number, Name and  Address of the Bank/Branch to the Company or Karvy  to enable them to incorporate the same in the dividend  warrant.
14.
Members who have not encashed their dividend  warrants within its validity period may write to the  Company at its Registered Office or M/s Karvy  Computershare Private Limited, Registrar & Share  T ransfer Agent of the Company, for revalidating the  warrants or payment in lieu of such warrants in the form  of demand draft.
15.
The Annual Report 2014-15 is being sent by  electronic mode to those members whose email  addresses are registered with the Company/  Depositories/RTA, unless any member has  requested for a physical copy of the same.
For  members, who have not registered their email  addresses, physical copies are being sent by the  permitted mode.
16.
In compliance with the provisions of section 108 of the  Act, the Rules there under and Clause 35B of the listing  agreement, the Members are provided with the facility  to cast their vote electronically, through the e-voting  services provided by M/s Karvy Computershare  Private Ltd.(KCPL), on all resolutions set forth in this  Notice.
The instruction for e-voting are annexed to the  nd notice.
The notice of 22  Annual General Meeting  along with the proxy Form and attendance slip is  being sent by electronic mode to those members  whose email addresses are registered with the  Company/Depositories/RTA, unless any member has  requested for a physical copy of the same.
For  members, who have not registered their email  addresses, physical copies are being sent by the  permitted mode.
The facility for voting through ballot  paper, will also be made available at the AGM and the  members attending the AGM who have not cast their  vote by remote e-voting shall be able to exercise their  right at the AGM through ballot papers.
Members who  have cast their vote by remote e-voting prior to the  AGM, may attend the AGM but shall not be entitled to  cast their vote again.
17.
In terms of Section 72 of the Companies Act, 2013,  nomination facilit y is available to individual  shareholders.
Members holding shares in physical  form may nominate a person in respect of all the  shares held by them whether singly or jointly.
Members who hold shares in individual name are  advised to avail of the nomination facility by filing Form  No.
2B in their own interest.
Blank form can be  obtained from Karvy on request.
Members holding  shares in dematerialised form may contact their  respective DPs for registration of nomination.
18.
Members holding physical shares in multiple folios in  identical names are requested to send their share  certificates to Company’s Registrar and Share  T ransfer Agent, M/s Karvy Computershare Private Ltd.  for consolidation.
19.
Pursuant to Section 139(5) read with Section 142 of the  Companies Act, 2013, the Auditors of a Government  Company are appointed or re-appointed by the  Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG) of India and  their remuneration is to be fixed by the Company in the  Annual General Meeting.
The members may authorise  the Board to fix up an appropriate remuneration of  Auditors for the year 2015-16 after taking into  Notice 27 consideration the increase in volume of work and  prevailing inflation etc.
20.
Members are requested: i) to bring their copies of Annual Report and Attendance Slip duly completed and signed at the meeting.
ii) to quote their Folio/DP & Client identification No.
in all correspondence.
iii) Not to bring brief case, bags, eatables, cell phone etc.
as they are prohibited inside the meeting hall for security reasons.
iv) to notify immediately any change of their address and bank particulars to the Company or its Share  T ransfer Agent, in case shares are held in physical  form.
AND In case their shares are held in dematerialised form, information should be passed on directly to their respective Depository Participants and not to the Company/Share T ransfer Agent, without any delay.
v) to note that no gift will be distributed at the meeting.
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION  102 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 Item No.5  APPOINTMENT OF SHRI U. P .
SINGH  Shri U. P .
Singh was appointed as an Additional Director  th (Govt.
Director) on the Board of ONGC effective 16   October, 2014.
In terms of Section 161 of the Companies  nd Act, 2013, he holds office upto the 22  Annual General  meeting of the Company.
The Company has received a  notice in writing from a member pursuant to the provisions  of Section 160 of the Companies Act, 2013, signifying  intention to propose Shri U. P .
Singh as candidate for the  office of Director.
Shri U. P .
Singh, if appointed, will be liable  to retire by rotation under Section 152 of the Companies  Act, 2013 and in terms of provisions under the Articles of  Association of the Company.
th Born on 10  October, 1962, Shri U. P .
Singh an IAS Officer of  1985 Batch, Odisha Cadre, is a B.T ech.
(Mechanical  Engineering) and M.T ech in Industrial & Management  Engineering from IIT, Kanpur.
Shri Singh has held important  positions in Government of Odisha as well as Government  of India.
In the State Government of Odisha, he has worked  in Departments of Land Revenue, Social Justice &  Empowerment, Energy, Transpor t, Finance, Water  Resources, Industries and Agriculture & Cooperation.
In the  Central Government, he has worked as PS to Minister of  Parliamentary Affairs and T ourism, Director in Department  of Financial Services, Ministry of Finance and Joint  Secretary, Ministry of Steel.
He has also been on the  Boards of Allahabad Bank, United Bank of India, Steel  Authority of India Ltd and KIOCL as Government Nominee  Director.
He is presently the Additional Secretary (Expl.)
in  the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas.
Shri U. P .
Singh is also acting as the CMD of Oil India Ltd.
He holds NIL equity shares in ONGC.
Except Shri U. P .
Singh, none of the Directors, Key Managerial  Personnel and their relatives is interested or concerned in  the resolution.
The Board of Directors considers that in view of the  background and experience of Shri U. P .
Singh, it would be  in the interest of the Company to appoint him as a Director of  the Company.
The Board recommends the resolution for  your approval.
Item No.6 APPOINTMENT OF SHRI A. K. DWIVEDI Shri A. K. Dwivedi was appointed as an Additional Director  and designated as Director (Exploration) on the Board of  th ONGC effective 16  March, 2015.
In terms of Section 161 of  nd the Companies Act, 2013, he holds office upto the 22   Annual General meeting of the Company.
The Company  has received a notice in writing from him pursuant to the  provisions of Section 160 of the Companies Act, 2013,  signifying his intention as candidate for the office of  Director.
Shri A. K. Dwivedi, if appointed, will be liable to  retire by rotation under Section 152 of the Companies Act,  2013 and in terms of provisions under the Articles of  Association of the Company.
th Born on 9  July 1959, Mr. A. K. Dwivedi holds a post- graduate degree from Kanpur University.
Mr. Dwivedi has  34 years of experience in ONGC.
He joined ONGC Board on  16.03.2015 at a crucial juncture when the business  environment is not only challenging but also demanding in  respect of exploration.
Prior to becoming Director  (Exploration), he was holding key exploration-related  assignments at different work centers starting from  Mumbai, moving to Dehradun in North, to Chennai in South,  then Jorhat in the east, Vadodara in the west and as Basin  Manager MBA Basin, Kolkata, before finally taking over  Annual Report 2014-15 Notice 28 Western Offshore as Basin Manager.
Mr. Dwivedi has  played pivotal roles in the Management Committees of  various NELP blocks.
Mr. Dwivedi has authored a number of technical papers.
Mr.  Dwivedi was Head of the steering committee for project on  sequence-stratigraphy and petroleum systems in all the  sedimentary basins of India in association with Dr. Octavian  Cataneanu, an expert in sequence stratigraphy.
A strong  believer in continuous development, Mr. Dwivedi has  undergone various development programs, including those  at Indian School of Business, Hyderabad and University of  Alberta School of Business, Alberta, Canada.
He is affiliated  to SPG - India, AEG – India and SPE and presently holds the  office of President, SPG-India.
Shri A. K. Dwivedi holds Directorship on the Board of ONGC Petro-additions Ltd.
He holds 820 equity shares of   `5 each in ONGC.
Except Shri A. K. Dwivedi, none of the Directors, Key  Managerial Personnel and their relatives is interested or  concerned in the resolution.
The Board of Directors considers that in view of the  background and experience of Shri A. K. Dwivedi, it would  be in the interest of the Company to appoint him as a  Director of the Company.
The Board recommends the  resolution for your approval.
Item No.7 APPOINTMENT OF SMT .
ATREYEE DAS  Smt.
Atreyee Das was appointed as an Additional Director  th (Govt Director) on the Board of ONGC effective 14  May,  2015.
In terms of Section 161 of the Companies Act, 2013,  nd she holds office upto the 22  Annual General meeting of the  Company.
The Company has received a notice in writing  from a member pursuant to the provisions of Section 160 of  the Companies Act, 2013, signifying intention to propose  Smt.
Atreyee Das as candidate for the office of Director.
Smt.
Atreyee Das, if appointed, will be liable to retire by  rotation under Section 152 of the Companies Act, 2013 and  in terms of provisions under the Articles of Association of the  Company.
th Born on 13  June, 1965 Smt.
Atreyee Das belongs to the  1989 batch of Indian Audit and Accounts Service under the  Comptroller and Auditor General of India.
She has more  than 24 years of experience in the field of public auditing and  has conducted several performance audits, financial audits  and compliance audits.
She was on secondment to the  United Nations as an internal auditor and worked in the  United Nations peacekeeping Mission in Ethiopia and  Eritrea.
She had also been an external auditor to UNEP and  FAO and was recently nominated as an external auditor for  the new spell of UN audits assigned to the CAG of India.
Before taking charge of Director General, Petroleum  Planning and Analysis Cell, Ministry of Petroleum and  Natural Gas, New Delhi since September, 2014, she held  various important positions such as - Director General,  Office of the Director General of Commercial Audit and ex- officio Member Audit Board-IV, New Delhi from May, 2013 to  September, 2014, Principal Director ( State Receipt Audit )  and Central Region in the O/o The Comptroller and  Auditor  General of  India, New Delhi  from April, 2010 to June, 2013,  Accountant General (Commercial, Works and Receipt  Audit), Orissa from September, 2006 to April, 2010, Principal  Director of Audit, East Coast Railway, Bhubaneswar from  April, 2006 to September, 2006, on deputation to the United  Nations from September, 2004 to December, 2005, Director  of Audit, Northern Railway from March, 2002 to September,  2004 etc.
Smt.
Atreyee Das does not hold any directorship.
She holds Nil equity shares in ONGC.
Except Smt.
Atreyee Das, none of the Directors, Key  Managerial Personnel and their relatives is interested or  concerned in the resolution.
The Board of Directors considers that in view of the  background and experience of Smt.
Atreyee Das, it would  be in the interest of the Company to appoint her as a Director  of the Company.
The Board recommends the resolution for  your approval.
Item No.8 APPOINTMENT OF SHRI V. P .
MAHAWAR Shri V .
P .
Mahawar has been appointed as an Additional  Director by the Board of Directors and designated as  Director (Onshore) on the Board of ONGC effective st 1  August, 2015.In terms of Section 161 of the Companies  nd Act, 2013, he holds office upto the 22  Annual General  meeting of the Company.
The Company has received a  notice in writing from him pursuant to the provisions of  Section 160 of the Companies Act, 2013, signifying his  intention as candidate for the office of Director.
Shri V .
P .
Mahawar, if appointed, will be liable to retire by rotation  under Section 152 of the Companies Act, 2013 and in terms  of provisions under the Articles of Association of the  Company.
Notice 29 th Born on 8  February 1958, Mr. V .
P .
Mahawar is a Graduate in  Mechanical Engg.
from Pandit Ravi Shankar Shukla  University, Raipur.
He joined ONGC as Driller in the year  1982.
He is the first sub-sea engineer of ONGC.
He was  awarded as CMD’s Young Executive of the year in 1987 and  CMD’s Manager of the year award in the year 1999.
He has  33 years of oil field experience in various capacities across  entire spectrum of ONGC.
He pioneered in establishment of Well Control School at  Institute of Drilling T echnology (IDT), Dehradun, which has  been imparting training to ONGCians and oil personnel  from Indian as well as foreign oil companies, in  understanding the well control techniques & equipment  leading to upward change in drilling fraternity’s skill &  knowledge.
A veteran of numerous Blow-out control jobs and an expert  in handling the complicated well control problems, he has  successfully controlled more than 33 Blow-outs and  liquidated more than 100 well control complications of  Drilling, Well Services and producing wells successfully in  Onshore & Offshore fields of ONGC, OVL & other operators  in India with enviable track record of safety.
Mr. Mahawar  was the major force and face of the Crisis Management  T eam (CMT) of ONGC making ONGC self-reliant in dealing  with well control situations.
He has to his credit more than 25 Nos.
of papers presented  in international conferences.
He developed “Well Control  Manual for Offshore Operations” and part of the team to  develop OISD Standard 174 for Well Control Practices.
Shri V .
P .
Mahawar does not hold any other Directorship   He holds 1272 equity shares of  `5 each in ONGC.
Except Shri V .
P .
Mahawar, none of the Directors, Key  Managerial Personnel and their relatives is interested or  concerned in the resolution.
The Board of Directors considers that in view of the  background and experience of Shri V .
P .
Mahawar, it would  be in the interest of the Company to appoint him as a  Director of the Company.
The Board recommends the  resolution for your approval.
Item No.9 RATIFICATION OF REMUNERATION OF COST  AUDITORS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2015-16 The Board of Directors of the Company on the  recommendations of the Audit & Ethics Committee have  approved appointment of the following Cost Auditors of  ONGC for the year 2015-16 at a remuneration of ` 3.25 Lakh  (Rupees Three Lakh twenty five thousand only) per Cost  Auditor plus applicable service tax and out-of-pocket  expense, as per entitlement: 1.
M/s Rao Murthy & Associates, Bangalore 2.
M/s R. Nanabhoy & Co., Mumbai  3.
M/s R J Goel & Co., Delhi 4.
M/s Shome & Banerjee, Kolkata  5.
M/s Rohit & Associates, Mumbai  6.
M/s Dhananjay V. Joshi & Associates, Pune  None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and their  relatives is interested or concerned in the resolution.
The Board of Directors recommends the resolution for your  approval.
Regd.
Office: Jeevan Bharti Building T o w e r   I I ,   1 2 4   I n d i r a   C h o w k ,                              New Delhi  - 110 001 st 1  August, 2015 (V N Murthy) Company Secretary By Order of the Board of Directors Annual Report 2014-15 Instructions for e-voting 30 The instructions for e-voting are as under: a) Details of the process and manner of e-voting along  with the User ID and Password are being sent to the  members along with the notice:  - By email to those members whose email ID is registered with the Company / Depository Participants.
- By post to those members whose email ID is not registered with the Company / Depository Participant.
b) The instructions and other information relating to e- voting are as under: i.
Launch internet browser by typing the URL: https://evoting.karvy.com.
ii.
Enter the login credentials (i.e.
User ID and Password mentioned in the notice).
However, if you are already registered with Karvy for e-voting, you can use your existing User ID and password for logging in.
iii.
After entering these details appropriately, Click on “LOGIN”.
iv.
You will now reach password change Menu  wherein you are required to mandatorily change  your password.
The new password shall comprise  of minimum 8 characters with at least one upper  case (A-Z), one lower case (a-z), one numeric  value (0-9) and a special character (@,#,$, etc.).
The system will prompt you to change your  password and update your contact details like  mobile number, email ID, etc.
on first login.
You  may also enter a secret question and answer of  your choice to retrieve your password in case you  forget it.
It is strongly recommended that you do  not share your password with any other person  and that you take utmost care to keep your  password confidential.
v. You need to login again with the new password.
vi.
On successful login, the system will prompt you to  select the “EVENT” i.e.
Oil and Natural Gas  Corporation Limited.
vii.
On the voting page, enter the number of shares  (which represents the number of votes as on the  Cut Off date) under “FOR / AGAINST / ABSTAIN”  or alternatively, you may partially enter any  number of votes in “FOR” and partially in  “AGAINST” such that the total number of votes cast  “FOR / AGAINST” taken together should not  exceed your total shareholding as on cut off date.
In case you do not wish to cast your vote you may  choose the option “ABSTAIN” and the shares held  will not be counted under either head.
viii.
Voting has to be done for each item of the Notice  separately.
In case you do not cast your vote on  any specific item it will be treated as abstained.
ix.
Members holding multiple demat accounts / folios  shall choose the voting process separately for  each demat account / folio.
x.
You may then cast your vote by selecting an  appropriate option and click on “Submit”.
xi.
A confirmation box will be displayed.
Click “OK” to  confirm else “CANCEL ” to modify.
Once you  confirm, you will not be allowed to modify your  vote.
During the voting period, members can login  any number of times till they have voted on the  Resolution(s).
xii.
Corporate / Institutional members are required to  send scanned certified true copy (PDF Format) of  the Board Resolution/Authority Letter, etc.
together with attested specimen signature(s) of  the duly authorized representative(s), to the  Scrutinizer at email ID: an_kukreja@rediffmail.com  with a copy marked to evoting@karvy.com.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR E-VOTING E-voting Particulars EVEN (E-Voting Event Number) PASSWORD / PIN End of e-voting User ID The e-voting facility will be available during the following voting period Commencement of e-voting th From 09.00 a.m (IST) on 12  September, 2015 th Upto 05.00 p.m (IST) on 14  September, 2015 Instructions for e-voting 31 Relevant Information for e-voting: l l lAny person who acquires shares of the Company  and becomes a shareholders of the company after  dispatch of the Notice of AGM and holds shares as  of the cut-off date i.e  may obtain the  login ID and password by sending a request at  evoting@karvy.com.
If you are already registered  with KCPL for e-voting then you can use your existing  user ID and password.
lIn case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently  Asked Questions (FAQs) for members and e-voting User  Manual available at the “download” section of  https://evoting.karvy.com or call Karvy Computershare  Private Limited on 1800 345 4001 (toll free).
lA Member may participate in the AGM even after  exercising his right to vote through remote e-voting but  shall not be allowed to vote again at the AGM.
The e-voting period commences on 12.09.2015  (9.00 a.m. IST) and ends on 14.09.2015 (5.00 p.m.  IST).
During this period, Members of the Company,  holding shares either in physical form or in  dematerialized form, as on 08.09.2015, may cast their  vote electronically.
The e-voting module shall be  disabled by KCPL for voting thereafter.
Once the vote  on a resolution is cast  by the Member, he shall not be  allowed to change it subsequently.
The voting rights of Members shall be in proportion to  their shares of the paid up equity share  capital of the  Company as on 08.09.2015.
08.09.2015. lThe facility for voting through ballot paper, will also be  made available at the AGM and the members attending  the AGM who have not cast their vote by remote e- voting shall be able to exercise their right at the AGM  through ballot papers.
lShri A. N. Kukreja of M/s A. N.Kukreja & Co., Practicing  Company Secretary (Membership No.
FCS 1070), has  been appointed as the Scrutinizer to scrutinize the  voting and remote e-voting process in a fair and  transparent manner.
lThe Scrutinizer shall immediately after the conclusion  of voting at the AGM count the votes cast at the AGM  and thereafter, unblock the votes cast through remote  e-voting in the presence of at least two witnesses not in  the employment of the Company.
The Scrutinizer shall  submit a consolidated Scrutinizer Report of the total  votes cast in favour of or against, if any, not later than  three working days from the conclusion of the AGM to  the Chairman of the Company.
The Chairman or any  other person authorised by the Chairman shall declare  the result of the voting forthwith.
lThe results declared along with the Scrutinizer’s Report  shall be placed on the Company’s website  www.ongcindia.com and on the website of KCPL  immediately after the result is declared by the  Chairman or any other person authorised by the  Chairman and the same shall be communicated to the  BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India  Limited, where the shares of the Company are listed.
Quality assurance is the promise ONGC strictly adheres to everywhere: in the infrastructure it builds and operates, in the services it  renders and the human resources it relies on.
Annual Report 2014-15 Green Initiative in Corporate Governance 32 Dear Shareholder,  As you are aware, your company being a responsible Corporate Citizen is implementing various Green initiatives with a view  to reduce the carbon foot print.
During last few years, your company has undertaken various initiatives to reduce the number  of printed copies of Annual Reports and we sincerely thank you for your support and cooperation in this regard.
In furtherance of company’s resolve to Go Green, we urge you  (i) to register your email id with your Depository Participant (ii) furnish your e-mail id to M/s Karvy Computershare Pvt Ltd (R&T Agent of the Company) at their address indicated in Reference page or email at einward.ris@karvy.com.
Please ensure that you have indicated your Folio No.
/ DP & client ID No as well as your consent to receive future  communications from ONGC including Annual Reports etc through email at your registered email address.
This year also, emails are being sent to those shareholders, who have registered their E-mail ID providing them with a  link(URL) to the website of ONGC and Karvy for downloading of the Annual Report for 2014-15.
For the benefit of other stakeholders the copy of Annual Report may be downloaded from Company's website i.e.
www.ongcindia.com.
Let us join together to save the environment.
Green Initiative in Corporate Governance V .
N. Murthy Company Secretary While we care for the planet, we also nurture the seeds of prosperity through innovation and technology.
33 Brief Resume and other Information in respect of nd Director seeking re-election at the 22  AGM Our endeavours for a sustainable future go along with the technological steps we take for the energy security of the nation.
Brief Resume and other Information in respect of Director  nd seeking re-election at the 22  AGM Shri Shashi Shanker 02.03.1961 54 years 01.12.2012 Name Date of Birth & Age (as on  01/08/2015) Date of Appointment Qualifications No.
of Shares held Experience in Specific  Functional Areas Directorship  held in other Public companies Chairmanship/  Membership of  Committees  across all Public  companies 3712 NIL NILB Tech in  Petroleum  Engineering from  Indian School of  Mines, Dhanbad  and MBA with  specialization in  Financial  Management from  IGNOU.
He  under took  Management  Development  programme from  IIM, Lucknow and  Leadership  Development  Programme at  ISB, Hyderabad.
32 years of  experience in Oil  Industry and  having wide  exposure in  diverse E&P  activities both in  onland &  offshore  operations, R&D  activities and  spearheading  the deep/ultra- deep water  drilling  campaign of  ONGC.
Annual Report 2014-15 Performance at a Glance 34 2013-142014-15 2012-13 2011-12 2010-11 Performance at a Glance (` in million unless otherwise stated) PHYSICAL  Quantity Sold (Other than T rading)  - Crude Oil (MMT)  24.11  23.61  23.69  23.09  22.94  3 - Natural Gas (MMM )  17,983  19,633  20,160  20,202  20,288  - LPG (000'T onnes)  1,090  1,073  1,005  1,033  1,057  - Naptha/ARN (000'T onnes)  1,124  1,379  1,520  1,557  1,600  - Ethane/Propane (000'T onnes)  337  428  425  461  387  - Superior Kerosene Oil (000'T onnes)  74  85  106  79  118  Quantity Sold (T rading)  - Superior Kerosene Oil (000'KL)  -   -  -    -    -    - HSD (000'KL)  - -  -    -    3  - Motor Spirit (000'KL)  1  1  1  1  1  FINANCIAL  Revenue from Operations   830,935  842,028  833,090  768,871  686,488  Other Non Operating Income  53,665  67,132  54,367  44,529  34,069  T otal Revenues  884,600  909,160  887,457  813,400  720,557  Statutory Levies  230,993  229,607  223,615  169,902  142,368  Operating Expenses  168,175  167,583  173,925  139,812  142,379  Exploration Costs written off #  105,225  78,357  100,431  93,334  82,490  Purchases  44  32  31  25  138  Profit Before Interest, Depreciation & Tax (PBIDT)  380,163  433,582  389,455  410,327  353,182  Depreciation, Depletion, Amortisation and Impairment  114,583  109,259  83,736  74,959  76,767  Profit Before Interest & Tax (PBIT)  265,580  324,323  305,720  335,368  276,415  Interest Payments  28  4  276  348  251  Profit before Tax and Exceptional Items  265,552  324,319  305,443  335,020  276,164  Exceptional items   -   - -  31,405  -    Profit before Tax   265,552  324,319  305,443  366,425  276,164  Corporate T ax  88,223  103,371  96,186  115,196  86,924  Net Profit (PAT)  177,330  220,948  209,257  251,229  189,240  Dividend  81,277  81,277  81,277  83,416  74,861  T ax on Dividend  16,256  13,807  13,012  13,286  12,156  Share Capital  42,778  42,778  42,778  42,777  42,777 \ Reserve & Surplus  1,403,232  1,324,472  1,201,755  1,086,790  932,267  Net Worth (Equity)  1,436,229  1,356,311  1,229,674  1,117,841  967,084  Borrowings  13,930  -    -    -    -    Working Capital  105,681  104,061  124,714  97,739  65,392  Capital Employed  1,144,994  1,094,412  1,017,636  908,848  796,972  Internal Resources Generation  218,699  327,545  217,402  352,088  311,191  Plan Expenditure  299,975  324,695  295,079  292,466  282,755  Contribution to Exchequer   421,074  405,750  408,806  382,874  317,759  Expenditure on Employees  86,299  104,051  103,302  67,960  67,282  Number of Employees  33,185  33,911  32,923  32,909  33,273 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE RATIOS  PBIDT to T urnover (%)  45.8  51.5  46.7  53.4  51.4  PBDT to T urnover (%)  45.7  51.5  46.7  53.3  51.4  Profit Margin(%)- incl.
exceptional item  21.3  26.2  25.1  32.7  27.6  Contribution to Exchequer to T urnover (%)  50.7  48.2  49.1  49.8  46.3  ROCE(PBIDT to Capital Employed) (%)  33.2  39.6  38.3  45.1  44.3  Net Profit to Equity (%)- incl.
exceptional item  12.3  16.3  17.0  22.5  19.6  BALANCE SHEET RATIOS  Current Ratio  1.55:1  1.55:1  1.72:1  1.41:1  1.34:1  Debt Equity Ratio  0.0096:1  -    -    -    -    Debtors T urnover Ratio(Days)  48  33  30  30  21  PER SHARE DATA  Earning Per Share (`)  21  25.83  24.46  29.36  22.12  Dividend (%)  190  190  190  195  175  Book Value Per Share( )  168  159  144  131  113 ` In  view of the Notification no.
S.O 447(E) dated 28.02.2011, issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the Balance sheet of the Company is mandatorily required to be prepared in Revised Schedule VI   st st w.e.f 1   April 2011 onwards (Schedule III after implementation of Companies Act., 2013 w.e.f.
1  April, 2014).
Accordingly, the figures of  FY 2014-15 are given as per the requirement of Schedule III , FY 2013-14, 2012-13, 2011-12 and FY 2010-11 are given as per the requirement of Revised Schedule VI and earlier years figures are as per Old Schedule VI.
# Exploration Costs writ ten off towards Survey & Dry Wells have been regrouped from Depreciation, Depletion and Amor tization and shown as a separate item Performance at a Glance 35 2007-082008-092009-10 2006-07 2005-06(` in million unless otherwise stated) PHYSICAL  Quantity Sold (Other than T rading)  - Crude Oil (MMT)  22.33  22.88  24.08  24.42  22.45  3 - Natural Gas (MMM )  20,598  20,534  20,432  20,306  20,500   - LPG       (000'T onnes)  1,108  1,029  1,037  1,033  1,084  - Naptha/ARN      (000'T onnes)  1,598  1,545  1,442  1,442  1,578  - Ethane/Propane  (000'T onnes)  533  497  520  548  535  - Superior Kerosene Oil (000'T onnes)  166  153  168  156  176  Quantity Sold (T rading)  - Superior Kerosene Oil (000'KL)  -    441  308  563  432  - HSD (000'KL)  4  1,742  1,539  1,394  874  - Motor Spirit (000'KL)  1  273  232  121  110   FINANCIAL  Income from Operations (T urnover)  619,832  650,494  615,426  590,575  494,397  Statutory Levies  121,841  118,013  129,768  122,516  99,738  Operating Expenses  126,297  123,812  106,823  102,016  76,762   Exchange Loss/(Gain)  (4,033)  3,819  (1,070)  177  (172)  Purchases (T rading)  139  85,166  65,115  59,401  34,338  Profit Before Interest, Depreciation & Tax (PBIDT)  375,588  319,684  314,790  306,465  283,731  Recouped Costs  146,588  120,849  97,979  94,994  84,573  Operating Income (PBIT)  229,000  198,835  216,811  211,471  199,158  Interest(Net)  (20,839)  (40,314)  (35,535)  (20,480)  (12,808) Profit before Tax and Extraordinary Items  249,839  239,149  252,346  231,951  211,966 Extraordinary Items  -    658  -    4,751  6,405 Profit before Tax   249,839  239,807  252,346  236,702  218,371  Corporate T ax  82,163  78,544  85,330  80,273  74,063   Net Profit (PAT)  167,676  161,263  167,016  156,429  144,308  Dividend  70,583  68,444  68,444  66,305  64,167  T ax on Dividend  11,616  11,632  11,632  10,125  9,000  Share Capital  21,389  21,389  21,389  21,389  14,259  Net Worth   864,413  780,848  699,435  614,099  535,934  Borrowings  50  267  369  696  1,069  Working Capital  342,714  334,949  322,248  304,021  265,664  Capital Employed  738,014  640,583  604,844  540,744  493,763   Internal Resources Generation  228,068  172,449  185,158  242,253  142,847  Plan Expenditure  235,591  218,201  176,510  133,050  114,210  Contribution to Exchequer   280,983  280,496  300,200  286,596  234,086  Expenditure on Employees  57,191  47,396  60,484  48,833  30,147  Number of Employees  32,826  33,035  32,996  33,810  34,722  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE RATIOS  PBIDT to T urnover (%)  60.6  49.1  51.2  51.9  57.4  PBDT to T urnover (%)  64.0  55.3  56.9  55.4  60.0  Profit Margin(%)  27.1  24.8  27.1  26.5  29.2  Contribution to Exchequer to T urnover (%)  45.3  43.1  48.8  48.5  47.3  ROCE(PBIDT to Capital Employed) (%)  50.9  49.9  52.0  56.7  57.5  Net Profit to Equity (%)   19.4  20.7  23.9  25.5  26.9  BALANCE SHEET RATIOS  Current Ratio  2.38:1  2.26:1  2.47:1  2.77:1  3.08:1  Debt Equity Ratio  0.00006:1  0.0003:1  0.001:1  0.001:1  0.002:1  Debtors T urnover Ratio(Days)  19  23  26  17  27  PER SHARE DATA  Earning Per Share (`)- before extraordinary items(Restated)**  19.60  18.80  19.52  17.92  16.37  Earning Per Share ( )- after extraordinary items(Restated)**  19.60  18.85  19.52  18.29  16.87  Dividend (%)  330  320  320  310*  450  Book Value Per Share( )(Restated)**  101  91  82  72  63  ` ` ** Post Bonus & Split Annual Report 2014-15 Statement of Income & Retained Earnings 36 2013-142014-15 2012-13 2011-12 2010-11 Statement of Income and Retained Earnings (` in million) REVENUES Sales Crude Oil (Including Condensate)  536,638  525,734  533,269  507,873  448,645  Natural Gas (incl.
Gas Marketing Margin)  187,381  183,291  165,400  141,397  127,544  Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG)-Domestic Market  34,380  30,145  31,484  23,711  18,369  Eathane/Propane (C2-C3)  10,064  14,837  13,440  12,741  8,796  Naphtha  50,835  75,743  76,804  72,167  56,342  Kerosene (SKO)  2,771  2,779  3,686  1,520  679  HSD  312  522  170  100  -    LSHS (Low sulpher heavy stock)/RCO (Residual Crude oil)  705  1,295  1,063  1,250  473  Aviation T urbine Fuel  286  220  318  436  527  Others  58  87  38  62  3  Sub- Total  823,428 834,653 825,671 761,257 661,378  Sale of T raded Products  60 44.42 43 34 171  Other Operating Income  7,447  7,331  7,375  7,580  24,939  Revenue from Operations  830,935 842,028 833,090 768,871 686,488  Other Non Operating Income  53,665  67,132  54,367  44,529 34069  Total Revenues  884,600  909,160  887,457  813,400  720,557  EXPENSES Royalty  116,079  114,890  108,094  97,745  71,373  Cess  102,535  99,734  99,971  57,831  56,963  Motor Spirit Cess  -    3  -    Natural Calamity Contingent Duty  1,123  1,097  1,101  1,097  1,114  Excise Duty  2,206  3,076  3,093  3,599  3,228  Sales T ax  2,586  3,123 3,834 3,339 3,113  Service T ax  290 439  353  236  227  Education cess  91  2,348  3,111  1,871  1,828  Octroi and Port T rust Charges  6,083  4,897  4,057  4,184  4,522  Sub-total  230,993  229,607  223,615  169,902  142,368  Operating Expensess  163,654  165,833  153,839  134,110 136058  Exchange Loss  241  1,021  922  3,613  -    Purchases  44  32  31  25  138  (Accretion) / Decretion  in stock  (1,674)  1,043  (230)  (913)  (129) Exploration Costs written off# - Survey Costs  19,146  15,912  15,668  12,409  16,675  - Exploratory well Costs  86,078  62,445  84,763  80,925  65,815  Depreciation, Depletion, Amortisation and Impairment  114,583  109,259 83,736 74,959 76,767  Provisions and Write-offs  2,116  2,189 18,863 3,097 6,114   Prior Period Expenses (Net)  3,839  (2,502)  531  (95)  336  Total  Expenses  619,020  584,837  581,737  478,032  444,142  Operating Income Before Interest &T ax  265,580 324,323 305,720 335,368 276,415  Interest Payments  28 4  276  348  251  Profit before Tax and Exceptional Items  265,552  324,319  305,443  335,020  276,164  Exceptional items  -    -    -    31,405  -    Profit before T ax  265,552  324,319  305,443  366,425  276,164  Corporate T ax (Net)  88,223  103,371  96,186  115,196  86,924  Profit after Tax  177,330  220,948 209,257 251,229 189,240  Dividend  81,278  81,277  81,277  83,416  74,861  T ax on Dividend  16,256  13,807  13,012  13,286  12,156  Retained Earnings For The Year  79,796  125,864  114,968  154,527  102,223  In  view of the Notification no.
S.O 447(E) dated 28.02.2011, issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the Balance sheet of the Company is mandatorily required to be prepared in Revised Schedule VI   st st w.e.f 1  April 2011 onwards (Schedule III after implementation of Companies Act., 2013 w.e.f.
1  April, 2014).
Accordingly, the figures of  FY 2014-15 are given as per the requirement of Schedule III , FY 2013-14, 2012-13, 2011-12 and FY 2010-11 are given as per the requirement of Revised Schedule VI and earlier years figures are as per Old Schedule VI.
# Exploration Costs writ ten off towards Survey & Dry Wells have been regrouped from Depreciation, Depletion and Amor tization and shown as a separate item Statement of Income & Retained Earnings 37 (` in million) 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 2006-07 2005-06 REVENUES Sales Crude Oil  445,053  391,718  386,805  372,090  317,357  Natural Gas  73,797  75,528  71,780  72,113  66,701  LPG  21,924  22,752  20,168  14,866  16,293   Naphtha/Aromatic Rich Naphtha  47,137  48,406  43,849  37,907  35,679  Ethane/Propane  10,249  9,890  9,291  9,095  7,401  Superior Kerosene Oil  3,256  16,701  10,775  15,754  10,605  HSD  156  61,910  48,621  42,037  23,403  Motor Spirit  27  11,062  9,159  4,530  3,797  Others  463  1,526  925  634  617  Price Revision Arrears  -    -    -    11  156  Sub Total 602,062 639,493 601,373 569,037 482,009  Pipeline Revenue  1,078  2,329  1,522  82  15  Other Receipts  15,512  7,861  11,390  21,653  10,257  Accretion / (Decretion)  in stock  1,180  811  1,141  (197)  2,116  T otal Income from Operations  619,832  650,494  615,426  590,575  494,397  COST & EXPENSES Operating, Selling & General (a) Royalty 54,832  44,934  60,707  53,428  46,181  (b) Cess/ Excise Duty  56,752  59,174  61,106  62,024  44,302  (c) Natural Calamity Contingent Duty  1,062  1,081  1,127  1,149  1,081  (d) Sales T ax  2,990  6,910  772  1,380  5,727  (e).Education Cess *  1,719  1,784  1,861  1,303  (f) Octroi & Port T rust Charges  4,486  4,130  4,195  3,232  2,447  Sub-total (a to f)  121,841  118,013  129,768  122,516  99,738  Pipeline Operations (Excluding Depreciation)  7,975  6,963  7,318  6,460  5,907  Other Operational Costs  118,322  116,849  99,505  95,556  70,855  Exchange Loss  (4,033)  3,819  (1,070)  177  (172) Purchases  139  85,166  65,115  59,401  34,338  Recouped Costs (a) Depletion  45,302  42,148  36,776  33,849  29,702  (b) Depreciation  12,312  14,491  14,060  16,249  23,759  (c) Amortisation  89,407  67,320  47,580  43,167  31,437  (d) Impairment  (433)  (3,110)  (437)  1,729  (325) Sub-Total (a to d)  146,588  120,849  97,979  94,994  84,573  Total Cost & Expenses  390,832  451,659  398,615  379,104  295,239  Operating Income Before Interest &Tax  229,000  198,835  216,811  211,471  199,158  Interest -Payments  686  1,190  590  215  470  -Receipts  21,525  41,504  36,125  20,695  13,278  -Net (20,839)  (40,314)  (35,535)  (20,480)  (12,808)  Profit before Tax and Extraordinary Items  249,839  239,149  252,346  231,951  211,966  Extraordinary Items  -    658  -    4,751  6,405  Profit before Tax  249,839  239,807  252,346  236,702  218,371  Corporate T ax ( Net)  82,163  78,544  85,330  80,273  74,063  Net Profit  167,676  161,263  167,016  156,429  144,308  Dividend  70,583  68,444  68,444  66,305  64,167  T ax on Dividend  11,616  11,632  11,632  10,125  9,000  Retained Earnings For The Year  85,477  81,187  86,940  79,999  71,141    *  Upto 2005-06, education cess is included in respective heads of levies.
Annual Report 2014-15 Statement of Financial Position 38 As at March 31 2015 As at March 31 2014 As at March 31 2013 As at March 31 2012 As at March 31 2011 Statement of Financial Position (` in million) RESOURCES A.
Own 1.
Net Worth (a) Equity  i) Share Capital 42,778  42,778  42,778  42,777  42,777  ii) Reserves & Surplus 1,403,232  1,324,472  1,201,755  1,086,790  932,267  Sub-Total (a) 1,446,010  1,367,250  1,244,532  1,129,567  975,044  (b) Less: Deferred Revenue Expenditure 9,781  10,939  14,859  11,726  7,960  Net Worth (a)-(b) 1,436,229  1,356,311  1,229,674  1,117,841  967,084       B.
Deferred Tax Liability 177,332  165,787  128,880  111,979  99,504  TOTAL RESOURCES ( A+ B ) 1,613,560  1,522,098  1,358,553  1,229,820  1,066,588 DISPOSITION OF RESOURCES A. Non-current assets 1) Block Capital a).
Fixed Assets (Net) 314,907  302,792  274,835  216,801  186,395  b).
Producing Properties (Net) 667,110  657,833  524,407  463,768  435,757       Total Block Capital 982,018  960,625  799,242  680,569  622,152  2) Long-term loans and advances (excl.
capital advances) 193,177  181,718  221,454  254,482  239,392  3) Deposit under Site Restoration Fund Scheme 125,444  113,102  101,331  91,826  81,155  4) Other non-current assets (excl.
DRE) 4,397  3,956  4,011  2,983  2,941  Subtotal (A) 1,305,036  1,259,401  1,126,037  1,029,860  945,640  B.  Non-current Liabilities 1)  Long-term provisions: a) Provision for Abandonment 227,138  228,022  177,052  176,477  175,608  b) Other Long T erm provisions 27,296  29,178  44,823  36,654  32,627   2) Other Non-current liabilities 11,289  11,850  11,242  5,620  5,825  Subtotal (B) 265,723  269,050  233,116  218,751  214,060  C. Net Non Current Assets (A)-(B) 1,039,313  990,351  892,921  811,109  731,580  D.    Working Capital a) Current Assets i) Inventories 59,635  58,825  57,044  51,654  41,190  ii) T rade receivables 135,783  81,657  68,637  61,948  39,947  iii) Cash and Cash Equivalents 27,601  107,989  132,186  201,246  144,811  iv) Short-term loans and advances 69,477  43,670  37,021  31,237  26,734  v) Other current assets (excl.
DRE) 4,921  2,718  4,565  8,633  4,276   Subtotal (a) 297,416  294,859  299,453  354,718  256,958  b) Current liabilities i) Short-term borrowings 13,930  -    -    45,000  -    ii) T rade payables 54,891  63,725  53,410  52,612  52,253 iii) Other current liabilities 102,938  119,262  112,227  136,941  130,055  iv) Short-term provisions 19,976  7,811  9,102  22,426  9,258  Subtotal (b) 191,735  190,798  174,739  256,979  191,566  Working Capital (D )= (a)-(b) 105,681  104,061  124,714  97,739  65,392  E. CAPITAL EMPLOYED (C+D) 1,144,994  1,094,412  1,017,636  908,848  796,972  F .
Investments  i) Current investments -  -    -    8,519  1   ii) Non-current investments 181,243  172,043  91,731  43,644  51,827  G. Capital work-in-progress (incl.
capital advances) 128,437  116,516  144,429  182,997  140,316  H. Exploratory/Development Wells in Progress 158,885  139,128  104,759  85,812  77,472  TOTAL DISPOSITION (E+F+G+H) 1,613,560  1,522,098  1,358,553  1,229,820  1,066,588  In view of the Notification no.
S.O 447(E) dated 28.02.2011, issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the Balance sheet of the Company is mandatorily required to be prepared in Revised Schedule VI   st st w.e.f 1  April 2011 onwards (Schedule III after implementation of Companies Act., 2013 w.e.f.
1  April, 2014).
Accordingly, the figures of  FY 2014-15 are given as per the requirement of Schedule III , FY 2013-14, 2012-13, 2011-12 and FY 2010-11 are given as per the requirement of Revised Schedule VI and earlier years figures are as per Old Schedule VI.
Statement of Financial Position 39 RESOURCES A.
Own 1.
Net Worth (a) Equity i) Share Capital  21,389  21,389  21,389  21,389  14,259  ii Reserves & Surplus  851,437  765,965  684,785  597,851  525,338  Sub-Total  872,826  787,354  706,174  619,240  539,597       (b) Less : Deffered Revenue Expenditure  8,413  6,506  6,739  5,141  3,663  Net Worth  864,413  780,848  699,435  614,099  535,934  2.
Long T erm Liabilities Deferred T ax Liability Total Own Funds ( 1 + 2 ) B.
Outside Unsecured Loans a) Indian Loans  -    -    -    202  404  b) Foreign Loans  50  267  369  494  665  Total Outside Resources  50  267  369  696  1,069  TOTAL RESOURCES ( A+ B )  953,645  859,138  773,512  680,022  600,554  DISPOSITION OF RESOURCES A.
Block Capital 1.
Fixed Assets  156,485  104,144  105,180  88,391  78,422   2.
Producing Properties (Net)  402,822  361,580  301,874  295,685  275,833   less: Liability for Abandonment Cost  164,007  160,090  124,458  147,353  126,156  Total Block Capital  395,300  305,634  282,596  236,723  228,099  B.
Working Capital a) Current Assets i) Inventories  46,786  40,607  34,806  30,338  30,385  ii) Debtors (Net of Provision)  30,586  40,838  43,604  27,594  37,043  iii) Cash & Bank Balances  108,279  121,405  160,143  136,704  42,792  iv)Deposit with Bank Under Site Restoration Fund Scheme #   74,031  69,557  64,033  56,103  45,336     v) Loans & Advances and Others  278,031  273,593  195,745  193,214  216,059  Sub-Total  537,713  546,000  498,331  443,953  371,615  Less : (b)  Current Liabilities and Provisions and Short T erm Loans (excl.
Abandonment & Impairment)*  194,999  211,051  176,083  139,932  105,951  Working Capital  342,714  334,949  322,248  304,021  265,664  C.CAPITAL EMPLOYED  738,014  640,583  604,844  540,744  493,763  D. INVESTMENTS  57,720  50,903  58,995  57,021  48,885  E. CAPITAL WORKS IN PROGRESS  102,414  116,965  70,745  48,251  28,303  F .
EXPLORATORY/DEVELOPMENT   WELLS IN PROGRESS  55,497  50,687  38,928  34,006  29,603  TOTAL DISPOSITION (C+D+E+F)  953,645  859,138  773,512  680,022  600,554    89,182  78,023  73,708  65,227  63,551  953,595  858,871  773,143  679,326  599,485  As at March 31 2010 As at March 31 2009 As at March 31 2008 As at March 31 2007 As at March 31 2006 *  For the Year  2002-03 Abondonement are included in Current Liabilities.
From the Year 2003-04,  Liability for Abandonment has been deducted from Producing Properties.
#  Excluded for Current Ratio.
Annual Report 2014-15 Depreciation and Contribution to Exchequer 40 DETAILS OF DEPRECIATION ALLOCATED TO: Survey 589 448 567  756  1,052  1,181  1,555  1,029  863  722 575 760 712  Exploratory Drilling 3,284 2,506 1,335  4,844  5,415  4,842  3,005  2,151  1,672  1,885 1,503 1,517 1,590  Development 36,774 66,628 62,584  52,782  41,734  34,098  24,426  21,924  14,251  13,605 10,623 9,322 9,587  Profit & Loss Account 14,367 20,518 14,620  13,395  19,993  12,201  14,434  13,984  16,094  22,226 5,435 6,056 7,594  Others 298 162 114  16  156  105  136  70  48  89 106 25 55  Total 55,311 90,262 79,220 71,793 68,350 52,427 43,556 39,158 32,928 38,527 18,242 17,680 19,538  CONTRIBUTION TO EXCHEQUER CENTRAL 1.
Excise Duty 2,207 3,076  3,093  3,599  3,228  2,214  3,386  2,887  2,768  2,707  3,445  4,375  4,915  2.
OID Cess 102,550 99,740  99,993  57,852  57,005  54,545  55,799  58,216  59,260  41,595  43,056  41,939  42,093  3.
Natural Calamity Contingent Duty 1,123 1,097  1,101  1,098  1,115  1,062  1,082  1,127  1,149  1,081  1,138  1,117  98  4.
Royalty 35,870 41,965  39,407  36,144  36,519  32,190  31,394  30,631  27,920  23,056  21,811  16,202  17,380  5.
Education Cess * 91 2,349  3,112  1,872  1,830  1,719  1,784  1,863  1,303  6.
Corporate T ax        a) On ONGC's Account 76,152 67,646  79,285  102,722  76,628  71,203  79,770  80,720  78,403  64,025  69,817  43,516  58,850      b) For Foreign Contractors 25 36  11  73  27  7  277  32  34  3  23  20  24  7. Dividend 56,029 56,153  56,268  60,372  55,502  52,330  50,744  50,744  49,159  47,573  42,287  27,364  35,981  8.
T ax on Dividend 16,256 13,807  13,012  13,286  12,156  11,616  11,632  11,632  10,125  8,999  7,763  4,385  2,375  9.
Customs Duties 77 87  75  96  44  125  354  815  1,441  888  2,423  4,114  1,432  10.
Mumbai Port T rust Charges 984 884  923  855  891  793  657  742  691  710  2,999  364  345      Sub Total 291,363 286,840 296,280 277,969 244,945 227,803 236,879 239,409 232,253 190,637 194,762 143,396 163,493  STATE 1.
Sales T ax/VAT 43,765 41,344  40,144  39,393  33,711  26,355  26,258  26,899  25,998  18,263  14,581  11,060  12,561  2.
Royalty 80,194 72,971  68,699  61,648  34,890  22,649  13,551  30,078  25,513  23,126  16,103  12,249  12,623  3.
Octroi Duties etc.
5,751 4,592  3,683  3,863  4,213  4,176  3,808  3,814  2,832  2,060  2,671  1,877  2,339  4.
Motor Spirit -CESS - 3 - - -     Sub Total 129,710 118,910 112,526 104,904 72,814 53,180 43,617 60,791 54,343 43,449 33,355 25,186 27,523     Grand Total 421,074 405,750 408,806 382,873 317,759 280,983 280,496 300,200 286,596 234,086 228,117 168,582 191,016  *  Upto 2005-06, education cess is included in respective heads of levies.
2013-142014-15 2012-13 2011-12 2010-11 Depreciation and Contribution to Exchequer (` in million) Depreciation and Contribution to Exchequer 41 2005-062009-10 2008-09 2007-08 2006-07  1,181  1,555  1,029  863  722  4,842  3,005  2,151  1,672  1,885   34,098  24,426  21,924  14,251  13,605  12,201  14,434  13,984  16,094  22,226   105  136  70  48  89  52,427 43,556 39,158 32,928 38,527  2,214  3,386  2,887  2,768  2,707   54,545  55,799  58,216  59,260  41,595  1,062  1,082  1,127  1,149  1,081 32,190  31,394  30,631  27,920  23,056   1,719  1,784  1,863  1,303   71,203  79,770  80,720  78,403  64,025   7 277  32  34  3   52,330  50,744  50,744  49,159  47,573   11,616  11,632  11,632  10,125  8,999   125  354  815  1,441  888  793  657  742  691  710 227,803 236,879 239,409 232,253 190,637  26,355  26,258  26,899  25,998  18,263  22,649  13,551  30,078  25,513  23,126  4,176  3,808  3,814  2,832  2,060 53,180 43,617 60,791 54,343 43,449 280,983 280,496 300,200 286,596 234,086  Annual Report 2014-15 Glossary of Energy & Financial Terms 42 Glossary of Energy & Financial Terms A.
Energy Terms Appraisal Well: A well drilled as part of an appraisal drilling  programme, which is carried out to determine the physical  extent of oil and gas reserves & characteristics thereof and  the quantity of recoverable Petroleum therein.
Condensates: Liquid hydrocarbons produced with natural  gas, separated by cooling and other means.
Development: Following discovery, drilling and related  activities necessary to begin production of oil or natural  gas.
Development Well: A well drilled within the proved area of  an Oil and Gas reservoir to the depth of a horizon known to  be productive.
Enhanced Recovery: T echniques used to increase or  prolong production from oil and natural gas fields.
Exploration: Searching for oil and/or natural gas, including  topographical surveys, geologic studies, geophysical  surveys, seismic surveys and drilling wells.
Exploratory Well: A well that is not a development well, a  service well, or a stratigraphic test well i.e.
well drilled not in  a proved area for the purpose of obtaining information  pertaining to a specific geologic condition.
Heavy Cut: These are heavier hydrocarbons obtained in  fractionation unit of Kerosene Recovery Process, where  NGL is processed to yield Aromatic Rich Naphtha and  Superior Kerosene Oil.
Integrated Petroleum Company: A company engaged in  all aspects of the industry from exploration and production  of crude oil and natural gas (upstream) to refining,  marketing and transportation products (downstream).
Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG): Gas that is liquefied under  extremely cold temperatures and high pressure to facilitate  storage or transportation in specially designed vessels.
Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG): Light gases, such as  butane and propane that can be maintained as liquids while  under pressure.
Mining Lease: The license issued for offshore and onshore  properties for conducting development and production  activity.
Natural Gas Liquids (NGL): Separated from natural gas,  these include ethane, propane, butane and natural gasoline.
Oil Equivalent Gas (OEG): The volume of natural gas that  can be burnt to give the same amount of heat as a barrel of  oil (6,000 cubic feet of gas equals one barrel of oil).
Petroleum Exploration License: The license issued for  of fshore and onshore proper ties for conducting  exploration activity.
Producing Property: These may be defined as the value  assigned to crude oil or gas reserves which can be  produced from existing facilities.
Reserves: Oil and Natural Gas contained in underground  rock formations called reservoirs.
Proved reserves are the  estimated quantities that geologic and engineering data  demonstrate can be produced with reasonable certainty  from known reservoirs under existing economic and  operating conditions.
Reserve estimates change as  additional information becomes available.
Recoverable  reserves are those that can be produced using all known  primary and enhanced recovery methods.
Unit Of Production Method: The method of depreciation  (depletion) under which depreciation (depletion) is  calculated on the basis of the number of production or  similar units expected to be obtained from the asset by the  enterprise.
Work-Over: Remedial work to the equipment within a well, the  well pipe work or relating to attempts to increase the rate of flow.
B.
Financial Terms Accounting Policies: The specific accounting principles  and the methods of applying those principles adopted by an  enterprise in the preparation and presentation of financial  statements.
Accrual Basis of Accounting: The method of recording  transactions by which revenues, expenses, assets and  liabilities are reflected in the accounts in the period in which  they accrue.
The 'accrual basis of accounting' includes  considerations relating to deferrals, allocations,  depreciation and amortization.
This basis is also referred to  as mercantile basis of accounting.
Acquisition Costs: These cover all costs incurred to  purchase, lease or otherwise acquire a property or mineral  right proved or unproved.
These include lease/ signature  bonus, brokers' fees, legal costs, cost of temporary  occupation of the land including crop compensation paid to  farmers, consideration for farm-in arrangements and all other  costs incurred in acquiring these rights.
Acquisition Costs are  recognized in the accounts note no.2.e.2 on Significant  Accounting Policies under Notes to Financial Statements.
Abandonment Cost: Abandonment costs are the costs  incurred on discontinuation of all operations and  surrendering the property back to the owner.
These costs  relate to plugging and abandoning of wells, dismantling of  wellheads, production and transport facilities and   restoration of producing areas.
Abandonment Cost is  Glossary of Energy & Financial Terms 43 recognized in the accounts note no.2.i on Significant  Accounting Policies under Notes to Financial Statements.
Absorption Costing: A method whereby the cost is  determined so as to include the appropriate share of both  variable and fixed costs.
Balance Sheet: A statement of the financial position of an  enterprise as at a given date, which exhibits its assets,  liabilities, capital, reserves and other account balances at  their respective book values.
Book Value: The amount at which an item appears in the  books of account or financial statements.
It does not refer to  any particular basis on which the amount is determined e.g.
cost, replacement value etc.
Capital Commitment: Future liabilit y for capital  expenditure in respect of which contracts have been made.
Capital Employed: The finances deployed by an enterprise  in its net fixed assets, investments and working capital.
Capital employed in an operation may, however, exclude  investments made outside that operation.
Capital Reserve: A reserve of a corporate enterprise which  is not available for distribution as dividend.
Contingent Asset: An asset the existence, ownership or  value of which may be known or determined only on the  occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain  future events.
Contingent Liability: An obligation relating to an existing  condition or situation which may arise in future depending  on the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more  uncertain future events.
Current Asset: An asset shall be classified as current when  it satisfies any of the following criteria:  (a) it is expected to be realized in, or is intended for sale or consumption in, the company's normal operating cycle;  (b) it is held primarily for the purpose of being traded, (c) it is expected to be realized within twelve months after the reporting date, or  (d) it is cash or cash equivalent unless it is restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least twelve months after the reporting date.
Current Liability: A liability shall be classified as current  when it satisfies any of the following criteria:  (a) it is expected to be settled in the company's normal operating cycle;  (b) it is held primarily for the purpose of being traded, (c) it is due to be settled within twelve months after the reporting date, or (d) the company does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the reporting date.
Cess: It is a levy imposed under The Oil Industry  (Development) Act, 1974 on Crude oil acknowledged &  received in the refinery and payable to the Central  Government.
Development Costs: Costs incurred in preparing proved  reserves for production i.e.
costs incurred to obtain access  to prove reserves and to provide facilities for extracting,  treating, gathering and storing oil and gas.
Diminishing Balance Method: It is a method under which the  periodic charge for depreciation of an asset is computed by  applying a fixed percentage to its historical cost or substituted  amount less accumulated depreciation (net book value).
This  is also referred to as written down value method.
Dividend: A distribution to shareholders out of profits or  reserves available for this purpose.
Earnings Per Share: The earnings in monetary terms  attributable to each equity share, based on net profit for the  period, before taking into account prior period items,  extraordinary items and adjustments resulting from  changes in accounting policies but after deducting tax  appropriate thereto and preference dividends, divided by  the number of equity shares issued and ranking for  dividends in respect of that period.
Expenditure: Incurring a liability, disbursement of cash or  transfer of property for the purpose of obtaining assets,  goods and services.
Expense: A cost relating to the operations of an accounting  period or to the revenue earned during the period or the  benefits of which do not extend beyond that period.
Extraordinary Item: Gain or loss which arises from events  or transactions that are distinct from ordinary activities of  the enterprise and which are both material and expected not  to recur frequently or regularly.
This would also include  material adjustments necessitated by circumstances,  which, though related to previous periods, are determined  in the current period.
Exploration Costs: Costs incurred in exploring property.
Exploration involves identifying areas that may warrant  examination and examining specific areas, including drilling  exploratory wells.
Exploration Costs written off: It refers to the Survey  expenditure and Dry wells expensed in the accounts in line  with note no.2.e.3 and 2.e.4.1 on Significant Accounting  Policies under Notes to Financial Statements.
First In, First Out (FIFO): Computation of the cost of items  sold or consumed during a period as though they were sold  or consumed in order of their acquisition.
Annual Report 2014-15 Glossary of Energy & Financial Terms 44 Fixed Assets: Assets held for the purpose of providing or  producing goods or services and that is not held for resale  in the normal course of business Fixed Cost: The cost of production which, by its very  nature, remains relatively unaffected in a defined period of  time by variations in the volume of production.
Fundamental Accounting Assumptions:  Basic  accounting assumption which underline the preparation  and presentation of financial statements.
They are going  concern, consistency and accrual.
Usually, they are not  specifically stated because their acceptance and use are  assumed.
Disclosure is necessary if they are not followed.
Inventory: T angible property held for sale in the ordinary  course of business, or in the process of production for such  sale, or for consumption in the production of goods or  services for sale, including maintenance supplies and  consumables other than machinery spares.
Investment: Expenditure on assets held to earn interest,  income, profit or other benefits.
Materiality: An accounting concept according to which all  relatively important and relevant items, i.e., items the  knowledge of which might influence the decisions of the  user of the financial statements are disclosed in the  financial statements.
Net Assets: The excess of the book value of assets of an  enterprise over its liabilities.
This is also referred to as net  worth or shareholders' funds.
Net Profit: The excess of revenue over expenses during a  particular accounting period.
When the result of this  computation is negative, it is referred to as net loss.
The net  profit may be shown before or after tax.
Net Realisable Value: The actual/ estimated selling price  of an asset in the ordinary course of the business less cost  of completion and cost necessarily to be incurred in order  to make the sale.
Non Current Asset: All assets other than Current assets  are classified as Non Current asset.
Non Current Liability: All liabilities other than Current  liabilities are classified as non-current liability.
Net Present Value: NPV is the present (discounted) value  of future cash inflows minus the present value of the cash  outflows.
Obsolescence: Diminution in the value of an asset by  reason of its becoming out-of-date or less useful due to  technological changes, improvement in production  methods, change in market demand for the product or  service output of the asset, or legal or other restrictions.
Operating Cycle: An Operating cycle is the time between  the acquisition of assets for processing and their realization  in cash or Cash equivalents.
Prior Period Item: A material charge or credit which arises  in the current period as a result of errors or omissions in the  preparation of the financial statements of one or more prior  periods.
Provision: An amount written off or retained by way of  providing for depreciation or diminution in value of assets or  retained by way of providing for any known liability the  amount of which cannot be determined with substantial  accuracy.
Provisions for Doubtful Debts: A provision made for debts  considered doubtful of recovery.
Participating Interest:  The share expressed as a  percentage in the rights and obligations of each party to a  Production Sharing Contract (PSC).
Production Costs: Costs incurred in lifting the oil and gas  to the surface and in gathering, treating and storing the oil  and gas.
Royalty: It is a levy imposed under The Petroleum and  Natural Gas Rules, 1959 payable to the respective State or  Central Government granting the lease (Central  Government in case of offshore) on crude oil and natural  gas.
Recouped Cost: It refers to Depreciation, Depletion,  Impairment and Amortization charged in accounts.
These  are non-cash costs.
a) Depreciation:  A measure of the wearing out, consumption or other loss of value of a depreciable asset arising from use, efflux of time or obsolescence through technology and market changes.
It is provided for and allocated as mentioned in note no.
2.n.1 to 2.n.4   on Significant Accounting Policies under Notes to Financial Statements.
b) Depletion: A measure of exhaustion of a wasting asset  (Producing Properties) represented by periodic write  off of cost.
It is computed with reference to the  amortization base by taking the related capital cost  incurred divided by hydrocarbon reserves and  multiplied by production.
c) Impairment: An impairment loss is the amount by  which the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its  recoverable amount.
Impairment Loss is recognized in  the accounts as per note no.
2.n.7 on Significant  Glossary of Energy & Financial Terms 45 Accounting Policies under Notes to Financial  Statements.
d) Amortization: It refers to the amount amortized in  respect of Intangible Assets in line with note no.2.n.6 on  Significant Accounting Policies under Notes to  Financial Statements.
Statement of Profit and Loss: A financial statement  which presents the revenues and expenses of an  enterprise for an accounting period and shown the  excess of revenues over expenses (or vice versa).
It is  also known as Statement of Profit and Loss.
Straight Line Method: The method under which the  periodic charge for depreciation is computed by  dividing the depreciable amount of a depreciable asset  by the estimated number of years of its useful life.
T rade Receivable: A Receivable is classified as "T rade  Receivable" if it is in respect of amount due for goods  sold or services rendered in the normal course of  business.
T rade Payable: A payable is classified as "trade  payable" if it is in respect of amount due on account of  goods purchased or services received in normal  course of business.
Useful life: Life which is either (i) the period over which  a depreciable asset is expected to be used by the  enterprise; or (ii) the number of production or similar  units expected to be obtained from the use of the asset  by the enterprise.
Wasting Asset: Natural resource which is subject to  depletion through the process of extraction or use e.g.
mines, quarries.
Working Capital: The funds available for conducting  day-to-day operations of an enterprise.
Also it is  represented by the excess of current assets over  current liabilities including short-term loans.
Work in Process: Work in Process includes all materials  which have undergone manufacturing or processing  operations, but upon which further operations are  necessary before the product is ready for sale.
Secretary MoPNG Shri Kapil Dev T ripathi interacting with ONGC CMD and Directors during his recent visit to ONGC corporate office.
ONGC produces 1.2 million barrels of oil equivalent per day Board's Report Annexures to Board’s Report Comments of C&AG Board's Report 48 Board's Report Dear Shareholders, It gives me great pleasure to present, on behalf of the Board  nd of Directors of your Company, the 22  Annual Report on the  business and operations of Oil And Natural Gas Corporation  Ltd. (ONGC) and its Audited Statements of Accounts for the  year ended March 31, 2015, together with the Auditors’  Report and Comments on the Accounts by the Comptroller  and Auditor General (CAG) of India.
Your Company along with its group companies has  registered yet another year of sustained performance.
Exploration and production of crude oil and gas, our core  business, set various milestones during the year.
Besides  that performance in the areas where ONGC has engaged  substantially also witnessed success with positive  contributions.
ONGC has steadfastly focussed on organic growth through  its exploratory endeavours and build a healthy reserve  profile for the future.
During FY’15, the Company registered  Reserve Replacement Ratio (RRR) of 1.38 (with 2P  reserves) with 22 oil and gas discoveries in various basins of  the country.
This has been possible because of extensive  exploration in known basins as well as frontier plays.
Domestic crude oil and natural gas production of ONGC  along with its share in the domestic joint ventures (PSC-JVs)  during FY’15 has been 49.46 million metric tonnes of oil and  oil equivalent gas (MMtoe) which is about 2.7% lower than  FY’14 production (50.84 MMtoe).
On standalone basis  crude oil production from ONGC operated fields has been  22.26 million metric tonnes (MMT) against production of  22.25 MMT during FY’14.
This goes to the credit of your  Company that production decline could be arrested due to  prudent reservoir management practices adopted in the  matured fields and bringing new fields on stream.
Major Highlights: FY’2014-15  Salient highlights with respect to performance of your  Company during FY’2014-15 are as below: • 22 oil & gas discoveries in domestic acreages with accretion of 61.05 MMT oe of 2P reserves.
• RRR (2P) for FY’2014-15 was 1.38; in excess of  One consecutively for 9 years.
Board's Report 49 • Despite natural decline in matured fields, crude oil production from domestic fields maintained at 25.94  MMT .
Major upside in production was registered from the  Western offshore fields with incremental oil gain of 4.3%.
• New and marginal fields contributed about 12.3% of  crude oil (2.74 MMT out of 22.26 MMT from domestic  operated fields) and 15.2% of natural gas production  (3.35 BCM out of 22.02 BCM from domestic operated  fields).
34.5% of crude oil production was contributed by  the IOR/EOR and redevelopment schemes.
• The gross revenue from operations during FY’2014-15  has been `830,935 million; 1.3% lower than FY’14.
• `362,996 million contribution towards sharing the under- recoveries of OMCs during FY’2014-15 impacting  ONGC’s Profit Before T ax (PBT) by `309,596 million and  Profit After T ax (PAT) by `204,370 million.
Despite this  Net Profit has been `177,330 million; 19.7% lower than  the profit during previous year FY’2013-14.
• Hon’ble Prime Minister Mr. Narendra Modi dedicated the  2nd unit of OTPC Power Plant at Palatana, T ripura, to the  Nation on December 1, 2014.
The 726.6 MW gas-based  power plant of ONGC T ripura Power Company is the  biggest project in North East part of India in terms of  investment in E&P, gas and power transmission.
It is also  credited as the largest Clean Development Mechanism  (CDM) projects of the world.
• Your Company decided to invest `249,000 million in five  major projects in Western Offshore for sustaining crude  oil and gas production.
• HRD process plat form of ONGC was installed  successfully on January 15, 2015 using the state-of-the- art Float-Over technology.
This is the first such  endeavour in the history of ONGC, where installation of  an add-on platform with the existing operational platform  has been completed successfully.
• The operationalization of FPSO at Cluster-7 project on  February 26, 2015 resulted in doubling the crude oil  production from around 7,500 barrels per day (bpd) to  around 15,000 bpd.
• ONGC Videsh Ltd. (100% subsidiary of your Company)  registered 8.87 Mmtoe of O+OEG production during  FY’2014-15 against 8.36 Mmtoe during FY’2013-14.
Production upside primarily came from BC-10 field in Brazil,  blocks in Myanmar and the Sakhalin project in Russia.
• Despite higher production, ONGC Videsh’s Revenue  during FY’2014-15 has been down by 14% due to lower  oil prices globally.
PAT has been down by 57% due to  lower oil prices, exchange losses, higher financing cost  and higher depletion charges.
• During the year ONGC Videsh made a maiden venture in  New Zealand with exploratory acreages.
• MRPL commissioned all the units under Phase-III  refinery expansion project during the year and  registered the highest-ever thru-put of 14.65 MMT .
• T urnover of MRPL for the year was down by 17% due to  lower products’ prices and it registered a net loss of `11,700 million against Net profit of `6,010 million in  FY’2013-14 due to exchange and inventory losses.
Besides excellence in core operational activities your  Company positioned itself as a valuable corporate citizen  through its mapped defined actions towards inclusive  growth of the Society/Community and green initiatives as  per the commitment and our performance was globally  rd recognized.
ONGC was ranked at 183  position among  2000 top global companies in Forbes Global 2000 list  published in May’2015.
In the global oil and gas operation  industry, ONGC has moved up three places to occupy the  th 18  position.
ONGC has been ranked as the T op energy  company in India, in the coveted Platt’s Top 250 Global  Energy Company Rankings 2014.
ONGC improved upon its  st global ranking by a notch to be positioned 21  among the  global energy majors.
ONGC has also maintained its  rd position as the 3  largest Exploration and Production (E&P)  company in the world.
In the latest Newsweek Green  Rankings, the world’s most recognized assessment of  corporate environmental performance, ONGC has made a  quantum leap to be ranked 217 globally (it was positioned  th 386  in 2012 Green rankings).
The company now stands  third amongst only seven Indian companies named in the  prestigious list.
Performance 2014-15 Exploration During the year 2014-15, ONGC has made 22 Oil and gas  discoveries in domestic acreages (operated by ONGC).
Out  of 22, 10 discoveries are in Offshore and 12 in Onshore; 10  discoveries were made in the new prospects whereas 12  were new pool discoveries.
7 discoveries were made in  NELP blocks and 15 in nomination blocks.
Two discoveries (Rudrasagar-184 & Gandhar-699) during  Discoveries Offshore: 10; Onshore: 12 New Prospects: 10; New Pool: 12 NELP Blocks: 7; Nomination blocks: 15 Annual Report 2014-15 Board's Report 50 2014-15 in nomination blocks have already been put on  production and efforts are on for bringing the other  discoveries on production as early as possible.
7  discoveries in NELP blocks (5 Onland, 2 Offshore) are  governed by the PSC guidelines and appraisal/  Details of the discoveries in NELP blocks (since  inception till 01.04.2015) Out of the 114 NELP blocks awarded to/ acquired by ONGC  as operator, currently ONGC is operating in 49 blocks,  balance 65 blocks have been relinquished.
Exploration/  appraisal programme is underway in all the active blocks.
A  total of 47 discoveries as on date (16 in deep-water, 13 in  shallow water and 18 in onland) have been made by ONGC  in 22 of these NELP blocks (6 deep-water, 6 shallow water &  10 onland).
Commencement of production from these  discoveries is governed by stipulations laid down in the  respective PSCs and is to be taken up after successful  completion of appraisal programme followed by  submission of DOC and approval of Field Development  development activities will be taken up keeping in view the  timelines of the respective blocks.
In addition to these  discoveries, exploratory wells conclusively tested and  proved to be hydrocarbon bearing will help in field growth  of existing fields.
Details of the discoveries are as under: Plan.
ONGC has put three NELP Blocks on Commercial  Production: a. NELP Block CB-ONN-2004/1 (Karannagar) Onshore NELP Block CB-ONN-2004/1 (Karannagar)  located in Ahmedabad was put on commercial  production on 24.03.2015 within 24 hours of getting  the Mining Lease.
This NELP block was awarded to  consortium of ONGC and GSPC in VI round of NELP  bidding in 2007.
ONGC is the operator of block with  60% participatory interest.
b. NELP block CB-ONN-2004/2 (Vadatal)  Vadatal-1 in the NELP block CB-ONN-2004/2 (Vadatal)  was put on production on March 26, 2015.
The NELP  Sr. Well No.
Basin/ Sub-basin 1 T ukbai-3A (TK-3A) AAFB-Cachar Gas New Prospect 2 Rupal-2* Oil New Prospect 3 Vadatal-10 (VDAH)* Oil New Prospect 4 Vadatal-11* Oil New Prospect 5 Thirunagari / Thirunagari-1* Cauvery(On) Gas New Prospect 6 South Pasarlapudi-1 KG(On) Oil & Gas New Prospect 7 YS-9-1 (Shift) KG(SW) Gas New Prospect 8 GD-11 / GD-11-1 KG(DW) Gas New Prospect 9 GKS092NAA-1* Kutch Gas New Prospect 10 GKS091NDA-1* Gas New Prospect 11 C-1-7 Mumbai Oil & Gas New Pool 12 C-1-8 Oil & Gas New Pool 13 Rudrasagar / Rudrasagar-184 Oil New Pool 14 Khoraghat-35 Gas & Cond.
New Pool 15 Khoraghat-37 Gas New Pool 16 Gandhar-699 Cambay Oil New Pool 17 Madanam / Madanam-6* Cauvery Onshore Oil & Gas New Pool 18 Damoh / Damoh-4 Vindhyan Gas New Pool 19 GS-29-10 (AJ) KG (SW) Oil & Gas New Pool 20 G-1-NE-1 KG (SW) Oil & Gas New Pool 21 G-1-NE-2 KG (SW) Gas & Cond.
New Pool 22 WO-5 / WO-5-11 Mumbai Offshore Oil & Gas New Pool Type of Hydro-carbon Type of discovery Cambay Offshore Offshore A&AA (Assam) * In NELP blocks Board's Report 51 block CB-ONN-2004/2 was awarded to a consortium of  ONGC and GSPC in VI round of NELP bidding in 2007.
ONGC is the operator of the block (PI: 55%) with  partner GSPC (PI: 45 %.).
c. NELP block CB-ONN-2002/1 (West Patan)  West Patan #3 well in the NELP block CB-ONN-2002/1  (West Patan) was put on commercial production on  31.03.15 on the same day of getting the Mining Lease  from the Govt.
of Gujarat.
The block CB-ONN-2002/1,  covering 135 sq.
km and falls in the northern part of the  Cambay Basin and is located west of Patan town in  North Gujarat.
Reserve accretion & Reserve Replacement Ratio (RRR) Continuing exploration in challenging and frontier areas,  your company has accreted 215.65 million metric tonnes of  oil equivalent (MMtoe) of In-place volume of hydrocarbon in  Statement of Reserve Recognition Accounting (RRA) Reserve Recognition Accounting is a voluntary disclosure  towards recognizing income at the point of discovery of  reserves and seeks to demonstrate the intrinsic strength of  an organization engaged in exploration and production of  hydrocarbons with reference to its future earning capacity  in terms of current prices for income as well as expenditure.
This information is based on the estimated net proved  reserves (developed and undeveloped) as determined by  the Reserves Estimates Committee of the Company.
As per FASB-69 on disclosure about Oil and Gas producing  activities, publicly traded enterprises that have significant  Oil and Gas producing activities, are to disclose with  complete set of annual financial statements, the following  supplemental information: the domestic basins (operated by ONGC).
As on  01.04.2015, in-place hydrocarbon volume of ONGC as a  group stands at 9,283.84 MMtoe; up 4.2% from FY’2013-14  figure of 8,912.81 MMtoe.
The ultimate reserves (3P)  accretion in domestic area (ONGC operated) during  FY’2014-15 has been 70.98 MMtoe and 2P reserve  accretion has been 61.06 MMtoe.
T otal reserve accretion  during 2014-15 in domestic basins including ONGC’s share  in PSC JVs stands at 60.03 MMtoe.
Voluntary disclosures in  respect of Oil & Gas Reserves, conforming to SPE  classification 1994 and US Financial Accounting  Standards Board (FASB-69) have been made by your  Company.
The following table gives the details of reserve accretion  (2P) for the last 5 years in domestic basins as well as from  the overseas assets:   a) Proved Oil and Gas reserve quantities b) Capitalized costs relating to Oil and Gas producing activities c) Cost incurred for property acquisition, exploration  and development activities d) Results of operations  for Oil and Gas producing activities e) A standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved Oil and Gas reserve quantities Your Company has disclosed information in respect of  (a) to (d) above in the Annual Financial Statements.
Your Company has also made voluntary disclosure on  standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows  2010-11 63.09 0.29 63.38 54.2 117.58 2011-12 58.67 1.43 60.1 -0.06 60.04 2012-13 67.59 4.23 71.82 10.09 81.91 2013-14 56.26 4.29 60.55 213.24 273.79 2014-15 61.06 -1.03 60.03 20.03 80.06 Ultimate Reserve (2P) accretion  O+OEG Year Domestic Assets (1) (2) ONGC's share in Domestic JVs Total  Domestic Reserve (3)=(1)+(2) Total  (5)=(3)+(4) ONGC VIDESH's Share in Foreign Asset (4) (in MMToe) Note: Reserve accretion reported in terms of 2P reserves Annual Report 2014-15 Board's Report 52 relating to proved oil and gas reserve at Annexure-‘ A’ to this  report as statement of Reserve Recognition Accounting  (RRA).
Oil & Gas production During FY ’15, your Company retained its position as the  largest producer of oil and gas in the country and  contributed 69 per cent of oil and 70 per cent of natural gas  production of the country from its domestic operations.
On  standalone basis, in FY’15 ONGC’s domestic crude oil  production registered 22.26 MMt against 22.25 MMt in  FY’14, reversing the production decline in domestic fields.
The major contribution came from Western Offshore, which  produced 4.3 per cent more than the production during last year .
Details of crude oil and natural gas production from  domestic basins along with that of Value Added Products  (VAP) are as below: Production QtyUnit Sales Qty Value  (` in million) FY'15 FY'14 FY'15 FY'14 FY'15 FY'14 Direct Crude Oil (MMT) 25.94 25.99 24.11 23.61 536,638 525,734 Natural Gas (BCM) 23.52 24.85 17.98 19.63 187,381 183,291 Ethane/Propane 000 MT 339 430 337 428 10,064 14,837 LPG 000 MT 1,095 1,067 1,090 1,073 34,380 30,145 Naphtha 000 MT 1,155 1,358 1,124 1,379 50,835 75,743 SKO 000 MT 72 84 74 85 2,771 2,779 Others    1,359 2,124 Sub Total    823,428 834,653 T rading  Motor Spirit 000 KL 0.53 0.54 38 41 HSD 000 KL 0.39 0.05 22 3 Sub Total     60 44 Total     823,488 834,697 Board's Report 53 ONGC 71% JV 12% OVL 17% Crude Oil Share (MMT)  FY'15 Natural Gas Share (BCM) FY’15 OVL 12% JV 6% ONGC 82% Out of the total production of 31.47 MMT of crude oil, 70.8  per cent production came from ONGC operated domestic  fields, 17.5 per cent from the overseas assets and balance  11.7 per cent from domestic joint ventures.
As far as natural  gas production is concerned, majority of production (82 per  cent) came from ONGC operated domestic fields, 12.4 per  cent from overseas assets and 5.6 per cent from domestic  joint ventures.
Production from overseas assets ONGC Videsh, has thirteen (13) producing assets in ten  countries – Venezuela (1), Brazil (1), Colombia (1), Sudan  (1), South Sudan (2), Syria (1), Vietnam (1), Mayanmar (2),  Russia (2) and Azerbaijan (1).
Total production from these overseas assets during  FY’15 has been 8.87 MMtoe of O+OEG (Crude oil: 5.53  MMT & Gas: 3.34 BCM).
Ajerbaijan has contributed 12% as compared to around  0.1% last year.
Resumption of operations in South Sudan &  Sudan has also contributed to this year’s increased volume  contributing 13.2% this year as compared to 8.2% last year.
Russia & Vietnam continued to be the biggest contributor to  overseas production volume with 29.4% and 23%  respectively.
Unconventional sources of energy ONGC plans to continue its endeavor for exploration and  development of Unconventional & other resources like  Shale Gas, CBM, etc.
ONGC has prioritized suitable actions  for exploration and exploitation of Non-Conventional and  Alternate Sources of energy which has the potential to  change the energy business landscape in the country as it  is happening in the other parts of the world.
The initiatives  by ONGC in these areas are summarized below; a. Shale Gas  ONGC has the distinction of establishing the first flow of  th shale gas in the country on 25  January, 2011 from  RNSG#1 well (R&D Pilot Project, Durgapur).
ONGC has chalked out plan of drilling of pilot shale gas  and oil wells in most of the identified blocks in  Cambay,Krishna-Godavari,Cauver y and Assam  &Assam-Arakan Basins.
During October, 2013  Oil & Gas production of ONGC Group, including PSC-JVs  and from overseas Assets for FY’15 has been 58.33 MMtoe  (against 59.21 MMtoe during FY’14).
Oil (MMT)                Gas (BCM)              0+OEG (MMT oe) ONGC JV OVL 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 22.26 22.02 44.28 3.68 1.5 5.18 5.53 3.34 8.87 31.47 27.04 58.33 (Crude Oil figure Including Gas Condensate) T otal Sudan &  S. Sudan  13.2% Syria 0.0% Colombia  7.3% Venezuela 10.8% Brazil 2.8% Azerbaijan  12.0%Mynamar  1.50% Vietnam 23.0% Russia 29.4%  Annual Report 2014-15 Board's Report 54 Government of India brought out shale gas policy  which allows National Oil Companies viz.
ONGC and  OIL to initiate shale gas and oil assessment activities in  their allocated nomination blocks in phased manner.
As  per the new Policy, 50 nomination PML blocks have  been identified in four Basins - 28 PMLs in Cambay, 3  PMLs in A&AA, 10 PMLs in Krishna-Godavari and 9  PMLs in Cauvery basins for Shale Gas assessment  within three year period of Phase-I.
A total of 57  pilot/assessment wells are to be drilled by April, 2017 During 2014-15, ONGC has drilled five exploratory  wells for shale gas exploration (4 dual and 1 exclusive)  in Cambay, Cauvery, Krishna-Godavari and Assam- Arakan Basins and samples have been collected for  assessment of Shale Gas potential.
Most of the studies  in wells drilled last year have been completed and the  integration/ assessment exercise is in progress.
Based  on the review of data collected in wells JMSGA and  GNSGA, prospective intervals have been identified in  Cambay Shale which are planned to be hydro- fractured shortly.
Presently, 2 Shale gas wells (GNSGB  & GNSGC, Cambay Basin) and 1conventional well with  dual objective (WPGAA,KG Basin) are under drilling.
b.
Coal Bed Methane (CBM) Of the total thirty-three CBM Blocks awarded by GOI to  various operators through four rounds of bidding and  nomination, ONGC was awarded nine CBM blocks.
Due to poor CBM potential, concluded on the basis of  the data generated in the exploratory activities, five  Blocks viz.
Satpura (Madhya Pradesh), Wardha  (Maharashtra), Barmer-Sanchor (Rajasthan), North  Karanpura (West) and South Karanpura (Jharkhand)  have been relinquished.
Currently, ONGC is operating four CBM Blocks i.e.,  Jharia, Bokaro, North Karanpura (Jharkhand) and  Raniganj (West Bengal),FDP of which has been  approved.
Nearly 400 wells and 2000 hydro-fracturing  jobs have to be carried out in the coming 4-5 years as  per timelines of the CBM Contract.
In view of the  mammoth and time bound task, ONGC is in the  process of farming out its participative interest (PI) to  experienced CBM players through formation of JV .
Farm out Agreement (FoA) for North Karanpura Block  has been signed on October 7, 2014 with M/s Prabha  Energy Pvt.
Ltd (PEPL) with assignment of 25% PI from  ONGC’s share.
Documents have been submitted to  DGH for Government’s approval of PI assignment.
Joint Venture for farming out in Bokaro Block is being  negotiated.
Further, offers for formation of Joint  Venture for Jharia and Raniganj blocks are being  invited.
Sale of incidentally CBM gas from existing wells at  Parbatpur of Jharia block is continuing and as on  April 1, 2015 cumulative gas supply has been  13,875,102 SCM.
c. Underground Coal Gasification (UCG) ONGC with GIPCL selected Vastan Mine block site in  Gujarat as an R&D project to establish UCG technology.
All the ground work and inputs for construction and  implementation of UCG Pilot Project at Vastan, has  been completed and further development is awaiting  award of Mining Lease by Ministry of Coal (MoC), GoI.
Further, a number of sites have been jointly identified  by ONGC & Neyveli Lignite Corporation Limited (NLC)  for studying their suitability to UCG.
These are  T adkeshwar in Gujarat and Hodu-Sindhari & East Kurla  in Rajasthan.
One more site was jointly identified by  ONGC & GMDC viz.
Surkha in Bhavnagar district,  Gujarat.
The data of all the fields have already been  analyzed for evaluating the suitability of these sites for  UCG.
All the sites have been found suitable for UCG  exploration.
Oil & Gas Projects In recent years your Company took up 15 projects for  development of 39 new/marginal oil and gas fields with  an investment of `386,024 million.
Out of these 15  projects, 11 projects have already been completed.
Production from development of G-1 & GS-15 fields has  already commenced.
Rest three projects, Development  of WO-16 Cluster, C-26 Cluster and B-127 Cluster, are  under implementation and are expected to be completed  in FY’17.
Further, Improved Oil Recovery (IOR),  Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR) and redevelopment  projects were also taken up by your Company for prudent  reservoir management and arresting decline from  matured fields.
21 of 26 such projects have so far been  completed.
Two projects i.e., “Heera & South Heera  Redevelopment Project” and “Development of Western  Periphery of Mumbai High South” project is likely to be  completed by Mid FY’16 and the remaining three  projects i.e., “Redevelopment of Mumbai High North  Phase-III”, “Redevelopment of Mumbai High South  Phase-III” and “Additional development of Vasai East” will  be completed by the year 2017-18.
Details about the projects completed during the year  2014-15, new projects taken up are given as below:  Annual Report 2014-15 Board's Report 56 1.
Financial Results Despite volatile markets and sharing under-recoveries of ` 362,996 million during the year 2014-15, your Company has  earned a Profit After T ax (PAT) of `177,330 million, down 19.74% over FY 2013-14 (`220,948 million).
During 2014-15,  your Company registered Gross revenue of  `830,935 million, down 1.32 % over 2013-14 (`842,028 million).
lGross Revenue : ` 830,935 million Profit After Tax : 177,330 million Contribution to Exchequer : 421,074 million Return on Capital Employed :      33.2 % Debt-Equity Ratio : 0.0096 :1 Earnings Per Share ( ) : 20.73 Book Value Per Share ( ) : 168 l `  l `  l l l ` l ` Highlights Oil and Gas projects approved by ONGC Board during FY'2014-15 Sl.
Name of Projects Approved Cost (`million) 1 MHN Redevelopment Phase-III 58,133 6.997 MMT of Oil and 5.253 BCM of gas by the year 2029-30 2 MHS Redevelopment Phase-III 60,688 7.547 MMT of oil and 3.864 BCM of gas by the year 2029-30 3 Additional Development of Vasai 24,768 1.827 MMT of Oil and 1.971 BCM of gas by the year 2029-30 4 Integrated Development of Daman 60,861 5.01 MMm3 of condensate and 27.67 BCM of gas by the year 2024-25 5 Enhanced Recovery from Bassein field through Integrated  of Mukta, Bassein & Panna 6 Pipeline replacement Project-IV 28,999 Total 279,648 Incremental Oil & Gas gain No 46,199 19.36 BCM of gas 1.97 Development Mm3 of condensational, 0.183 mmt of oil  till 2027-28 Board's Report 57 The decrease in Profit during FY 14 -15 as compared to FY  13-14 is mainly due to higher exploratory wells written off  and reduction in quantity sold as well as lower price  realization of value added products.
Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of Section 129  read with Rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, a  separate statement containing the salient features of the  financial statement of its subsidiaries, associate company  and joint venture in Form AOC-1 forms part of the Financial  Statements.
2. Dividend Your Company paid interim dividend of ` 9.00 per share  (180 per cent) in two phases(`5.00 and `4.00).
The  Board of Directors has recommended a final dividend  of ` 0.50 per share(10 per cent) making the aggregate  dividend at `9.50 per share (190 per cent) for FY 14-15  i.e.
same as compared to dividend for the year  2013-14.
The total dividend will be `81,278 million,  besides `16,256 million as tax on dividend amounting  to 55% of PAT .
3.
Management Discussion and Analysis Report As per the terms of Clause 49VIIID of the Listing  Agreement with the Stock Exchanges, the  Management Discussion and Analysis Report (MDAR)  has been included and forms part of the Annual Report  of the Company.
4.
Financial Accounting The Financial Statements have been prepared in  accordance with the Generally Accepted Accounting  Principles (GAAP) and in compliance with all  applicable Accounting Standards and Successful  Efforts Method of accounting as per the Revised  Guidance Note on Accounting for Oil & Gas Producing  Activities issued by The Institute of Chartered  Accountants of India (ICAI) effective from 01.04.2013  and provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
Further, as  per Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) notification, the  financial statements have been prepared under the  Schedule III format of the Companies Act, 2013.
Loans, Guarantees or Investments ONGC is engaged in Exploration & Production business  which is covered under the exemption provided under  Section 186(11) of the Companies Act, 2013.
Accordingly,  the details of loans given, investment made or guarantee or  security given by the company to subsidiaries and  associates is not required to be reported.
Related Party T ransaction Particulars of contracts or arrangements with related  parties referred to in Section 188 of the Companies Act,  2013 in the form AOC-2 form part of Board’s Report and  placed at Annexure-B.
5.
Subsidiaries  I  ONGC Videsh Limited (ONGC Videsh) ONGC Videsh, the wholly-owned subsidiary of  your Company for E&P activities outside India,  has participation in 36 projects in 17 countries  viz., Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Brazil, Colombia,  Iran, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Libya, Mozambique,  Myanmar, New Zealand, Russia, South Sudan,  Sudan, Syria, Venezuela and Vietnam.
Out of 36 projects,  13 are producing, 4 are discovered/ under development, 17  are exploratory and remaining 2 are pipeline projects.
ONGC Videsh is currently producing about 167 thousand  barrels of oil and oil equivalent gas per day and has total oil  st and gas (2P) reserves of about 612 MMtoe as on 31  March  (` in million) Particulars 2014-15 2013-14 Revenue from operations 830,935 842,028 Other Income 53,666 67,132 T otal Revenues 884,601 909,160 Profit Before Interest, Depreciation & T ax (PBIDT) 380,163 433,582 Profit Before T ax (PBT) 265,552 324,319 Profit After Tax (PAT) 177,330 220,948 APPROPRIATION Interim Dividend 77,000 79,138 Proposed Final Dividend 4,278 2,139 T ax on Dividend 16,256 13,807 T ransfer to General Reserve 79,796 125,864 TOTAL 177,330 220,948  Annual Report 2014-15 Board's Report 58 2015.
During FY’15, there is an increase in oil and gas  production by 6.19% (Oil 0.86% and Gas 16.37%) as  compared to previous fiscal year.
The incremental  production is primarily due to better management of fields  and addition in the portfolio.
ONGC Videsh’s share in production of oil and oil equivalent  gas (O+OEG), together with its wholly-owned subsidiaries,  ONGC Nile Ganga B.V ., ONGC Amazon Alaknanda Limited,  Imperial Energy Limited and Carabobo One AB, was 8.874  MMtoe during FY’15 as compared to 8.357 MMtoe during FY’  14.
The oil production increased from 5.486 MMT during FY’14  to 5.533 MMT during FY’15 (0.86% higher) primarily due to  increased share of additional 12% PI in Block BC-10, Brazil.
During FY’15, the company has earned profit after tax of ` 19,042 million, a decrease of 57% as compared to FY’14.
Despite higher production during FY’15, the decrease in  profit is mainly due tolower oil prices, higher financing cost  including exchange loss, higher depletion charge, and  impairment provision in one of the assets.
(A) Significant Acquisitions, Alliances and Operations  highlights of ONGC Videshduring FY’15 are as follows: a) Block PEP 57090, New Zealand: ONGC Videsh was  awarded an exploration permit PEP 57090 in the  T aranaki offshore basin by Government of New Zealand  th on 9  December, 2014.
ONGC Videsh has now started  operations in Pacific Region.
b) During FY’15, ONGC Videsh has signed the  following MoUs: th (i) MoU with ROSNEFT was executed on 24  May,  2014 for cooperation in subsurface surveys,  exploration and appraisal activities and hydrocarbon  production in Russia’s offshore Arctic.
(ii) MoU with TPAO (the Turkish Petroleum  th Company) was executed on 18  June 2014 for  working together for E&P activities in T urkey, joint  participation in bidding for opportunities including  exploration bid rounds in third countries and  pursuit of hydrocarbon opportunities related  research and development activities.
(iii) MoU with YPF S.A. Argentina was executed on st  1 September, 2014 for working to explore  possibility of cooperation in the areas of  Unconventional and Conventional Hydrocarbon  Assets in Argentina, E&P activities in India and in  third countries, research & development activities  and human resources development.
(iv) LoI with Petro Vietnam  was executed on th 15  September, 2014, for expansion of exploration  activities by ONGC Videsh in Vietnam by  considering participation in 2-3 additional blocks  subject to technical and commercial viability and  requisite approvals.
(v) MoU with Pemex-Exploracion Y Produccion  th (PEP) was executed on 25  September, 2014, for  cooperation in the hydrocarbon sector in the fields  of technology, human resources, research &  development.
(vi) MoU with Mubadala Petroleum, UAE was  t h executed on 29  September, 2014, for  collaboration in potential upstream oil & gas  exploration, development and producing projects  and LNG opportunities.
th (vii) HoA with PVEP was executed on 28  October,  2014, for mutual cooperation and participation in  Blocks 102/10 & 106/10 of PVEP and Block 128 of  ONGC Videsh in offshore Vietnam subject to due  diligence and negotiations on the terms of  participation.
(c) Operations i.
In Sakhalin-1 Project, the topside of “Berkut”-world’s  biggest offshore platform in Arkutun-Dagi field, was  successfully floated over from South Korea to Russia  th and installed on 20  June, 2014 with production  th commencing from  5  January,  2015.  ii.
Gas Export Pipeline Remediation project in Block  BC-10, Brazil was successfully commissioned on  st 1  November, 2014 leading to gas export about  0.27 MMSCMD.
iii.
In A-1/A3 Project, Myanmar, plateau gas  production rate of 14.2 MMSCMD was achieved  nd on 2  December, 2014. iv.
Oil production from Petro Carabobo, Venezuela,  th crossed 16,000 BOPD on 16  March, 2015 with  average oil production of 9,775 BOPD during  FY’15 as compared to 3,293 BOPD during FY’14.
v. First crude oil cargo of 1.2 million barrel of Petro  th Carabobowas lifted by RIL on 25  May, 2014 from  Venezuela.
vi.
The ongoing geo-political situation in Syria  including EU sanctions and the resulting restrictions  on contractors continue adversely affecting Syrian  operations since December, 2011. vii.
The operations in South Sudan projects are  temporarily under shutdown after internal conflicts  and adverse security situation in the country since  nd 22  December, 2013.
The operations in South  Sudan shall resume once security situation  improves.
Direct Subsidiaries of ONGC Videsh i. ONGC Nile Ganga B.V. (ONGBV) ONGBV, a subsidiary of ONGC Videsh, is  engaged in E&P activities in Sudan, South  Sudan, Syria, Venezuela, Brazil and  Myanmar.
ONGBV holds 25 per cent   An aerial view of Berkut platform under construction at Arkutun Dagi, Sakhalin.
ONGC  Videsh is currently present in 17 countries across 5 continents with a balanced portfolio of  36 Hydrocarbon properties, with cumulative investment of over USD 23 billion.
Annual Report 2014-15 Board's Report 60 Participating Interest (PI) in Greater Nile Oil Project  (GNOP), Sudan with its share of oil production of about  0.705 MMT during 2014-15.
ONGBV also holds 25 per  cent PI in Greater Pioneer Operating Company  (GPOC), South Sudan.
Due to adverse geo-political  conditions, ONGC Videsh could not produce in GPOC,  South Sudan during FY’15.
ONGBV holds 16.66 per cent to 18.75 per cent PI in four  Production Sharing Contracts in Al Furat Project  (AFPC), Syria.
Due to force majeure condition in Syria,  there was no production in AFPC project during FY’15.
ONGBV holds 40 per cent PI in San Cristobal Project in  Venezuela through its wholly owned subsidiary ONGC  Nile Ganga (San Cristobal) BV with its share of oil  production of about 0.645 MMT during FY’ 15.
ONGBV  holds 27 per cent PI in BC-10 Project in Brazil through  its wholly owned subsidiary ONGC Campos Ltd. with its  share of oil and gas production of about 0.854 MMtoe  during FY’ 15.
It also holds 25 percent PI in Block BM- SEAL-4 located in deep-water offshore, Brazil through  its wholly owned subsidiary ONGC Campos Ltd.  ONGBV also holds 8.347 per cent PI in South East Asia  Gas Pipeline Co. Ltd., (SEAGP) for Pipeline project,  Myanmar through its wholly owned subsidiary ONGC  Caspian E&P B.V .
ii.
ONGC Narmada Limited (ONL) ONL has been retained for acquisition of future  E&P projects in Nigeria.
iii  ONGC Amazon Alaknanda Limited (OAAL) OAAL, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ONGC Videsh,  holds stake in E&P projects in Colombia, through  Mansarovar Energy Colombia Limited (MECL), a 50:50  joint venture company with Sinopec of China.
During  FY’ 15, ONGC Videsh’s share of oil production in MECL  was about 0.626 MMT .
iv.
Imperial Energy Limited  Imperial Energy Limited, a  wholly-owned subsidiar y of  ONGC Videsh incorporated in  Cyprus, has its main activities in  the T omsk region of Western Siberia, Russia.
During  FY’ 15, Imperial Energy’s oil and gas production was  about 0.289 MMT oe.
v. Carabobo One AB Carabobo One AB, a subsidiary of ONGC Videsh  incorporated in Sweden, indirectly holds 11 per cent PI  in Carabobo-1 Project, Venezuela.
During FY’ 15,  Carabobo’s oil production was about 0.066 MMT .
vi.
ONGC (BTC) Limited : ONGC (BTC) Limited holding 2.36 per cent interest in  the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan Pipeline (“BTC”) owns and  operates 1,768 km oil pipeline running through  Azerbaijan, Georgia and T urkey.
The pipeline mainly  carries crude from the ACG fields from Azerbaijan to the  Mediterranean Sea.
vii.
Beas Rovuma Energy Mozambique Limited: Beas Rovuma Energy Mozambique Limited was  incorporated in British Vergin Islands (BVI) and holding  6% PI in Rovuma Area 1, Mozambique.
viii.ONGC Videsh Atlantic Inc.: ONGC Videsh Atlantic Inc. is incorporated in T exas,  United States of America, to work in co-ordination with  Anadarko (Operator of Rovuma Area 1, Mozambique)  and to establish G&G centre etc.
ix.
ONGC Videsh Rovuma Limited: ONGC Videsh Rovuma Limited was incorporated in  Mauritius for structuring of 10% PI in ONGC Videsh’s  Rovuma Area 1, Mozambique.
II  Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited  (MRPL) Your Company continues to hold 71.62 per  cent equity stake in MRPL, a Schedule ‘ A’  Mini Ratna, which is a single location 15  MMTPA Refinery on the West coast.
Performance Highlights FY 2014-15 MRPL achieved the highest-ever thru’put of 14.65 MMT in  FY 14-15 against 14.55 MMT in FY 13-14 .
MRPL exported 4.98 MMT of products against 6.72 MMT in  the previous year.
The exports were low compared to the  previous year due to the commissioning of Delayed Coker  Unit and  increased domestic sale of  Kerosene and HSD   .
Crude sourcing (Receipts): 14.35 MMT; Iran (34.83 per  cent), Saudi Arabia (19.67 per cent), ADNOC (12.12 per  cent), Kuwait (15.12 per cent), Basrah Light (0.8 percent)  Mumbai High (5.03 per cent), Ravva and KG basin (3.50 per  cent) Sonangol (3.81 percent) Spot (5.12 per cent).
Marketing and Retail Operations MRPL continues to expand its market spread in the direct  sales segment of petroleum products in the state of  Karnataka and its adjoining states.
MRPL has significant  market share and direct customer relations for products  such as Bitumen, Fuel Oil, Sulphur, Diesel, Petcoke and  Mixed Xylene in its refinery zone.
The total sales volume of  direct marketing products during the FY 2014-15 was 820  TMT with a sales value of ` 22,970 million compared to  volume of 507 TMT and sales value of ` 25,890 million in the  previous FY 2013-14.
Phase III - Brownfield expansion Project  All the units of  MRPL ’s Phase III up-gradation and expansion  project have been commissioned .
The Polypropylene unit  was inaugurated by Hon'ble Minister (I/C) P&NG on  05-04-2015.
Imperial Energy Board's Report 61 Acquisition of controlling  stake in OMPL  MRPL has increased its stake in OMPL to 51 % by  subscribing to the right issue made by OMPL Subsequently  OMPL has become subsidiary of MRPL and a Government  company under Companies Act, 2013.
6.
Annual Report of Subsidiaries and Consolidated Financial Statement In accordance with Section 134 of the Companies Act,  2013 and the Accounting Standard (AS)–21 on  “Consolidated Financial Statements” read with AS-23  on “Accounting for Investments in Associates” and AS- 27 on “Financial Reporting of Interests in Joint  Ventures”, audited Consolidated Financial Statements  st for the year ended 31  March, 2015 of the Company  and its subsidiaries form part of the Annual Report.
Full Annual Report of subsidiaries of ONGC will be  made available to any shareholder, if he/she desires,  which is also available on Company’s website.
Further,  Annual Reports of MRPL and ONGC Videsh are also available on website www.mrpl.co.in and  www.ongcvidesh.com respectively.
7.
Joint Ventures/ Associates i. ONGC Petro-additions Limited (OPaL) ONGC Petro-additions Limited (OPaL), has  been promoted by your company asa Joint  Venture (JV) Company, with envisaged  equity stake of 26% along with GAIL (15.5%).
GSPC also has a token presence in OPaL.
The balance equity of 58.5% is to be tied up with  Strategic Partners/ FIs / IPO.
OPaL is a mega petrochemical project at Dahej SEZ for  utilizing in-house production of C2-C3 and Naphtha  from various units of ONGC.
Present status • Overall Cumulative progress is 95 %.
st • T otal cumulative expenditure as on 31  March 2015 is   ` 213,110 million.
Approved project cost is ` 270,110 million.
• Debt closure has been attained for approved project  cost of ` 270,110 million with the execution of Rupee  T erm Loan agreement.
• Phase-wise commissioning of the complex has  commenced with stabilized operations envisaged in Q3  2015-16.  ii.
ONGC Tripura Power Company Ltd (OTPC) Your Company has promoted OTPC  with an envisaged stake of 50% along  with Govt.
of T ripura (0.5%) and IL&FS  Energy Development Co. Ltd.  (IEDCL-an IL&FS subsidiary) (26%); the balance 23.5%  has been tied up with India Infrastructure Fund–II acting  through IDFC alternatives Limited.
OTPC has set up a 726.6 MW (2 X 363.3 MW) gas based  Combined Cycle Power Plant (CCCP) at Palatana,  T ripura.
The basic objective of the project is to monetize  idle gas assets of ONGC in land-locked T ripura state  and to boost exploratory efforts in the region.
Present Status • OTPC’s first unit (Unit-1) was dedicated to the Nation by  st the Hon’ble President of India on 21 June, 2013 and its  th commercial operation was achieved on 4 January  2014 in presence of representatives of beneficiary  states.
The second unit was dedicated to nation by  st Hon’ble Prime Minister of India on 1  December, 2014  and its commercial operation was achieved on th 24  March, 2015.
The Plant has been granted provisional tariff by Central  Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC).
The  Ministry of Power has allocated more than 86% of  power from the project (two units) to the NER  beneficiary states while 98 MW is allocated to OTPC for  merchant sales.
The OTPC has signed a gas sale and  purchase agreement (GSPA) with ONGC for supplying  Daily contracted Quantity of 2.65 MMSCMD of gas.
• The 663 KM long 400 KV double circuit transmission  network Palatana-Bongaigaon transmission has been  commissioned up to Bongaigaon by North-East  T ransmission Company Limited (NETCL), a joint  venture of Power Grid Corporation, OTPC and  Governments of the North-Eastern states.
This  development is helping in evacuating power from both  Unit-1and Unit-2.
st • The total expenditure incurred on the project till 31   March, 2015 is `37511 million against the total  estimated cost of `40,470million.
iii.
ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited (OMPL) Your company has promoted OMPL which  has set up Aromatic Complex with an annual  capacity 914 KTPA of Para-xylene and 283  KPTA of Benzene in Mangalore Special  Economic Zone as value chain integration  project of ONGC.
The total project cost is about  `68,750 million and commenced commercial  st operation from 1  October, 2014.
2,59,618 MT of Para-xylene and 61,788 MT of Benzene, have since  been exported in the financial year, as the production is  being ramped up.
After successful commissioning of  OMPL in October, 2014, MRPL has increased its equity  from 3% to 51.002% in February, 2015 with balance  48.998% held by ONGC and thus OMPL has become a  subsidiary of MRPL.
iv.
Dahej SEZ Ltd (DSL)  Your company as Lead Promoter has  developed a multi-product SEZ at Dahej  in coastal Gujarat .Your Company is  setting up C2-C3 Extraction Plant on its  own and value-chain integration project  – OPaL through JV route in this SEZ Area.
Your   Annual Report 2014-15 Board's Report 62 company has 23% equity in the project with GIDC  having 26% and balance 51% is proposed to be tied up  through IPO / Strategic / Financial Investor.
Present status:  • SEZ is already operational and units in SEZ have  clocked export of `19,740 million in FY 2013-14 and  `21,050 million in FY 2014-15. v. Mangalore Special Economic Zone Limited (MSEZ) With an envisaged equity stake of 26%  along with KIADB (23%), IL&FS (50%),  OMPL (0.96%) and KCCI (0.04%),  ONGC has set up MSEZ to serve as site  for development of necessar y  infrastructure to facilitate and locate ONGC/MRPL ’s  Aromatic complex being promoted by ONGC.
Present Status:  Commercial Operation Date (COD) has been declared  st on 1  April, 2015. vi.
Petronet MHB Limited (PMHBL) • PMHBL is a JV company wherein your company has an  equity stake of 28.7% along  with HPCL (28.7%) and PIL  (7.9%) with balance 34.57per  cent of equity being held by  leading banks.
• PMHBL owns and operates a multi–product pipeline to  transport MRPL ’s products to the hinterland of  Karnataka.
• In FY’15 PMHBL pipeline has achieved a throughput of  3.141MMT against total throughput of 3.073 MMT last  year.
As per audited results for the year 2014-15, the  turnover and PAT of PMHBL are `1,071 million and ` 341million respectively.
vii.
ONGC TERI Biotech Limited (OTBL)  ONGC TERI Biotech Limited  ( O T B L )  w h i c h  w a s   th incorporated on 26  March,  2007  is a Joint-venture  C o m p a n y  o f  O N G C  i n   association with The Energy  Research Institute (TERI), with shareholding of 49.98%  & 48.02%, respectively.
Through the efforts of joint  research of ONGC & TERI over the years, OTBL is  offering below mentioned technologies and providing  various Biotechnical Solutions to Oil and Gas Industry,  both in India and abroad:  OilzapperTechnology (Bioremediation)- used to  eliminate & tackle Oil Spills, Oily Sludge, and  hazardous hydro carbon waste; Paraffin Degrading Bacteria (PDB)-  used to prevent  Paraffin Deposition in Oil well T ubing; Wax Deposition Prevention (WDP)- used to prevent  Paraffin Deposition in surface and sub-surface flow lines;  Microbial Enhanced Oil Recovery (MeOR)- used for  Enhanced Oil Recovery by mobilizing crude oil  trapped in pores of Oil Reservoirs.
During 2014-15 the turnover of OTBL was `180.0 Million  with Profit after T ax of ` 45.1 Million as against turnover  of `141.0 Million and Profit af ter Ta x of  ` 44.8 Million in the previous year.
viii.
Petronet LNG Limited (PLL)    ONGC has 12.5 per cent equity stake in  PLL, identical to stakes held by other Oil  PSU co-promoters viz., IOCL, GAIL and  BPCL.
Dahej LNG terminal of PLL  having a capacity of 10 MMTPA is  currently meeting nearly 20 per cent of  the total gas demand of the country.
Dahej LNG  T erminal is being further expanded from 10 MMTPA to  15 MMTPA.
The construction activities continue as  planned and the project is expected to be completed  by end 2016.
A new LNG terminal of capacity 5 MMTPA has been set  up at Kochi and has already been dedicated to the  Nation.
The Company is also planning to set up an LNG  terminal of capacity 5 MMTPA at Gangavaram, Andhra  Pradesh.
The turnover of PLL during 2014-15 is ` 395,010 million and net profit is  ` 8,825 million.
ix.
Pawan Hans Limited (PHL) ONGC has 49 per cent equity  stake in PHL (previously known  as Pawan Hans Helicopters  Limited).
Balance 51 per cent  e q u i t y  i s  h e l d  b y  t h e   Government of India.
PHL is one of Asia’s largest  helicopter operators having a well-balanced  operational fleet of 46 helicopters.
It provides  helicopter support for ONGC’s offshore operations.
PHL was successful in providing all the 12 Dauphin N  and N3 helicopters fully compliant with AS-4 as per the  new contract with ONGC.
8.
Other New Projects/ Business initiatives C2-C3-C4 Extraction Plant • Your company has set up a C2, C3 and C4  Extraction Plant at Dahej having a capacity to  process 5.0 MMTPA Rich Liquefied Natural  Gas (LNG) from M/s Petronet LNG Limited (PLL)  as feed stock, for extraction of C2, C3 & C4  products.
• The plant will be commissioned shortly.
• These extracted C2, C3 and C4 products would be  feed stock for ONGCs promoted Joint  Venture OPaL in the same SEZ at Dahej.
They  would form 40 % feed stock for upcoming OPaL  Project.
• However till the star ting operations and  stabilization of OPaL, ONGC shall be  producing LPG by blending C3 & C4 in the  requisite ratio and would be sold to Oil Marketing  Companies.
Board's Report 63 9.
Alliances & Partnerships for Business Growth a. MoU between ONGC, BPCL, Mitsui and NMPT ONGC along its consortium partners BPCL and  Japanese conglomerate Mitsui signed a MoU with  the New Mangalore Port trust (NMPT) on t h  18 March, 2013.
The MoU documents Port’s No- Objection to carry out feasibility studies and  intention to extend all cooperation to the  consortium in this regard.
The consortium has  carried out the pre-feasibility study of the project  and found that terminal is technically feasible and  the same had been presented to NMPT .
Based on  the report, NMPT has conveyed its no objection to  the consortium, for carrying out detailed  feasibility studies for the identified locations,  subject to adherence to navigational safety  requirements.
Commercial prefeasibility study is  being carried out.
b. MoU for setting up a Special Purpose Vehicle  (SPV) for implementing Renewable Energy  projects Your company is likely to be a lead partner in a Joint  Venture Company being set up through Special  Purpose Vehicle (SPV) for implementing large scale  grid-connected solar, wind and other renewable  energy (including hybrid) power projects.
An MOU for creating such a JVC was signed on  th 25  February, 2014 between the Ministry of New  & Renewable Energy and Ministry of Petroleum &  Natural Gas, Govt of India.
This JVC shall be for grid connected renewable  energy and would be led by ONGC as the lead  partner with likely 26% equity and other Oil  upstream companies like OIL and GAIL along with  EIL, IREDA and SECI as partners, equity  percentage of each one of them to be decided  later.
Feasibility study for formation of SPV has  been done by EIL and report has been submitted  to MoPNG.
10.
Information Technology Considering the need to ensure implementation of  cutting edge technology in all areas of operations and  to ensure data integrity and security, ONGC has  deployed state-of-the–art IT tools and technologies.
In  a knowledge-driven and technology-intensive industry  such as oil & gas E&P, information technology  establishes the vital synergy across the company’s  many locations and varied workforce, essentially  serving as its operations’ lifeline.
Many of the IT  achievements of the Company are regarded as  benchmarks in the industry in terms of implementation  of widespread systems integration and process  automation.
Highlights for the year 2014-15 • Consequent to allotment of transponder on GSAT  10 satellite in lieu of INSAT 3E by Department of  Space, Govt.
of India, Satcom stations were  successfully migrated to GSAT 10 satellite using  in-house capabilities.
On the directive from  M o P & N G ,  a  m e e t i n g  w a s  h e l d  w i t h   representatives of Indian Space Research  Organisation (ISRO) on 05.09.2014 to work-out  the use of space applications in E&P sector.
ISRO  has constituted a five member team which will  interact with ONGC team to work-out the use of  space applications in E&P sector.
• ISO/IEC 20000: 2011 accreditation for IT Services  has been extended to all locations covering entire  ONGC, after successful external audit during th th 8 -12  September, 2014.
• Crisis Management Plan (CMP) for Countering  Cyber Attacks and Cyber T errorism prepared  based on CERT-In template and got validated from  security expert of CMC and submitted to EC for  approval.
CMP Incident Management   team was  constituted at corporate level, which will meet  weekly or in case of requirement, to oversee  resolution of incidents and discuss mitigation  plans for upcoming / known threats & which are  communicated by NCIIPC, CERT-in etc.
• Infocom has developed “O Drive” facility for  ONGCians.
With “O Drive” facility, documents can  be stored in a centralized server which can be  accessed from anywhere.
This effort is alternative  option to the usage of USB drives and thus  contributes for Information security • Developed a complete pipeline information  system In-house and rolled out at Mehsana&  Rajahmundry Assets.
The system feature includes  facility to view other geographical information  such as nearby locations of hospitals, schools fire  stations etc., facility to measure distance between  any two points, liquid flow direction animation etc.
Distinctive colours adopted for different type of  lines.
The facility can be accessed from anywhere  on ONGC Intranet with user login authentication.
• Participated in the CERT-in simulated cyber- attacks based Cyber Security Drill on 23.12.2014,  along with 47 other organizations, to assess  ONGC preparedness to withstand the possible  cyber-attacks.
The Cyber Security Drill was  completed successfully and Cyber Security Crisis  Management T eam was able to detect and analyze  the incidents and inform CERT-in within given time.
• A portal for Public Grievances was developed in- house to facilitate public to launch their complaints  Annual Report 2014-15 Board's Report 64 online.
This web-based Grievance redressal  initiative of ONGC reinforces focus on Digital India  project which aims to leverage technology to  maintain the Citizen-Government Interface with  the highest integrity.
Through this portal,  citizen/vendor/employee/former-employee can  register their grievances relating to any  operational wing of ONGC, through an  online/single window system.
Facility available for  monitoring the complaint status by the complainer.
• A portal for JRM (Joint Review Meeting) of  T echnology and Field services was developed in- house to cater to the complete JRM requirements  for conducting the meeting smoothly.
JRM  members can upload the presentations, tour  program details, ATR for previous meetings etc.
Notifications/ messages can be generated  through this portal and be sent as SMS as well as  mail to the members.
11.
Health, Safety and Environment(HSE)   Safety, Occupational health and protection of  environment in and around its workingareas are prime  concerns of ONGC.
ONGC has implemented globally  recognized QHSE Management System conforming to  requirements of QHSE Certifications ISO 9001 ISO  14001 and ISO 18001(OHSAS) at ONGC facilities and  certified by reputed certification agencies at all its  operational units.
During the year 2014-15, 412 Nos.
of  installations of ONGC wer e audited for  certification/surveillance audit.
Corporate guidelines  on incident reporting, investigation and monitoring of  recommendations was developed and implemented  for maintaining uniformity throughout the organization  in line with international practice.
A few highlights of HSE during 2014-15 are: • Regular QHSE internal audits  • Fire safety measures including regular fire and earthquake mock drills  • T raining on HSE related topics  • Environmental analysis  • PME of employees and Health Awareness programs  • Water and electricity conservation Noise and pollution reduction measures  • Material Safety Data Sheets(MSDS)  • Personal protective Equipment’s(PPE)  • Solid waste management and Developing E- waste disposal procedure  • Identification and implementation of Environment Management Programmes (EMP).
• Occupation Health & Safety(OHS) programs as per need of the unit • Energy conservation awareness through display and communication  • Accident near miss and Governance Risk   Compliance (GRC) reporting.
• Mines Vocational T raining for Petty Contractual Workers ONGC is now an Accredited Environment Impact  Assessment (EIA) Consultant organization by Ministry  of Environment & Forest (MoEF) in Oil and Gas  Exploration Development and Production in  Of fshore/Onshore areas and Petroleum refining  industry.
Approval by DSIR ONGC Institutes have received the renewal of recognition of  In-house R&D unit by Department of Scientific and  Industrial Research (DSIR) for a period of five years (valid till  st 31  March, 2018) on 26.03.2013.
This will enable ONGC  Institutes to continue claiming weighted deduction in  Income T ax (200%) against the expenditure towards R&D  activities.
Patenting R&D Work 1.
One Patent proposal of IRS, Ahmedabad on “Process  and composition for cleaning scale deposits of effluent  dispatch lines” has been submitted to Centralized  Patent Cell, KDMIPE in March, 2015.
2.
Patent application has been made by CEWELL for  patenting the innovative technique for TOC estimation.
The TOC estimated by this  technique in first shale gas  well matches very well with TOC data obtained through  laboratory  study on cutting samples.
This validates the  new technique developed by CEWELL and its  applicability in   Indian basins.
12.
Carbon Management & Sustainability Development ONGC being one of the premier energy majors of the  world and the highest profit earning PSU of India  realises its responsibilities in ensuring sustained  development through protection of the ecological  system.
It therefore strives to position itself as a leading  organisation in sustainable management and is aiming  to achieve sustainable development through a holistic  approach to carbon management.
ONGC believes that  focused Carbon Management efforts are an ideal route  to cover the elements of our business specific  sustainable development issues across the  environmental dimensions.
A critical area of  environmental sustainability is mitigation of global  greenhouse gas from operations.
It isan organizational  objective for us to progressively reduce our carbon  footprint by working towards reduction in both direct  and indirect energy consumption.
Sustainable development requires contribution of all  the societal players and with increasingly dominant  role of modern day corporates; they can contribute  significantly towards sustainable development.
ONGC  has created a small group called  “Carbon  Board's Report 65 Management & Sustainability Group”  with a  mandate for developing CDM projects, Sustainability  reporting, Carbon & Water Management and focussed  R&D in the area of low carbon.
The following efforts  undertaken by ONGC illustrate its commitment to  Sustainable Development:  Project status: 1.
Clean Development Mechanism (CDM): ONGC commenced its CDM journey in 2006.
Till date,  ONGC has registered 12 CDM projects with UNFCCC.
2 new CDM projects validated and 2 already registered  projects successfully verified for issuance of CERs.
Validation of New CDM projects 1.
Gas Flare Recovery at GGS Chariali, Assam 2.
Energy Savings by replacement of MOL pump at Neelam&Heera Asset Verification & Issuance of Registered CDM projects 1.
Gas Flaring Reduction at Uran Plant 2.
51 MW wind power project of ONGC at Surajbari 2.
Carbon and Water Foot printing: Carbon Foot printing: GHG Accounting & GHG mitigation projects Comprehensive company-wide GHG accounting had  been completed for the base year 2010-11 and it is  found that ONGC has 8,234,853 and 281,178 tons of  CO2 emissions under    Scope 1 – Direct Emissions  and Scope 2 – Energy Indirect Emissions respectively.
Based on the study, 11 focus areas and projects have  been identified.
It is proposed to undertake the  feasibility study of eleven identified GHG mitigation  projects.
Global Methane Initiative (GMI):   The Global Methane Initiative (GMI) is an action-oriented  initiative from United State Environmental Protection  Agency (USEPA) to reduce global fugitive methane  emissions to enhance economic growth, promote energy  securit y, improve the environment, and reduce  greenhouse gases emission.
The Global Methane Initiative  facilitates cooperative mitigation activities that result in  bringing more gas to markets through Identification,  Quantification, and Reduction (IQR) path.
ONGC entered into a MoU with the USEPA in August 2007,  to undertake Methane to Market (now GMI) projects in  ONGC and over the years since its joining into the program,  ONGC has formed a dedicated team and has procured  methane emission detection and measurement equipment  in order to undertake Fugitive Emission detection and  quantification at its operating facilities and has reduced  approx.
14 MMSCM over the years.
This is equivalent to  reductions of over 2 lakhs tCO e emitting into atmosphere.2 Fugitive emission Identification & Quantification (IQ) jobs have  been completed as per Performance Contract (PC) targets.
Assam Asset, Ankleshwar Asset &Hazira plant were mapped  for fugitive emissions.
The reports have been submitted to  respective work centres to take corrective actions.
Water Foot printing: Sustainable water management: Every business depends and impacts on water resources.
The future of business depends on the   sustainability of  water resources, which are increasingly under pressure.
With freshwater supplies tightening due to overuse and  more extreme weather patterns, business is coming under  more pressure to measure and cut water use.
ONGC is  concerned towards the risks and benefits of water  management and exploring new techniques to cut  consumption.
ONGC’s Sustainable Water Management  policy is based on philosophy of 4 “R” i.e.
Reduce, Reuse,  Recycle & Replenish.
CM&SG is entrusted with the  responsibility of steering SWM projects across ONGC.
CM&SG is working on following projects in this area: Water footprint study in Ahmedabad Asset and IPSHEM,  Goa: For the first time an in-house footprint study has been done  without engaging any external agency.
The project was  completed ahead of schedule.
Setting up sea water desalination plant at Uran: LOA for techno-commercial and environmental feasibility  study for proposed 20 MLD sea water desalination plant has  been placed on M/s MECON India.
Setting up desalination plants at ONGC work centres  located near coastal areas and at MRPL: It is proposed to set up desalination plants at ONGC work  centres located near coastal areas (Hazira Plant,  Ankleshwar Asset, Cauvery Asset-Karaikal, Rajahmundry  Asset & Eastern Offshore Asset-Kakinada) and at MRPL as  a SWM measure, in order to mitigate future sustainability  risk due to declining fresh water availability.
It is proposed to  initially conduct techno-commercial and environmental  feasibility study and based on the affirmative outcome of  the feasibility report, implementation of setting up  desalination plant at the respective work centre may be  undertaken.
Rain water Harvesting: Rain Water Harvesting (RWH) projects are implemented/  being implemented at different work centres of ONGC  under the umbrella of Sustainable Water Management.
The  harvested water is being used for beneficial use like  gardening, toilet flushing, etc and also for recharging of  ground water aquifers.
The RWH projects have been taken  up at Ahmedabad Asset, T ripura Asset, WOB Vadodara and  IPSHEM Goa.
Sewage T reatment Plant (STP) at Mehsana Asset:  Administrative approval accorded for setting up three  STP’s (each of capacity 100 KLD) at ONGC Nagar,  Mehsana.
Finalization of scope of work and tendering  process is being taken up by Mehsana Asset.
Annual Report 2014-15 Board's Report 66 Produced Water Management at Mehsana Asset: CM&SG and Mehsana Asset have jointly undertaken  produced water management in a holistic manner through a  Multi-disciplinary T eam (MDT) under sustainable water  management umbrella in line with EC decision.
Integrated Watershed/Check dam Management at  Mehsana: ONGC as a responsible corporate wants to expand its  activities in sustainable water management beyond its  operational boundaries.
As a first step Mehsana Asset has  been chosen as it is one of the worst affected regions as far as  water scarcity is concerned.
The project will be a CSR project  in association with CM&SG, Mehsana Asset and local  concerned authorities.
The project is at present exists as a  concept and implementation roadmap is being worked out.
SD through focussed R&D and collaborations ONGC is committed towards reduction of greenhouse  gases (GHG) emissions and is actively pursuing various  R&D projects towards CO2 capture and sequestration in  following ways: • Sequestration by Algal biomass • Conversion into useful products ONGC has signed NDA (Non-Disclosure Agreement)  with following Finnish agencies • Ripasso Energy, Sweden in the field of Solar CSP-ST technology,  • Chempolis, Finland in the area of 3G bio refinery.
• Cleen, Finland in the area of CCSP, EFEU and BEST program • VTT, Finland in the area of water management At present, however, CM&SG  has been pursuing the CCSP  programme with CLEEN for the CO2 capture and  reformation programme at Hazira plant.
Setting up of 3G Bio-refinery ONGC is planning to setup a 3G bio-refinery (first of its kind  in India) to meet the government mandate of E95 (blending  of 5% ethanol to gasoline).
T o this effect, ONGC had signed  NDA &MoU with Chempolis, Finland.
This endeavor would  create a new business dimension for ONGC.
Chempolis  had conducted feasibility study for the state of Punjab and  the same is under consideration.
Carbon Capture & Sequestration ONGC has also collaborated with CLEEN, Finland in the  area of carbon capture and joined its program named  Carbon Capture & Storage Program (CCSP).
This program  works on sharing knowledge among consortium members  and working on the specific goals.
Consortium agreement  has been signed for ONGC specific work package at  Hazira.
Solar power CSP-ST technology Ripasso Energy has specific and unique expertise in the  Concentrated Solar Power (CSP) technology.
CSP  technology is based on “Stirling Engine technology”, a unit  has a typical power output of 30 KW.
An inherited modular  design ideally suited for volume electricity production with  an outstanding conversion efficiency of 32%, provides a  number of benefits compared to other solar thermal  technologies.
CM&SG is in talk with Rippaso Energy for  establishing a 3MW pilot solar power project at Gamnewala,  Jaisalmer.
The project proposal is under consideration.
Pilot project on CO  sequestration through microalgae2 at Hazira plant Algae have recently received a lot of attention as a new  biomass source for the  production of renewable energy.
Some of the main characteristics which set algae apart from  other biomass sources are that algae have a high biomass  yield per unit of light and area, can have a high oil or starch  content, do not require agricultural land, fresh water is not  essential and nutrients can be supplied by wastewater and  CO  by combustion gas.
2 The pilot project was set up at Hazira plant with an aim to  sequester CO  from vent gas (released during sweeting 2 process of sour gas) with the microalgae and convert into  value added products.
The results are encouraging which  shows that 50% of the CO  from the SRU vent could be 2 absorbed by the absorption medium in the absorption  column at a pressure of 0.5 Bar.
The carbonated medium,  when transferred to the raceway pond, inoculated with  microalgal strain, showed appreciable algal growth (18 g/m2/day), which was harvested.
The harvested  biomass was tested at BITS Pilani, Goa Campus for the  potential of bio-methane generation.
It was found that the  biomass have good potential of bio-methane generation.
(336 Litre/ when fed with 0.5 KgVS /m3/day).
Waste to Fuel project (under Swach Bharat Abhiyan) MoP&NG has desired to take a project on waste to fuel at  Puri, Odisha under Swachh Bharat Abhiyan (SBA) as a part  of Corporate Social Responsibility.
The project being of  specialized nature and involving technical expertise is  being steered by CM&SG.
Following steps were taken: • MDT has been formulated to take project forward • Meeting with Puri administration had been concluded.
• Draft EoI has been put up for approval before floating for identifying technology and prospective bidders.
Disclosing sustainability performance- Sustainability  Reporting Sustainability reporting, the practice of measuring,  disclosing, and being accountable to internal and external  stakeholders for organizational performance towards the  goal of sustainable development is being increasingly  adopted by organizations.
Sustainability Reporting is also  believed to lead to improved sustainable development  outcomes as it allows organizations to measure, track, and  improve their performance on specific issues along the  three bottom lines.
Published third party assured A+ sustainability report  for ONGC group of companies including ONGC Videsh and  Board's Report 67 MRPL (GRI-G3.0 complaint with Oil and gas sector  supplement and BRR).
Capacity building & knowledge Dissemination CM&SG has three tier knowledge dissemination  approaches on carbon, water management and  sustainable development.
• Annual T raining Program at ONGC Academy • Programs at Petrotech • Awareness programs at different work-centers T otal seven awareness programs were conducted by  CM&SG at CFB Silchar, RFB Jodhpur, Western Offshore  Basin Mumbai, MBA Basin Kolkata, Cauvery Asset Karaikal,  WOB Vadodara and Cauvery & KG-PG Basin.
T otal 240  executives participated in the program.
rd A two day 3  CM&SG meet was conducted at Goa in  January, 2015 for an in depth interaction of CM&SG and SD  officers from all ONGC work centers to strategize the pursuit  of SD activities in ONGC.
A two day seminar on “Innovation for Sustainability  Dividend” was conducted by CM&SG in association with  Petrotech Society at Delhi during November, 2014.
The  seminar was attended by representatives across Indian oil  & gas industries, institutes working in the sustainability and  representatives from ONGC.
rd SD brochure was published during 3  CM&SG meet.
The  brochure would be a communication tool to communicate  ONGC’s triple bottom line performance (economic, social  and environmental) and sustainability practices.
This  brochure highlights the considerable work done in the  sustainability space, SD initiatives and performance.
rd  Film on Sustainability was unveiled during 3 CM&SG  meet by Governor of Goa in the presence of Director-I/c- CM&SG.This small film highlights the journey of ONGC in  the pursuit of sustainable development.
Stake holder engagement meet Two stakeholders engagement meets were organized to  map and prioritise the key sustainability issues of ONGC.
The first meet was meant for internal stakeholders who had  prioritized the set of issues which would impact the  business sustainability of ONGC.
The second meet was for  the external stakeholders who had prioritized the issues  whose impacts on ONGC would impact their business  sustainability.
The outcome of the two reports, upon  juxtaposition, has generated the key materiality issues of  ONGC to work upon.
This is the first time such an exercise  was undertaken.
Other Initatives: Corporate Waste Management Policy: Your company  approved Corporate Waste Management Policy and the  same will be reviewed after every three years.
• T rading policy on monetizing of CER shas been  approved and will be operational shortly.
• Carbon Neutrality: ONGC has taken a conscious  decision to reduce its carbon footprint as a part of its  sustainable development programme.
As a first step  towards this mission, CM&SG has undertaken a maiden  initiative to render the carbon footprints of three major  areas neutralised for 2013-14.
The areas are : vAir travel of all ONGC employees including to and  fro local surface transportation to airport.
vConsumption of electricity, paper, LPG and fuel for  local transportation from IPE Campus, IDT, IEOT,  IRS and IPSHEM vFlaring and electricity consumption of Uran Plant.
Carbon neutrality is essentially a concept of having a  net zero GHG footprint of an activity.
The entire  process involved a detailed GHG accounting of the  activity and offsetting the footprint.
The total footprint  of the activities is 1,37, 345 tons of CO  equivalent and 2 has been offset by retiring an equivalent quantity of  carbon credits issued against the registered CDM  projects of ONGC.
13.  Business Responsibility Report – 2014-15 Securities & Exchange Board of India has introduced  Clause 55 to the Listing Agreement with the Stock  Exchanges, which states that Listed entities shall  submit, as part of their Annual Report, Business  Responsibility Report, describing the initiatives taken  by them from an environmental, social and governance  perspective.
Accordingly, the third Business  Responsibility Report – 2014-15 has been drawn up  and forms part of the Annual Report for 2014-15.
14.
Internal Control System Your Company has a well-established and efficient  internal control system and procedure.
The Company  has a well-defined delegation of financial powers to its  various executives through the Book of Delegated  Powers (BDP).
The Integrated BDP is updated from time- to-time in line with the needs of the organisation as well  as to bring further delegation.
BDP has been revised  during FY 14-15 and the same has been made effective  from 01.01.2015.
The Company has in-house Internal  Audit Department commensurate with its size of  operations.
Audit observations are periodically reviewed  by the Audit &Ethics Committee of the Board and  necessary directions are issued whenever required.
15.
R&D EFFORTS THROUGH ONGC ENERGY CENTRE  TRUST(OECT) Your company has taken steps to evaluate various  forms of energy to fulfil the country’s growing energy  needs.
Towards this end, your company has  established an ONGC Energy Centre T rust (OECT),  which is mandated to undertake or assist in programs /  projects of fundamental and applied research for  improving and developing commercially viable energy  Annual Report 2014-15 Board's Report 68 mediums and sources beyond hydrocarbons,  especially in clean and/or renewable energy options.
ONGC Energy Centre (OEC) has been set-up under  the aegis of the OEC T rust to work on various clean  energy options.
Your company through ONGC Energy Centre has been  implementing several Research Projects on new and  alternative sources of energy.
These Projects are in  advanced stages of implementation, in collaboration  with various national and international academic,  research and industrial organizations.
The projects  where your company is currently engaged in are: a) Hydrogen Generation through Thermo-chemical Processes b) Exploration for Uranium c) Bioconversion of lignite to Methane d) Bioconversion of Oil to Methane  e) Kinetic Hydro Power  f) Geothermal Energy g) Solar Thermal Project These apart, during 2014-15, ONGC Energy Centrehas  also evaluated many new options to expand the  research and technology development activities and  also to focus on optimum utilization of resources  available with ONGC.
These efforts have been  described in detail in the Annexure Con Energy  Conservation.
Further, a Board Level Committee on Research &  Development has been constituted.
The first meeting of  the Committee was held on 27.05.2015 and the terms of  reference of the Committee have been approved.
16.
Human Resources Your Company values its Human Resources the most.
T o keep their morale high, your company extends  several welfare benefits to the employees and their  families by way of comprehensive medical care,  education, housing and social security.
17.
Employee Welfare  Your Company continues to extend welfare benefits to  the employees and their dependants by way of  comprehensive medical care, education, housing, and  social security.
Your Company continues to align  company policies with changing economy and  business environment.
Employee Welfare T rusts – Your Company has established the following major  T rusts for welfare of employees:- Employees Contributory Provident Fund(ECPF)  Trust, manages Provident Fund accounts of  employees of your Company.
The Post Retirement Benefit Scheme (PRBS) T rust of  your Company manages the pension fund of  employees of your company which has been  converted into a Defined Contribution Scheme as per  DPE guidelines.In the converted Defined Contribution  Scheme, the corpus in the individual employee  account shall include employer/ employee  contributions and interest thereon.
The benefits under  the Scheme are dependent on corpus in the individual  employee account and accordingly, would be market  determined which depends on interest rate, annuity  price etc.
The Composite Social Security Scheme(CSSS)  formulated by your company provides an assured ex- gratia payment in the event of unfortunate death or  permanent disability of an employee in service.
In case  of Separation other than Death/Permanent total  disability, employees own contribution alongwith  interest is refunded.
Gratuity Fund T rust exists for payment of gratuity as  per the provisions of the Gratuity Act.
Your Company has a Sahayog T rust for its Sahayog  Yojana to provide ex-gratia financial grant for  sustenance, medical assistance, treatment,  rehabilitation, education, marriage of female  dependent and alleviation of any hardship or distress  to secure the Welfare of the workforce and their kin,  who do not have adequate means of support.
The  beneficiaries under this scheme includes casual,  contingent, daily rated, part time, adhoc, contract  appointees, tenure based employees, apprentices  and trainees employed by your Company besides  regular and past employees.
Under the scheme an  amount of ` 5770 million were disbursed by the T rust  during the year.
Extension of Benefits under the Asha Kiran Scheme  to retired employees:-    The Asha Kiran Scheme was introduced to meet the  emergency needs of the ex-employees retired prior to  01.01.2007, who are passing through distressful  situation.
The scheme was launched as per DPE  guidelines by creating a corpus of 1.5% of PBT .
During  the year, under this scheme financial assistance of  `1780 million was provided to 14698 ex-employee.
Persons with Disabilities ONGC believes in affording equal opportunities to  physically challenged people.
As on 31.03.2015, there  were 156 permanent employees with disabilities  (0.5%) on the rolls of ONGC.
Implementation of Govt.
Directives for Priority  Section Your Company complies with the Government  directives for Priority Section of the society.
The  percentage of Scheduled Castes(SC) and Scheduled  ONGC has signed a Memorandum of Collaboration with the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) to work towards a collective R&D programme for developing indigenous technologies to enhance exploration & exploitation of  hydrocarbons and alternate sources of energy in the gracious presence of Hon'ble Minister of Human Resources Smt.
Smriti  Irani and Hon'ble MoS (I/C), Petroleum & Natural Gas Shri Dharmendra Pradhan.
ONGC has entered into an MoU with Super Wave T echnology Pvt.
Ltd. ( SWTPL) for doing research on alternate technology for  hydraulic fracturing.
The MoU was signed in the gracious presence of Hon'ble Prime Minister of India Shri Narendra Modi and  Hon'ble MoS (I/C), Petroleum & Natural Gas Shri Dharmendra Pradhan.
Board's Report 71 competitive advantage.
T owards that end, during the  year, your Company conducted Business Games to  hone the business acumen of its executives.
Business  Game has proved to be very popular initiative and tests  the ability of the executives through business quizzes,  business simulations and case-study presentations.
During the year 2014-15, a total of 144 teams and 576  executives participated in the event.
Fun T eam Games  (FTG)  were organized for E0 and staff level employees  to inculcate MDT(Multi-disciplinary T eam) concept and   spirit of  camaraderie and belongingness to the  organization, which was very well received by the  participants.
A total of 75 T eams and 300 employees  participated in FTG during the year 2014-15.
The  winners of   Business Games and Fun T eam Games  were felicitated by the CMD on Republic Day  Celebrations.
Your Company also conducted the  Assessment Development Centre (ADC) for 192 DGM  level executives (0.81% of executives) and provided  them developmental inputs.
Your Company has  partnered with global HR consulting firms to create a  pool of accredited mentors in the organization.
These  mentors will support organization’s effort to hone  young minds to successfully respond to the emerging  business needs of your Company.
As part of this  Initiative, in the year 2014-15, 36 mentorship  workshops were conducted.
Also, 123 mentors have  be en awarded Basic and Advanced level  Accreditations for mentoring.
T raining Your Company attaches utmost importance to the  development of its human resource.Your Company   has branded the spectrum of its training activities as  ‘EXPONENT - a comprehensive Programme, which is  nurturing the energy leaders of tomorrow.
The growth  of an ONGCian to an Exponent of energy business is  facilitated by ONGC Academy, Regional T raining  Institutes and other specialised in-house training  Institutes and world class training providers in India  and abroad.
During the year , a total of 20084 Executives and 4729  non-executives were imparted appropriate training,  spanning 176644 executive mandays (Number of  executive mandays per executive per year: 7.49) and  16119 non-executive mandays (Number  of non- executive mandays per executive per year: 1.69)  during 2014-15 at all Work centres.
In order to absorb new and emerging technological  advancements pertaining to oil and gas exploration  and production, 85 programmes, including 26 foreign  facult y programmes per taining to functional  disciplines, were organized with the best of faculties  from India and abroad during the year.
T o nurture the talent with the objectives to prepare  future leaders of the organisation for taking up higher  roles and address key organisational challenges, 338  executives of E7, E6 and E5 level were exposed to  Leadership Development Program (LDP), Advanced  Management Pr ogram (AMP) and Senior  Management Program (SMP) respectively, the tailor  made Management Programmes with overseas  learning component through tie-ups with leading B- schools of the country.
23.
Women Empowerment Women employees constituted over 6 percent of your  Company’s workforce.
During the year, programmes  on women empowerment and development, including  programmes on gender sensitization were organized.
Your Company actively supported and nominated its  lady employees for programmes organized by   reputed agencies.
Your company scrupulously complies with The Sexual  Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention,  Prohibition and Redressal) Act 2013.
Reported cases  of Sexual harassment are inquired into by Complaint  Committee constituted separately for all the work- centres, for taking disciplinary action against the  delinquent employees.
24.
Work-Life Balance:-  Your Company continued in its endeavors to ensure  work-life balance of its employees.
The townships at  many work-centers were provided facilities like  gymnasiums, music rooms, etc.
Outbound  programmes with families were also organized at  various work-centers.
Plays on the importance of  ‘Work-Life Balance’ were staged to create awareness  amongst the employees.
In addition, cultural  programmes involving employees and their families  were also conducted.
MahilaSamitis and Resident  Welfare Associations (RWAs) were involved in the  organization of these cultural  programs.
Your  Company  has a adventure wing named ONGC  Himalayan Association which organizes adventure  programmes like mountaineering, trekking, white  water rafting, snow skiing, desert Safari, Aero sports  etc.
which adds towards morale, engagement, team  spirit, camaraderie, stress management and spirit to  explore unknown among the employees.
25.
Sports  Your Company continued its large scale support for  development of sports in the country in the form of job  offers & scholarships to deserving sportspersons.
Sponsorships to various sports associations /  federations / sports bodies to organise sports events  as well as develop infra-structure were also extended.
Your Company extended support in 23 game  disciplines to 170 players on regular rolls and 167  players on scholarship.
The support has enabled  many sportspersons to bring home laurels for the  Annual Report 2014-15 Board's Report 72 nation and the organisation.
Some of the key  achievements during the year are given below: Your Company was conferred the prestigious Rashtriya  Khel Protsahan Puruskar by Hon’ble President of India  Mr. Pranab Mukherjee at a glittering ceremony in  Rashtrapati Bhavan on the occasion of National Sports  th Day on Friday 29  August , 2014.
CMD Mr. D.K.Sarraf  received the honour from the President.
Two ONGCians were conferred with the prestigious  “Arjuna Award” for the year 2014; Ms. Heena Sidhu in  Shooting and Mr. V .
Diju in Badminton.
The total number  of National Awardees in the organization stands at 24  (KhelRatna – 1, Padma Shri – 2 & Arjuna – 21) In Commonwealth Games 2014 held at Glasgow (UK) a  total of 20 ONGC athletes had participated in this 12 day  long mega event and bagged 6 medals (1 Gold, 3 Silver  & 2 Bronze) which is a pretty healthy success rate  In Asian Games 2014 held at Incheon (Korea) a total  of 40 ONGC athletes had participated and bagged  13 medals (4 Gold, 1 Silver & 8 Bronze).
Mr.Sourav Kothari won the Gold Medal at the Asian  Billiards Championship.
Your Company was awarded the prestigious FICCI  Certificate of Excellence for the “Award for long time  contribution to Indian Football” for the year 2014  [this is the first time in the history that an organisation  has been awarded successive FICCI Awards].
Mr. Pankaj Advani of ONGCwon 12th world title in cue sports.
In the year 2014-15 he won World Billiards title in time & point format, 6 red world snooker championship and World team Billiards  Championship.
Ms. Rashmi Kumari of ONGC won the singles title of  World Cup (women) in carom.
26.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Your company is fully engaged in ensuring equitable  and sustainable growth of society in and around the  area of its operations besides complying with  government directives to discharge its social  responsibility as a leading Indian corporate.
CSR  activities are essentially guided by project based  approach in line with the provisions of Companies Act,  2013 promulgated by Ministry of Corporate Affairs and  Companies (CSR Policy) Rules and the guidelines on  CSR& Sustainability issued by Department of Public  Enterprise, Government of India.
Seeking to herald an  inclusive business paradigm, ONGC has CSR  interventions that are based on social, environmental,  and economic considerations and are well-integrated  into the decision-making structures and processes of  the organization.
Pursuant to enactment of Companies Act 2013 and  Companies (CSR Policy) Rules 2014 by Ministry of  Corporate Af fairs and Guidelines on CSR and  Sustainability by Department of Public Enterprise, the  CSR Policy has been approved by the Board of Directors.
The same is uploaded on the Company’s website.
Further, in line with the approval of the Board, ONGC  has set up and registered ONGC Foundation under the  Societies Registration Act, for carrying out CSR  activities.
Necessary steps are on hand to recruit  manpower for making ONGC Foundation an ef fective  tool for implementation of CSR policy of ONGC.
Pursuant to Rule 9 of Companies (Corporate Social  Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 the Annual Report  on CSR activities is annexed herewith as Annexure 'C'.
CSR ACTIVITIES UNDERTAKEN BY ONGC BASED ON  ITEMS LISTED IN SCHEDULE VII OF THE COMPANIES  ACT, 2013 o Eradicating hunger, pover ty and malnutrition,  promoting preventive health care and sanitation and  including contribution to Swachch Bharat Kosh set up  by Central Government for promotion of sanitation,  making available safe drinking water: o Promoting education, including special education and  employment enhancing vocation skills.
Especially  among children, women, elderly, and the differently  abled and livelihood enhancement projects.
o Promoting gender equality, empowering women,  setting up homes and hostels for women and orphans;  setting up old age homes, day care centres and such  other facilities for senior citizens and measures for  reducing inequalities faced by socially and  economically backward groups.
o Ensuring environmental sustainability, ecological  balance, protection of flora and fauna, animal welfare,  agro forestry, conservation of natural resources and  maintaining quality of soil, air and water including  contribution to clean Ganga fund set up by the central  government for rejuvenation of river Ganges.
o Protection of national heritage, alt and culture including  restoration of buildings and sites of historical  importance and works of art; setting up public  libraries; promotion and development of traditional  and  handicrafts o Measures for the benefit of armed forces veterans, war  widows and their dependents.
o T raining to promote rural sports, nationally recognised  sports, Paralympics sports and Olympic sports.
o Contribution to the Prime Minister's National Relief  Fund or any other fund set up by the Central  Government for socio-economic development and  relief and welfare of the Scheduled Caste& the  Scheduled T ribes, other backward classes, minorities  and women.
o Contributions or funds provided to technology  Board's Report 73 incubators located within academic institutions which  are approved by the Central Government.
o Rural development projects.
o Slum area development.
In the last 7 years, your company has contributed `18,807 Million towards its well-structured and well- focussedCSR activities.
Out of the CSR Budget of `6,606.12 million, ONGC  spent an amount of `4,952.29 million in FY 2014-15.
This translates to overall utilization of 74.97% of the  CSR Budget.
Reason for non-utilization of full CSR budget: • Major Initiatives undertaken were mostly in transition  phase so the allocated earmarked budget could not be  spent.
• Some of the flagship projects undertaken were of long  gestation period with budget spread over 3-5 years  thus resulting in lesser utilisation of earmarked budget  for the financial year 2014-15.
Some of the landmark CSR initiatives under  implementation during the year 2014-15 by your  Company include: (a) Healthcare: (i) Varisthajana Swasthya Sewa Abhiyan: ONGC and  Help-Age India Initiative  T o provide basic medical facilities to elderly in terms of  medical consultancy, medicine distribution, basic  diagnostic test, special health camp and palliative care  at their doorstep.
A total of 20 Mobile Medicare Units  (MMUs) are engaged for taking basic healthcare to the  doorsteps of the elderly in nine states, 17 Districts, 35  blocks and 131 Gram Panchayat and 240 villages of  India .A total of 11,86,020 beneficiaries were treated for  chronic illness such as Hypertension, Diabetes,  Osteoarthritis, Dyspepsia& Skin problems etc.
(ii) Community Hospital in Lakhimpur- Kheri, Uttar  Pradesh: The project is unique in terms of using the PPP model in  CSR with full Capex of `45 million contribution by  ONGC and Opex borne by the Operating Partner.
This  26 bedded Community Hospital would cater to  Primary and Secondary Health Service Requirements  from BPL, Economically Backward Class families.
Healthcare services are being provided at 50% less  cost than the existing CGHS rates.
(iii)  Aids and Appliances to person with disability: This is a Pan India CSR project undertaken in  association with Artificial Limbs Manufacturing  Corporation of India (ALIMCO) and Bhagwan  Mahaveer Viklang Sahayata Samiti (BMVSS), Jaipur  commonly known as Jaipur Foot benefitting 45,495  Person with Disabilities.
Beneficiaries were provided  Or thopedic, Hearing and Visually Aids and  Appliances.
The total financial implication of the  project was `262 million covering 39 ONGC  operational areas and 61 Backward Districts in Phase-I  of the project which concluded in the financial year  2014-15.
(iv) Government General Hospital (GGH), Kakinada: ONGC has given financial assistance of `19 million to  construct a separate building for blood bank and to  equip the hospital with additional equipment for blood  bank, general surgery and general medicine  departments.
This will immensely benefit people of  East Godavari District where ONGC has a substantial  operational presence  (v) ONGC Mission Ujala: The project envisages eye screening of 50,000  children in Government Schools in NCR under  National Blindness Control Programme of Govt.
of  India in collaboration with reputed NGO PRAANI.
Spectacles to 3,000 children detected with refractive  errors along with medicines were provided under this  project.
(b) Education & Vocational courses: i. ONGC-GICEIT Computer Education Program:  Through this project, employment- related free  computer education is being imparted to economically  underprivileged Youth.
The project is implemented in  association with Bhartiya Vidhya Bhawan’s Gandhi  Institute of Computer Education and Information  T echnology, (GICEIT) at five work centres of ONGC  located at Mehsana, Dehradun, Nazira, Karaikal and  Rajahmundry.
More than 8295 students have received  computer training through these centers in the  financial year 2014-15. ii.
ONGC-The Akshaya Patra Foundation:  A centralized fully automated mechanized kitchen is  being set up to provide mid-day meals to school going  children (enrolled in Govt.
schools) in the District of  Surat.
This kitchen was inaugurated by the Hon’ble  th Chief Minister of Gujarat Smt Anandiben Patel on 15   Feburary, 2015.
This kitchen has capacity to feed  st 2,00,000 children per day.
The enrolment as on 31   March, 2015 is 1,90,840. iii.
Community School at Sitapur, Uttar Pradesh: The project is unique in terms of using the PPP model in  CSR with full Capex of `27 million contribution by  ONGC and Opex borne by the Operating Partner- Shanti Devi Memorial Charitable T rust.
iv.
ONGC Super 30 “ONGC Super 30” is a residential Coaching  Programme for IIT aspirants based at Sivasagar  Assam.
The total cost of the project is `6.70 million.
The  Caring for the planet  and society forms an essential tenet of ONGC's  Corporate  Social  Responsibility (CSR)  initiatives Swachh Vidhyalaya: ONGC has taken up the initiative to provide sanitation facilities to over 2500 schools across India Mission Ujala: ONGC has been providing financial support to  make a  difference in lives of visually  challenged people   In pursuit of a greener  environment,  ONGC has taken up  " Project Cover  Green" to plant  mangroves  along the  cost of Gujarat  and Maharashtra  to  prevent soil  erosion ONGC has installed 51 MW wind energy farm at Bhuj in Gujarat and 102 MW wind farm project in Rajasthan Annual Report 2014-15 Board's Report 76 initiative was conceived to cater to underprivileged and  below poverty line students who are unable to get  proper coaching to qualify engineering exams due to  lack of resources and funds.
(c) Projects for Physically and Mentally challenged i. ONGC Centre for vocational rehabilitation for the  differently abled: A financial support of `13 million has been provided to  T amana School of Hope, Vasant Vihar, New Delhi for  setting up of Autism Centre and provide vocational  training for the mentally challenged young adults and  children working for their economic rehabilitation by  teaching relevant vocational skills to them.
ii.
ONGC –Cheshire Home Project for Physically and  Mentally Challenged:  A project on health rehabilitation and allied services for  economically disadvantage children with disabilities  living in slums area of Mumbai undertaken with  Cheshire Homes (India) Mumbai with financial  assistance from ONGC.
Children with Disabilities were  identified from areas of Hanuman Nagar, Damu Nagar  and Shivaji Nagar covering 3 slum communities and  provided with rehabilitation treatment and aids with an  objective to help them lead a normal life.
(d) Environment Sustainability: i.
Eastern Swamp Deer Conservation Project  (Phase II) : The phase II of the project includes capture of Eastern  Swamp Deer from the source i.e Kaziranga National  Park and translocate them to Manas National park.
This is a research based project to conserve and  increase the viable population of Eastern Swamp Deer  in their natural habitat at Manas National Park.
The total  cost of the project is ` 8.9 million.
ii.
Harit Moksha: Green Cremation System  This is a unique CSR initiative of ONGC undertaken  with MokshdaParyavaranEvam Van SurakshaSamiti  (MPEVSS) to reduce wood consumption during  traditional cremations through Mokshda Green  Cremation Systems (MGCS).
The project includes  installing 30 units of green cremation system  in 8 cities  of 7 different states with a budget of `92 million .
The  project helped in saving approximately 13,700 tonnes  of wood & reduced 26,500 tonnes of GHG emissions  till date.
(e) Development of Backward Districts: The sustainable development project is being  implemented in Jaisalmer, a backward district in  Rajasthan.
Project involves setting up of 49 Wind T urbine  Generators (WTG) each of capacity of 2.1 MW with total  capacity of 102.9 MW in association with M/S Suzlon  Energy Ltd. ONGC contribution towards the project is ` 5620 million.
22 nos.
of WTG have been installed.
(f) Women Empowerment: ONGC as a leading organization and among the  founder member of Women in Public Sector (WIPS)  established way back in 1990 under the aegis of  SCOPE has always spearheaded women  empowerment Initiatives.
Women Development Forum  (WDF) an internal wing of ONGC women Employees  was also formed in line with WIPS to encourage women  employee to explore their potential to the fullest.
The basic aims and objectives of WIPS are: • T o promote the growth and development of Women in  Public Sector.
• T o assist the Public Undertakings in optimising the full  potential in Women employees.
• T o play a catalytic role in improving the status of  Women in and around PSEs Women in Public Sector (WIPS) presented ONGC with  the Best Enterprise Award for Women Empowerment  consecutively for 3 years till 2014.
In the year 2015  ONGC was awarded the second prize for the same  category.
(g) Other CSR Initiatives: i) Hortoki Water Supply Scheme: The project aims to  create a sustainable source of safe drinking water to  the people of Hortoki Village, Kolasib District,  Mizoram.
A massive 1.7 Lakhs litre water tank was  constructed as part of the project to supply more than  40 lpcd of water till 2043.
ONGC has extended support  of ` 9 million for the project.
More than 450 households  of Hartoki village are benefited through this project  ii) Rajeev Gandhi International Sports Complex,  Dehradun: ONGC in association with Govt.
of  Uttarakhand is working towards building a Cricket  stadium-cum-sports complex with a capacity of 30,000  people extendable to additional seats in future, car  parking, a sports academy, a club house or  Gymnasium, restaurant and other auxiliary facilities.
ONGC has extended financial support of `500 million  towards the project.
The project is expected to be  completed in two years.
iii) Dashrath Stadium at Agartala: The project aims to  create an Indoor sports complex in association with  DDO Directorate of Youth Affairs.
ONGC has extended  support of ` 243 million for the project.
iv) IIIT, Agartala: ONGC has extended support of `30  million for setting up a new IIIT Campus in Agartala.
In addition to above major CSR initiatives undertaken in  2014-15, ONGC has partnered with many NGO and  other non- profit organization in implementing several  other CSR initiative across our country.
All work  centres of ONGC have designated CSR office to take  care of the local needs.
As a testimony to our CSR efforts, your company has  Board's Report 77 won many laurels such as:  1.
Golden Peacock Award 2014 for CSR during 9th  International Conference on Corporate Social Responsibility-2014 2.
ABP News Global CSR Excellence & Leadership  Award for Best Overall CSR practices th 3.
4  Annual Greentech CSR Platinum Award 2014 in  petroleum exploration sector 4.
Madan Mohan Malviya Golden Award for outstanding contribution in the field of Education 5.
P L Roy CSR Award on ‘International Day of Olde Persons’ for support to the elderly through its CSR initiative ‘Varishthajana Swasthya Sewa Abhiyan’ 27.
ACCOLADES Consistent with the trend in preceding years, your Company, its various operating units and its senior management have been recipients of various awards and recognitions.
Details of such accolades are placed at Annexure – ‘D’.
28.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT   Pursuant to the requirement under Section 134(3)(c) of  the Companies Act, 2013, with respect to Directors’  Responsibility Statement, it is hereby confirmed that:  (i) In the preparation of the annual accounts, the  applicable accounting standards have been followed  and  there are no material  departures from the same; (ii) The Directors have selected such accounting policies  and applied them consistently and made judgements  and estimates that are reasonable and prudent, so as   to give a true and fair view of the state of af fairs of the  st  Company as at 31 March, 2015 and of the profit of the  Company for the year ended on  that date; (iii) The Directors have taken proper and sufficient care for the  maintenance of adequate accounting records in  accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act,  2013, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for  preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities;  (iv) The Directors have prepared the annual accounts of  the Company on a ‘going concern’ basis; (v) The Directors have laid down internal financial controls  which are being followed by the company and that  such internal financial controls are adequate and are  operating effectively; and (vi) The Directors have devised proper systems to ensure  compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws  and that such systems are adequate and operating.
29.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  Your Company has taken structured initiatives towards  Corporate Governance and its practices are valued by  various stakeholders.
The practices emanate from the  need to position multi-layered checks and balances at  various levels to ensure transparency of its operations  in the decision making process.
In terms of Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement, a report  on Corporate Governance for the year ended March  st 31  March, 2015, supported by a certificate from the  Company’s Statutory Auditors confirming compliance  of conditions, forms part of this Report.
ONGC has implemented the mandatory Guidelines of  Department of Public Enterprises (DPE), Government  of India, on Corporate Governance to the maximum  extent possible.
In terms of section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, the  Company has engaged M/s P P Agrawal & Co., Company  Secretaries in whole-time practice as Secretarial Auditors  for conducting Secretarial Compliance Audit for the  st  financial year ended 31 March, 2015.
Their report forms  part of this Annual Report.
With regard to the observations of Secretarial Auditors  as contained in their report, it is submitted that ONGC  being a Government company, all directors on the  Board of the company are appointed by Government  of India.
The matter relating to appointment of requisite  numbers of Independent Directors has already been  taken up with the Government.
The Company has formulated and uploaded the  following policies/codes on its website in line with the  Companies Act, 2013 and Listing Agreement: (a) Code of Conduct for Board Members and Senior  Management Personnel (b) Related Party T ransactions ‐ Policy & Procedures, 2014 (c) Material Subsidiary Policy (d) The Code of Internal Procedures and Conduct for  prohibition of insider trading in dealing with the  securities of ONGC In line with global practices, your Company has made  available all information, required by investors, on the  Company’s corporate website www.ongcindia.com Apart from the mandatory measures required to be  implemented as a part of Corporate Governance,  ONGC has gone the extra mile in this regard for the  benefit of its stakeholders: i. Whistle Blower Policy / Vigil Mechanism: A total of 35  Protected Disclosures till 31.03.2015 have been  processed through the Whistle Blower mechanism of  ONGC which was implemented from December 01,  2009.
The policy ensures that a genuine Whistle  Blower is granted due protection from any   victimization.
The Policy is applicable to all employees  of the Company and has been uploaded on the intranet  of the Company.
In addition, the Company has a full-fledged Vigilance  Department, which is headed by Chief Vigilance  Officer who holds the rank of a Functional Director of  Annual Report 2014-15 Board's Report 78 the Company.
With a view to maintain his  independence, the CVO reports to the Chief Vigilance  Commissioner of the Government of India.
ii.
Enterprise-wide Risk Management (ERM) framework:  In line with the requirements of Clause 49 VI of the  Listing Agreement, your Company has developed and  rolled out a comprehensive Enterprise-wide Risk  Management (ERM) Policy throughout the  organization.
The Audit & Ethics Commit tee  periodically reviews the risk assessment and  minimization process in ONGC.
The Risk Management policy of your Company is as  follows: “ONGC shall identify the possible risks associated  with its business and commits itself to put in place a  Risk Management Framework   to address the risk  involved on an ongoing basis to ensure  achievement of the business objective without any  interruptions.
ONGC shall optimize the risks involved by  managing their exposure and bringing them in line  with the acceptable risk appetite of the Company” The Board of Directors have constituted a Board Level  Risk Management Committee in terms of Clause 49 of  the Listing Agreement.
The first meeting of the  Committee was held on 19.03.2015 wherein the risk  appetite and present risk profile, development of risk  register to comply with clause 49 of the listing  agreement and Companies Act, 2013, Risk  Management Policy in ONGC, Risk Reporting  structure, Risk Management / mitigation process,  Governance Risk Management & Compliance (GRC)  module roll-out through SAP, Review of risk register  and identification of new & emerging risks,  categorization and quantification of risks and role of  internal audit in ERM etc were reviewed.
iii.
Meeting of Independent Directors: No Meeting of  Independent Directors was held during 2014-15. iv.
Certificate of Independence by Independent  Directors: The Independent Directors have submitted  declaration that they meet the criteria of Independence  as per section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013.
30.
STATUTORY DISCLOSURES Your Directors have made necessary disclosures, as  required under various provisions of the Act and  Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement.
Extract of Annual Return As per requirement of section 92(3) of the Companies  Act, 2013, the extract of the annual return in form MGT- 9 is placed at Annexure-E. Particulars of Employees ONGC being a Government Company, the provisions  of section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 and  relevant Rules shall not apply in view of the Gazette  notification dated 05.06.15 issued by Government of  India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
The terms and conditions of the appointment of  Functional Directors is decided by the Government of  India.
The salary and terms and conditions of the  appointment of Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and  Company Secretary, KMPs of ONGC, is in line with the  parameters prescribed by the Government of India.
Performance Related Pay of Functional Directors and  other employees including CFO & Company Secretary  (KMPs) is in line with the guidelines of Department of  Public Enterprises, Government of India.
31.
ENERGY CONSERVATION The information required under Section 134(m)of the  Companies Act, 2013, read with the Companies  (Disclosure of Particulars in the Report of Board of  Directors) Rules, 1988, is annexed as Annexure – ‘F’.
32.
AUDIT AND ETHICS COMMITTEE In compliance with section 177(8) of the Companies  Act, 2013, the details regarding Audit & Ethics  Committee is provided under Corporate Governance  report which forms part of this Annual Report.
There  has been no instance where the recommendations of  the Audit & Ethics Committee have not been accepted  by the Board of Directors.
33.
AUDITORS The Statutory Auditors of your Company are appointed  by the Comptroller & Auditor General of India (C&AG).
M/s Mehra Goel & Co, New Delhi, M/s G D Apte & Co,  Mumbai, M/s Lodha and Co, Kolkata, M/s Varma &  Varma, Chennai and M/s Khandelwal Jain and Co,  Mumbai Chartered Accountants were appointed as  joint Statutory Auditors for the financial year 2014-15.
The Statutory Auditors have been paid a  remuneration of `25.01 million (previous year `22.92  million) towards audit fee and certification of Corporate  Governance Report.The above fees are exclusive of  applicable service ta x and reimbursement of  reasonable travelling and out of pocket expenses  actually incurred.
34.
Auditors’ Report on the Accounts The Comments of Comptroller & Auditor General of  India (C&AG) form part of this Report and are attached  as per Annexure-‘G’.
There is no qualification in the  Auditors Report and there are no supplementary  comments by C&AG under section 143(6)(b) of the  Companies Act, 2013 on the Financial Statements of  the Company.
Notes to the Accounts referred to in the  Auditors Report are self-explanatory and therefore do  not call for any further comments.
You would be  pleased to know that your Company has received Nil  comments from C&AG and Statutory Auditors for the  year 2014-15.
This is the ninth year in a row that the  Board's Report 79 organization has received Nil comments.
35.
COST AUDIT  Six firms of Cost Accountants were appointed as Cost  Auditors for auditing the cost accounts of your Company  st for the year ended 31  March, 2015 by the Board of  Directors.
The Cost Audit Report for the year 2013-2014  has been filed under XBRL mode on 25.09.2014 which  was well within the due date of filing (i.e.30.09.2014).
36.
DIRECTORS POLICY ON DIRECTORS’ APPOINTMENT ETC.
ONGC being a Government Company, the provisions  of section 134(3)(e) of the Companies Act, 2013 shall  not apply in view of the Gazette notification dated  05.06.15 issued by Government of India, Ministry of  Corporate Affairs.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION ONGC being a Government Company, the provisions  of section 134(3)(p) of the Companies Act, 2013 shall  not apply in view of the Gazette notification dated  05.06.15 issued by Government of India, Ministry of  Corporate Affairs.
APPOINTMENTS / CESSATION ETC st Since the 21  Annual General Meeting held on  19.09.2014, Shri P Uma Shankar, Shri S. Ravi and Shri  R.K. Singh (Independent Directors) vacated their office  on 19.09.2014 (FN) in terms of Section 161 of the  Companies Act, 2013.
The tenure of Prof. Samir Kumar  Barua and Shri Om Prakash Bhatt (Independent  Directors) concluded on 13.12.2014.
On being appointed as Managing Director of ONGC  Videsh Ltd, Shri N K Verma relinquished the charge of  Director (Exploration), ONGC on 27.08.2014.
Shri U.P .
Singh, Additional Secretary (Exploration), Ministry of  Petroleum & Natural Gas, joined the Board as  Government nominee Director on 16.10.2014 in place of  Shri Aramane Giridhar.
Shri A.K.
Diwivedi took over as  Director (Exploration) on 16.03.2015.Shri A. K. Banerjee,  relinquished the charge of the post of Director (Finance)  on attaining the age of retirement on 30.04.2015.
Ms. Atreyee Das was appointed as Government  Nominee Director on 14.05.2015.
On being appointed as Secretary, Department of   School Education and Literacy, Dr. S.C. Khuntia,  Special Secratary, MoP&NG and Government  nominee resigned from the Directorship of ONGC on  26.06.2015.
Shri Ashok Varma, Director (Onshore)  relinquished the charge of Director (Onshore) on  31.07.2015 on attaining the age of superannuation and  Shri V P Mahawar, who has been appointed as Director  (Onshore) by Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas,  Government of India, took over charge on 01.08.2015.
The Board places on record its deep appreciation for  the excellent contributions made by Shri P .
Uma  Shankar, Shri S. Ravi, Shri R.K. Singh, Prof. Samir  Kumar Barua, Shri Om Prakash Bhatt, Shri N. K. Verma,  Shri Aramane Giridhar, Shri A. K. Banerjee,  Dr. S.C. Khuntia and Shri Ashok Varma during their  tenure.
The strength of the Board of Directors of ONGC as on st 1  August, 2015 is 9, comprising 6 Executive Directors  (Functional Directors including CMD) and 3 Non- Executive Directors i.e.
two Government nominees  and one Independent Director.
Ministry of Petroleum &  Natural Gas has been requested to appoint requisite  number of independent Directors to comply with the  provisions of Companies Act, 2013 and Listing  Agreement.
A total of 13 meetings of the Board of  Directors of ONGC were held during the financial year  2014-15.
Details of other Key Managerial Personnel as per Rule  8 (5) (iii) of The Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014:- Shri A. K. Srinivasan was appointed as Chief Financial  Of ficer w.e.f.06.05.2015 and as Key Managerial  Personnel w.e.f.
28.05.2015.
Shri N. K. Sinha, Company Secretary superannuated  on 30.06.2015 on attaining the age of retirement.
Shri V .
N. Murthy took over as Company Secretary on  01.07.2015.
37.
Acknowledgement  Your Directors are highly grateful for all the help,  guidance and support received from the Ministry of  Petroleum and Natural Gas, Ministry of Finance, DPE,  MCA, MEA, and other agencies in Central and State  Governments.
Your Directors acknowledge the  constructive suggestions received from Statutory  Auditors and Comptroller & Auditor General of India  and are grateful for their continued support and  cooperation.
Your Directors thank all share-owners, business  partners and members of the ONGC Family for their  faith, trust and confidence reposed in ONGC.
Your Directors wish to place on record their sincere  appreciation for the unstinting efforts and dedicated  contributions put in by the ONGCians at all levels, to  ensure that the Company continues to grow and excel.
Place : New Delhi st Date : 1  August, 2015   For and on behalf of the Board of Directors (Dinesh Kumar Sarraf) Chairman & Managing Director   Annual Report 2014-15 Annexure A 80 Annexure A Statement of Reserve Recognition Accounting REVENUES OIL 8,113,662.86 7,734,063.16 4,114,068.01 3,910,315.59  GAS 2,981,806.99 2,873,072.70 1,683,557.09 1,542,824.81  Total Revenues 11,095,469.85 10,607,135.86 5,797,625.10 5,453,140.40  COSTS Operating, Selling & General 5,833,860.17 5,939,970.51 3,019,204.07 3,005,596.27  Corporate T ax 1,284,320.22 1,096,766.14 733,915.96 629,125.12  Sub Total 7,118,180.39 7,036,736.65 3,753,120.03 3,634,721.39  Evaluated Cost of Acquisition of Assets and Development a) Assets 300,740.03 276,898.40 132,843.03 115,933.69  b) Development * 898,516.03 831,831.75 340,752.48 255,798.00  Sub Total 1,199,256.06 1,108,730.15 473,595.51 371,731.69  Total Cost 8,317,436.45 8,145,466.80 4,226,715.54 4,006,453.08 Net future earnings from Proved  Reserves 2,778,033.40 2,461,669.06 1,570,909.56 1,446,687.32  Standardised measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserve quantities as on  st 31  March, 2015.
Particulars Gross Value as at Present value  (Discounted at 10%) as at st 31  March, 2015 st 31  March, 2014 st 31  March, 2015 st 31  March, 2014 Notes 1) The Revenues on account of crude oil & gas have been worked out on the basis of average price (net of profit  Petroleum) for the year 2014-15.
The average price for crude oil  is net of Subsidy Discount.
2) Expenditure on Development, Acquisition of capital assets, Abandonment costs and Operating Expenditure have  been considered at current costs i.e as on on 31.03.2015.
T axes and Levies have been considered at prevailing rates  as on 31.03.2015.
3) The reserves  have been estimated by ONGC's Reserve Estimates Committee following  the standard international  reservoir  engineering practices.
4) Only Proved Reserves of ONGC share have been considered.
Probable or Possible reserves have not been  considered.
5) Both revenues and costs have been discounted  to present value using 10% discounting factor.
The Net future  earnings, therefore, represent  the net expected future cash inflows  from production of recoverable reserves of  crude oil and gas.
6) However, neither  the estimated net reserves nor the related  present value should be taken  as a forecast of future  cash flows or value of these reserves  because (a) future estimated production schedules used in the valuation  process are subject to change, (b) up-gradation of Probable and Possible reserves would significantly affect the  gross and net present value of the expected  future cash inflows, (c) future crude oil and natural gas prices  are  subject to change and (d) future expenditure  on production (operating), development, acquisition cost of capital  assets, abandonment costs and rates of taxes and levies, which  may be at  variance  from those assumed herein.
(` in million) * Includes Abandonment Cost Annexure B (AOC-2) 81 (Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3)of section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014) Form for disclosure of par ticulars of contracts/arrangements entered into by the company with related par ties referred to in sub-section (1) of section 188 of the Companies  Act, 2013 including cer tain arms length transactions under third proviso thereto Form No.
AOC-2 1 ONGC Tripura Power Co. Limited Joint venture Entities Sale of Gas for FY 14-15 As per Gas price fixed by govt  3,247.91  2 ONGC Teri Biotech Limited Joint venture Entities Hiring of Bioremidail serves for FY 14-15 Tender basis  244.72  3 Dahej SEZ Ltd Joint venture Entities Lease rent for FY 14-15 Market rate  8.60  4 Dahej SEZ Ltd Lease land for FY 14-15 Market rate  10.44  5 Mangalore SEZ Limited Joint venture Entities Travel exp of ONGC emplyee for FY 14-15 Actual  0.39  6 ONGC Tripura Power Co.  Limited Joint venture Entities Travel exp of ONGC emplyee for FY 14-15 Actual  0.17  7 ONGC Petro-additions Limited Joint venture Entities Manpower deputation/other Misc.
services provided to OPaL for FY 14-15 Actual  125.94  8 ONGC Teri Biotech Limited Joint venture Entities Lab testing facility provided to OTBL for FY 14-15 Market rate  0.15  9 Petronet LNG Limited Joint venture Entities ONGC nominated director Sit ting Fee for FY 14-15 Actual  0.05  10 ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited Manpower deputation to OMPL for FY 14-15 Actual  6.44  11 ONGC Tripura Power Co.  Limited Joint venture Entities Advance & Administative supor t for COD of  unit-2 for FY 14-15 Actual  125.82  12 Petronet LNG Limited Joint venture Entities Dividend Income for FY 14-15 Actual  187.50  13 ONGC Petro-additions Limited Joint venture Entities Fresh advace and Right share to OPaL for FY 14-15  7,505.52  14 ONGC Tripura Power Co. Limited Joint venture Entities Fresh advance and Right share to OTPC for FY 14-15  4,645.36  15 ONGC Petro-additions Limited Joint venture Entities Refund of old advance of equity share by OPaL for FY 14-15  6,709.24  16 ONGC Tripura Power Co. Limited Joint venture Entities Refund of old advance of equity share by OTPC for FY 14-15  2,925.10  17 MRPL Subsidiary Sale of crude oil for FY 14-15 Crude oil at market rate  38,486.88  18 MRPL Subsidiary Lease of Office space at Mumbai for FY 14-15 Market rate  4.60  Joint venture Entities Subsidiary (a) Name (s) of the related party and nature of relationship (a) Name (s) of the related party and nature of relationship (b) Nature of  contracts/arrangements/ transactions (b) Nature of  contracts/arrangements/ transactions (c) Duration of the contracts/ arrangements/ transactions (c) Duration of the contracts/ arrangements/ transactions Name                              Name                              2.
Details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm’s length basis SI.
no.
SI.
no.
Salient terms Salient terms Transaction  value (Rs.
in million) Transaction  value (Rs.
in million) (e) Date (s) of approval by the  Board, if any: (e) Date (s) of approval by the  Board, if any: (f) Amount  paid as advances, if any (f) Amount  paid as  advances, if any (g)  Amount paid as advances, if any:  Relationship  Relationship (d) Salient terms of the contracts or (d) Salient terms of the contracts or arrangements or transaction including the value , if any (h) Date on which the  special resolution was  passed in general  meeting as required  under first proviso to  section 188 NIL Annexure - B Annual Report 2014-15 Annexure B (AOC-2) 82 19 MRPL Subsidiary Manpower deputaion for FY 14-15 As per actual  14.65  20 MRPL Subsidiary Purchase of retail product for OVL for FY 14-15 dealer market rate  44.11  21 MRPL Subsidiary Purchase of POL for internal use for FY 14-15 market rate  9.41  22 MRPL Subsidiary Interest Income for FY 14-15  4,763.57  23  Pawan Hans Ltd (PHL) Associates Hiring of helicopter services for FY 14-15  564.89  24  Pawan Hans Ltd (PHL) Associates Hiring of Maintenance services from PHL for own helicopter for FY 14-15  6.63  25  Pawan Hans Ltd (PHL) Associates Deduction of Ld on hiring contract for FY 14-15 actual  4.69  26  Pawan Hans Ltd (PHL) Associates Dividend income for FY 14-15 actual  37.80  27  Pawan Hans Ltd (PHL) Associates Interest income for FY 14-15 actual  64.51  28 ONGC Petro-additions Limited Joint venture Entities Parents under taking to Bank on behalf of JVE for FY 14-15 actual  73,926.47  29 ONGC Tripura Power Co.  Limited Joint venture Entities Parents under taking to Bank on behalf of JVE for FY 14-15 actual  15,029.32  30 ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited  of JVE 31 ONGC Videsh Ltd Guarantees for financial  obligation in favour of National oil 05.03.2007 company of Libya  32 ONGC Videsh Ltd Guarantees for financial obligation in favour of IDBI Trusteeship services Limited 33 ONGC Videsh Ltd Guarantees for financial obligation in favour of Hess Corporation for Azeri and Chiraf Fields    34 ONGC Videsh Ltd Guarantees for financial obligation in favour of Anadarko  million) 35 ONGC Videsh Ltd Guarantees for financial obligation in favor of Petrobangla  27.03.2014  (  1202.69 million) 36 ONGC Videsh Ltd Guarantees for financial obligation in favour of Petrobangla  27.03.2014 ( 2029.54 million)   Meeting 37 ONGC Videsh Ltd Guarantees for financial obligation in favour of Citivic Nominees Ltd (Mozambiq)  million) Joint venture Entities Parents under taking to for FY 14-15 actual  25,080.00  Bank on behalf rd Subsidiary effective from Guarantee amount  1,566.00 163  Board   (` 3821.04 meeting million) nd  Subsidiary effective from Guarantee amount  3,773.58 182 Board  31.12.2009 (` 4000.00 Meeting  million) th  Subsidiary effective from Guarantee amount  50,770.63 237 Board 27.03.2013 (` 50770.63 Meeting  million) th Subsidiary effective from Guarantee amount  111,374.86 249  Board  08.02.2014 (` 111374.86 Meeting th  Subsidiary effective from Guarantee amount  1,202.69 254 ` Board  Meeting th  Subsidiary effective from Guarantee amount  2,029.54 254 ` Board th   Subsidiary effective from Guarantee amount  47,300.55 249 Board 15.07.2014 (` 47300.55  Meeting (a) Name (s) of the related party and nature of relationship (b) Nature of  contracts/arrangements/ transactions (c) Duration of the contracts/ arrangements/ transactions Name                              SI.
no.
Salient terms Transaction  value (Rs.
in million) (e) Date (s) of approval by the  Board, if any: (f) Amount  paid as advances, if any  Relationship (d) Salient terms of the contracts or Annexure B (AOC-2) 83 38 ONGC Videsh Ltd Guarantees for financial obligation in favour of Citivic Nominees Ltd (Mozambiq)   million) 39 ONGC Videsh Ltd Guarantees for financial obligation in  of Citivic Nominees Ltd (Mozambiq)   40 ONGC Videsh Ltd Performance Guarantees under the contract in respect ofSakhalin Project in favour of Ex xon Neftgas Ltd., Rosneft-S, SMNG-S and RN-Astra 41 ONGC Videsh Ltd Performance Guarantees underthe contract in respect of PI inAzeri and Chirag Fields and Gunashli Field in favour of StateOil Company of Azerbaijan Republic 42 ONGC Videsh Ltd Performance Guarantees under the contract in respect of BlockSS-04, Bangladesh in favour ofPetrobangla 43 ONGC Videsh Ltd Performance Guarantees underthe contract in respect of Block SS-09, Bangladesh in favour ofPetrobangla  44 MRPL Guarantees executed in favor of Saudi Aramco   01.09.2014  Million 45 MRPL Guarantees executed in favor of Sociedade Nacional De Aggola  31.03.2016 Million th Subsidiary effective from Guarantee amount  47,436.17 249  Board  15.07.2014 (` 47436.17  Meeting th  Subsidiary effective from Guarantee amount  36,217.33 249 Board  favour  15.07.2014 (` 36217.33 Meeting  million) th Subsidiary effective from 79  Board   23.06.2001  Meeting th  Subsidiary effective from 237 Board     28.03.2013  Meeting th Subsidiary effective from 254  Board    27.03.2014 Meeting th  Subsidiary effective from 254 Board   27.03.2014 Meeting th  Subsidiary effective from USD 225  7,351.35 258 Board  Meeting th Subsidiary valid upto USD 250 0246  Board Meeting (a) Name (s) of the related party and (b) Nature of  contracts/arrangements/ transactions (c) Duration of the contracts/ arrangements/ transactions Name                              SI.
no.
Salient terms Transaction  value (Rs.
in million) (e) Date (s) of approval by the  Board, if any: (f) Amount  paid as advances, if any  Relationship (d) Salient terms of the contracts or Annual Report 2014-15 Annexure C  84 ONGC conducts its business as a responsible corporate citizen and believes in holistic approach towards all issues pertaining  to People, Planet and Profit for a sustainable development and better future.
ONGC is committed to achieve inclusive growth of  the marginalized and deprived sections of the society through its various CSR initiatives across the country.
ONGC has devised its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Sustainability Policy in consonance with the CSR Policy  framework enshrined in Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 (Act), Companies (CSR Policy) Rules, 2014 (Rules) notified by  Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India and Guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability for  Central Public Sector Enterprises issued by Department of Public Enterprises, Government of India (DPE Guidelines, 2014)  st which are effective from 1  April 2014.
This policy applies to all CSR projects and programmes undertaken by ONGC as per interpretation of activities listed in  Schedule-VII of the Act, within the geographical limits of India, particularly towards the benefits of marginalized, disadvantaged,  poor and deprived sections of the society and the environment.
As per the policy, projects and programmes are identified and budgets allocated for them through a process that includes  identification of suitable implementation agencies, need assessment (where ever required) and clear roadmap of desired  outcomes.
The CSR projects, programmes and initiatives to be undertaken, must fall within the purview of the Schedule – VII of  the Act (as modified from time to time).
The CSR projects entail Need Based Assessment or Baseline survey to determine the feasibility of the project.
The objectives in  identifiying sectors and geographies are quite specific and tangible.
A detailed project report of the identified project is devised  with determining of time lines with clear identification of the goals.
The annual budget is to be allocated for activities in all focused  areas ensuring adherence to Schedule VII of the Act.
The project approach mandates clearly identifying the beneficiaries.
Post approval, agreements are being signed with the  implementing agency prior to implementation of the project.
During the implementation phase, the project is periodically  reviewed and monitored.
Evaluation & Assessment, preferably both concurrent and final (wherever possible, by a competent  third party) are carried out to ensure the project achieves the desired goals.
The focus areas and budget allocation for CSR projects, programmes and activities are made by the Committee on CSR and  Sustainable Development in the beginning of every financial year.
20% of the total budget are allocated in each of the five sectors as detailed below: • Promoting health care including preventative health care and sanitation and making available safe drinking water.
• Promoting education including special education and employment enhancing vocation skills especially among children,  women, elderly and the differently abled and livelihood enhancement projects • Ensuring environmental sustainability, ecological balance, protections of flora and fauna, animal welfare, agro forestry,  conservation of natural resources and maintaining quality of soil, air and water • Rural development projects • Miscellaneous - Setting up homes and hostels for women and orphans; setting up old age homes, day care centres and  other such facilities for senior citizens; Protection of national heritage, art and culture including restoration of buildings and  sites of historical importance and works of art; setting up public libraries; promotion and development of traditional arts and  handicrafts; T raining to promote rural sports, regionally recognised sports, Paralympics sports and Olympic sports; Other  areas mentioned in Schedule - VII The links to ONGC CSR and SD activities and a host of policies directed towards the betterment of disadvantaged, vulnerable  and marginalised sections of stakeholders have been hosted on ONGC website www.ongcindia.com.
Report on CSR Activities Annexure - C Annexure C 85 The ONGC CSR committee presently comprises Shri D. K. Sarraf, CMD, ONGC and Shri D. D. Misra, Director (HR), ONGC, under  the chairmanship of Shri K. N. Murthy, Independent Director.
However, as per the approved CSR policy two more members i.e.
Director (Finance), ONGC and an additional Independent  Director will be members of the Committee.
Presently these two posts are vacant.
ONGC’s average net profit under Section 135 of the Act in the last three financial years was `33,030 crore wherein the profit of  the company as per Section 198 was `34,716.61 crore, `31,935.27 crore and `32,440.25 crore in financial years 2011-12, 2012- 13 and 2013-14 respectively.
The CSR expenditure for FY 2014-15 was pegged at `660.61crore, 2% of the average profits (u/s 135) for the last three years.
However, ONGC registered an expenditure of `495.23 crore during FY 2014-15.
The reasons for under-spending have been  detailed in the Board’s report.
The major CSR initiatives taken up during the financial year 2014-15 have also been detailed in the  Board’s report.
The manner in which the amount was spent during 2014-15 is detailed in the Enclosure.
Responsibility Statement This is to certify that the implementation and monitoring of the CSR Policy in respect of all projects/programs covered  under CSR initiatives for the year 2014-15, is in compliance with CSR objectives and Policy of the company  Sd/- (D. K. Sarraf) CMD Member, CSR Committee Sd/- (K. N. Murthy) Independent Director  Chairman, CSR Committee Annual Report 2014-15 Annexure C  86 1 Health care 132.12 35,77,58,278 35,77,58,278 35,77,58,278 Initiatives for physically and  mentally challenged 2 Education including Vocational  courses Entrepreneurship (self help and  livelihood) Women's empowerment and  girl child development 3 Environment and ecological  conservation Water management including  ground water recharge 4 Infrastructural suppor t near  ONGC operational area 5 Promotion of ar tisans, craftsmen,  musicians Promoting spor ts and spor ts  persons Protection of heritage sites 1,57,00,000 1,57,00,000 1,57,00,000 Suppor t for cultural/spor ts  events, etc.
Total  660.61 4,95,22,87,841 4,95,22,87,841 4,95,22,87,841 3,36,72,170 3,36,72,170 3,36,72,170 132.12 46,07,70,250 46,07,70,250 46,07,70,250 1,38,56,873 1,38,56,873 1,38,56,873 83,23,966 83,23,966 83,23,966 132.12 2,87,41,84,398 2,87,41,84,398 2,87,41,84,398 1,22,53,307 1,22,53,307 1,22,53,307 132.12 93,86,76,949 93,86,76,949 93,86,76,949 132.12 2,08,80,463 2,08,80,463 2,08,80,463 1,22,10,264 1,22,10,264 1,22,10,264 20,40,00,923 20,40,00,923 20,40,00,923 CSR Project/ Activity  Amount outlay  (budget) project or program wise  in ` Croresa Amount spent on the project or  program  Sub Heads (1) Direct expenditure  on projects or programs (2) Overheads Amount in ` Cumulative expenditure upto  the reporting period Amount in ` Amount spent: Direct or through  Implementing agency Amount in ` SI.
No.
Sector in which the  Project is covered Project or Program 1.
Local area or other 2.Specify the State  and District where  project or program was undertaken Enclosure to Annexure - C Various programs/projects have been taken  up as CSR initiative during Financial year  2014-15 on PAN India Basis in and around  ONGC’s operational areas and in backward  districts of various states  Annexure - C Annexure D (Awards) 87 Annexure - D ONGC: Awards & Recognitions 2014-15 Corporate Awards 1) ONGC moves three places up on Forbes Global  2000 list (2015) among oil & gas industry   Forbes, a leading international business journal, has  rd ranked ONGC at 183  among 2000 top global  companies in its latest list published in May, 2015.
In  the global oil and gas operation industry, ONGC has  th moved up three places to 18 .
2) ONGC is the top energy company in India as per  Platts 250 rankings ONGC has been ranked as the T op Energy Company in  India, in the coveted Platt’s T op 250 Global Energy  Company Rankings 2014 (November, 2014).
ONGC  has been ranked at 21st place among the global energy  majors and 3rd among Exploration & Production  Company (E&P).
3) ONGC among world’s greenest companies th ONGC has been ranked 217  in the Newsweek Green  Rankings 2014; the world’s most recognized  assessments of corporate environmental performance.
ONGC made a quantum jump from previous ranking of  386 (Green ranking 2012).
The company now stands  third amongst only seven Indian companies named in  the prestigious list  4) ONGC climbs up to second position on the BT-500  India’s Most Valuable Companies List ONGC has been placed at the number 2 position in the  BT -500 India's Most Valuable Companies list, 2014.
ONGC has gained two places over the last year's  rankings to take up its highest ever position on the BT  500 list since these rankings were institutionalized in  1992.
5) ONGC bags Dun & Bradstreet Corporate Excellence  Award - 2014 ONGC received the prestigious Dun & Bradstreet  Corporate Excellence Award, for excellence in the Oil and  Gas Production sector.
In all there were 46 sectors which  were recognized for their excellence and these were  chosen among the top 500 companies of India, by the  primary yardstick of their contribution to India’s GDP .
6) ONGC Academy conferred with Golden Peacock  National T raining Award – 2014 ONGC Academy was adjudged the Winner of Golden  Peacock National T raining Award 2014, by the Institute  rd of Directors.
The award was presented on 23  May,  2014.
The award was conferred in recognition of the  excellent training practices at each and every level,  right from entry level for equipping fresh graduates with  the requisite skillsets to leadership development  programmes for creating leaders of tomorrow.
7) ONGC ranked among top Indian brands th ONGC has been placed 14  among the best Indian  brands in the recent Economic Times- Interbrand ‘Best  Indian Brands’ study, 2014.
T o its credit, ONGC has  maintained its position as a top Indian brand despite the  company not being in retail business.
Most of the other  brands listed above ONGC have a direct consumer  connection.
8) ONGC awarded the “Most Valuable PSU” by India  Today ONGC was recognized as the “Most Valuable PSU” in  the Maharatna category in the India T oday Group- MDRA Survey of India’s best PSUs, 2014.
It was the first  ever survey conducted by the India T oday Group, in  association with Marketing and Development Research  Associates (MDRA).
9) ONGC receives highest sports award ‘Rashtriya  Khel Protsahan Puraskar’ President of India presented Rashtriya Khel Protsahan  Puraskar to ONGC in the Rashtrapati Bhavan on the  th occasion of National Sports day on 29  August, 2014.
ONGC received the award in the category of ‘Employment  of Sports persons and sports welfare measures’.
10) ONGC adjudged Exploration & Production  Company of the year – PetroFed Awards ONGC was adjudged as Exploration & Production –  Company of the year at the PetroFed Oil & Gas Industry  th Awards 2013, organized on 8  September, 2014.
11) ONGC received Governance Now PSE Awards 2014 ONGC was conferred awards in two categories- ‘Best  Strategic Performance’ and ‘Innovation in Business’ at  the Governance Now PSU Awards 2014 in the  Maharatna category.
ONGC's fully owned subsidiary  Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd (MRPL)  was also recognized for best ‘Grow th and  Competencies’ in the Mini Ratna Class I category.
12) KDMIPE receives two Global Sustainability Awards KDMIPE secured two major Energy and Environment  Foundation Awards during the 5th World Renewable  Energy Technology Congress and Expo 2014,  organized by Energy and Environment Foundation.
The Institute got ‘Global Sustainability Award 2014-  Annual Report 2014-15 Annexure D (Awards) 88 Awards, Recognitions and Accreditions Hon'ble President of India Shri Pranab Mukherjee presenting the 'Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puruskar' to ONGC ONGC CMD Shri D K Sarraf along with ONGC Board of Directors receiving the 'Exploration & Production Company of the year' at the PetroFed Oil & Gas Industry Awards - 2013 Annexure D (Awards) 89 Awards, Recognitions and Accreditions ONGC bags India's Pride Award for excellence in the Oil and Gas sector; Director (Offshore) Shri T K Sengupta receiving the Award from Hon'ble Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley ONGC bagged 'Exploration & Production - Company of the year' and Project Management (` 500-2000 crore)  at the PetroFed Oil & Gas Industry Awards - 2014.
The awards were presented by the Hon’ble Minister of  State (I/C), Petroleum & Natural Gas, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan and Secretary, MoPNG Shri K. D. T ripathi was  the Guest of Honour at the award ceremony.
Annual Report 2014-15 Annexure D (Awards) 90 GOLD’, for outstanding achievements in Rainwater  Harvesting and Sustainability Management; it also  secured ‘Global Sustainability Award 2014 - SILVER’ for  outstanding achievements in Management of Energy  Efficiency and Sustainability.
13) ONGC safety practices recognized at OISD Awards ONGC secured five awards at the Oil Industry Safety  Directory (OISD) Awards ceremony for 2012-13, held at  rd Delhi on 3  December, 2014.
• ONGC’s T ripura Asset bagged the award for ‘Best Onshore Asset’;  • ONGC’s Uran Plant bagged the award for ‘Best Processing plant’.
• ONGC was also awarded as Best Organisation for its near-miss reporting in the category ‘Exploration & Production Operations’.
• ONGCian Mr. Mangaldas Nikkaram Bhatti was recognized for significant contribution towards safety in individual capacity.
14) O N G C  c o n f e r r e d  u p o n  ‘ O u t s t a n d i n g   Accomplishment’ awards at CII-ITC Sustainability  Awards  ONGC was bestowed with ‘Outstanding Achievement’  awards under Corporate Excellence at CII-ITC  th Sustainability Awards 2014 on 19  December, 2014.
15) World Marketing Congress honors ONGC with  ‘Master Brand Award’ The World Marketing Congress has conferred the  prestigious Master Brand award to ONGC on th 14  November, 2014.
The title of Master Brand is  conferred upon those brands that appeal to a large set  of consumers while constantly keeping in mind a  consumer centric approach.
16) ONGC receives Golden Peacock Award for  excellence in CSR ONGC received the prestigious ‘Golden Peacock  Award for Corporate Social Responsibility’ for 2014.
ONGC has been declared as the Winner in the Oil & Gas  Category.
Individual Awards/Accolades 1) Shri K S Jamestin, ex- Director HR felicitated with  ‘Lifetime Achievement Award for Excellence in HR Mr. K S Jamestin, ex- Director (HR) received the  ‘Lifetime Achievement Award for Excellence in HR’ at  the Lokmat - HR Leadership Awards, 2014 held in  th Mumbai on 28  June, 2014.
2) Shri K S Jamestin, ex- Director HR conferred with  ‘Unitop Award’ by IIMM, Mumbai The Mumbai Chapter of the Indian Institute of Materials  Management (IIMM) conferred upon Mr K S Jamestin,  ex-Director (HR) the prestigious Unitop Award for  Enduring Contribution to Excellence in Supply  th Management at a function in Mumbai on 28  July, 2014.
The Award was conferred in absentia at a function  which was graced by top procurement professionals of  diverse industries.
3) ONGCian decorated by Prime Minister as National  Brand Ambassador K Kanagaraj of ONGC Cauvery Asset has been  honoured as National Brand Ambassador of Vocational  T raining by Hon’ble Prime Minister NarendraModi.The  ONGCian received this honour at a national function  organised by Directorate General of Employment &  T raining (DGE&T) under Ministry of Labour and  th Employment, Government of India on 16  October,  2014 at New Delhi.
4) ONGCian honored at Prime Minister’s TA Day  Parade Mr. R.S.
Meena, SE (Civil), posted in Mehsana, has  been awarded T erritorial Army (TA) Medal at Prime  Minister’s TA Day Parade 2014.
5) National Honours for ONGC Fire Ser vices  personnel The President of India has awarded Fire Service Medal  for Meritorious Service to three personnel of ONGC  Fire Service - Mr Amitabh Singh, DGM (FS), B&S Asset,  Mr S C Gaur, Fire Officer Mehsana Asset and Mr Kailash Mishra, Chief Fireman, Mehsana Asset, on th 26  January, 2015.
Annexure E (MGT-9) 91 Form No.
MGT-9 EXTRACT OF ANNUAL RETURN as on the financial year ended on 31st March, 2015 (Pursuant to Section 92 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 12 (1) of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 I.
REGISTRATION AND OTHER DETAILS: i) CIN:- L74899DL1993GOI054155 rd ii) Registration Date: 23  Day of June, 1993 iii) Name of the Company: Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited iv) Category/Sub-Category of the Company: Government Company v) Address of the Registered office and contact details: Jeevan Bharati  Building T ower-II, New Delhi-110001.
Ph: 23310156, Fax: 23316413 vi) Whether listed company       Yes/No: Yes vii) Name, Address and Contact details of Registrar and T ransfer Agent,ifany: M/s Karvy Computershare Pvt.
Ltd.  Karvy Selenium T ower B, Plot 31-32, Gachibowli, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad-500 032 Ph: 040- 67161562 M: +91 040-9177401094 Fax: 040 - 23001153 mohsin.mohd@karvy.com, karvy computershare.com II.
PRINCIPAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY III.
PARTICULARS OF HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATES COMPANIES SI.
No.
SI.
No.
Name and Description of  main products / services NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE COMPANY CIN /GLN HOLDING/ SUBSIDIARY/ ASSOCIATE % of Shares Held Applicable Section NIC Code of the Product / service % total turnover of the company 1 Crude Oil 27090000 65.17% 2 Natural Gas 27112100 22.75% 1.
ONGC Videsh Limited 4th Floor, Kailash Building, 26, Kasturba Gandhi Marg, New Delhi-110001 U74899DL1965GOI004343 Subsidiary 100 2(87) 2.
Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited Kuthethoor P .
O., Via Katipalla, Mangalore-575030 L85110KA1988GOI008959 Subsidiary 71.63 2(87) 3.
ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited Mangalore Special Economic Zone Permude, Mangalore – 574 509 U40107KA2006PLC041258 Subsidiary 48.99 2(87) 4 ONGC Petro additions Ltd.  1st floor, Omkara Building, Sai Chowkri, Manjalpur, Vadodara-390011 U23209GJ2006PLC060282 Joint Venture 49.36 2(6) 5 ONGC Tripura Power Co. Ltd.  ONGC Tripura Asset, Badarghat Complex, Agar tala, Tripura- 799014 U40101TR2004PLC007544 Joint Venture 49.52 2(6) 6 Mangalore SEZ Limited  No.
16, Pranava Park, 3rd Floor, Infantry Road, Bangalore-560001 U45209KA2006PLC038590 Joint Venture 26 2(6) 7 Petronet MHB Limited No.
332, Darus Salam Building, First Floor, Queen’s Road, Banglore-560052U8511OKA1998PLC024020 Joint Venture 28.77 2(6) Annexure - E Annual Report 2014-15 Annexure E (MGT-9) 92 SI.
No.
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE COMPANY Category of Shareholders No.
of Shares held at the  beginning of the year % Change during the yearDemat Demat Physical Physical Total Total% of Total Shares % of Total Shares No.
of Shares held at the end of the year CIN /GLN HOLDING / SUBSIDIARY/ ASSOCIATE % of Shares Held Applicable Section 8 Dahej SEZ Limited (DSL) Block No.14, 3rd  Floor, Udyog Bhavan, Sector-11 Gandhinagar- 382017, Gujrat U45209GJ2004PLC044779 Joint Venture 50 2(6) 9 ONGC TERI Biotech Ltd  TERI Complex,Darbari Seth Block, IHC Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi – 110003 U74120DL2007PLC161117 Joint Venture 49.98 2(6) 10 Petronet LNG Limited  World Trade Centre, 1st Floor, Babar Road, BarakhambaLane, New Delhi-110001 L74899DL1998PLC093073 Joint Venture 12.50 2(6) 11 Pawanhans Limited Safdarjung Airpor t, New Delhi-110003 U62200DL1985GOI022233 Associate 49 2(6) IV.
SHARE HOLDING PATTERN (Equity Share Capital Break up as percentage of Total Equity) i) Category-wise Share Holding  A. Promoters (1) Indian a) Individual/ HUF 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 b) Central Govt.
5897760333 0 5897760333 68.94 5897760333 0 5897760333 68.94 0.00 c) State Govt(s) 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 d) Bodies Corp. 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 e) Banks/FI 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 f) Any Other… 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 Sub-total (A)(1):- (2) Foreign a) NRIs- Individuals 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 b) Other- Individuals 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 c) Bodies Corp. 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 d) Banks/FI 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 e) Any Other… 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 Sub-total (A)(2):- 5897760333 0 5897760333 68.94 5897760333 0 5897760333 68.94 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 Annexure E (MGT-9) 93 Category of Shareholders No.
of Shares held at the  beginning of the year % Change during the yearDemat Demat Physical Physical Total Total% of Total Shares % of Total Shares No.
of Shares held at the end of the year Total Shareholding of Promoter (A)= A)(1)+(A)(2) 5897760333 0 5897760333 68.94 5897760333 0 5897760333 68.94 0.00 B.
Public Shareholding 1.
Institutions a) Mutual Funds 109506969 6300 109513269 1.28 78851027 6300 78857327 0.92 0.36 b) Banks/FI 118893301 60 118893361 1.39 102832805 60 102832865 1.20 0.19 c) Central Govt 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 d) State Govt(s) 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 e) Venture Capital Funds f) Insurance Companies g) FIIs 569897010 0 569897010 6.66 614286761 0 614286761 7.18 0.52 h) Foreign Venture Capital Funds 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 i) Others (specify) 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 Sub-total (B)(1):- 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 700903533 5700 700909233 8.19 709625175 5700 709630875 8.29 0.1 1499200813 12060 1499212873 17.52 1505595768 12060 1505607828 17.59 0.07 Annual Report 2014-15 Annexure E (MGT-9) 94 Category of Shareholders No.
of Shares held at the  beginning of the year % Change during the yearDemat Demat Physical Physical Total Total% of Total Shares % of Total Shares No.
of Shares held at the end of the year 2.
Non- Institutions a) Bodies Corp. 1012048619 9889 1012058508 11.83 995168127 9889 995178016 11.63 0.2 i) Indian ii) Overseas b) Individuals i) Individual 121392038 6538805 127930843 1.49 131937061 6154696 138091757 1.61 0.12 Shareholders holding nominal share capital uptoRs.
1 lakh ii) Individual 4950075 0 4950075 0.06 6009935 0 6009935 0.07 0.01 shareholders holding nominal share capital in excess of Rs.
1 lakh c)Others(specify) NON RESIDENT 3139708 38594 3178302 0.04 4065652 38594 4104246 0.05 0.01 INDIANS CLEARING 6692525 0 6692525 0.08 3153654 0 3153654 0.04 0.04 MEMBERS TRUSTS 3705165 0 3705165 0.04 5581811 0 5581811 0.07 0.03 FOREIGN 1396 0 1396 0.00 2540 0 2540 0.00 0.00 NATIONALS Sub-total 1151929626 6587288 1158516914 13.54 1145918780 6203179 1152121959 13.47 0.07 (B)(2):- Total Public 2651130439 6599348 2657729787 31.06 2651514548 6215239 2657729787 31.06 0.00 Shareholding (B)=(B)(1)+(B)(2) C. Shares 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 held by Custodian for GDRs & ADRs Grand Total 8548890772 6599348 8555490120 100.00 8549274881 6215239 8555490120 100.00 0.00 (A+B+C) Annexure E (MGT-9) 95 ii) Shareholding of Promoters SI No.
No.
of  Shares % of total Shares of the Company % of total Shares of the  Company % of Shares Pledged/ encumberd  to total shares % change in  shareholding during the year % of Shares Pledged/ encumberd  to total shares No.
of Shares Share holder's name Shareholding at the beginning of the year Shareholding at the end of the year 1 President  of India 5897760333 68.94%    --- 5897760333 68.94%   -- NIL Total 5897760333 68.94%    --- 5897760333 68.94%   -- NIL iii) Change in Promoters' Shareholding (please specify, if there is no change) iv) Shareholding Pattern of top ten Shareholders (other than Directors, Promoters and Holders of GDRs and ADRs):(*) SI No.
SI No.
% of total Shares of the  Company % of total Shares of the  Company % of total Shares of the  Company % of total Shares of the  Company No.
of Shares No.
of SharesFor each of the top 10  shareholders No.
of Shares No.
of Shares Shareholding at the beginning of the year Shareholding at the beginning of the year Cumulative Shareholding during the year Cumulative Shareholding during the year Date wise Increase/Decrease in Promoters Share  holding during the year specifying the reasons for  increase/decrease (e.g.
allotment/ transfer/ bonus/  sweat equity etc): At the end of the year *There is no Change is Promoter's Shareholding.
* Details are placed at Appendix At the beginning of the year  At the beginning of the year  Date wise Increase/Decrease in Shareholding during  the year specifying the reasons for increase/decrease  (e.g.
allotment/transfer/bonus/sweat equity etc): At the End of the year (or on the date of separation, if  separated during the year) Annual Report 2014-15 Annexure E (MGT-9) 96 v) Shareholding of Directors and key Managerial Personnel :  SI No.
1.
% of total Shares of the  Company % of total Shares of the  Company No.
of Shares Shri Dinesh Kumar Sarraf No.
of Shares Shareholding at the beginning of the year Cumulative Shareholding during the year (A) At the beginning of the year 3192 0.000037 ---- ---- (B) Date wise Increase/Decrease in Share holding during the year specifying the reasons for increase/decrease (e.g.
allotment/transfer/bonus/ sweat equity etc): (C) At the End of the year ---- ---- 3192 0.000037 2.
Shri Aloke Kumar Banerjee (A) 3172 0.000037 ---- ---- (B) ---- ---- NIL NIL (C) ---- ---- 3172 0.000037 3.
Shri Shashi Shankar (A) 3712 0.000043 ---- ---- (B) ---- ---- NIL NIL (C) ---- ---- 3712 0.000043 4.
Shri Narendra Kumar Verma (A) NIL NIL ---- ---- (B) ---- ---- NIL NIL (C) ---- ---- NIL NIL 5.
Shri Tapas Kumar Sengupta (A) 3672 0.000043 ---- ---- (B) ---- ---- NIL NIL (C) ---- ---- 3672 0.000043 6.
Shri Jamestin Kizhakkekuttu Scaria (A) 3600 0.000043 ---- ---- (B) ---- ---- NIL NIL (C) ---- ---- 3600 0.000043 7.
Shri Ashok Varma (A) NIL NIL ---- ---- (B) ---- ---- NIL NIL (C) ---- ---- NIL NIL 8.
Shri Desh Deepak Misra (A) 1700 0.000020 ---- ---- (B) ---- ---- NIL NIL (C) ---- ---- 1700 0.000020 9.
Shri Ajay Kumar Dwivedi (A) 820 0.000010 ---- ---- (B) ---- ---- NIL NIL (C) ---- ---- 820 0.000010 10.
Shri Naresh Kumar Sinha (A) NIL NIL ---- ---- (B) ---- ---- NIL NIL (C) ---- ---- NIL NIL ---- ---- NIL NIL Annexure E (MGT-9) 97 v) INDEBTEDNESS vi) REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL Indebtedness of the Company including interest outstanding/accrued but not due for payment A. Remuneration to Managing Director, Whole-time Director and / or Manager : Secured Loans  excluding deposits Unsecured Loans Deposits Total indebtedness Indebtedness at the beginning of the financial year i) Principal Amount ii) Interest due but not paid iii) Interest accrued but not due NIL NIL NIL NIL Total (i+ii+iii) NIL NIL NIL NIL Change in Indebtedness during the financial year • Additions • Reduction NIL NIL NIL NIL  Net Change NIL NIL NIL NIL Indebtedness at the end of the financial year i) Principal Amount ii) Interest due but not paid iii) Interest accrued but not due NIL NIL NIL NIL Total (i+ii+iii) NIL NIL NIL NIL Particulars of  Remuneration Shri Dinesh Kumar Sarraf C&MD DIR.
(FIN) DIR.
(HR) DIR.
(HR)DIR.
(EXPL.)
DIR.
(EXPL.)
DIR (T&FS) DIR (OFF SHORE) DIR (ON SHORE) Shri A.K.
Banerjee Shri K.S.
Jamestin Shri N.K.
Verma Shri Shashishan ker Shri T.K.
Sengupta Shri Ashok Varma Shri D.D.
Misra Shri A.K.
Dwivedi Total Amount Name of MD/WTD / Manager Gross salary            (a) Salary as per provisions contained in section 17(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 36,96,218 31,33,439 50,50,838 12,73,469 31,29,204 39,31,970 27,65,590 27,72,267 8,55,858 2,66,08,853 (b) Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) Income-tax Act, 1961 2,53,225 6,88,093 6,32,011 61,230 6,56,520 7,20,826 1,86,436 4,01,274 44,418 36,44,033 (c) Profits in lieu of salary under section 17(3) Income-tax Act, 1961- - - - - - - - - Stock Option - - - - - - - - - Sweat Equity - - - - - - - - - Commission - - - - - - - - - - As % of profit - - - - - - - - - - Others, specify.. - - - - - - - - - Others, please specify - - - - - - - - - Others-Provision for PRP, gratuity ,leave encashment under AS-15, Contribution to CSSS,PF, EPS , reimbursement of employer paid taxes, reimbursements not included under 17(2) 22,01,659 19,08,949 6,50,280 14,07,070 17,28,754 18,33,980 13,02,055 11,56,847 97,689 1,22,87,282 Total (A) 61,51,102 57,30,482 63,33,129 27,41,770 55,14,478 64,86,776 42,54,080 43,30,388 9,97,965 4,25,40,168 Ceiling as per the Act  Not applicable as section 197 of Companies Act, 2013 shall not apply to Government Companies.
(Figures in `) Annual Report 2014-15 Annexure E (MGT-9) 98 B. Remuneration to other directors: C. REMUNERATION TO KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL OTHER THAN MD/MANAGER/WTD Particulars of  Remuneration Particulars of  Remuneration SI.
No.
SI.
No.
Shri Arun Ram ananthan Prof Deepak Nayyar Prof. S.K.
Barua Shri O.P .
Bhatt Shri.
K.N.
Murthy Shri P .
Uma Shankar Shri S. Ravi Shri R.K. Singh Total Amount Name of Directors Key Managerial Personnel CEO Company Secretary CFO Total 1.
Independent Directors • Fee for at tending board 1,80,000 1,20,000 7,20,000 6,60,000 10,20,000 4,80,000 5,20,000 1,00,0000 38,00,000 commit tee meetings • Commission NIL NIL • Others, please specify Total (1) 38,00,000 2 Other Non-Executive Directors • Fee for at tending board commit tee meetings • Commission • Others, please specify Total (2) NIL Total (B)=(1+2) Total Managerial Remuneration Overall Ceiling as per the Act NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL 38,00,000 1 Gross salary    (a) Salary as per provisions contained in Section 17(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961  - 37,18,365 - 37,18,365 (b) Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) Income-tax Act, 1961 - 2,34,258 - 2,34,258 (c) Profits in lieu of salary under Section 17(3) Income-tax Act, 1961  - - - - 2 Stock Option  - - - - 3 Sweat Equity  - - - - 4 Commission    -       As % of profit  - - - - -       Others, specify..  - - - - 5 Others-Provision for PRP, Provisions under AS-15,Contribution to CSSS,PF,EPS, reimbursement of employer paid taxes, reimbursements not included under 17(2) - - 10,44391 Total - - 10,44,391 49,97,014 49,97,014 (Figures in `) (Figures in `) Annexure E (MGT-9) 99 vii) PENALTIES / PUNISHMENT / COMPOUNDING OF OFFENCES: Details of Penalty/ Punishment/ Compounding fee imposed Authority (RD/NCLT/ NCLT/COURT) Deposits  A.
COMPANY Penalty Punishment NIL NIL NIL NIL Compounding B.
DIRECTORS Penalty Punishment Compounding C. OTHER OFFICERS IN DEFAULT Penalty Punishment Compounding NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL Type Section of the Companies Act Brief Description Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Hon’ble Minister of State (I/C), Petroleum & Natural Gas (center) and Shri Kapil Dev T ripathi, Secretary - MoPNG  (left) with ONGC board of Directors on-board drilling vessel 'Chikyu' commissioned as part of the National Gas Hydrates Programme (NGHP).
'Chikyu' is an advanced scientific vessel specifically designed for Gas Hydrate core handling, analysis and various onboard laboratory studies  for gas hydrate characterization.
Annual Report 2014-15 Annexure E (MGT-9) 100 APPENDIX (iv) Shareholding Pattern of top ten Shareholders (other than Directors, Promoters and Holders of GDRs and ADRs): SI.
No.
LIFE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA No.
of shares No.
of shares % of total share of the company % of total share of the company Shareholding at the  beginning of the year Cumulative Shareholding during the year (A) At the beginning of the year 666,702,623 7.79 ---- --- (B) Date wise Increase/Decrease in Shareholding during the  year specifying the reasons for increase/decrease (e.g.
allotment/transfer/bonus/sweat equity etc): Date Reason 6/13/2014 Sold 495000 ---- ---- 666,207,623 7.79 6/20/2014 Sold 866 ---- ---- 666,206,757 7.79 7/25/2014 Sold 1112070 ---- ---- 665,094,687 7.77 8/1/2014 Sold 20599 ---- ---- 665,074,088 7.77 8/8/2014 Sold 1001006 ---- ---- 664,073,082 7.76 8/15/2014 Sold 1443291 ---- ---- 662,629,791 7.75 8/22/2014 Sold 3787067 ---- ---- 658,842,724 7.70 12/19/2014 Purchase 73250 ---- ---- 658,915,974 7.70 1/9/2015 Purchase 3044791 ---- ---- 661,960,765 7.74 1/16/2015 Purchase 853123 ---- ---- 662,813,888 7.75 3/13/2015 Purchase 4855314 ---- ---- 667,669,202 7.80 3/20/2015 Purchase 3135077 ---- ---- 670,804,279 7.84 3/27/2015 Purchase 4542218 ---- ---- 675,346,497 7.90 (C) At the End of the year (or on the date of separation, if separated during the year) ---- ---- 677,182,291 7.92 1.
SI.
No.
INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED No.
of shares No.
of shares % of total share of the company % of total share of the company Shareholding at the  beginning of the year Cumulative Shareholding during the year (A) At the beginning of the year 657,923,428 7.70 ---- ---- (B) Date wise Increase/Decrease in Shareholding during the year specifying the reasons for increase/decrease (e.g.
allotment/transfer/bonus/sweat equity etc): ---- ---- NIL NIL (C) At the End of the year (or on the date of separation, if separated during the year) ---- ---- 657,923,428 7.70 2.
Annexure E (MGT-9) 101 SI.
No.
GAIL INDIA LIMITED No.
of shares No.
of shares % of total share of the company % of total share of the company Shareholding at the  beginning of the year Cumulative Shareholding during the year (A) At the beginning of the year 205,601,068 2.40 ---- ---- (B) Date wise Increase/Decrease in Shareholding during the year specifying the reasons for increase/decrease  (e.g.
allotment/transfer/bonus/sweat equity etc): ---- ---- NIL NIL (C) At the End of the year (or on the date of separation, if separated during the year) ---- ---- 205,601,068 2.40 3.
SI.
No.
FRANKLIN TEMPLETON INVESTMENT FUNDS No.
of shares No.
of shares % of total share of the company % of total share of the company Shareholding at the  beginning of the year Cumulative Shareholding during the year (A) At the beginning of the year 76,805,580 0.90 ---- ---- (B) Date wise Increase/Decrease in Shareholding during the year specifying the reasons for increase/decrease (e.g.
allotment/transfer/bonus/sweat equity etc): Date Reason 4/4/2014 Sold 197000 ---- ---- 76,608,580 0.90 4/11/2014 Sold 253000 ---- ---- 76,355,580 0.90 6/6/2014 Sold 2090157 ---- ---- 74,265,423 0.87 6/13/2014 Sold 359843 ---- ---- 73,905,580 0.86 6/30/2014 Sold 644200 ---- ---- 73,261,380 0.86 7/4/2014 Sold 815739 ---- ---- 72,445,641 0.85 7/11/2014 Sold 888061 ---- ---- 71,557,580 0.84 2/13/2015 Purchase 1036800 ---- ---- 72,594,380 0.85 2/20/2015 Purchase 262300 ---- ---- 72,856,680 0.85 2/27/2015 Purchase 336900 ---- ---- 73,193,580 0.86 (C) At the End of the year (or on the date of separation, if separated during the year) ---- ---- 73,193,580 0.86 4.
Annual Report 2014-15 Annexure E (MGT-9) 102 SI.
No.
ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LTD. No.
of shares No.
of shares % of total share of the company % of total share of the company Shareholding at the  beginning of the year Cumulative Shareholding during the year (A) At the beginning of the year 46,964,274 0.55 ---- ---- (B) Date wise Increase/Decrease in Shareholding during the year specifying the reasons for increase/decrease (e.g.
allotment/transfer/bonus/sweat equity etc): Date Reason 4/4/2014 Sold 186200 ---- ---- 46,778,074 0.55 4/11/2014 Purchase 40421 ---- ---- 46,818,495 0.55 4/18/2014 Purchase 11874 ---- ---- 46,830,369 0.55 4/25/2014 Purchase 15780 ---- ---- 46,846,149 0.55 5/2/2014 Sold 159380 ---- ---- 46,686,769 0.55 5/9/2014 Sold 1235873 ---- ---- 45,450,896 0.53 5/16/2014 Purchase 55373 ---- ---- 45,506,269 0.53 5/23/2014 Purchase 13344 ---- ---- 45,519,613 0.53 5/30/2014 Sold 714896 ---- ---- 44,804,717 0.52 6/6/2014 Sold 1951949 ---- ---- 42,852,768 0.50 6/13/2014 Sold 3916721 ---- ---- 38,936,047 0.46 6/20/2014 Sold 1099281 ---- ---- 37,836,766 0.44 6/30/2014 Sold 2535650 ---- ---- 35301116 0.41 7/4/2014 Sold 433800 ---- ---- 34,867,316 0.41 7/11/2014 Sold 15574 ---- ---- 34,851,742 0.41 7/18/2014 Sold 1353353 ---- ---- 33,498,389 0.40 7/25/2014 Sold 429799 ---- ---- 33,068,590 0.39 8/1/2014 Sold 237342 ---- ---- 32,831,248 0.38 8/8/2014 Purchase 48753 ---- ---- 32,880,001 0.38 8/15/2014 Purchase 18242 ---- ---- 32,898,243 0.38 8/22/2014 Sold 85285 ---- ---- 32,812,958 0.38 8/29/2014 Sold 760633 ---- ---- 32,052,325 0.37 9/5/2014 Sold 226485 ---- ---- 31,825,840 0.37 9/12/2014 Sold 54324 ---- ---- 31,771,516 0.37 9/19/2014 Sold 197032 ---- ---- 31,574,484 0.37 9/30/2014 Purchase 88390 ---- ---- 31,662,874 0.37 10/3/2014 Sold 8732 ---- ---- 31,654,142 0.37 10/10/2014 Sold 56001 ---- ---- 31,598,141 0.37 10/17/2014 Sold 118361 ---- ---- 31,479,780 0.37 10/24/2014 Sold 287748 ---- ---- 31,192,032 0.36 10/31/2014 Purchase 14823 ---- ---- 31,206,855 0.36 11/7/2014 Sold 23168 ---- ---- 31,183,687 0.36 11/14/2014 Sold 84674 ---- ---- 31,099,013 0.36 11/21/2014 Purchase 3716 ---- ---- 31,102,729 0.36 11/28/2014 Sold 130467 ---- ---- 30,972,262 0.36 5.
Annexure E (MGT-9) 103 12/5/2014 Purchase 137862 ---- ---- 31,110,124 0.36 12/12/2014 Sold 45107 ---- ---- 31,065,017 0.36 12/19/2014 Purchase 780925 ---- ---- 31,845,942 0.37 12/31/2014 Purchase 1440839 ---- ---- 33,286,781 0.39 1/2/2015 Purchase 171606 ---- ---- 33,458,387 0.39 1/9/2015 Purchase 369845 ---- ---- 33,828,232 0.40 1/16/2015 Purchase 896166 ---- ---- 34,724,398 0.41 1/23/2015 Purchase 140874 ---- ---- 34,865,272 0.41 1/30/2015 Purchase 204617 ---- ---- 35,069,889 0.41 2/6/2015 Purchase 1234044 ---- ---- 36,303,933 0.42 2/13/2015 Purchase 270101 ---- ---- 36,574,034 0.43 2/20/2015 Sold 16585 ---- ---- 36,557,449 0.43 2/27/2015 Sold 52986 ---- ---- 36,504,463 0.43 3/6/2015 Purchase 301071 ---- ---- 36,805,534 0.43 3/13/2015 Sold 126721 ---- ---- 36,678,813 0.43 3/20/2015 Sold 200150 ---- ---- 36,478,663 0.43 3/27/2015 Purchase 415630 ---- ---- 36,894,293 0.43 (C) At the End of the year (or on the date of separation,  if separated during the year) ---- ---- 37,140,388 0.43 SI.
No.
VANGUARD EMERGING MARKETS STOCK  INDEX FUND, ASERIE No.
of shares No.
of shares % of total share of the company % of total share of the company Shareholding at the  beginning of the year Cumulative Shareholding during the year (A) At the beginning of the year 36,013,384 0.42 ---- ---- (B) Date wise Increase/Decrease in Shareholding during the year specifying the reasons for increase/decrease (e.g.
allotment/transfer/bonus/sweat equity etc): Date Reason 4/4/2014 Purchase 202120 ---- ---- 36,215,504 0.42 4/11/2014 Purchase 247597 ---- ---- 36,463,101 0.43 4/18/2014 Purchase 35371 ---- ---- 36,498,472 0.43 5/23/2014 Purchase 90954 ---- ---- 36,589,426 0.43 5/30/2014 Purchase 611072 ---- ---- 37,200,498 0.43 7/11/2014 Purchase 176855 ---- ---- 37,377,353 0.44 7/25/2014 Purchase 202120 ---- ---- 37,579,473 0.44 8/1/2014 Purchase 323392 ---- ---- 37,902,865 0.44 8/22/2014 Purchase 412427 ---- ---- 38,315,292 0.45 9/12/2014 Purchase 141484 ---- ---- 38,456,776 0.45 9/30/2014 Sold 765215 ---- ---- 37,691,561 0.44 11/28/2014 Purchase 141484 ---- ---- 37,833,045 0.44 12/5/2014 Purchase 126325 ---- ---- 37,959,370 0.44 1/9/2015 Sold 207173 ---- ---- 37,752,197 0.44 1/16/2015 Sold 90954 ---- ---- 37,661,243 0.44 1/23/2015 Sold 85901 ---- ---- 37,575,342 0.44 2/6/2015 Sold 25265 ---- ---- 37,550,077 0.44 2/13/2015 Sold 101060 ---- ---- 37,449,017 0.44 (C) At the End of the year (or on the date of separation, if separated during the year ---- ---- 37,374,692 0.44 6.
Annual Report 2014-15 Annexure E (MGT-9) 104 SI.
No.
SI.
No.
LIC OF INDIA MARKET PLUS 1 GROWTH FUND HSBC GLOBAL INVESTMENT FUNDS ACCOUNT HSBC GIF MAURITU No.
of shares No.
of shares No.
of shares No.
of shares % of total share of the company % of total share of the company % of total share of the company % of total share of the company Shareholding at the  beginning of the year Shareholding at the  beginning of the year Cumulative Shareholding during the year Cumulative Shareholding during the year (A) At the beginning of the year 27,723,200 0.32 ---- ---- (B) Date wise Increase/Decrease in Shareholding during the year specifying the reasons for increase/decrease (e.g.
allotment/transfer/bonus/sweat equity etc): Date Reason 4/25/2014 Sold 621009 ---- ---- 27,102,191 0.32 5/9/2014 Sold 594971 ---- ---- 26,507,220 0.31 6/13/2014 Sold 77197 ---- ---- 26,430,023 0.31 6/20/2014 Sold 100000 ---- ---- 26,330,023 0.31 6/30/2014 Sold 1284376 ---- ---- 25,045,647 0.30 7/4/2014 Sold 712206 ---- ---- 24,333,441 0.28 7/11/2014 Sold 553002 ---- ---- 23,780,439 0.28 7/25/2014 Sold 75215 ---- ---- 23,705,224 0.28 8/1/2014 Sold 487500 ---- ---- 23,217,724 0.27 8/8/2014 Sold 462256 ---- ---- 22,755,468 0.27 8/15/2014 Sold 667770 ---- ---- 22,087,698 0.26 8/22/2014 Sold 455000 ---- ---- 21,632,698 0.25 8/29/2014 Sold 933671 ---- ---- 20,699,027 0.24 (C) At the End of the year (or on the date of separation, if separated during the year) ---- ---- 20,699,027 0.24 (A) At the beginning of the year 26,352,684 0.31 ---- ---- (B) Date wise Increase/Decrease in Shareholding during the year specifying the reasons for increase/decrease (e.g.
allotment/transfer/bonus/sweat equity etc): Date Reason 5/9/2014 Sold616714 ---- ---- 25,735,970 0.30 5/16/2014 Sold162349 ---- ---- 25,573,621 0.30 5/23/2014 Sold58382 ---- ---- 25,515,239 0.30 6/13/2014 Sold343273 ---- ---- 25,171,966 0.30 6/20/2014 Sold1159875 ---- ---- 24,012,091 0.28 8/15/2014 Sold476696 ---- ---- 23,535,395 0.28 8/22/2014 Sold396604 ---- ---- 23,138,791 0.27 8/29/2014 Sold621015 ---- ---- 22,517,776 0.26 9/5/2014 Sold348361 ---- ---- 22,169,415 0.26 9/12/2014 Sold328691 ---- ---- 21,840,724 0.26 10/10/2014 Sold500000 ---- ---- 21,340,724 0.25 10/17/2014 Sold196737 ---- ---- 21,143,987 0.25 10/24/2014 Sold263157 ---- ---- 20,880,830 0.24 (C) At the End of the year (or on the date of separation, if separated during the year)---- ---- 20,880,830 0.24 7.
8.
Annexure E (MGT-9) 105 SI.
No.
CPSE ETF No.
of shares No.
of shares % of total share of the company % of total share of the company Shareholding at the  beginning of the year Cumulative Shareholding during the year (A) At the beginning of the year 24,786,189 0.29 ---- ---- (B) Date wise Increase/Decrease in Shareholding during the year specifying the reasons for increase/decrease (e.g.
allotment/ transfer/bonus/sweat equity etc): Date Reason 4/4/2014 Purchase 51120 ---- ---- 24,837,309 0.30 4/11/2014 Sold 7642755 ---- ---- 17,194,554 0.20 4/18/2014 Sold 1238365 ---- ---- 15,956,189 0.19 4/25/2014 Sold 1198370 ---- ---- 14,757,819 0.17 5/2/2014 Sold  649254 ---- ---- 14,108,565 0.16 5/9/2014 Sold 345594 ---- ---- 13,762,971 0.16 5/16/2014 Purchase 155525 ---- ---- 13,918,496 0.16 5/23/2014 Purchase 204952 ---- ---- 14,123,448 0.17 5/30/2014 Purchase 225896 ---- ---- 14,349,344 0.17 6/6/2014 Purchase 104720 ---- ---- 14,454,064 0.17 6/13/2014 Sold 40392 ---- ---- 14,413,672 0.17 6/20/2014 Purchase 17952 ---- ---- 14,431,624 0.17 6/30/2014 Purchase 31416 ---- ---- 14,463,040 0.17 7/4/2014 Purchase 23936 ---- ---- 14,486,976 0.17 7/11/2014 Sold 7480 ---- ---- 14,479,496 0.17 7/18/2014 Purchase 14541 ---- ---- 14,494,037 0.17 7/25/2014 Purchase 19435 ---- ---- 14,513,472 0.17 8/1/2014 Purchase 13455 ---- ---- 14,526,927 0.17 8/8/2014 Purchase 4485 ---- ---- 14,531,412 0.17 8/15/2014 Sold 1495 ---- ---- 14,529,917 0.17 8/22/2014 Purchase 312715 ---- ---- 14,842,632 0.17 8/29/2014 Sold 36600 ---- ---- 14,806,032 0.17 9/5/2014 Sold 18220 ---- ---- 14,787,812 0.17 9/12/2014 Sold 79508 ---- ---- 14,708,304 0.17 9/19/2014 Sold 47399 ---- ---- 14,660,905 0.17 9/30/2014 Purchase 65747 ---- ---- 14,726,652 0.17 10/3/2014 Sold 6116 ---- ---- 14,720,536 0.17 10/10/2014 Sold 1529 ---- ---- 14,719,007 0.17 10/17/2014 Purchase 62689 ---- ---- 14,781,696 0.17 10/24/2014 Purchase 51986 ---- ---- 14,833,682 0.17 10/31/2014 Sold 29051 ---- ---- 14,804,631 0.17 11/7/2014 Purchase 82566 ---- ---- 14,887,197 0.17 11/14/2014 Purchase 752054 ---- ---- 15,639,251 0.17 11/21/2014 Sold 695702 ---- ---- 14,943,549 0.17 11/28/2014 Sold 52899 ---- ---- 14,890,650 0.17 12/5/2014 Sold 33663 ---- ---- 14,856,987 0.17 12/12/2014 Sold 24045 ---- ---- 14,832,942 0.17 12/19/2014 Sold 33663 ---- ---- 14,799,279 0.17 12/31/2014 Purchase 150333 ---- ---- 14,949,612 0.17 9.
Annual Report 2014-15 Annexure E (MGT-9) 106 SI.
No.
CPSE ETF No.
of shares No.
of shares % of total share of the company % of total share of the company Shareholding at the  beginning of the year Cumulative Shareholding during the year 1/2/2015 Sold 59459 ---- ---- 14,890,153 0.17 1/9/2015 Purchase 80350 ---- ---- 14,970,503 0.17 1/16/2015 Sold 44996 ---- ---- 14,925,507 0.17 1/23/2015 Sold 35354 ---- ---- 14,890,153 0.17 1/30/2015 Sold 73922 ---- ---- 14,816,231 0.17 2/6/2015 Sold 33747 ---- ---- 14,782,484 0.17 2/13/2015 Sold 3214 ---- ---- 14,779,270 0.17 2/20/2015 Purchase 906764 ---- ---- 15,686,034 0.18 2/27/2015 Sold 15309 ---- ---- 15,670,725 0.18 3/6/2015 Sold 32584 ---- ---- 15,638,141 0.18 3/13/2015 Purchase 223221 ---- ---- 15,861,362 0.19 3/20/2015 Purchase 13738 ---- ---- 15,875,100 0.19 3/27/2015 Purchase 104040 ---- ---- 15,979,140 0.19 (C) At the End of the year (or on the date of separation,  if separated during the year) ---- ---- 15,975,672 0.19 9.
SI.
No.
LIC OF INDIA MARKET PLUS 1 GROWTH FUND No.
of shares No.
of shares % of total share of the company % of total share of the company Shareholding at the  beginning of the year Cumulative Shareholding during the year (A) At the beginning of the year 24,040,209 0.28 ---- ---- (B) Date wise Increase/Decrease in Shareholding during the year specifying the reasons for increase/decrease (e.g.
allotment/transfer/bonus/sweat equity etc): Date Reason 4/25/2014 Sold247975 ---- ---- 23,792,234 0.28 5/9/2014 Sold271362 ---- ---- 23,520,872 0.27 6/30/2014 Sold916104 ---- ---- 22,604,768 0.26 7/4/2014 Sold610286 ---- ---- 21,994,482 0.26 7/11/2014 Sold200000 ---- ---- 21,794,482 0.25 7/25/2014 Sold400000 ---- ---- 21,394,482 0.25 8/1/2014 Sold198311 ---- ---- 21,196,171 0.25 8/8/2014 Sold297374 ---- ---- 20,898,797 0.24 8/15/2014 Sold350000 ---- ---- 20,548,797 0.24 8/22/2014 Sold685000 ---- ---- 19,863,797 0.23 8/29/2014 Sold475000 ---- ---- 19,388,797 0.23 (C) At the End of the year (or on the date of separation,  if separated during the year) ---- ---- 19,388,797 0.23 10.
Annexure F (Energy Conservation) 107 Annexure - F A.
ENERGY CONSERVATION  The following measures were taken towards energy  conservation during 2014-15 lDuring the year LED Retrofit tube lights (20W)-1800 nos.
were  replaced in place of conventional 36W/40W T ubes having  power consumption of approx.
50W including choke.
l25 KW Roof top Solar Plant was installed at KDMIPE  which is feeding power to Streetlights of KDMIPE.
lFor renovation works at various labs/ offices of KDMIPE,  120 nos.
LED (36/ 40W) were replaced in place of 2x40W  T ube fitting having power consumption of approx.
100W  including choke.
l308 Nos.
of 2X40W T ube fittings having power  consumption of 100 Watt were replaced by LED Fittings  (36 W) in  GEOPIC.
lAs a Green initiative, 15KW solar photo-voltaic power  plant was installed at GEOPIC roof top.
lDuring renovation of IRS canteen all the light fittings  12x40W tube light fittings (12 no.)
have been replaced  with 43W LED light fittings (9 no.)
lUranPlant : The measures taken during 2014-15 include  125 KWp Solar Power Plant at Roof T op of Raw Water  Reservoir and  50 KWp Solar Power Plant at Roof T op of  New APU Substation.
lHazia Plant - Movement detector lighting circuits have  been installed in unmanned sub-stations.
l6 AC-VFD rigs have been introduced in Onshore Assets.
lAnkleshwar Asset installed and commissioned 2 nos.
of  hired gas compressors, one each in Gandhar & Ankleshwar  fields to reduce gas flaring and monetize the same.
lHPSV lamps in street lighting were replaced by Energy  saver LED lamps in IDT .
Impact of measures for reduction of energy  consumption and consequent impact on the cost of  production of goods The energy conservation measures taken as above have  resulted in significant saving.
Further, the above measures  have resulted in reduction of significant quantity of fuel  consumption (HSD, Natural Gas and electricity).
B.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT  Specific areas in which R&D was carried out lUpdation of tectonic map of India.
lBasin architecture and Mesozoic sedimentation in western offshore basins.
lAnalysis of the various elements of Petroleum system(s) of the study in KG and Mahanadi areas with respect to hydrocarbon charging.
lDelineation of shallow pay sands in a pilot area of  Ankaleshwar field, Cambay Basin.
lEvaluation of its hydrocarbon prospectivity in Chenab- Beas Sector of Himalayan Foothills in analogy with  Upper Indus Petroliferous basin.
lPlate T ectonic reconstruction of Gondwana deposits of India.
lStrontium-Neodymium (Sr-Nd) isotopic and  geochemical characterization of basaltic basement in  Western Offshore Basin.
lEvaluation of low resistivity pay sand GS-12 of Gandhar field.
lAssessment of Gas Hydrate potential in Andaman  offshore area.
lBasin Centered Gas prospectivity in Warsan Low in  Mehsana Area, North Cambay Basin.
lSoftware development using CUDA-GPU T echnology lSoftware development for data access from OpenWorks  database to other platforms over the network lSof t ware development for interactive Spectral  Decomposition in Petrel to improve the understanding  of anomalous zones quickly by generating the spectral  attributes on the fly from the seismic data.
lDevelopment of software for improving the frequency  bandwidth to induct the MPI parallel processing  techniques using high performance cluster systems for  compute intensive seismic processing methods.
lDevelopment of software for transforming angle  gathers to offset gathers as an OMEGA plugin lInterpretation of Passive Seismic data to absorb this  fast emerging T echnology to generate    3-D velocity  structure of the sub-sur face for hydrocarbon  exploration using data from micro-earthquakes.
lAnisotropic Pre-stack Depth Migration (PSDM) using  seismic 3D data pertaining to prospect, B173-A, of  Neelam-Heera Asset, Mumbai Of fshore, Using  OMEGA  and Geodepth Softwares lApplication of Geostatical inversion-technique for  removal of coal effect.
Structural Engineering lLife extension and recertification of the offshore jacket  platforms in western offshore, which have outlived their  design lives, through a collaborative project with DNV GL.
lRisk based inspection planning for offshore structures  in western offshore  Material Selection Corrosion Control lSuitable material of construction for tubular and flow  line of deep water development Geotechnical Studies lApplication of Field vane shear T est in offshore  geotechnics Gas Hydrate Studies ØStudies on the feasibility of gas production from gas  hydrate bearing reservoirs using molecular substitution  technique IRS, has completed a number of  R&D Projects in FY (14-15) on Field development based on Reservoir simulation  studies, Performance monitoring, EOR processes – Lab  design and simulation, Reservoir characterization,  productivity enhancement projects and basic laboratory  data generation for various fields of ONGC.
ØFeasibility Study on introduction of Nano based Non- damaging Drilling Fluid technology in ONGC for  increasing Well Productivity and reduction in drilling cost.
ØProper mud design for drilling in shale sections (long  exposure period) in Cambay, KG and Cauvery basins  ensuring well stability- (Head COD-Shale gas,  Vadodara).
ØDesign of Mud system for the wells of Daman  development Project (C-24 Addl.
Dev.
& B 12 fields) -  B&S Asset, Mumbai.
Annual Report 2014-15 Annexure F (Energy Conservation) 108 ØDesign of Mud system for the wells of C -26 cluster (C- 23, C -26 and B -12-1 fields)- B&S Asset, Mumbai.
ØDesign of Mud system for Sub-hydrostatic reservoirs  (Bassein, Vasai East and NBP fields)-  (B&S Asset,  Mumbai).
ØDesigning of Mud policy for drilling Mukta and Bassein  (Limestone and shale formations) and Panna pays  (Sandstone-Shale formations) of Heera field- (N & H  Asset, Mumbai).
ØLow solids/ solid free mud design for successful  completion of wells with high angle long section in  basement in Borholla and adjoining areas, SAS, A&AA  Basin- (COD, Basement Exploration, Mumbai) ØInhibited mud system for Kaoliniticshales- (MS, Mumbai).
ØDevelopment of Baryte free synthetic oil based  reservoir drilling fluid-( MS, Mumbai ).
ØDrilling fluid for shale gas (Horizontal wells)- (Mud Corporate).
ØHTHP high density clear fluid brines alternative to  Cesium Formate- ( Mud Corporate).
ØFeasibilit y studies of using oil field ef fluent for  preparation of mud & brine- Previous year follow up  project- (MS, Ahmedabad Asset).
ØIdentification of suitable deflocculant for polymer mud  (KCl-PHPA)- (MS, Ahmedabad Asset).
ØBaryte sagging in HTHP wells- (MS, Rajahmundry).
ØGeo-mechanical modelling of B-12 field (T apti Daman  Area, Mumbai Offshore) based on inputs derived from  recently drilled wells in the area- (B&S Asset, Mumbai).
ØGeo-mechanical study of Kunjaban field (T ripura) and to  suggest safe Mud Weight Window along with suitable  Casing Policy to counter the wellbore instability  problems- (MS- T ripura).
ØGeo-mechanical study (post drill analyses) of some  wells drilled in Cauvery Asset/ Basin namely, KIDA  (Kali), KADL (Kuthalam), VNAC (Vanjiyur), BVDA  (Bhuvanagiri), BVDB (Bhuvanagiri) and ABA A  (Adambavur) and to suggest mud weight window for  drilling future wells in the respective fields- (Cauvery  Asset).
ØGeo-mechanical study of Khubal field (Cachar) and to  suggest suitable Mud Weight Window along with Casing  Policy for drilling directional wells in the field- (MS- Cachar).
ØFraming specification of HTHP viscosifier and  dispersant- (MS-Mumbai).
ØDesign of optimum casing policy and Mud system for  wells of Daman Development Project (C-24 Addl.
Dev.
&  B12 fields)- (B&S Asset, Mumbai).
ØDesign of optimum casing policy and Mud system for  wells of C-26 Cluster (C-23, C-26 and B-12-1 Fields)-  (B&S Asset, Mumbai).
ØDesigning of Casing and Mud policy of drilling Mukta  and Bassein (Limestone and Shale Formations) and  Panna pays (Sandstone-Shale formations) of Heera  field- ( N&H Asset).
ØFormulation of suitable casing and mud policy for  Isolation of gas bearing Bandra Pay (Isolating shallow  gas reservoir Bandra)- (N&H Asset).
ØWell design for successful completion of wells with  high angle long section in basement (including  feasibility of using Under-reamer) in Borholla and  adjoining areas, South Assam Shelf, A&AA Basin-  (CoD Basement) ØWell plan for the Horizontal Well BVDA (TD-3475m  TVD)- (Cauvery Asset, Karaikal).
ØWell plan for the Horizontal Well BVDB (TD-3800m  TVD)- (Cauvery Asset, Karaikal).
ØWell plan for Well # TIAA (TD-3000m)- (Cachar  Forward Base Silchar).
ØComparative Study of Digvijay vs. Dalmia Cement for  Slurry Design of HP-HT Wells in East Coast & West  Coast Fields and Recommendation for Improvement in  the Physical / Chemical Parameters of Digvijay  Cement- (CS-Mumbai).
ØComparative Study of Dalmia vs. Dyckerhoff Cement  for use in Slurry Design for Ultra HP/HT Wells in East  Coast & West Coast Fields- (CS-Mumbai).
ØCementation Job in Loss and Gain Situation in 9 5/8”  Casing and 7” Liner Job in Eastern / Western Offshore  of MR- (Mumbai Region).
ØFormulation of T entative Specification for Cement  Additives Packages for Low T emperature and Light  Weight Application- (Mumbai Region).
 Modified formulation and preparation technique of RSF  pill for Mumbai Region- (Mumbai Region).
 Isolation of High Permeability/Water Charged Streaks  within Bassein Pay, Neelam Field- (N&H Asset,  Mumbai).
ØAnalysis of shale gas well cementation of the well  JMSGA- (Ankleshwar Asset) for vProbable reasons for poor CBL-VDL of 7” casing vHow to improve CBL-VDL for Hydro fracturing vHow to avoid such failure in future  ØCementing solution for wells of Khubal field and  optimization of cement slurry design for a good  primary cementation- (T ripura Asset).
ØAnalysis of reasons for Poor CBL-VDL in HT-HP well of  Rajahmundry Asset- (Rajahmundry Asset).
Benefits derived as result of above R&D: The R&D projects undertaken by your Company  facilitated speedier and effective E&P activities of the  Company.
Expenditure on Research & Development  2013-142014-15 Capital 302.25 213.31 Recurring 4,023.62 5,296.06 Total 4,325.87 5,509.37 T otal R&D  Expenditure as a percentage of T otal T urnover 0.52% 0.66% (` in million) Annexure F (Energy Conservation) 109 C. Technology absorption and adaptation lViscoelastic foam acid system (VFA), VSDA & DPRS has  been implemented in Mumbai offshore wells resulting  in appreciable oil gain.
lFor the first time Rigless WSO Job followed by cement  squeeze by CTU was carried out in Ahmedabad Asset.
lTwo Bottom hole samples of Nagayalanka field, a HPHT  reservoir for Joint Venture (Cairn Energy-ONGC  consortium) from well NL-1zST at a depth of 4045.2m WL  (Raghavpuram sand) and 3995.2m WL (Golapalli sand)  were collected by Schlumberger for PVT studies.
Both  the samples were tested successfully under HPHT  conditions.
lAcquired PIPENET vision sof tware (1.7), Spray  sprinkler module from M/s.
Sunrise System, U.K to  check the fire water adequacy.
lIEOT acquired State of the Art Software SAFETI/Phast- 6.7 from DNV for Quantitative Risk Assessment.
lMehsana Asset has developed an in-house pipeline  information system on google maps.
The system  provides all information related to various pipelines of  the Asset, their routes, types, sizes, distances, etc.
The  facility is available from anywhere through intranet with  user login authentication.
l6 Nos of AC-VFD state of art drilling rigs have been  introduced in Assam Asset (3 Nos), Ankleshwar Asset (1  Nos), Rajahmundry Asset (1 Nos) and Cauvery Asset  (1).
These rigs have a capacity of drilling upto 6100 m  and have state of the art electronics systems.
These rigs  have been procured from M/s BHEL.
lAnkleshwar Asset has inducted 2 nos.
of new logging  units for cased hole and production logging services on  th 20  October, 2014.
The units have been sourced from  M/s Weatherford Llc, and are equipped with state of art  tools for all types of well and reservoir related jobs.
lRajahmundry Asset has acquired a sophisticated new  open hole logging unit armed with most updated features  and specifications.
The new unit is also supplemented  with high-tech imaging tools like STAR (Simultaneous  Acoustic and Resistivity Tool), ECBIL (Extended  Circumferential Bore Hole Imaging Log) and Segmented  Bond T ool (SBT), thus enhancing the in-house capability  by huge proportions.
The hi-tech STAR tool provides  better reservoir description, fracture detections, borehole  break-outs and other geological applications.
lIn a breakthrough technology application, hydro- fracturing was successfully carried out in two HP-HT  wells of the Rajahmundry Asset.
The wells MSAC ( BHT- 165.5 Deg C) & MSDB ( BHT-157 Deg C) of  Malleshwaram fields were fractured by WSS,  Ahmedabad through in-house developed technology in  December, 2014.
The technology for HPHT is patented  and is available at a significant premium in the market.
Therefore this path breaking success has opened a new  vista for unlocking the potential from tight & HPHT  reservoirs through in-house fracturing in a cost  effective way.
lT ripura Asset has used new technology application of  under balanced perforation using T ubing Conveyed  Perforation (TCP) guns in wells BRM#25 (Baramura  field) and AD#38 (Agartala Dome field) with very  encouraging results.
lT ripura Asset has acquired state of art well activation and  testing equipment to augment well activation/ testing  capabilities.
Asset has acquired one 200 ksc high  pressure compressor for well activations and two nos.
of  high pressure horizontal 3 phase test separators with  state of art instrumentation for well testing operations.
lIn Cauvery Asset, Gas Corrosion Inhibitor (GCI) dosing  system has been installed at the Gas Collecting System  (GCS), Kovilkallapal.
The system is a first of its kind at  rd Cauvery Asset and was commissioned on 3  October,  2014.
The system will help to improve the gas  evacuation system to transport gas in a safe manner.
lBWA (Broadband Wireless Access): BWA project  based on IEEE 802.16d standard, comprises of 7 base  stations and its associated 227 remote locations at  Ahmedabad, Anklehwar, Gandhar, Cambay, Mehsana,  Vadodara and Neelam Process complex.
A ‘Pilot T est’  was carried out at Gandhar before rollout of the Project.
127 nos of towers (height- 10M, 20M, 30M, 40M and  60M) were erected in Western onshore under the  Project.
The system is operational at Western Onshore  locations successfully with 99% availability.
lEnterprise Wide SCADA (Supervisory Control and  Data Acquisition) System: The project created a  single platform for monitoring the operations of  ONGC’s Drilling and Production facilities and covered  247 onshore production facilities, 11 offshore process  complexes, 157 un-manned well platforms, 9 offshore  and 64 onshore drilling rigs, 2 Process plants and 1  mini-refinery.
Detailed engineering & project execution  on a turnkey basis has been carried out by engaging  M/s ABB Limited, Bengaluru as an EPC Contractor.
The  system helps in taking tactical decisions at field level,  operational decisions at Base office and Strategic  decisions at the Corporate Office level.
Data from  SCADA system can be directly interfaced to other  corporate databases and ERP systems.
lIBM Messaging platform:  The IBM Lotus messaging  platform has been deployed in ONGC with mail servers  based at Delhi and Mumbai.
Introduction of O drive, an  authenticated cloud based storage facility was also rolled  out on IBM Lotus MySpace which provides users a facility  to store files & documents that can be accessed from  anywhere.
Myspace is also being used to share files with  other users, form communities and collaborate.
lField implemented IDT developed Micro bubble system  successfully at well no.
HSD #8H (South Heera Field) of  Mumbai Region.
Annual Report 2014-15 Annexure F (Energy Conservation) 110 D Information regarding Imported Technology for last five years S.No.
Technology Imported Year of         Import A TECHNOLOGY (i) • Continuous Flow Isotope Ratio Mass Spectrometer (CF-IRMS)   • COREVAL-30 • SKUA software from M/s Paradigm.
• Fugro Jason Work Bench Software • SATA-II disks based SAN storage systems  • PERISCOPE (ii) • 3D Visualisation Centre.
• The Fluid Eval.
• Induction of CRAM software from M/s Paradigm.
• Induction of Geo-science core system and seismic interpretation module of petrel software from M/s Geoquest Systems B.V .
• Induction of MATLAB Software from M/s Designtech Systems Ltd. • Petrel software for Processing of seismic data from M/s Geoquest Systems B.V .
• Multi-Component Seismic Survey - 3D – 3C • T uffTRAC- a new generation wire line-conveyed tractor, used for carrying out perforations.
• Ultra HPHT TCP-DST- T o test wells in very High temperature & Pressure conditions having temperatures beyond 450 °F .
• RF Safe perforating System.
(iii) • Sm-Nd Dating facility to date hard rocks like Igneous and metamorphic.It also helpful in  ascertaining  the provenance age in sedimentary rocks.and correlation of reservoir lithologies.
(iv) • Radial  3D Saturn Probe-used for pressure measurements, downhole fluid analysis and fluid sampling in extremely low mobility reservoir sections.
• Radial Cutter T orch (RCT) used to  retrieve the 3 ½” tubing which is clamped with ESP cable in 9 5/8” casing.
The thermal Generator System initiates the RCT tool and directs the molten plasma for cutting the pipe.
• Multi sample Porosimeter-Permeameter KEYPHI-used for measurement of petrophysical parameters at variable confining pressure.
• UV-Vis Spectrophotometer Lambda-35 (PerkinElmer) is useful in the genetic correlation, depositional environment and maturity of crude oils and source sequences.
• Thermo Fisher Nicolet iS5 FT-IR Spectrophotometer used for the study of structural group analysis of complex hydrocarbon mixtures, genetic correlation of crude oils & bitumen and oil shale &kerogen analysis.
• The e-Permit system to Work (PTW): offers the distinct advantage of a standardized PTW template across the organization and ensures faster permit access to the end user.
• Air Hammer Drilling-used for the first time in ONGC in well  Jabera-3, Vindhyan Basin.
The technology is based on the under balanced drilling and has an option for change-over to conventional mud system to meet the operational, safety and testing requirements.
(v) • Broadband seismic technology have been used in Mumbai High Field identification 2014-15 of porosity sweet spots in carbonate reservoirs and thin bed identification within the clastic reservoirs  and also the broadband data is expected to help in Basement imaging for prospectivity within locales of intense fracture development.
• Micros Seismics surveys are performed to monitor hydraulic fracturing.
Initiative has been taken with in-house efforts for acquiring data.
Feasibility study for monitoring the progress of hydrofracturing using Microseismics is under progress in Cambay Basin.
2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 Annexure F (Energy Conservation) 111 • Drill bit Seismicstechnique uses the vibrations produced by a drill bit while drilling as a down hole seismic energy source.The seismic data has been acquired around a well in Gandhar area of Cambay Basin using 3C sensors and drill bit as a source.
• Advance NGS system:Itallows simultaneous display and management of different spectra for desired presentation and effective management of data file.
It has  latest digital signal processor (Orion) and  MCA (Multi Channel Analyser) which will improve the data acquisition, analysis process and enrich the interpretation capabilities.
• New Modules  in MOVE suite(Geomechanical Modeling(GM),Fracture Modeling(FM) and Stress Analysis tools have been added in MOVE suite: GM creates 3D restoration models and affords advanced structural systems analysis capabilities.
Data generated will be used in fracture modeling and generation of discrete fracture networks (DFN) whereas  FM generates non deterministic 3D Discrete Fracture Network (DFN) models that allows the  characterization of fracture networks and generates direct outputs for reservoir simulation.
The stress analysis tool uses graphical method for analyzing fault and fracture systems under a user defined 3D stress state.
The tool computes stress attributes for Slip T endency, Dilation T endency, Fracture Stability and Slip Stability of planes.
• 2D long-offset seismic data reprocessing tool using TGS software: This tool will Improve the image by using linear transform (SMEL T) module and proprietorysoftware CLARI-FI.
This tool has helped in understanding the Basin architecture , Sedimentation History and in identif ying prospective locales for Mesozoic exploration of Kutch and Kerala-Konkan  Basin.
• Scale-Out NAS 378 TB storage, 40 TB SAN storage and 10G OM3 Fibre based direct  Workstation connectivity through IPV6 ready CORE Switch.
• Server virtualization through Rack server & associated Software and induction of Work Stations and Thin Clients.
• Network connectivity has been upgraded from existing 1G to 10G on Fiber Net work.
• Gas Sweeting Facilities at Offshore B193 Process Platform commissioned in November, 2014 under Development of B193 Cluster  fields having high H2S gas concentrations.
It is for the first time that sour gas processing &  sweetening facilities have been installed and being operated at Offshore installation.
• Float over method installation: HRD process platform has been installed in January, 2015 by using state-of-the-art “Float-Over T echnology” resulting in saving of offshore construction time for installation.
Earlier the successful installation of B-193 AP Deck of B&S Asset, in December, 2012 using the Float Over method was the first endeavor of ONGC in this direction • Floating Production, Storage and Offloading (FPSO):  FPSO (Armada Sterling-II) a floating oil production system successfully commissioned in March, 2015 in western offshore to produce oil and gas from Cluster-7 fields.
It is to mention that ONGC has earlier for the first time has deployed FPSO in April, 2013 to  produce oil from NBP  field of Western offshore • WiMax based point to multipoint broadband communication system: The systems have been deployed in Western Onshore & Western Offshore assets & work centers to provide voice & data connectivity to remote installations.
T echnology is adapted to suit organizational requirements, but not acquired by ONGC   The WiMax technology is also overtaken by a new technology L TE (Long T erm Evolution) which is planned to be deployed in other regions.
• Enterprise wide SCADA (Supervisory Control & Data Acquisition) system: The system have been deployed across the organisation to provide real time production & drilling field parameters to operators, managers & top management.
T echnology is adapted to suit organizational requirements but not acquired by ONGC  C-If not fully absorbed- areas where this has not taken place, reason thereof, and future plans of action.
Yes Not  applicable B-Has the technology been fully absorbed?
Annual Report 2014-15 Annexure F (Energy Conservation) 112 Envir onment Pr otection and Conser vation,  Technological Conservation, Renewable Energy  Developments, Foreign Exchange Conservations The measures taken by ONGC with regard to development  and utilisation of alternate sources of energy have been  brought out in the Board Report under the heading  “Unconventional sources of energy” and “Carbon  Management & Sustainability Development”.
Apart from  the above, measures taken for environmental protection are  outlined below: Conservation of water: T o prevent further depletion and to  sustain ground water table, KDMIPE dug six wells to collect  the discharge water at different locations of campus.
Recycling of waste: KDMIPE also operates a six-pit Vermi- compost plant where dry leaves and kitchen waste are  recycled.
As a result,KDMIPE Campus is free from burning  of waste papers by recycling the same.
Ringal plantation:  To sustain fragile ecosystem of  Himalayas, ringal plantation in Upper Himalayan Region is  being carried out as an initiative under National Action Plan  on Climate Change launched by the Prime Minister.
So far,  10.75 lakhs Ringal plantation in 430 ha of Upper Himalayan  region has been done resulting in 1.97 million tonnes of  CO  fixation per annum.
2 Mangrove plantation: For protection  and  stabilization of  shoreline close to ONGC Assets mangrove plantation is  being carried out.
So far, 19.95 lakhs mangrove plants  have been planted in Gandhar Area and 1.5 lakhs near  Hazira Plant.
T o spread awareness on significance of  Mangroves plantation, protection and its continued  cultivation programmes were arranged among children   and  local communities in these areas.
Bio-Remediation:  T o prevent the contamination of soil  ONGC entered into a rate contract with ONGC’s joint  venture company OTBL for Bio- remediation of oily sludge/  oil contaminated waste.
In the financial year 2014-15 about  69,152 MT of oily sludge/ oil contaminated waste has been  bio-remediated across various assets of ONGC E. Information on Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo (` in millions) 2014-15 2013-14 Foreign Exchange Earnings 50,227.99 74,889.84 Foreign Exchange Outgo 175,420.96 1,83,728.63 Signing of MoU for Co-operation in the field of Oil & Gas between India and Mozambique  Comments of C&AG 113 COMMENTS OF THE COMPTROLLER AND AUDITOR GENERAL OF INDIA  UNDER SECTION 143(6)(b) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 ON THE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF OIL AND NATURAL GAS CORPORATION  LIMITED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2015 Annexure - G The preparation of financial statements of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited for the year ended 31 March 2015 in  accordance with the financial reporting framework prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 is the responsibility of the  management of the company.
The statutory auditor appointed by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India under Section 139  (5) of the Act is responsible for expressing opinion on the financial statements under section 143 of the Act based on independent  audit in accordance with the standards on auditing prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act.
This is stated to have been done  by them vide their Audit Report dated 28 May, 2015.
I, on the behalf of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, have conducted a supplementary audit under section 143(6)(a) of  the Act of the financial statements of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited for the year ended 31 March 2015.
This  supplementary audit has been carried out independently without access to the working papers of the statutory auditors and is  limited primarily to enquiries of the statutory auditors and company personnel and a selective examination of some of the  accounting records.
On the basis of my audit nothing significant has come to my knowledge which would give rise to any  comment upon or supplement to statutory auditors' report.
For and on behalf of the Comptroller & Auditor General of India Sd/- Parama Sen Principal Director of Commercial Audit & ex-officio Member, Audit Board - II, Mumbai Place :  Mumbai Date : 10 July, 2015 Annual Report 2014-15 Comments of C&AG  114 COMMENTS OF THE COMPTROLLER AND AUDITOR GENERAL OF INDIA  UNDER SECTION 143(6)(b) READ WITH SECTION 129(4) OF THE COMPANIES  ACT, 2013 ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF OIL AND  NATURAL GAS CORPORATION LIMITED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2015 The preparation of consolidated financial statements of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited for the year ended 31 March  2015 in accordance with the financial reporting framework prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 is the responsibility of the  management of the company.
The statutory auditor appointed by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India under Section 139 (5)  read with section 129(4) of the Act is responsible for expressing opinion on the financial statements under section 143 read with  section 129(4) of the Act based on independent audit in accordance with the standards on auditing prescribed under section  143(10) of the Act.
This is stated to have been done by them vide their Audit Report dated 28 May, 2015.
I, on the behalf of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, have conducted a supplementary, audit under section 143(6)(a) read  with section 129(4) of the Act of the consolidated financial statements of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited for the year  ended 31 March, 2015.
We conducted a supplementary audit of the financial statements of subsidiaries and Joint Venture Entities  (As per Annexure – I), but did not conduct supplementary audit of the Financial Statement of subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and  Associates (As per Annexure – II) for the year ended on that date.
This supplementary audit has been carried out independently  without access to the working papers of the statutory auditors and is limited primarily to enquiries of the statutory auditors and  company personnel and a selective examination of some of the accounting records.
On the basis of my audit nothing significant has come to my knowledge which would give rise to any comment upon or supplement  to statutory auditors’ report.
For and on behalf of the Comptroller & Auditor General of India Sd/- Parama Sen Principal Director of Commercial Audit & ex-officio Member, Audit Board - II, Mumbai Place :  Mumbai Date : 10 July, 2015 Comments of C&AG 115 Audit not conducted A Subsidiaries 1.
ONGC Nile Ganga B.V .
2.
ONGC Campos Ltda.
3.
ONGC Nile Ganga (Cyprus) Ltd.  4.
ONGC Nile Ganga (San Cristobal) B.V .
5.
ONGC Satpayev E&P B.V .
6.
ONGC Caspian E&P B.V .
7.
ONGC Amazon Alaknanda Limited 8.
ONGC Narmada Limited  9.
ONGC (BTC) Limited 10.
Carabobo One AB 11.
Petro Carabobo Ganga B.V .
12.
Imperial Energy Limited 13.
Imperial Energy T omsk Limited 14.
Imperial Energy (Cyprus) Limited 15.
Imperial Energy Nord Limited 16.
Biancus Holdings Limited 17.
Redcliffe Holdings Limited 18.
Imperial Frac Services (Cyprus) Limited 19.
San Agio Investments Limited 20.
LLC Sibinterneft 21.
LLC Allianceneftegaz 22.
LLC Nord Imperial 23.
LLC Rus Imperial Group 24.
LLC Imperial Frac Services 25.
Beas Rovuma Energy Mozambique Ltd. 26.
ONGC Videsh Rovuma Ltd. 27.
ONGC Videsh Atlantic Inc.  B Joint Venture Entities 1.
Dahej SEZ Limited  2.
Petronet LNG Limited   3.
Mangalore SEZ Ltd 4.
ONGC T ripura Power Company Ltd.  5.
ONGC T eri Biotech Ltd.  6.
Shell MRPL Aviation Fuels & Services Limited  7.
Mangalam Retail Services Ltd  8.
ONGC Mittal Energy Limited   9.
PetroleraIndovenezolana S.A. 10.
South East Asia Gas Pipeline Company Ltd. 11.
T amba B.V .
12.
Himalaya Energy (Syria) B.V .
13.
Petro Carabobo S.A. 14.
Carabobo Ingenieria Construcciones S.A. C Associates 1.
Pawan Hans Limited.
Audit conducted A Subsidiaries 1.
ONGC Videsh Limited (OVL) 2.
Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) 3.
ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited (OMPL) (MRPL – 51% & ONGC – 49%) B Joint Venture Entities 1.
Petronet MHB Limited (PMHBL) 2.
ONGC Petro Additions Limited (OPaL) Annexure – I Annexure – II ONGC's B193 platform being installed by float-over technology.
The landscape of offshore  installation technology has changed dynamically over the past decade driving project  excellence.
The float-over technology has greatly decreased installation time of mammoth  offshore structures, resulting in quicker production.
Management Discussion & Analysis Report Corporate Governance Report Auditors Certificate On Corporate Governance Annual Report 2014-15 Management Discussion and Analysis Report 118 and rejig fiscal positions in economies with fuel  subsidies.
However, in an environment of low oil  prices, it must be noted the attendant pickup in the  demand cycle which is expected to boost the domestic  growth cycle will be dependent on the degree of pass- through that respective governments allow to reach  consumers.
The exchange rate volatility, on the other hand, to a  large extent, reflects the changing broader sentiment  in the market related to the growth prospects of  individual economies.
Here, the appreciation of the US  dollar over the last one year, particularly, relative to  that of the currencies of other advanced economies  reflect the strengthening confidence around the  medium-term prospects of a stable growth pattern  taking root in the US.
Also, the strengthening of the US  currency implies that most countries experienced a  somewhat smaller decline in oil prices relative to the  headline US dollar figure.
As for the emerging market and developing  economies, the group, on the evidence of activities in  2014 and the early part of 2015, has moved into a  period of marked deceleration as slower growth in its  major countries exerted significant downward  pressures on the buoyancy and expectations of  markets, at least for the medium term.
Powerhouse  China, especially, following on its commitment to a  more demand-led growth as opposed to their  historical tendency for an investment-intense regime,  has markedly scaled down their sizeable infrastructure  programmes.
Russia was hit by wild currency  fluctuations and the imposition of economic sanctions  by the western world.
Brazil found itself in the grip of  unusually weak economic activity.
So, India’s  improved economic performance in 2014, largely a  result of the reformist and market-oriented approach of  its new government, was a much needed shot in the  arm for the group of emerging economies engulfed as  they mostly are by tell-tale signals of an overall  slowdown.
Management Discussion and Analysis Report 1.
Global Economy The global economic landscape in 2014 continued to  portray a picture of cautious optimism, occasionally  disturbed by bouts of uncertainty and conservatism.
Growth did not pick up in a manner that justified the  gradual and definite progress made by advanced  economies in 2013 which was assumed to have  provided a strong foundation for a pickup in the  momentum of economic recovery globally.
Legacies  of both the financial and euro area crises are still a  matter of substantial concern for many countries as  they attempt to put in place a more robust and resilient  economic framework with an eye on a sustainable and  more predictable growth outlook.
In 2014, in what is reflective of the emergence of further  dissimilarities in the growth trajectories among the  major economies, whereas the recovery pattern of the  US looked stronger than expected the same in other  major regions of the world was underwhelming for the  most part with some having even flirted with a slip back  into a recessionary spiral at times, such as Japan.
As  per the World Economic Outlook 2015, aging, together  with a slowdown in total productivity, has played a part  in dampening the prospects of a faster turnaround in  the developed group of countries.
Moreover, two other significant trends weighed in  majorly on the global growth cycle: the spectacular  decline of crude prices and large exchange rate  movements.
The slide in oil prices has been the net  result of variety of forces: weaker-than-expected  global activity; weaker demand for oil, given activity  and, most impor tantly, greater supply.
This  development while weighing down heavily on oil- export dependent economies will prove to be  immensely beneficial to large scale oil importers like  India by easing inflationary pressures as well as  reducing sovereign trade deficits.
Moreover, it also  provides some much needed fiscal space to rethink   Management Discussion and Analysis Report 119 Overall, in numbers, global growth in 2014 was a  modest 3.4 per cent, reflecting a pickup in growth in  advanced economies relative to the previous year and  a slowdown in emerging market and developing  economies.
The block clocked a below-par growth of  4.6 per cent, marking 2014 as the third consecutive  year that the group had to settle for a sub-5 per cent  growth.
In comparison, the advanced economies  grew at an annualised 1.8 per cent, a marked upswing  from last year’s performance (1.4 per cent in 2013).
Despite the slowdown, due to the sheer volume of their  trade and business, the emerging market and  developing economies still accounted for three- fourths of global growth in 2014.
Growth in the United States was stronger than  expected, averaging about 4 per cent annualized in the  last three quarters of 2014.
Consumption—the main  engine of growth - has benefitted from steady job  creation and income growth, lower oil prices, and  improved consumer confidence.
The country  continues to be the cornerstone of economic  resurgence among the group of developed  economies having sustained an impressive trend of  positive growth over the last few years in the aftermath  of the debilitating economic meltdown of 2008.
For the  world economy at large, the solidity and health of the  US economy is, arguably, the best possible buffer in  the face of any potential turmoil or volatility in the  markets.
Globally, in terms of future outlook, global growth is  projected to increase slightly from 3.4 per cent in 2014  to 3.5 per cent in 2015 and then to pick up further in  2016 to an annual rate of 3.8 per cent.
The increase in  growth in 2015 will be driven by a rebound in  advanced economies, supported by the decline in oil  prices, with the United States playing the most  important role.
The growth rate in the country is  projected to nudge above 3 per cent in the current year  as well as in 2016, with domestic demand supported  by lower oil prices, more moderate fiscal adjustment,  and continued support from an accommodative  monetary policy stance.
In the Euro area, although lower oil prices, lower  interest rates and euro depreciation are expected to  provide a boost to its economic recovery, growth will  continue to be moderated by the lingering effects of  the block’s financial crisis with few of the countries yet  to emerge clearly out of the woods.
Specifically,  growth is expected to increase from 0.9 per cent in  2014 to 1.5 per cent this year and 1.6 per cent in 2016.
In emerging markets, in contrast, growth is projected  to decline in 2015 - for the fifth year in a row.
A variety of  factors explain this decline: sharp downward revisions  to growth for oil exporters, especially countries facing  difficult initial conditions in addition to the oil price  shock (for example, Russia and Venezuela); a  slowdown in China that reflects, as identified earlier, a  move toward a more sustainable pattern of growth  that is less reliant on investment; and a continued  weakening of the outlook for Latin America resulting  from a softening of other commodity prices.
For  China, growth is expected to decline to 6.8 per cent  this year and 6.3 per cent in 2016.
Indian Economy Among the group of major emerging economies, the  economic growth trajectory that India charted in 2014  provided ground for necessary cheer and optimism, in  the regional as well as the global arena.
In 2014, India’s  GDP grew at a rate of 7.2 per cent, a promising  turnaround from the slackening economic fortunes of  the preceding two years epitomised by a year-on-year  dip in the country’s growth numbers.
This pickup in  growth is largely attributable to recent policy reforms,  a consequent pickup in investment, and lower oil  prices.
Particularly, the slide in global crude prices has  had a positive impact on the country’s inflationary  tendencies.
Consumer price inflation fell from 8.3% in  March 2014 to 5.1% in January’2015.
It is estimated to  average 6.5% in fiscal 2015 – down from 9.5% for fiscal  2014 – before heading even lower to 5.8% in fiscal  2016.
In terms of trade, the numbers, though, still do not  present an outright flattering picture.
The country  recorded US$310.5 billion worth of exports in FY15,  down 1.2% from US$314.4 billion last year and 7.5%  below the government’s target of US$340 billion.
Exports had grown by 4.7% in FY14.
Despite  depreciation in rupee from ` 60.5/$ in FY14 to ` 61.1/$  in FY15, exports suffered amidst weak global growth.
However, the outlook for the Indian economy is one of  sustained growth and that augurs well for the pickup in   Annual Report 2014-15 Management Discussion and Analysis Report 120 activity across all facets of the economy.
As per the  latest World Economic Outlook (April 2015), GDP  growth in the country for 2015 and 2016 is projected to  edge over 7.5 per cent on an annualised basis.
2.
Global Energy Snapshot Primary Energy Consumption T otal primary energy consumption in 2014 has been  12,928 MMtoe; consumption increased by just 0.9% in  2014, a marked deceleration over 2013 (+2.0%) and  well below the 10-yearaverage of 2.1%.
Growth in 2014  slowed for every fuel other than renewable, which was  also the only fuel to grow at an above-averagerate.
Growth was significantly below the 10-yearaverage for  Asia Pacific, Europe & Eurasia, and South & Central  America.
Consumption increased for all fuels,  reaching record levels for every fuel type except  nuclear power; production increased for all fuels  except coal.
For oil and natural gas, global  consumption growth was weaker than production.
Oil  remained the world’s leading fuel, with 32.6% of global  energy consumption, but lost market share for the  fif teenth consecutive year.
Although emerging  economies continued to dominate the growth in global  energy consumption, growth in these countries  (+2.4%) was well below its 10-year average  of 4.2%.
OECD consumption experienced a larger than  average decline (-0.9%).
Energy consumption in the  EU (1,611.4 MMtoe) fell to its lowest level since 1985.A  second consecutive year of robust US growth (+1.2%)  was more than of fset by declines in energy  consumption in the EU (-3.9%) and Japan (-3.0%).
The  fall in EU energy consumption was the second-largest  percentage decline on record (exceeded only in the  aftermath of the financial crisis in 2009).Non-OECD  economies (+2.4%) contributed to the growth in  energy consumption as OECD economies  consumption fell by 0.9%, which was a larger fall than  the recent historical average.
China (+2.6%) and India  (+7.1%) recorded the largest national increments to  global energy consumption.
Chinese growth (+2.6%)  was the slowest since 1998, yet China still recorded the  world’s largest increment (74 MMtoe) in primary  energy consumption for the fourteenth consecutive  year.
Chinese growth slowed (+2.6%); below 10 year  average of 4.2%.
India's energy demand grew at  robust 7.1%.
US consumption increased (+1.2%) for  the second straight year.
Crude oil: Demand & Supply Global demand for liquids, around 91-92 million  barrels per day, was stable enough not to invite any  concern.
The North American unconventional   Management Discussion and Analysis Report 121 systemic upheaval unless something dramatic  happened.
Most importantly the slackening demand in China will  tell on the overall global demand growth; demand for  oil in China is projected to grow at just over 300,000  bpd, a substantial drop from a demand of close to 1  mbpd in 2010.
Crude oil prices The steady rise in prices that followed the much  fevered speculation of ‘Peak Oil’ in the mid-2000s and  which was accompanied, all along, by enthusiastic  declarations in the industry embracing “$100 as the  new normal” endured a spectacular reversal in  fortunes in 2014.
At its worst, the prices plunge by  almost 60 per cent from their mid-June highs of 2014.
However, before the dramatic rout of crude oil, which  pretty much was the story of the year in global energy  circles, oil prices had hovered comfortably over and  around the $100 per barrel mark over the last two  preceding years.
In the process, it had brought into the  energy markets a semblance of stability, a much  desired but mostly elusive condition for energy  operators worldwide.
The stable high-price  environment, which now, in hindsight, almost looks  like a myth that had to be eventually ruptured,  incentivized risk-taking and allowed for more ambition  in the oil and gas setup, particularly in the upstream  revolution that saw crude supplies in the once heavily- import dependent US skyrocket from around 4.5  million barrels per day (mbpd) in 2008 to over 9 mbpd  by the end of 2014 was anything but new.
Geopolitical  tensions, as in earlier years, continued to simmer in the  landscape (Syria, Yemen, South Sudan) with  occasional heightening of intensity (IS in Iraq, the  Ukraine crisis).
And the world was nowhere close to  slipping back into recessionary times as the advanced  economies, particularly the US, seemed to be doing a  good job of stripping away the strains from the difficult  post-2008 period.
And yet with everything remaining largely static on the  surface the picture has undergone such a radical shift.
It was just the fundamentals at work at the end of the  day with a ‘little’ help from the OPEC.
Global supply  growth had, for the past few years, consistently outrun  demand growth, by almost 550,000 bpd.
With high oil prices the outlook for supply growth was  unmistakably buoyant, at least in the mid-term, with  even more players staking their resources, man and  capital, into tapping more and more oil, be it on land  unconventional or deepwater reserves.
The threat  from geopolitics, because of its ever-existent nature,  was more a routine than abrupt and so the market  response, too, to it was calibrated as per past  experiences.
It, thus, was unlikely to cause a sustained   Annual Report 2014-15 Management Discussion and Analysis Report 122 space where operators placed their bets on more  aggressive exploratory ef forts and challenging  development projects.
But stability is a rare currency in the industry where  companies are continuously engaged in risk-reward  roulette, and the steep fall in prices is not entirely  exceptional in an industry which has experienced quite  a few volatile price cycles before this recent disruptive  event.
That being said, the fall is significant not just for  its extremity but also for the fact that it signals and,  essentially, reinforces the deeply complex nature of  energy markets worldwide and how a wide variety of  forces influence the fundamentals on the ground.
The anemic rise in demand for energy was the first  catalyst for the current episode of drop in global crude  oil prices.
And then was the decision of OPEC.
In their  November 2014 meeting OPEC decided not to cut  down their supplies even as prices began to slide.
This,  effectively, served as the decisive move that signaled  the free fall of prices with no immediate cutbacks in  production in sight.
Although prices have recovered  somewhat from their worrying lows of January 2015,  the fundamentals are still weak (high global crude  inventories; no significant drop in US output; global  economy far from picking up speed; the possibility of  Iran returning to the markets in the event of a  successful negotiation over its nuclear program with  the group of western countries) and chances of further  softening cannot yet be ruled out.
Here, the potential  return of Iran to the table is of importance considering  the country with the resultant impact of further  aggravating the supply glut and bearing down on crude  prices.
Fall in crude oil prices and the industry The fall in crude prices, over the last one year, has had  far reaching ramifications within the oil and gas  industry globally, especially in the upstream space.
And the foremost concern in this respect is how are low  prices going to exert brakes, if any, on global liquids  output.
However, as yet, there are no reported tangible  output cuts in any major producing area that can be  directly linked to this fall in prices and most of the  recent recovery in prices is actually tied to higher  refinery runs, maintenance-linked outages, spikes in  geopolitical tensions and the occasional reaction to  declining rig counts.
The US shale industry was expected to be the hardest  hit in this downturn due to the cost-intensive nature of  its operations.
And any negative impact in shale output  would immediately reflect in US numbers.
But US  crude production increased by 1.2 mbpd to 8.7 mbpd  in 2014, the largest volume rise since 1900, the date  the US Energy Information Administration started  keeping records.
Even going forward, output in the  country is projected to grow healthily through 2015  and 2016 and breach the 9 mbpd mark.
Although there  will be some deceleration in the momentum as  producers idle some rigs and cap less profitable or the  ‘marginal’ wells, there will be gains made from  increased drilling efficiency, cost-cutting measures  and greater productivity through targeting the ‘sweet  spots’.
In fact, as per research from energy  consultancy Wood Mackenzie, even at $50 per barrel  of Brent, only 190,000 b/d of oil production is cash  negative, representing a mere 0.2% of global supply.
T alking about US unconventional sector, there has  been a widespread view that at around US$85 or  US$90 a barrel, extracting “tight” oil from shale would  no longer be economical.
But an IHS analysis based on  individual well data finds that 80% of new tight-oil  production in 2015 would be economic between $50  and $69 a barrel.
And companies will continue to  improve technology and drive down costs.
Although there is no immediate danger to major current  production streams, the viability of future projects has  been seriously dented by this slump in crude prices.
Global oil and gas exploration projects worth more  than US$150 billion are likely to be put on hold in 2015  as plunging oil prices render them uneconomic, data  shows, potentially curbing supplies by the end of the  decade.
It is worth bearing in mind that even with oil at  US$120 a barrel, the economics of some projects  around the world were in doubt as development costs  soared in recent years.
Some of the projects that are  likely to face the axe or deferral are Canadian oil sands,  high capex LNG projects such as Shell’s project in  British Columbia, Statoil's Johan Castberg field in the  Barents Sea and Chevron's North Sea Rosebank  project.
In the deepwater arena, the volume at risk of  cancellation/delay at a Brent crude price <$60/bbl  varies among IOCs depending on the geographic  distribution of a company’s deepwater portfolio.
Statoil has the highest volume at risk (~87% of  unsanctioned new source deepwater production with a  breakeven at or above US$60/bbl) due to the portfolio  dominance of high-cost, high government-take  projects in Norway.
The international players, particularly the majors, have  long prided in their ability to generate healthy returns;  however, even in a high oil price environment of the  preceding years, increasing costs of upstream field  services and project development had severely  eroded the profitability of most of these industry  behemoths (from a high of over 30 per cent in 2008 to  just over 10 per cent in 2013) resulting in a strong  backlash from the community of investors who  demanded stronger returns from companies with a  shift in focus to ‘value’ over ‘volume’ growth.
This trend  which already was a talking point of the industry in  2013 and forced some of the leading companies to trim  Management Discussion and Analysis Report 123 their expenditure plans for 2014 assumed even greater  salience in the face of the onslaught to global crude oil  prices.
The returns of global majors in 2014 were,  inevitably, worse than that in the previous year.
And the  response from companies to this was predictable:  budget cuts.
The price drop in combination with the budget cuts  announced by the major oil and gas companies will  bear down heavily on worldwide exploration spending.
Globally, exploration spending is projected to fall from  a 2014 peak of close to US$100 billion to around the  US$70 billion mark in 2015.
Regardless of the level of  cuts, budgets are likely to be revisited constantly  through the year.
But until crude prices rise sufficiently  to occasion any upward revision to budgets,  companies are likely to defer high cost drilling in  frontier and emerging basins in favour of lower-cost,  lower-risk options.
The slackening of activity will also  force down capital costs in the industry; upstream  capital costs are expected to decline globally by  approximately 12% on average between 2014 and  2016 offshore and 7% onshore.
The role of E&P  companies and how they approach the low-price  environment be it through capex adjustments,  reallocation of resources, and strategy will be critical in  determining what the global oil market could look like  in the next two years.
Although the primary events that played out in the oil  and gas industry in 2014 and the first few months of  2015 can be interpreted as a matter of triumph of  market fundamentals over geopolitical influences in  determining market trends, it is hard to imagine global  oil markets bereft of any geopolitical undertones given  the inherently strategic moorings of the industry and  how deeply ‘oil and gas’ affects the economic fortunes  of a fair share of countries on the global map.
Gas Business: Production & Consumption  Globally, natural gas accounted for 23.7% (same as in  2013)of primary energy consumption.
World natural  gas consumption grew by just0.4%, well below the 10- year average of 2.4%.Growth was below average in  both the OECD and emerging economies, with  consumption in the EU (-11.6%) experiencing its  largest volumetric and percentage declines.
The  Europe & Eurasia region (-4.8%) had the five largest  volumetric declines in the world in Germany (-14.9%),  Italy (-11.6%), the Ukraine (-15.7%), France (-16.3%)  and the UK (-9.2%).The US (+2.9%), China (+8.6%),  Saudi Arabia (8.2%) and Iran (+6.8%) recorded the  largest growth increments.
India recorded gas  consumption decline of 1.5%.
Global natural gas production grew by 1.6%, below its  10-year average of 2.5%.
Growth was below average  in all regions except North America (6.1%), Middle  East (3.5%) and Asia Pacific (3.7%).
EU production fell  sharply (-9.8%) to its lowest level since 1971.
The US  (+6.1%) recorded the world’s largest increase,  accounting for 77% of net global growth.
The largest  volumetric declines were seen in Russia (-4.3%) and  the Netherlands (-18.7%).
India registered production  decline of 5.9%.
(Reference: BP Statistical Review of World Energy  2015) Global natural gas trade registered a rare contraction  in 2014, falling by 3.4%.
Pipeline shipments declined  by 6.2%, the largest decline on record, driven by falls in  net pipeline exports from Russia (-11.6%) and the  Netherlands(-14.1%).
The UK (-28.2%), Germany  (-10.1%) and the Ukraine (-29.9%) all reduced their net  pipeline imports markedly.
Ex xon Mobil slashed its capital budget by $4.5  billion; BP is set on trimming its spends by as  much as $2 billion; Royal Dutch Shell has  committed to slash investment by $15bn  (£9.9bn) over the next three years.
Annual Report 2014-15 Management Discussion and Analysis Report 124 Coming to Russia, the country’s continuing tensions  with Ukraine related to the disputed gas contract  between Russia’s Gazprom and Ukraine’s Naftogaz  Ukrainy, in the aftermath of Crimean crisis, has its  effect on pipeline gas trade from Russia.
This has  potential to disrupt Russian gas supplies to continental  Europe.
A major break in supplies, in the event of  Ukraine’s refusal to allow transit of Russian gas  through its mainland, will not only have damaging  repercussions in an energy-deficient Europe but it also  carries serious implications for the sovereign revenues  of a heavily-export dependent Russia.
However, the  chances of that happening are remote considering  strategic nature of the Russian pipeline supplies, and  the involvement of European mediators in the  discussions between Russia and Ukraine is a  testament to that.
The episode, however, did raise  some uncomfor table questions regarding the  worrying degree of inter-dependence between  Europe and Russia in an environment of geopolitical  volatility and tensions arising out of Western sanctions  on Russia.
Next, Russia’s historic gas deal with China was another  reason that the country remained in the churn of global  energy news.
After years of negotiations, Russia and  China finalized huge multi-billion dollar long-term gas  supply deals, which when implemented, will see  Russia transport record amounts of gas to Chinese  markets each year.
Both the deals together are valued  at close to $800 billion over a 30 year period.
The deals  come close on the heels of mounting tensions  between Russia and the West and that invariably gives  them a geopolitical undertone as many interpret the  move as part of Russia’s larger plan to shift its  economic focus to Asia.
During 2014, global LNG trade registered an increase  of 2.4%.
Higher imports by China (+10.8%), Mexico  (+19.55), UK (+20.1%) and India (+6.1%) were partly  offset by declines in US (-38.4%), Canada (-45.1%),  France (-18.4%), South Korea (-5.7%) and Italy  (-17.7%).
Natural gas prices Natural gas must compete with more competitively  priced oil, and oil-indexed contracts imply lower  realized prices and lower returns as LNG contract  prices are set to follow oil prices down.
Though  Average LNG price in Japan during 2014 increased by  one per cent over 2013; it dipped significantly in the  fourth quarter of CY2014.
LNG prices in Japan fell 17  per cent in December 2014 from a year earlier, the  biggest drop since 2009, to $13.68/mmBtu, World  Bank data show.
LNG price is expected to fall further as  Credit Suisse reports average import prices into the  world's top buyer (Japan) are forecast to fall to about  $11 per mmBtu next year, down from an estimated  $16.33 in 2014 and $16.17 in 2013, if Brent crude  averages around $75 a barrel.
Overall in Asia, as per  Bloomberg Finance, LNG costs in Asia will this year  average below $10 per mmBtu for the first time in four  years.
Lower import prices must bode well for  importers like India but here they have to compete with  much cheaper coal.
Prior to the sharp fall in global crude oil prices, the  liquefied natural gas (LNG) industry faced two major  challenges: volume, that is lack of strong market  demand and spiraling costs (capital cost of a green   Management Discussion and Analysis Report 125 field liquefaction project has increased by up to four or  five times, from between $350 and $600 per metric ton  to anywhere between $1,200 and $2,000).
Now the  industry faces a fresh challenge: Value.
The impact of low oil prices will hit hard the two main  protagonists of LNG development - the IOCs and the  NOCs of exporting countries.
As both groups  retrench, LNG development is likely to suffer collateral  damage.
As per Moody's the low LNG prices will result  in the cancellation of the vast majority of the nearly 30  liquefaction projects currently proposed in the US, 18  in western Canada, and four in eastern Canada.
However, projects already under construction will  continue as planned, which will lead to excess  liquefaction capacity over the rest of this decade.
3.
Indian Oil & Gas Industry Crude Oil & Natural Gas production Crude oil production in FY’2014-15 was slightly more  than the previous year at 37.81 million metric tonnes  (MMT) compared to 37.78 MMT of the previous  financial year.
Despite natural decline of the matured  fields, from which the majority of the output accrues,  that ONGC and Oil India Limited (OIL) operate;  production from Western Offshore (ONGC) registered  a growth of 7.5% whereas the Pvt Companies/PSC  Joint Ventures saw an increase in output by 0.8%  (against 3.7% during the previous year).
Natural Gas output in FY’2014-15 was 33.58 billion  cubic metres (BCM), a 5% decrease from FY’2013-14  output of 35.39 BCM.
Output of ONGC and PSC-JVs  declined by 5% and 7% respectively, compared to the  previous fiscal.
Whereas OIL production increased by  about 4%.
The significant fall in annual gas output from  the East Coast field operated by a private consortium  contributed to the shortfall in cumulative gas output of  the country.
Consumption of Petroleum Products Domestic petroleum products consumption picked up  significantly by 4.2 per cent y-o-y during 2014-15 (165  MMT), as against meager growth of 0.6% per cent y-o- y growth achieved in 2013-14 (158 MMT).Four major  products i.e., HSD (42.1% of total consumption),  Motors Spirit (11.6%), LPG (10.9%), Petroleum Coke  (8.7%) and ATF (3.4%) accounted for 76per cent of  total petroleum products consumption.
These five  products accounted for 7.9per cent increase in  consumption.
On the other side, Naphtha, SKO,  Bitumen and other products recorded decline in  consumption by3.9%.
Consumption of Petroleum  Coke increased mainly due to increase in its use in  ONGC OIL PSC-JVs 25.98 25.95 3.47 3.47 8.33 8.39 FY'14 FY'15 Crude oil (MMT) 37.78 37.81  Annual Report 2014-15 Management Discussion and Analysis Report 126 cement industry and power generation.
Motor Sprit  (MS) consumption increased due to higher  consumption by the passenger vehicles which  registered a substantial growth in sales (3.9%) during  the year.
Lower petrol prices also had an effect on  consumption.
LPG consumption had a positive  growth of 9.4% due to increase in number of  customers from 166 million in 2014 to 182 million in  2015.
Import and Export T otal crude oil import for FY 2014-15 was 189.43 MMT  almost same as the imports during FY 2013-14 (189.24  MMT; increase of 0.1%).
However, import of petroleum  products (20.28 MMT) increased by 21 per cent on y-o- y basis, mainly on account of increase in import of LPG  (26%), MS (58%), HSD (35%),Bitumen (80%), and  other products like - Aviation gas, Pet Coke (33%), etc.
Petroleum products export declined for the first time in  last 15 years; registering a decline of 6.2per cent  mainly on account of decline in export of Naphtha,  Fuel oil, Bitumen, etc.
With total import (crude and petroleum products)  combined with total products export of 63.66 MMT  translates to net import volume of 146 MMT for FY  2014-15.
Net import bill for crude oil during FY 2014-15  was `6,873.50 billion (US$ 112.75 billion) against  `8,648.75 billion (US$ 142.96 billion) during FY 2013- 14 – a decrease of 20.5 per cent in terms of the Indian  Rupee and decrease of 21.13 per cent in dollar value  mainly on account of lower crude oil prices in the  international market.
Crude oil Price: Indian Basket Crude oil price of the Indian basket averaged US$  84.16 per barrel (`5,143 per barrel) during FY 2014-15  compared to US$ 105.70 per barrel (`6,380 per barrel)  in the previous fiscal (FY 2013-14); a decrease of 20.4  per cent in dollar terms (19.3 per cent in Rupee term).
Slide in oil prices started from August 2014 and  recorded lowest average of US$ 46.59 per barrel  during January 2015.
Subsequently, it climbed up to  average US$ 55.18 per barrel during last month  (March) of the fiscal 2014-15.
The registered decrease has been mainly due to lower  crude oil prices in the global market due to  comfortable crude oil supply scenario and other  geopolitical and economic development, as detailed  earlier in the report.
Diesel deregulation The Government’s move to decontrol diesel prices,  like MS (Petrol)with effect from October 18, 2014,  midnight, was one of the salient highlights of the last  year in terms of its overall impact on the finances of the  state oil companies and the government’s fiscal  balances.
It also reaffirmed the reformist disposition  that the government has embraced in dealing with  matters of national economic significance and fuel  subsidies, most certainly, featured high among the  concerns that the government identified for focused  intervention.
From FY’2010-11 to FY’2014-15, under- recoveries in diesel amounted to `2,817.31 billion,  accounting for more than half of the total under- recoveries (`5,458.54 billion) during those five years.
From the point of view of oil companies, money saved  by way of reduced outgo on subsidies could be put to  use in funding programmes that cater to strengthening  the country’s domestic supplies, thereby reducing our  increasing reliance on costly imports.
A direct impact  of this move will be on the government’s fiscal deficit  situation, profitability of domestic upstream players  and cash flows of oil marketing companies on account  of reduction of under-recoveries.
Under recoveries on sensitive products Complete deregulation of the fuel, effectively linking  diesel to market price movements, marks a desirable  completion of a process that started off with its phased  deregulation or periodic revisions in early 2013.
It must  be noted that the period of staggered price corrections  had already primed the customers for a more market- based system and when the dramatic slide in global oil  prices set in, the market conditions were the most   Management Discussion and Analysis Report 127 opportune for the government to remove the element  of state of control from diesel prices.
In doing so, the  government has relayed the right signals to all  stakeholders and potential investors about the intent  and direction of reforms in the domestic oil and gas  sphere.
The real test, however, many say, of the decision will be  in a period of higher oil prices given as the move was  achieved in a time of exceptionally low global crude  prices.
But in view of the continued commitment of  policymakers to the earlier move to deregulate petrol  prices and the results that have followed thereof, there  are sufficient reasons to believe that the current move  to free prices of diesel will remain untouched through  changes in the market environment.
Under-recovery on sensitive fuel (HSD, SKO & LPG)  for the fiscal FY’2014-15 has been `723.14 billion;  48.3% lower than the fiscal FY’2013-14 (`1,398.70  billion).
Under-recovery declined for consecutive two  years mainly on account of lower prices of Indian crude  oil basket.
Also, it can be construed as the result of the  Government’s decision to deregulate diesel prices.
Out of total under-recovery of `723.14 billion in  FY’2014-15, the upstream companies shared `428.23  billion (59.2 percent) compared to `670.21 billion  (47.9 percent) during FY’2013-14.
The Government’s  contribution has been `273.08 billion (37.8 percent)  against `707.72 billion (50.6 percent during  FY’2013-14); while Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs)  contribution was `21.83 billion (3.0 percent) compared  to `20.77 billion (1.5 percent of the total in FY’2013-14).
Your Company shared `363 billion towards the  reported under-recoveries of OMCs in FY’2014-15 as  per Government of India (GoI) instructions – a  decrease of 36 percent over its share in FY’2013-14  (`563.84 billion).
This translates to 50.2 percent of the  total under-recoveries and 84.8 percent of the share  for upstream companies.
The average gross price for ONGC’s crude oil during  FY’2014-15 has been US$ 85.28/bbl compared to US$  106.72 in FY’2013-14, drop of 20.1per cent.
However,  as per the Government instructions pertaining to the  subsidy-sharing mechanism, ONGC of fered an  effective discount of US$ 40.4/bbl (US$ 65.75/bbl in  FY’2013-14) to OMCs on the sale of crude oil.
During  the fourth quarter of FY’2014-15, ONGC did not have  to bear any discount.
Net realized price for every barrel  of crude sold in FY’2014-15 for ONGC has been US$  44.87/bbl, an increase of 9.5per cent compared to  FY’2013-14 (US$ 40.97/bbl).
Gas Price Revision The Government, after extensive discussions in policy  making circles and consultations with the various  agencies and stakeholders of the domestic energy  setup, implemented the much-awaited decision to hike  natural gas prices within the country on October 19,  2014.
As per the decision, domestic gas prices were  increased from the then existing US $4.2 per mmBtu to  US $5.61 per mmBtu on net calorific value (NCV), or  roughly 33 per cent, effective November 1, 2014 with  subsequent revisions every six months.
Needless to  say, the increase in gas price has come as a huge relief  to the upstream players of the country, particularly  your Company ONGC.
Natural gas was losing its  market share in India due to expensive LNG imports  The modified gas pricing formula P  = (V *P  + V *P  + V *P  + V *P )/ gas HH HH AC AC NBP NBP R R (V  + V  + V  + V )HH AC NBP R Where, Pgas, PHH, PAC, PNBP and PR are the proposed  price of domestic gas, annual average of daily Henry  Hub, annual average of daily NBP (UK), (annual average  of monthly Alberta hub) and Russia respective.
and,  VHH, VAC, VNBP and VR are is the volume of gas  consumed in USA & Mexico, Canada, EU * FSU  excluding Russia and Russia The price and volume data used for calculation of  applicable price shall be the trailing four quarter data with  one quarter lag.
Annual Report 2014-15 Management Discussion and Analysis Report 128 and lack of domestic supply.
The latest round of revision to the gas prices, which  were implemented on April 01, 2015, saw a reduction  in domestic gas prices from US $5.61 per mmBtu to  $5.17 per mmBtu on NCV basis for the period  between April 1 and September 30, 2015 which  essentially reflects the significant drops in global  crude oil and LNG prices.
Reform measures: Introduction of more open- market elements The reform measures like decision to decontrol diesel  prices, gas price revision, rationalization of under- recoveries is a strong indication of the government’s  drive to introduce more open-market elements into  the domestic hydrocarbon business, and gives a  timely fillip to investors’ sentiment which had  weakened in recent times as a result of ongoing  uncertainty around key policy decisions.
The revision  of gas prices, in particular, is expected to incentivize  production from new gas reserves, the development  costs of which have steadily increased over the years  given that most of the promising finds of recent times,  as is the trend world over, have been in difficult-to- produce areas.
What this price revision has also helped achieving is  the transition from the existing multiple pricing  regimes in gas to a uniform price structure as the  revised gas price would be applicable to all gas  produced from nomination fields given to ONGC and  OIL India, NELP blocks, such Pre-NELP blocks where  PSC provides for Government approval of gas prices  and CBM blocks.
However, production from  logistically or operationally challenging terrains such  as deep or ultra-deepwater and High Pressure High  temperature zones will be accorded a special pricing  regime owing to its special circumstances, the  premium to which is currently under determination.
Clarity on premium for producing from difficult areas  will help incentivizing greater participation from  international players which in turn will facilitate  introduction of advanced technologies in the sector.
The increased gas prices will, though, make power  plants and fertilizer units more expensive.
Every dollar  increase in gas price will lead to a `1,370 per tonne rise  in urea production cost and a 45 paise per unit increase  in electricity tariff (for just the 7% of the nation's power  generation capacity based on gas).
Also, there would  be a minimum `2.81 per kg increase in CNG price and  `1.89 per standard cubic metre hike in piped cooking  gas (Source: Business T oday; October 18, 2014).
Despite these cost implications, it is a worthwhile move  in view of the overall development of the energy  infrastructure of the country, and one that is inherently  essential to the creation of a competitive, remunerative  and attractive domestic gas market.
4.
Operational Performance FY’15 saw yet again the improved performance in  bringing the planned and anticipated oil & gas volume  on the surface.
Oil & Gas production of ONGC Group,  including PSC-JVs and from overseas Assets for FY’15  has been 58.33MMtoe (against 59.21 MMtoe during  FY’14).
The major upside came from the Western  Offshore fields which registered a growth of 7.5%.
Overseas assets also registered a growth of 6% in  production.
Out of the total crude oil production of 31.47 MMT,  71 percent production came from the ONGC operated  domestic fields, 17 percent from the overseas assets  and balance 12 percent from domestic joint ventures.
As far as natural gas production is concerned majority  of production (82per cent) came from ONGC operated  domestic fields and of the remaining, 12per cent came  from overseas assets and 6 percent from domestic  joint ventures.
Oil and gas production profile from domestic as well as  overseas assets during last five years are as given  below: Oil and gas production FY’15 FY’14 FY’13 FY’12 FY’11 Crude Oil Production (MMT) 31.47 31.49 30.47 33.13 34.04 ONGC 22.26 22.25 22.56 23.71 24.42 ONGC’s share in JV 3.68 3.75 3.57 3.21 2.86 ONGC Videsh 5.53 5.49 4.34 6.21 6.76 Natural Gas Production (BCM) 26.86 27.72 28.25 28.05 28.01 ONGC 22.02 23.29 23.55 23.32 23.09 ONGC’s share in JV 1.50 1.56 1.78 2.19 2.23 ONGC Videsh 3.34 2.87 2.92 2.54 2.69 Management Discussion and Analysis Report 129 Proved Reserves (MMTOE) FY’15 FY’14 FY’13 FY’12 FY’11 Estimated Net Proved O+OEG Reserves 936.44 961.91 968.81 963.86 961.27 ONGC 711.24 724.13 741.00 737.36 723.56 JV share 22.56 30.65 31.39 33.12 34.80 ONGC Videsh 202.34 207.13 196.42 193.38 202.91 Proved reserves During the year, your Company made 22 oil and gas  discoveries in domestic fields (operated by ONGC).
Out of 22, 10 discoveries are in Offshore area and 12  in Onshore area.
T en discoveries were made in the  new prospects whereas 12 were new pool  discoveries.
Seven discoveries were made in NELP  blocks and fifteen in the nomination blocks.
Out of the  discoveries made this year, 7 discoveries are oil  bearing, 9 discoveries are gas bearing and 6  discoveries are both oil & gas bearing.
Position of  proved reserves of your company is as below: 5.
Financial performance: ONGC (Standalone)  (` Million) Particulars FY’15 FY’14 % Increase/ (Decrease) Revenue:     Crude Oil 536,638 525,734 2.07  Natural Gas 187,381 183,291 2.23  Value Added Products 99,469 125,672 (20.85) Other Operating revenue 7,447 7,331 1.58  T otal Revenue from Operations: 830,935 842,028 (1.32) Other Income 53,666 67,132 (20.06) EBIDTA 380,163 433,582 (12.32) PBT 265,552 324,319 (18.12) PAT 177,330 220,948 (19.74) EPS 20.73 25.83 (19.74) Dividend per share 9.5 9.5 -    Net Worth 1,436,229 1,356,311 5.89  % Return on net worth 12.35 16.29 (3.94) Capital Employed 1,144,994 1,094,412 4.62  % Return on capital employed 33.20 39.62 (6.42) Capital Expenditure 299,975 3,24,695 (7.61) Annual Report 2014-15 Management Discussion and Analysis Report 130 6.
Peer Review Continuing its dominant position since all those long  years, this year too, your Company has been the  largest producer of oil and gas in the country (from its  domestic operations) contributing 69 per cent of oil  and 70 per cent of natural gas production.
ONGC Group Particulars FY’15 FY’14 % Increase/ (Decrease) Revenue:     Crude Oil 662,844 654,029 1.35 Natural Gas 204,306 194,594 4.99 Value Added Products  775,317 920,783 (15.80) Other Operating revenue 18,201 12,645 43.94  T otal Revenue from Operations: 1,660,668 1,782,051 (6.81) Other Income 59,644 68,899 (13.43) EBIDTA 482,658 566,434 (14.79) PBT 273,704 394,134 (30.56) PAT 183,335 265,065 (30.83) EPS 21.43 30.98 (30.83) Net Worth 1,794,742 1,710,555 4.92  % Return on net worth 10.22 15.50 (5.28) Capital Employed 1,781,914 1,447,991 23.06 % Return on capital employed 27.09 39.12 (12.03) Your Company’s financial performance compared to performance of Oil India Limited (OIL) in FY’15 is as below: (` million) ONGC OIL Revenue         8,30,935 110,200 Profit After T ax (PAT)         1,77,330 25,100 Networth       1,436,229 214,980 ONGC’s finding cost has been US$ 7.0/boe (3 years’  rolling average up to FY’14) and lifting cost (including  royalty) US$ 8.6/boe (3 years’ rolling average up to  2014) has been well competitive with respect to the  global peers.
India: Natural Gas production Management Discussion and Analysis Report 131 7.
Opportunities & Threats ‘The more the things change, the more they remain the  same’.
It would be difficult to come up with a more  pertinent expression to describe the flux and churn  that characterised the energy industry, especially the  oil and gas sector, in the last one year.
T echnology  created new avenues of opportunities and with those  opportunities came a new wave of optimism,  adventure and aggressive activity in the business that  lent well to a strengthening bullish sentiment on the  future outlook for E&P operators globally.
Challenging projects were approved and undertaken  premised upon the high and stable oil prices; NOCs  moved ambitiously into the international arena, once  the preserve of the global oil majors, to cater to the  ever-growing demand for energy back home even as  the established players moved further into more  difficult terrains in a bid to retain their relevance as well  as lock in their future avenues of cash and growth.
And  the supplies just kept growing, but demand didn’t  move in tandem.
And then the prices tanked in the backdrop of a global  economic recovery that was largely inconsistent and  not so confident.
Suddenly, projects began to look  suspect and the enthusiastic projections about the  steady growth of supplies hung in the balance.
Cost- cuts and budget or portfolio rationalisation became  more common in practice as operators scrambled to  either keep businesses afloat or protect their margins  while simultaneously contending with mounting debts,  irate shareholders and the threats of losing market  share.
A grim landscape but a situation not unfamiliar  for the oil and gas sector.
Even in this scenario, there are opportunities to be  tapped into and the companies that do manage to  balance their risk mitigation templates with an  acceptable degree of growth-oriented approach will  stand to benefit the most once the tide turns.
Some are  already doing that – be it through efficient technology  deployment or capital investment.
IHS Energy expects  a 25-30% gain in the average efficiency of onshore  upstream capital investment in 2015 versus 2014 and a  gain of 45% when comparing 4Q2015 to 4Q2014.
Eventually, the criticality of the sector does not allow it  to remain passive for long, and it is those companies  which are adaptive and clued in to changing context  that can potentially be at the forefront of the next cycle  of high growth.
As per BP Energy Outlook 2035 (published in January  2015), global energy demand is projected to expand  by 37 per cent between 2013 and 2035.
The energy  mix will undergo changes during this period:  renewables (including biofuels) are expected to grow  from its current share of 3 per cent to 8 per cent  globally while the contribution from nuclear and hydro  sources remains largely static in this time frame.
Although its cumulative share in the basket comes  down, fossil fuels continue to be the dominant source  of energy with a share of 81 per cent in 2035.
Essentially, the oil and gas industry, irrespective of the  many extraneous challenges it faces and the sharply  cyclical nature of its markets, will remain fundamental  to the pace of global economic and social growth.
Global liquids demand (oil, biofuels, and other liquids)  is projected to rise by around 19 mbpd, to reach 111  mbpd by 2035 whereas demand for natural gas, the  fastest among the fossil fuels (1.9 percent), fuelled  largely by global transition to cleaner energy sources,  reaches 4,900bcfpd in 2035.
Virtually, all of this growth in energy demand is slated  to come from non-OECD countries (96 percent) and  with China (as mentioned earlier) markedly  decelerating from its turbo-charged growth trajectory  of the past decade the focus shifts to India in terms of  not just picking up the slack but also providing the next  big boost to global energy consumption.
The IEA’s  Medium T erm Oil Market Report (2015) tips India,  currently the fourth largest energy consumer in the  world, to upstage Japan as the world’s third largest oil  consumer by an expanding economy and a robust   Annual Report 2014-15 Management Discussion and Analysis Report 132 demand driven by factories and the automobile sector.
Overall, India’s energy production rises by 117% to  2035 while consumption grows by 128%.This  projected supply deficit then has the potential to  further compound the stress for an economy that is  already hugely reliant on costly imports.
Herein lies the  enormous opportunity for all the stakeholders in the  energy sector in India.
The task is huge for Indian  companies particularly for your company, ONGC, the  flagship energy company in this highly strategic and  nationally critical sector.
What has really aided the growth of the sector and  motivated oil and gas operators across the globe to  persist in the pursuit of all current and emergent  opportunities is the technology evolution in the industry  over the past few years as companies have consistently  extended the boundaries of frontier exploration and  successfully realized volumes from resources that were  hitherto deemed commercially unviable or geologically  difficult.
The unconventional blitz in North America is a  fitting testament to the possibilities that have been  unlocked through the technological breakthroughs of  the past years.
Although the present low oil price regime,  with companies having executed an average of 30 per  cent capex cuts, makes riskier upstream projects and  aggressive exploratory targets less viable, the  companies that continue to judiciously invest in  upgrading their technological base and improving their  efficiencies in technology application will remain better  positioned than others to weather the ongoing downturn  in prices.
It must not be forgotten that, despite the oil price blip of  the last one year or so, the industry has generally  witnessed strong returns from frontier exploration  (@13%), from mature fields (@16%) and from  emerging basins (@15%).
So, once the prices recover,  the push for projects that bring new oil into the market  will return with renewed vigour and confidence.
Till  such time when prices stage a reliable turnaround, the  “Value over Volume” approach, a trend which had  already found takers among big oil companies even in  the high oil price scenario of 2013, is expected to  intensify in the upstream space as companies keenly  commit to maximizing production and returns from  existing reserves and producing streams in lieu of  expending resources to pursue volume potential in  frontier areas.
The threats of high breakeven costs are  further compounded in the present scenario as many  of these new oil projects (~3.5 mbpd) need break- even of US$ 60-80/bbl.
Companies, in the current  situation, are most likely to defer high-cost drilling in  favour of lower-cost, lower-risk options.
Notwithstanding the exploratory budget cuts, the  industry will also experience an average 33 percent  cost exploration cost as a result of weakening  exploration activity and tapering demand for drilling  services.
Lower exploration costs will help reduce  breakeven prices and improve full-cycle economics by  up to US$5/boe.
Some of the best improvements will  be in deepwater plays.
Although just half of the cost  deflation gains are expected to be enjoyed in 2015, the  full benefits will filter through to E&P players in 2016.
For example, seismic acquisition costs are down by 50  per cent making seismic acquisition a low-cost option  to continue progressing on frontier acreage.
Also, E&P  companies are likely to persist with their activity in  basins with running room where geology is better  understood and infrastructure is in place, which both  reduce cycle times.
The time is right for STRONG  EXPLORERS to capitalise and “do more with less”,  increasing their drilling in high-impact plays.
Also,  unique factors in certain regions will act as local props  to exploration - commitments in Angola's Kwanza  Basin, lease expiries in deepwater Gulf of Mexico  (GoM), strong gas prices in the Netherlands.
What this  period of relatively lean exploration also offers is the  opportunity for geoscientists and geologists perform  more rigorous analysis of data and thereby improve  the qualit y of the prospect pipeline.
The  2010/2011drilling moratorium in GoM had a similar  effect and arguably led to a stronger prospect  inventory and healthier results in the past two years.
A common refrain among upstream players over the  last decade has been the diminishing frequency of big- sized finds and how that has further jeopardized the  prospects and optimism around the sector in a  situation where cashflows are further squeezed.
But it  does not necessarily mean smaller fields become  complete non-starters as IHS-CERA says it is not  uncommon to see long production life for small fields –  close to 20% of fields in the size range of 20 to 500  Mmboe have been producing for over 50 years.
Steady evolution of technology and its effective  deployment has resulted in extending field life cycles.
IHS estimates that potentially upwards of 140 bboe  remains in existing, low-quality oil fields, based on a  high-level assessment.
And existing reserves are  being continually revised upwards as new API tools  and techniques become mainstream and are  integrated in current models.
Right there, that’s a  substantial opportunity for oil and gas companies.
Your Company’s time-bound and technology- intensive IOR/EOR schemes and clustered approach  to development of marginal fields are a proof of the  additional value that can be commercially unlocked  from existing producing pools or standing reserves.
However, for financially stretched companies, these  are undeniably dif ficult times to negotiate.
As  mentioned earlier, many of them will intensify their  search for partners to sustain the business or even  shore up their viability.
Even companies with strong  balance sheets will be more open to partially farm- Management Discussion and Analysis Report 133 down their equity to stretch their budgets further.
On  the other side of the negotiating table, companies  seeking farm-in opportunities will be selective - most  will be looking to plug gaps in their portfolio, or bolster  existing positions.
At a more macro level, the ongoing depression in global  crude prices have ushered in a context where countries,  governments and regimes have been forced to  reassess their stance on how they want to exploit or want  to incentivize the exploitation of their energy resources.
T o that extent, it would be fair to say that the threat of  resource nationalism which had loomed worryingly on  the fortunes and expansion plans of E&P companies  globally has receded in recent times after this most  recent onslaught on prices.
Companies will want to  rationalize their expenses and planned investment,  which means it is not merely the size of the resource  base, although that will remain a major factor, that will  determine where companies choose to make their  commitments.
With growing abhorrence for fiscal and  policy instability in corporate boardrooms, terms  offered in licensing rounds may need to be adjusted to  increase attractiveness in a world where the worth and  returns of every dollar spent comes under ever  increasing scrutiny.
Though good hydrocarbon assets have been located  in East Coast Africa and Latin America, clarity on key  issues of energy policies, fiscal and regulatory  regimes are yet to evolve.
More delays on these fronts  could result in money being directed to more stable  and remunerative regimes.
And countries are  responding to this threat: Myanmar and Suriname  negotiate each PSC after the conclusion of the bid  round, and changes are already under discussion in  Myanmar for contracts awarded following the 2013  round.
T anzania may soften its PSC terms for the next  round.
In Mexico, PSC terms put forward for shallow  water exploration have been met with disappointment  by the industry, putting pressure on the authorities to  sweeten them.
Iran, soon expected to become a full- fledged participant in the oil markets after a long hiatus  once the nuclear negotiations reach an agreeable  resolution, is busy drafting a modified petroleum  contract with improved commercial terms in a bid to  revitalize their flagging oil industry.
Particularly, for Africa, which presented itself as an  emerging hotspot in global energy circles, the threat  posed by the oil price slide to its aspirations as a future  hub of new supplies is very real.
Delays are likely in  many of its capital-intensive deepwater projects and  LNG supply projects that were expected to be  sanctioned in 2015.
Here, too, operators have chosen  to defer FID decision to take full advantage of falling  costs.
For countries in the region such as Mozambique  or T anzania, it then becomes undeniably imperative to  use the current downturn to bring in greater clarity and  transparency to their fiscal and policy frameworks to  retain investor interest through the turmoil.
Coming to LNG, opportunities in the sector have  definitely been weighed down by the implications of  low oil prices regime as majority of current term  contracts are oil-linked.
IHS expects prices to drop  considerably in 2015versus last year.
For example,  Japan’s weighted average import price for 2015 is  projected to be below $10/mmBtu, as opposed to  nearly $16/mmBtu in 2014.
Spot LNG prices have  already plummeted.
Even before oil prices began to  fall last year, the LNG industry faced significant  challenges with significant supply overhang (owing to  sub-optimal demand) and serious project cost  escalations that threatened the viability of many  greenfield LNG projects that require substantial  capital investment and strong returns.
But an upside of  low prices is that the industry could bring in new  customers and that, to a degree, should offset the  threat posed by coal as a feed fuel for electricity  generation or industrial purposes, particularly in  Southeast Asia where the rise in demand for power  generation is likely to be the most intense.
However,  despite the realities of the current ecosystem that the  sector has to contend with, the long-term outlook of  LNG remains robust considering the abundance of  gas resources and the its proposition of LNG as a  cleaner energy source.
Also the breakeven costs for  most greenfield projects are in tandem with projected  oil prices in the longer term.
So, although companies  will be disinclined to invest in new projects in the  current cycle, developers who take steps to minimize  costs and stay invested in promising projects will reap  the benefits when prices trend north.
Globally, the surge in the activity related to  unconventional hydrocarbons has been stymied to an  extent by the steep fall in prices.
Nonetheless, leading  explorers continue to add unconventionals to their  portfolio while keeping their conventional reserves  steady, largely because the returns from the particular  resource base is quite compelling, particularly with  liquids-rich plays as their returns often exceed that  from conventional exploration.
In fact, the US shale or  tight oil sector which was expected to be hardest hit  due to the low prices has discovered greater  efficiencies in drilling and withdrawn from non-core  areas in a manner that has made unconventional  supply growth possible even as rig counts have  declined to record lows.
Although the pace of growth  has slowed, and supplies are projected to start  contracting in the latter half of 2015, it is far from the  grim picture that many in the industry had foretold at  the time when prices started declining.
This resilience  has, in turn, allowed countries such as Argentina and  China, despite dissimilar geologies and regulatory  Annual Report 2014-15 Management Discussion and Analysis Report 134 regimes, to remain enthusiastic about unconventional  hydrocarbons and invest capital and resources to put  in place the necessary infrastructure and policies  conducive to the shale industry.
Having said so, fossil fuels are expected to face good  threat from renewable in medium to long term.
Renewables percentage in total energy supply  continues to rise growing at the rate of 6.4 percent per  annum thereby registering a share of 7 percent by  2035 as compared to around 2 per cent today.
Nuclear  energy will keep growing @ 1.9% per annum and  hydro-electric growing @ 1.8% per annum.
All these  taken together (39%) will be responsible for much  larger contributor of growth during 2025-35 periods as  compared to those from liquid or natural gas.
As in  longer run, this higher percentage of renewable, owing  to continued greener push, offers a good threat to  fossil fuel based industries like that of ours.
T alking specifically for India, huge potential still lies  with Indian oil and gas explorers and producers.
With  more than 28 billion tonnes of prognosticated  reserves, Indian sedimentary basins have good  potential.
However, with 12% areas still unexplored  and 22% areas which are poorly explored, huge pools  of prognosticated resources are waiting to be  converted into in-place volume.
In India, only 7 basins  are producing (out of 26) and exploration is yet to be  initiated in 11 basins.
This provides a huge opportunity  for all explorers, like your Company, to convert these  remaining basins into a producible proposition.
On production front, so far our recovery factor has  been quite low (around 30% or so on average) as  compared to matured fields of similar vintage having  recovery factor around 45% plus.
This offers a huge  opportunity as a lot of oil is still left in those reservoirs.
As mentioned already, ONGC is increasingly pursuing  the agenda of improving recovery factor through  technology and capital intensive interventions, and  aims to increase recovery factor to 40% by 2020.
In  FY’15, over 34 percent of the Company’s domestic  crude oil production was accounted for the  incremental oil extracted through its IOR/EOR  schemes.
But considering the increasing costs of the  marginal barrel of oil, innovation and technological  improvements are a must for continued viability of  such endeavours.
8.
Risks and Concerns The oil and gas industry, owing to its fundamental  importance to the global economy and world affairs at  large, is influenced by a wide variety of factors and  players which together through their resultant tension  determine the direction and position the market  assumes during a given period.
The spectacular drop  in oil prices which was the headliner theme of 2014’s  panorama of the energy industry was the end-result of  an interplay between many such determinants.
Geopolitics, despite its characteristic presence in the  scene through the worrying episodes of unremitting  disturbance in places like Libya, Iraq and Ukraine, was  outweighed in significance in terms of its influence on  the markets by the growth indices of the global  economy and, more importantly, the fundamentals of  energy demand and supply.
This volatility and pronounced cyclicality makes ‘oil  and gas’ one of the less easy places to do business in.
Add to this, the sheer spread of operations and the  variety and complexity of regimes and geologies that  companies have to deal with on a regular basis to  make their businesses tick further add to the weight of  the challenge.
Inevitably so, such multitude of risks  and possible ramifications for any given event make it  imperative for oil and gas players to continuously  assess the new and developing strains of their  immediate and wider ecosystem.
Subsequent to what  we saw in 2014 and what we have seen so far in 2015,  there are some primary concern areas that are  expected to remain relevant in the near or even  medium term for oil and gas operators as they  negotiate affairs in what can only be mildly said to be  an ‘infirm’ climate.
Crude prices, given its wide-rangingand deep impact,  will be at the top of every company’s agenda.
Price  forecasts and supply-demand trends form a routine  part of the industry’s analysis of the current state of  affairs and its outlook going forward but those, with  their strong bias towards the status quo, can only  provide you with so much information with so much  certainty and the current downward spiral is one such  strong example.
But they are important nonetheless,  more so in uncertain times like now.
- The International Energy Agency (IEA) in its May  2015 Oil Market Report projected a strengthening  of global demand growth from 0.7 mbpd in 2014 to  1.1 mbpd in 2015.
Despite the pick-up in demand,  global supplies continue to be on a strong footing  with a y-o-y growth of 3.2 mbpd in April 2015 as  slowing US tight oil output growth is offset by  higher OPEC output.
Projected demand and  supplies for 2015 are 93.6 mbpd and 95.7 mbpd  respectively.
As such, the recent rally(April and  May 2015) in crude prices cannot be expected to  be sustained through the rest of the year.
- US Energy Information Administration forecasts  Brent crude oil prices will average US$61/bbl in  2015 and US$67/bbl in 2016.West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) prices in both 2015 and 2016  are expected to average $5/bbl less than the Brent  price.
- Energy Consultancy IHS Energy has presented an  outlook for Brent at an average of US$58.92/bbl in  Management Discussion and Analysis Report 135 2015 and US$65.50/bbl in 2016.
The firm expects  robust global demand growth of 1.3 mbpd in 2015  and 1.1 mbpd in 2016 but a combination of high  grading of drilling sites and cost reductions in US  unconventional sector and greater OPEC output  will continue to keep the market oversupplied  through 2016.
With tighter operating margins, companies will face it  increasingly difficult to generate the kind of returns  that have big E&P firms the darlings of the community  of investors.
Not just this, companies that do not enjoy  the luxury of healthy cash reserves or are already  highly leveraged will find even the management of day- to-day operations a challenging proposition.
The  prevalent circumstances, thus, in a way, are priming  the market for an environment that would be ripe for  strong M&A activity, although companies will want  plunge in only after prices are deemed to have settled  down and execution of rigorous por t folio  assessments.
For producing countries, the degree of dependence  on oil revenues, the availability (and liquidity) of  financial reserves and/or access to external financing  will help to determine their economic and political  resilience.
Another concern is how the oil field service providers  steer their activities in this oil price regime.
They are  feeling the heat.
As outlined by one study, Oilfield  contractors will have to lower prices by as much as 20  percent to help keep their cash-strapped customers  working.
Not surprisingly, for your Company too, the last one  year has not been all easy going amid the surrounding  uncertainty and volatility that has gripped the markets  despite a lot of positive sentiment in the domestic  environment arising out of the government’s  progressive stance on reforms and policy making.
Financing of new projects, particularly in matured field  areas to boost recovery rates and in new & marginal  fields and also in deep-water areas to realize fresh  volumes, has certainly come under a squeeze in the  present market reality.
Of course, being an NOC with a  national mandate for securing energy needs of the  country, we are fully seized of the significance of our  sustained performance in situations of any stripe.
And  ONGC’s performance in the last concluded fiscal does  more than attest its strong fundamentals and  operational excellence.
Globally, monetization of reserves has become a huge  concern area with merely 30 per cent of recent finds  being deemed commercial.
This is largely a result of  newer finds being made in more logistically and  geologically difficult areas and the lack of availability  of high-quality data for many of the promising finds  which make their development highly prone to  operational surprises, as risk operators would rather  not want to run right now.
Complicating matters further  are the myriad political inter ventions and  accompanying policy instability that impede the  evolution of a stable operating environment, a pre- requisite for sustaining the confidence and interest  among E&P players in host countries.
So, not only is  there a need for advances in technologies related to  seismic data acquisition and reservoir modelling to  develop a greater understanding of the reserves that  await monetization but also a more transparent, stable  and economically incentivizing regime to make  development of the new reserves commercially more  viable, particularly for the deep-water, ultra-deep- water, basement plays and HP/HT reservoirs and  subtle traps.
Particularly for India, where more than two-thirds of its  sedimentary basins remain largely under-explored, a  facilitating fiscal and policy framework, be it in the form  of relaxed financial terms or a more pragmatic land- acquisition policy, will go a long way in allaying the  concerns around hydrocarbon prospectivity and  associated commerciality of finds among all current  and potential players in the upstream oil and gas  landscape.
Moreover, the country’s recent finds which  are mostly medium-sized at best and the fact that its  foray into unconventional hydrocarbons, be it CBM or  Shale, is still very much at an incipient stage further  accentuate such a requirement.
Coming to the domestic production situation, till such  time when a ‘breakthrough, game-changing find’ is  made, effective brown-field management is the only  reasonable way to sustain supplies at present levels as  a major portion of your Company’s output is  attributable to mature fields.
Arresting declines from  these legacy assets through cost-intensive operational  schemes is a challenge, more so in a low oil price  scenario.
Continued investments in these programs  will warrant greater clarity on issues such as the  subsidy sharing mechanism as further erosion of our  profit margins could significantly compromise future  exploratory and development pursuits.
Also, the  existing technological gaps in the areas of work-over  operations, non-flowing wells, deep water drilling etc.
do poses some risks for improving upon production  volumes.
Operational safety is a fundamental concern in the oil  and gas sector given the degree of risks that the  companies are routinely exposed to and the  potentially worrying ramifications of any untoward  event as tellingly borne out by the Deepwater Horizon  disaster in the Gulf of Mexico.
Many of these risks – be it  spillage, rupture, blowout of wells, earthquake,  tsunami or terrorist activities etc.
- are being mitigated  right from design stage; however probability of  emergency situations cannot be totally eliminated.
Annual Report 2014-15 Management Discussion and Analysis Report 136 However, ONGC has implemented improved  OISD Standards to improve contingency combat  capabilities.
ONGC offshore assets have been rated  under ‘acceptable risk’ by international underwriters,  enabling a lower-than-peer insurance premium for  these assets.
One of the more important highlights of the latest BP  Statistical Review of World Energy (2015) was that  carbon emissions in 2014 grew the slowest (0.5%)  since the 1990s.
Perhaps, it was China’s slowing  growth or its choosing to be a more consumption- oriented than investment-intensive economy which  meant less energy consumption, or the developed  economies achieving greater efficiencies in energy  consumption and generation that contributed to this  slowdown in emissions, but, going forward, it is a trend  that can be expected to become increasingly common  as sustainability and cleaner energy become  mainstream concerns of businesses globally than  mere academic concerns.
Globally, the ‘big crew change’ has become a priority  concern among the best of companies.
In USA, for  example, as per US Department of Labour estimates,  50% of the oil and gas industry’s workforce will be  eligible for retirement within the next five to ten years.
In India as well, oil and gas companies need to deal  with this impending crisis of talent assignificant  retirements are expected in the sector by 2020, not  only are companies staring at a loss of significant  capital of experience and expertise with these exits,  the fact that they also have to replenish from a talent  pool that is already quite lean and scarce further  compounds a situation that is already quite alarming  for them.
The resultant knowledge gaps between new  employees and experienced industry leaders may  affect the efficiency, efficacy and deliverability for the  company.
ONGC has also been witnessing a large  number of retirements over the last few years.
Though  it is very difficult to replace such a huge pool of  experience, your Company has taken it as a challenge  and has been taking all-out efforts to address the  situation through redeployment of its manpower and  also through induction of sizeable number of young  executives to take care of the future.
Some small yet significant concerns do exist because  of less evacuation of gas by GAIL, in particular from  Eastern offshore and Rajahmundry Asset and also in  Gujarat.
The gas sales are also getting affected by lack  of customers in isolated fields in Assam and at other  onshore locations.
Increasing availability of cheaper  alternatives has led to replacement of naphtha and  other liquid fuels.
Naphtha has already been rendered  surplus in various regions and overall in the country.
Your company has been putting in efforts to tie-up with  consumers for sustained sale of various liquid  products.
9.
Outlook a.
Exploration acreage & mining Lease Your Company holds the largest exploration acreage  in India as an operator.
Despite deregulation and  increasing private participation, your company  holds54% of PELs and 81% of ML (Reference: DGH,  Hydrocarbon E&P Activities Report 2013-14).
So far,  your Company has established7,644MMtoE of In- place volume of hydrocarbon in domestic basins.
As on 01.04.2015, ONGC is holding a total of 338 PMLs  with total area of 56,335 Km2.
ONGC added 1,671.60  Km2 areas to PML.
ONGC has 10 nomination PELs  with approximate area of 37,818 Km2.As the validity of  these 10 PELs is going to expire soon, ONGC has  accelerated exploratory efforts in these blocks with  focus on drilling of maximum identified potential  prospects before the PEL expiry so that the maximum  PML conversion can be achieved.
b.
Exploration  During the year 2014-15, ONGC has made 22 Oil and  gas discoveries in domestic fields (operated by  ONGC).
Out of 22, 10 discoveries are in Offshore and  12 in Onshore; 10 discoveries were made in the new  prospects whereas 12 were new pool discoveries.
7  discoveries were made in NELP blocks and 15 in  nomination blocks.
Two discoveries (Rudrasagar-184  & Gandhar-699) of Nomination blocks have already  been put on production and efforts are on for bringing  the other discoveries on production as early as  possible.
Seven discoveries in NELP blocks (5 on- land, 2 offshore) are governed by the PSC guidelines  and appraisal/development activities will be taken up  keeping in view the timelines of the respective blocks.
In addition to these discoveries, exploratory wells  conclusively tested and proved to be hydrocarbon  bearing will help in field growth of existing fields.
c. NELP Blocks Your company was awarded 114 NELP blocks as  operator (including KG-DWN-98/2, KG-ONN-2003/1 &  VN-ONN-2003/1) and at present (as on 1st June 2015)  is operating in 41 blocks.
In addition ONGC had  participative interest (PI) in 10 NELP blocks, where it is  not operator.
Out of these 10 blocks 3 blocks have  been surrendered; as such it has PI in 7 active blocks.
A total of 53 discoveries (21 in deep-water, 10 in  shallow water and 22 in on-land) has been made in 22  of these NELP blocks (6 deep-water, 6 shallow water &  10 on-land) as on 1st June 2015.
Commencement of  production from these discoveries is governed by  stipulations laid down in the respective PSCs and is to  be taken up after successful completion of appraisal  programme followed by submission of DOC and  approval of Field Development Plan.
Annual Report 2014-15 Management Discussion and Analysis Report 138 revamping and infrastructure projects for replacing the  old infrastructure and creation of new facilities for  st  smooth operations.
As of 31 March’ 2015, your  company is pursuing 17 such infrastructure project; 10  in onshore at an investment of `64,070 million and 7 in  offshore with an investment of `92,520million.
g. Unconventional Source of Energy  ONGC plans to continue its endeavour for exploration  and development of Unconventional & other  resources like Shale Gas, CBM, HP/HT, Fractured  Basement plays etc.
Your Company has prioritized  suitable actions for exploration and exploitation of  Non-conventional and Alternate sources of energy  which has the potential to change the energy business  landscape in the country, as it is happening in the other  parts of the world.
The initiatives by ONGC in these  areas are summarized below h. Exploration of Shale Plays Your company has the distinction of establishing the  first flow of shale gas in the country on 25thJanuary,  2011.Government of India during October, 2013  brought out shale gas policy which allows National Oil  Companies Viz.
ONGC and OIL to initiate the shale gas  and oil exploration activities in their allocated  nomination blocks in phased manner.
Shale Gas  exploration was initiated in 2013-14 keeping in view the  YTF (Yet-to-Find) hydrocarbons envisaged from Shale  Gas play.
As per the new Policy, 50 nomination PML  blocks have been identified in four Basins, including 28  PMLs in Cambay Basin, 3 PMLs in A&AA, 10 PMLs in  KG and 9 PMLs in Cauvery basins for Shale Gas  assessment within three year period of Phase-I.
A total  of 57 pilot/assessment wells are to be drilled by April  2017.
Up to FY’15, ONGC has taken up drilling of 14 wells for  shale gas assessment in Cambay, KG, Cauvery and  Assam & Assam-Arakan Basins.
Out of which drilling of  8 wells were taken up during FY’15.
In FY’16, ONGC  has plans to drill 19 wells including 11 exclusive Shale  Gas wells and 8 wells with dual objectives.
Based on  the results of planned exploration campaign, drilling of  more wells mainly horizontal wells, multi-stage hydro- fracturing will be required to establish the production  potential of envisaged shale reservoirs and their  commerciality by unlocking unconventional shale gas  and oil reserves in different basins.
i.
Coal Bed Methane Of the total thirty-three CBM Blocks awarded by GOI to  various operators through four rounds of bidding and  nomination, Your Company was awarded nine CBM  blocks.
Due to poor potential, concluded on the basis  of the data generated in the exploratory activities, five  Blocks viz.
Satpura (Madhya Pradesh), Wardha  (Maharashtra), Barmer-Sanchor (Rajasthan), North  Karanpura (West) and South Karanpura (Jharkhand)  have been relinquished.
Currently, your company is operating in four CBM  Blocks i.e.,Jharia, Bokaro, Nor th Karanpura  (Jharkhand) and Raniganj (West Bengal),FDP of which  has been approved.
Nearly 400 wells and 2,000  hydro-fracturing jobs are required to be carried out in  the coming 4-5 years as per timelines of the CBM  Contract.
In view of the mammoth and time bound task, ONGC is  in the process of farming out its Participative Interest to  experienced CBM players through formation of JV .
Farm out Agreement (FoA) was signed for North  Karanpura Block on 7th October 2014.
Documents  have been submitted to DGH for Government’s  approval of PI assignment.
Farm out of Bokaro Block is  under negotiation.
Formation of joint ventures for the  blocks Jharia and Raniganj are under process.
j.
Underground Coal Gasification Your company in collaboration with GIPCL selected  Vastan Mine block site in Gujarat as an R&D project to  establish UCG technology.
All the ground work and  inputs for construction and implementation of UCG  Pilot Project at Vastan, has been completed and  further development is awaiting award of Mining Lease  from MoC, GoI.
Further, a number of sites have been jointly identified  by ONGC &Neyveli Lignite Corporation Limited (NLC)  for studying their suitability to UCG.
These are  T adkeshwar in Gujarat and Hodu-Sindhari& East Kurla  in Rajasthan.
One more site was jointly identified by  ONGC & GMDC viz.
Surkha in Bhavnagar district,  Gujarat.
The data of all the fields have already been  analysed for evaluating the suitability of these sites for  UCG.
All the sites have been found suitable for UCG  exploration.
k. Alternate sources of energy Your Company is also pursuing green energy options.
Though your Company is already generating wind  power of 51 MW, another 102 MW wind farm at  Rajasthan is likely to be commissioned by Sept-2015.
ONGC Energy Centre (OEC), a trust set up by your  Company, has contemplated a Geothermal Pilot  Project in association with technology partner M/s.
T alboom, Belgium in Cambay Basin, which has a high  geothermal gradient.
Thirteen Parametric wells in  Suket-Jhalawar area of Rajasthan & three wells in  Kaikalur area of T amil Nadu taken up during FY’15 for  Uranium exploration.
OEC is also pursuing the  Thermo-Chemical Reactor project for Hydrogen  Generation; a collaborative projects with IIT-D & ICT,  Mumbai.
Three of these reactors are under installation.
It is pertinent to mention that US Patent & T rademark  Office has issued a Patent to ONGC Energy Centre  (OEC) & Institute of Chemical T echnology (ICT),  Mumbai for the innovative research work on  Management Discussion and Analysis Report 139 “Hydrogen Production Method by Multi-step Copper- Chlorine Thermochemical Cycle l. Other Exploration Initiative Results of recent exploration activities clearly show that  even well explored basins have provided unexpected  positive surprises.
Among these are HP-HT/Deeper  plays and Basement Plays.
Structured initiatives taken  by your Company in this regard are as below.
HP-HT, Tight& Deeper plays Your company has prioritized HP-HT, Tight&Deeper  plays in KG onland & shallow water offshore, Good  potential has already been established in Bhuvnagiri,  Malleswaram, Periyakudi, Kottalanka, Bantimulli  South, Yanamshallow offshore,GS-OSN-2004 and G- 4-6.
All these fields are expected to have large growth  components to be established and vast potential area  remains unexplored.
Our long term plans envisage  establishment of 500-740 MMT of in-place volume of  hydrocarbons from such reservoirs, with cumulative  production of 70-90 MMT(O+OEG).
About 180 MMT of  In-place hydrocarbon volume has already been  established.
Processesfor monetizing these  established volumes are under finalization.
Services of  M/S Blade Energy Partners, USA have been hired to  study the six discovered HP-HT/Tight Reservoir Fields.
During the year 2014-15, 4 wells were drilled to probe  HP/HT play including 1 well each in KG and Cauvery  onland basins and 2 wells in KG shallow water.
During  2015-16, 4 wells have been planned for drilling for  HP/HT playin KG and Cauvery Basins.
Basement Exploration Basement rocks are known for hydrocarbon  accumulation for many years.
Concerted efforts for  Basement exploration, a frontier exploration play has  been taken up by your Company as a major initiative.
Established hydrocarbon potential in Basement in  Western Of fshore (Archean Basement, Deccan  Basalt) and Borholla-Champang fields are well known  basement producers.
Commercial presence of  hydrocarbons has been established in prospects like -  Padra, Karjan, Halisa, Chadra and Mansa in Cambay  basin.
Hydrocarbon occurrences in basement in  Mattur, Pundi, Vadatheru and Pondichery Offshore,  and recent commercial discoveries around Mandam  and Portonova Highs have rejuvenated exploration  thrusts on Basement exploration.
A collaborative  research project with University of New South Wales  (UNSW), Australia has also been carried out for Heera  field.
One location was released in Heera Field to test  the technology showcased by UNSW.
During 2014-15,  thirteen wells were drilled for Basement exploration in  Western Offshore basin, Cauvery and A&AA basins.
Out of these, five wells proved to be hydrocarbon  bearing including BH-69 & BH-72 in Western Offshore.
ONGC is focusing towards drawing an effective and  successful Basement exploration strategy through  special studies and modelling.
Further Exploratory  inputs for Basement exploration have been identified  in prospective blocks/acreages of Western offshore,  Western Onshore, A & AA and Cauvery Basins.
Accordingly, drilling of 12 wells has been planned  during 2015-16.
Un-appraised Areas: A concerted effort for resource appraisal of the un- appraised areas of Indian Sedimentary Basins has  been under taken by DGH.
ONGC is earnestly  collaborating with DGH in identification and  prioritization of the areas.
ONGC would be involved in  2D seismic data acquisition in Un-appraised areas in  onshore sectors of different sedimentary basins of  India except in North east region.
10.
Internal Control Systems Energy business, particularly oil & gas, has always  been a very dynamic business, not just because of its  fundamental economic and strategic significance to  the nations of the world but also because of the high- risk nature of the business.
The business is challenged  by uncertainties, geological surprises, volatile markets  and number of external factors like–geo-political  uncertainties, fiscal & regulatory regime, etc.
In such scenario, where the uncertainties are the rule, it  becomes imperative to have a balanced portfolio.
Keeping these in view, your Company adopted the  vision to grow as an integrated global energy  company.
Exploration and production of oil and gas  remains the core business of your Company; however,  keeping in view the business imperatives, ONGC has  meaningfully integrated itself in the hydrocarbon value  chain.
Now the portfolio of your Company (including  overseas assets) is large, diversified and assuring.
T o manage this large portfolio, your Company has  institutionalized robust internal control systems to  continuously monitor critical businesses, functions  and operations; particularly field operations.
The top management of your Company monitors and  reviews the various activities on continuous basis.
A  set of standardised procedures and guidelines have  been issued for all the facets of activities to ensure that  best practices are adopted even up to ground level.
Performance of every business unit is monitored by  the respective directorates for suitable corrective  measures, if any, in time.
Your Company has a dedicated Performance  Management and Benchmarking Group (PMBG)  which monitors the performance of each business unit  against the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) defined  in the Performance Contracts between the top  management and the Key Executives.
These  performance contracts are aligned to the goals and  objectives of the organization.
As part of its push for systemic transformation and  Annual Report 2014-15 Shri Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of India at the  control room of OTPC Hon’ble  Shri Narendra Modi, Hon’ble Prime Minister of India, dedicates the Unit II of ONGC T ripura Power Company to the Nation Saffron is the colour of energy and India needs a  saffron revolution.
Narendra Modi Prime Minister of India Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister of State (I/C) MoPNG at control room of a rig in Mumbai OffshoreHon’ble  Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister of State (I/C)  MoPNG at ONGC site in Geleki, Assam Hon’ble   "Pleasantly surprised to find a good number of youngsters including  lady officers posted at Offshore" - Shri Dharmendra Pradhan,  Hon’ble MoS (I/C), MoPNG during his visit to MHN Process Complex Annual Report 2014-15 Management Discussion and Analysis Report 142 strengthening of control systems, your Company has  placed adequate emphasis on institutionalization of  tools, practices and systems that facilitate greater  operational efficiencies and workplace productivity.
Revamping of ‘Material Management Manual’ was  carried out during the year to ensure procurement of  quality materials and services and identification of  world-class vendors.
‘Book of Delegated Powers’  (BDP) was revamped and implemented w.e.f  st 1  January, 2015, with the objective to empower  working level officers and enhancement of delegation  to put commensurate accountability on all decision  makers.
At the same time, Rig Bar Charts for planning  and allocating resources for drilling operations was  also introduced.
Your Company also introduced E-Grievance handling  mechanism for quick redressal of grievances of the  various stake-holders.
Occupational health, safety and environmental  protection are the adopted motto of your Company.
Achieving highest standards in these areas remains a  priority objective for your Company.
Internal and  external audits have been institutionalised and are  conducted on a continuous basis to ensure  compliance tovarious industr y norms and  benchmarks.
Your Company has dedicated Internal Audit (IA) group  which carries out audits in-house.
At the same time,  based on requirement, specialized agencies are  engaged to carry out audit in the identified areas.
Statutory auditors are appointed by Comptroller and  Auditor General (CAG) of India for fixed tenures.
Audits  and Ethics committee of the Board oversees the  functioning of Internal Audit and control systems.
Third party safety audits are conducted regularly for  offshore and onshore installations by established  national and international HSE agencies such as Oil  Industry Safety Directorate ("OISD"), an organization  under the control of the MoPNG, which issues safety  guidelines.
Further, subject to the safety regulations  prescribed by the Directorate General of Mines and  Safety (DGMS), each work center has teams  dedicated to HSE, which execute the safety guidelines  prescribed by OISD as well as DGMS.
HSE teams are  also responsible for obtaining necessary licenses and  clearances from the State Pollution Control Boards.
All transactions in the company are carried out on SAP  R/3 ERP based business portal.
Proper and adequate  system of internal control exists to ensure that all  aspects are safeguarded and protected against loss  from unauthorized use or disposition and that each  transaction is authorized, recorded and reported.
The  system further ensures that financial and other records  are fact-based and reliable for preparing the financial  statements.
11.
Human Resource Development Your organization has always valued its most  important human resource and due to sincere efforts  only a vast pool of experienced and talented scientists,  engineers and professionals today passionately take  care of the energy needs of the country.
‘Strengthen  staffing and capabilities’ has been the focus area all  long the pursuits towards structured Human Resource  Development.
This is a critical issue keeping in view  crew change in next few years.
The basic principle  revolves around grooming younger generations as  future ‘energy leaders’.
T alent replenishment and  bridging competency gap become crucial aspect for  human resource development.
Fur ther, your  Company believes that continuous development of its  human resource fosters engagement.
There are  multifaceted efforts for grooming technical talent and  develop managerial competence.
Structured training  programmes have been developed to impart required  skills to the people in identified critical areas.
Besides  training, work association with industry leaders in the  challenging areas of business is yet another attempt to  improve capabilities.
Your Company also took  structured initiatives to provide a desirable work-life  balance to the employees as well as improving the  living and working conditions.
The endeavours of your  Company, towards Human Resource development,  are well recognized in the industry.
ONGC is in the list  of “Most Attractive Employer” in India as per the  Randstad survey 2015.
12.
Corporate Governance The initiatives taken by your Company are detailed in  the Corporate Governance report, a part of the Annual  report.
13.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Initiatives taken by your Company towards CSR are  detailed in Board's Report.
14.
Cautionary Statement Statements in the Management Discussion and  Analysis and Board's Repor t describing the  Company’s strengths, strategies, projections and  estimates, are forward-looking statements and  progressive within the meaning of applicable laws and  regulations.
Actual results may vary from those  expressed or implied, depending upon economic  conditions, Government Policies and other incidental  factors.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue  reliance on the forward looking statements.
Corporate Governance Report 143 1.0 Philosophy on code of Governance   Corporate governance is the system by which  companies are directed and managed.
It influences  how the objectives of the company are set and  achieved, how risk is monitored and assessed, and  how performance is optimised.
Good corporate  governance structures encourage companies to  create value (through enterpreneurism, innovation,  development and exploration) and provide  accountability and control systems commensurate  with the risks involved.
Effective Corporate Governance ensures that long  term strategic objectives and plans are established  and that the proper management and Management  structure are in place to achieve those objectives,  while at the same time making sure that the structure  functions to maintain the Corporation’s integrity,  reputation and accountabilit y to its relevant  constituencies.
At ONGC, Corporate Governance is the basis for our  decision-making and control processes and  comprises responsible, value-based management  and monitoring focused on long term success, goal  oriented and efficient cooperation between our  Managing and Virtual Boards, respect for the interest  of our shareholders and employees, transparency  and responsibility in all our decisions and an  appropriate risk management system.
The main objectives that drive Corporate Governance  in ONGC are: • A sound system of internal control to mitigate risks  associated with achievement of business objectives,  both short term and long term.
Compliance of laws, rules & regulations.
Ensuring corporate success and economic growth.
Minimization of wastages, corruption, risks and  mismanagement.
Adherence to ethical standards for ef fective  management and distribution of wealth and discharge  of social responsibility for sustainable development of  all stakeholders, (shareholders, customers,  employees and society at large) Maintains investor’s confidence, as a result of which,  company can raise capital efficiently and effectively.
1.1 • • • • • • • • • Clearly defined standards against which performance  of responsibilities are measured Accuracy and transparency in disclosures regarding  operations, performance, risk and financial status A clear delineation of shareholders’ rights Timely and balanced disclosure of all material  information to all the Stakeholders.
1.2 Further, ONGC has ensured compliance with the  objectives of the principles of Corporate  Governance stated in clause 49, as brought out  below: A.
The Rights of Shareholders (i)The Company has taken all the necessary steps to  ensure the Rights of Shareholders and seek approval  of the shareholders as and when required as per the  provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 or other  legislations.
ONGC issues timely press releases  regarding the important events.
ONGC sends notices  through email to all shareholders who have opted for  the same and to all others physically by post.
It has  provided the facility of e-voting for all shareholders.
Further, with a view to ensure better participation, it  has taken a poll of the shareholders who attend the  meeting either in person or through prox y.
Independent Scrutinizer is appointed to oversee the  entire process.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting explains  exhaustively the procedures governing the AGM,  voting procedures.
These are again explained during  the AGM.
Sufficient opportunity is provided to the  shareholders who attend the meeting to raise queries  to the Board of Directors who attend the AGM.
All their  queries are answered to their satisfaction.
The voting  on the resolutions is carried out as per the Companies  Act, 2013.
The election of the Board members is routed through  the General Meeting, where shareholders have a right  to participate.
However, the power of nomination of the  directors on the Board of ONGC, being a Government  Company, is with the Government of India.
All shareholders, irrespective of their category, are free  to exercise their voting and ownership rights at the  AGM and all other forums where their presence is  required.
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report 144 ONGC has a Board level Stakeholders’ Relationship  Committee which meets periodically to redress the  grievances of shareholders.
The shareholders have  the facility of directly approaching the Company as  well as the Registrar & Share T ransfer Agent (RTA) to  address their queries/grievances, which are  addressed within 7 days.
Interests of the minority shareholders are protected  and there have been no instances of abusive action by  controlling shareholders.
The Company has an  effective shareholders’ redressal system.
(ii)  ONGC issues timely press releases regarding  important developments.
The Annual Report of the  Company is very exhaustive and provides every  conceivable information on the functioning of the  Company.
The website of the company is updated  continuously to keep the stakeholders apprised of  various developments etc.
The capital structure of ONGC comprises only equity  shares which do not provide any disproportionate  degree of control to any of the owners.
All the equity  shareholders are treated equitably, irrespective of their  location or quantum of their shareholding.
In line with the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider T rading)  Regulations, 2015, ONGC has put in place a Code of  Internal Procedures and Conduct in dealing with the  securities of ONGC.The code is applicable to all the  Insiders of ONGC.
The process of conduct of General meetings of the  shareholders of ONGC ensures equitable treatment to  all shareholders.
Simple and inexpensive procedures are adopted to  cast their vote electronically as well as through poll.
B.
Role of stakeholders ONGC recognizes the rights of its stakeholders and its  responsibility towards fullfilling their aspirations.
The  Business Responsibility Report of ONGC brings out in  detail the steps being taken by ONGC in this regard.
ONGC, being a listed Public Sector Enterprise,  conducts and governs itself with Ethics, T ransparency  and Accountability as per the law of land and ensures  compliance of all the policies, rules, regulations etc  mandated by the of India.
Effective  Redressal mechanism is available to ever y  stakeholder of the Company, should there be any  violation of rights.
Government  The Company encourages its employees to  participate in every sphere of its activity and has  schemes/ policies with rewards encouraging  employees to take part in the various aspects of the  functioning of ONGC.
ONGC is covered by RTI Act, 2005 and it provides all  information to all citizens of India as per the aforesaid  Act.
ONGC has implemented a Whistle Blower Mechanism  which gives opportunity to its employees to raise any  concerns of ethics or an illegal/immoral activities  occurring in an organisation  to the Audit Committee.
The vendors have the facility of approaching  Independent External Monitors to redress their  grievance.
The company has a Vigilance Department  which is headed by an officer on deputation from the  Government of India in the rank of Joint Secretary or  above.
C Disclosure and T ransparency The Company ensures timely and complete  dissemination of information on all matters which  require to be made public.
The website of the company  and the Annual Report of the company contain  exhaustive information regarding every aspect of the  functioning, financial health, ownership and  governance of ONGC.
All disclosures by Company are strictly in accordance  with the formats prescribed by the concerned  regulatory authority in respect of accounting, financial  and non-financial matters.
ONGC disseminates information through press  releases, on its website, to the Stock Exchanges etc.
Access to all these modes is free for all users.
The Company maintains records of the proceedings of  all meetings (Board / Committees/ General meetings,  etc.).
The company follows the accounting standards in  letter and spirit.
The annual audit is conducted by Joint  Statutory auditors appointed by the C&AG.
ONGC is  further subject to supplementary audit by C&AG.
Internal Audit Department reports to the Audit & Ethics  Committee, apart from periodical oversight by the  Government of India and Parliamentary Committees.
Corporate Governance Report 145 D   Responsibilities of the Board (i)  Disclosure of Information Members of the Board and Key Managerial Personnel  disclose to the board whether they, directly, indirectly  or on behalf of third parties, have a material interest in  any transaction or matter directly affecting the  company.
It is the endeavor of the Board of Directors and the top  management of ONGC to ensure that the stakeholders  are kept aware of all important developments, while  ensuring confidentiality of relevant information (ii) Key functions of the Board The Company has an exhaustive Book of Delegated  Powers (BDP) and other manuals like Material  Management, Works manual etc, which spell out the  processes and defines the level (Board / Executive  Committee / Functional Director / Key Executive) at  which any decision is to be made and are reviewed  from time to time to ensure that they are updated and  meet the needs of the organization.
The company has  13 committees of the Board which deliberate upon  various important matters and advise the Board on the  course of action to be taken.
The company’s governance practices are effectively  monitored and reviewed regularly.
The HR policies of ONGC ensure timely selection and  placement of various executives and personnel as per  needs of the organization and ensures smooth  succession.
ONGC being a Government Company,  follows the remuneration policy approved by the  Government of India.
Appointment of directors on the Board of ONGC and  the remuneration of functional directors is decided by  the Government of India.
The Board members as well as Key Managerial  Personnel are required to declare their interest in all  contracts and their shareholdings etc.
which is noted  by the Board.
The Company ensures that all related  party transactions are brought to the notice / approval  of the Audit Committee / Board.
ONGC has implemented SAP system of accounting  which ensures total integrity and transparency of every  transaction which is subject to independent audit by  Joint Statutory Auditors appointed by C&AG.
The  company has effective internal control systems which  conform to the laws of the land.
The process of disclosure of information to the public  and issue of press releases etc.
is well defined.
Board evaluation is within the domain of the  Government.
(iii) Other responsibilities The Board of Directors take strategic decisions which  help the management in steering the company in its  operations and meeting the expectations of the  stakeholders.
ONGC has structured policies and exhaustive manual  and procedures in place which ensure that the  operations of the company are congruent to its  objectives.
The Agenda Items, circulated in advance to the  members of the Board, are exhaustive in nature and  detailed presentations are made during the course of  discussion.
The Board is assisted by 13 Committees to  enable better management of full Board’s time, in  depth scrutiny and focused at tention.
The  Independent Directors are provided with every  conceivable information to ensure that the interests of  the minority shareholders are protected.
Further, to  strengthen the corporate governance, a dedicated  portal has been set up for exclusive use of Directors,  where notice/agenda/Presentation/other documents  related to each and every Board/Board Level  Committee meeting are uploaded to enable the  Directors to  access those information.
ONGC has a Board approved training policy for  directors, details of which have been brought out  elsewhere in this report.
ONGC has only one class of equity shareholders at  present and the Board treats them all fairly and with  equity.
The Board of Directors ensure that highest degree of  ethics are adopted while taking every decision and  being a PSU, ONGC takes into account the interest of  diverse stakeholders.
Every proposal is examined in detail before a decision  is taken.
The Committees of the Board, excluded, deliberate  upon major proposals before being sent to the Board.
This ensures absence of conflict of interest.
The project proposals are first deliberated in detail by  the Project Appraisal Committee and then approved  Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report 146 by the Board af ter taking into account the  assumptions, cost-benefit, sensitivity and viability  analysis as well as appraisal of the project by an  independent Financial Institution thereby minimizing  any risk.
The Board regularly monitors the Action T aken Report  on its decisions.
Further, detailed presentation on the  implementation of projects which have been approved  is made before the Project Monitoring Committee on a  periodic basis.
Risk areas are outlined and mitigation  processes are put in place.
The terms of reference, quorum, periodicity of meeting  etc are clearly defined for each of these Committees  and approved by the Board.
The job description of each Functional Director  including CMD is clearly defined.
ONGC signs an MOU  with the administrative Ministry defining key  parameters of operational, physical and financial  performance.
The performance of the Functional  Directors and the company is measured on the basis of  achievement of MOU targets.
The Independent Directors are free to seek any  information and have the authority to seek third party  independent assessment of any proposal / agenda  item for which ONGC makes necessary arrangements.
1.3 Corporate Governance Recognitions ONGC’s Corporate Governance practices have  secured many accolades, some of which are: • ‘ICSI National Award for Excellence in Corporate  Governance for 2014’- Certificate of Recognition by the  Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
This is the  fifth year in a row that ONGC has bagged this  award.
• ‘Best Corporate Governance Award-2012’ by the  Indian Chamber of Commerce; • ‘Golden  Peacock  Global Award’ for Corporate  Governance U.K. in the years 2005, 2007, 2008, 2009  and 2013 In compliance with the disclosure requirement of  clause 49 of the revised listing agreement executed  with the stock exchanges as well as the Guidelines on  Corporate Governance for Public Sector Enterprises,  issued by the Department of Public Enterprises (DPE),  the detailed Corporate Governance report of ONGC is  as follows: Government  2.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2.1 COMPOSITION  The Company is managed by a Board of Directors,  which formulates strategies, policies and reviews its  performance periodically.
The Chairman & Managing  Director (CMD) and Six Whole-Time Directors viz.
Director (T echnology & Field Services), Director  (Offshore), Director (Onshore), Director (Exploration),  Director (Finance) and Director (Human Resource),  manage the business of the Company under the  overall supervision, control and guidance of the Board.
The Board of Directors has a combination of Executive  st (Functional) and Non-Executive Directors.
As on 31   March, 2015, the Board of Directors had 9 members,  comprising of 6 Functional Directors (including the  Chairman & Managing Director) and 3 Non-Executive  Directors (comprising 2 part-time official nominee  Directors and 1 part-time non-of ficial Director)  nominated by the Government of India.
T o share the  global experience and business strategies, Managing  Director, ONGC Videsh Limited (OVL) is a permanent  invitee to the meetings of the Board.
st th Except for the period from 1  April, 2014 to 30  April,  rd th 2014 and 23  May, 2014 to 18  June, 2014, the  composition of the Board of Directors of the Company  during the year 2014-15 did not comply with the  provisions of Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement i.e.,  the Board of Directors did not comprise of the required  number of Independent Directors as per the terms of  the above mentioned Listing Agreement.
The  vacancies caused due to retirement/vacation of the  independent Directors have also not been filled up  within the time period specified in terms of listing  agreement.
ONGC has been taking up with the  Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas, of  India for appointing requisite number of Independent  Directors on the Board of ONGC.
No separate meeting  of Independent Directors was held during 2014-15.
2.2 Board/ Committee Meetings and Procedures (A) Institutionalised decision making process The Company has defined guidelines for the meetings  of the Board of Directors and Committees.
These  Corporate Governance Report 147 guidelines seek to institutionalise the decision making  process at meetings of Board/ Committees, in an  informed and efficient manner.
Company’s guidelines  relating to Board Meetings are applicable to  Committee Meetings as far as practicable.
(B) Scheduling and selection of Agenda items for  Board / Committee Meetings (i) A tentative schedule of the Board Meetings to be held  during the ensuing financial year is drawn up and after  seeking convenience of the Directors and after  approval of the Board, the same is circulated among all  the Directors.
This helps the management in ensuring  that the various agenda items are kept ready in  advance and facilitates the Directors to plan their  schedule for participation in Board/ Committee  meetings well in advance.
The meetings of the  Committees of the Board are held prior to the Board  Meeting after seeking convenience of members.
(ii) The meetings are convened by giving appropriate  advance notice after obtaining approval of the  Chairman of the Board/ Committee.
T o address  specific urgent needs, meetings are also called at a  shorter notice.
In case of any exigency, resolutions are  passed by circulation.
(iii) Detailed agenda containing management reports and  other explanatory statements are circulated in  advance in the agenda format amongst members for  facilitating meaningful, informed and focused  deliberations and decisions at meetings.
Document or  agenda of confidential nature, are tabled with the prior  approval of CMD.
Sensitive subject matters are  discussed at the meeting without circulation of written  material.
In special and exceptional circumstances,  additional or supplemental item(s) on the agenda are  permitted.
(iv) The agenda papers are prepared by concerned  officials, sponsored by the concerned functional  Directors and approved by the CMD.
Duly approved  agenda papers are circulated amongst members of  the Board/ Committee by the Company Secretary  both physically and through email.
(v) The meetings of the Board/ Committees are generally  held at the Company’s Registered Office at New Delhi.
(vi) Presentations are made to the Board/ Committee  covering Finance, Production, Operations, major  Business Segments, Human Resources, Marketing,  Joint Venture operations, whenever required.
(vii) The members of the Board/ Committee have complete  access to all information of the Company and are also  free to recommend inclusion of any matter in the  agenda for discussion.
Senior officials are called to  provide additional inputs to the items being discussed  by the Board/Committee, as and when required.
(viii)Each Committee has the authority to engage outside  experts, advisers and counsels to the extent it  considers appropriate to assist the Committee in its  work.
Safety Snapshots ONGC is in the hydrocarbon business, therefore,  safety is paramount for continued operations.
T o  apprise the Board regarding various safety measures  being taken and to seek their guidance on  implementation of these measures, periodic  presentations are made to the Board of Directors in the  form of Safety Snapshots that include all major  incidences related to safety.
Industry Updates & Presentation  With a view to keep the members of the Board apprised  with latest developments in the Industry, Industry  updates are tabled and presentations on the subjects  relevant to E&P business are made periodically to the  Board.
This also ensures that the Directors are  constantly in touch with the problems being faced by  the Industry in general and ONGC in particular in its  operations.
(C) Recording minutes of proceedings at the Board  Meeting Minutes of the proceedings of each Board/Committee  meeting are recorded with all necessary details.
Draft  minutes are circulated amongst all members of the  Board/ Commit tee for their appreciation and  comments that are incorporated in the minutes, which  are finally approved by the Chairman of the Board/  Committee.
Thereafter, these minutes are confirmed  in the subsequent Board/ Committee Meeting.
Minutes of the meetings of the Committees are also  noted by the Board/ Committee in its next meeting.
The finalized minutes are entered in the respective  Minutes Books.
Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report 148 (D) Follow-up mechanism The guidelines/ decisions of the Board/ Committee  meetings provide for an effective post-meeting follow- up, review and reporting process for action taken on  decisions/instructions/directions of the Board and  Committee.
As per the Board’s decision, the Company  Secretary intimates ‘ Action Points’ arising from  deliberation during the meeting to the concerned  Functional Directors who in turn provide updates to be  apprised to the Board on areas of their responsibility in  the next meeting.
Functional Directors provide follow- up Action T aken Report (ATR) once in a quarter.
(E) Compliance Functional Directors are responsible toward ensuring  adherence to all applicable provisions of law, rules and  guidelines.
A Quarterly Compliance Report (collected  from all work centres) confirming adherence to all  applicable laws, rules, guidelines and internal  instructions/manuals, including Corporate Governance,  is reviewed by the Audit & Ethics Committee and the  Board.
(F) T raining and Evaluation of non-executive Board  members   (a) In line with Clause 3.7 of the Guidelines on Corporate  Governance for Central Public Sector Enterprises,  2010, issued by Government of India, Ministry of  Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises, Department  of Public Enterprises  and requirement of Listing  Agreement with regard to T raining of Directors, the  company has three tier T raining policy for non- executive Directors: • Induction T raining • External T raining • Board Presentation Non-executive Board members are eminent  personalities having wide experience in the field of  business, education, industry, commerce and  administration.
Their presence on the Board is  advantageous and fruit ful in taking business  decisions.
The policy of directors and the  details of familiarization/training programmes during  2014-15 can be viewed at http://www.ongcindia.com/  wps/wcm/connect/ongcindia/Home/investors/ policies/directors-training  (b) Policy on Performance Evaluation of Directors  ONGC being a Government Company, the provisions  of Section 134(3)(e) and (p), 149(6)(a) and (c), 152(5)  and 178(2), (3) and (4) of the Companies Act, 2013 with  regard to appointment, Performance Evaluation etc.
have been exempted by Government of India, Ministry  of Corporate Affairs vide Gazette notification dated  05.06.15.
2.3 BOARD MEETINGS  st st During 1  April, 2014 to 31  March, 2015, Thirteen  th th th Board meetings were held on 24   April,  29  May, 27   th th th th June, 30  July, 13  & 28  August, 19  September,  th th th 16  October, 14  November, 12  December, 2014,  st th th 21   January, 14   February and 20  March, 2015.
The minimum and maximum interval between any two  Board meetings was 13 days and 39 days respectively.
The details of number of Board Meetings attended by  Directors, attendance at the last Annual General  Meeting, Number of other Directorship/Committee  Membership in various companies held by them  during the year 2014-15 are tabulated below:- training  Corporate Governance Report 149 a) Executive Directors Shri Dinesh Kumar Sarraf,  (Chairman & Managing  Also held Additional         Shri A. K. Banerjee, Director  (Finance) Shri Shashi Shanker , Director  (T&FS) Shri T .
K. Sengupta, Director  (Offshore) Shri Ashok Varma, Director  (Onshore) (from 19.06.2014) Shri D. D. Misra, Director (HR) (from 01.08.2014) Shri K.S.
Jamestin, Director (HR) (upto 31.07.2014) Shri N.K.
Verma Director  (Exploration) (upto 26.08.2014) Shri A.K.Dwivedi, Director  (Exploration) (from 16.03.2015) (i) Part-time Official Directors- Government Nominees Shri Aramane Giridhar JS(E) MoP&NG, Government  Director (upto 15.10.2014)01 No Nil Nil Nil Shri U.P .
Singh JS(E) MoP&NG,  Government Director (from 16.10.2014) Dr. Subhash C. Khuntia Special Secretary, MoP&NG as  Government Director (from 01.05.2014) 13 Yes 08 Nil 03 Director)  Charge of  (i) Director (Onshore) upto 18.06.2014  (ii) Director (Exploration)   from 27.08.2014 till  15.03.2015 13 Yes 05 Nil 02 12 Yes 01 Nil 01 13 Yes 02 Nil 01 11 Yes 01 Nil Nil 09 Yes Nil Nil 01 04 NA 06 Nil 02 05 NA 01 Nil Nil 01 NA Nil Nil Nil 05 NA Nil Nil 02 11 No 03 Nil Nil Names  & Designation Upto 31.03.2015 No.
of    Director-ships in  other  companies  # No.
of Committee  memberships  across all  companies * Whether  attended  last AGM  held on  19.09.2014 No.
of Board  meetings  attended  out of 13  meetings  held Chairman Member Attendance: Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report 150 Notes: (i) The Company being a PSU, all Directors are  appointed/ nominated by the President of India; (ii) Directors are not per se related to each other; (iii) Directors do not have any pecuniary relationships or  transactions with the Company; (iv) The Directorships/Committee Memberships are  based on the latest disclosure received; (v) None of the Director is a Member of more than 10  Committees or Chairman of more than 5 Committees,  across all the companies in which he is a Director.
3 STRATEGY MEET           A Strategy Meet is organised each year at which all  members of the Board and senior officials of the  Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas participate.
Intense discussion and deliberation takes place  covering areas of concerns and growth for ONGC.
4.
CONCLAVE T o benefit from cumulative knowledge and experience  of seniors of ONGC, an assembly of the past and  present members of the Board of the Company is  organized each year to focus on action plan for  Perspective Plans and future growth strategies.
5.
KEY EXECUTIVES’ MEET (VICHAR VISHLESHAN) Key Executives are managers placed just below the  Directors of the Board and run day- to-day operations  of the Company under the direction and supervision of  the Directors.
While Key Executives, jointly or severally  meet CMD and functional directors as when required,  an annual meet of all Key Executives with CMD &  Directors is held to discuss issues of Management and  operations implementation strategies of Strategic  Plans are also discussed to find solutions for them.
th The 13  Key Executive Meet was held on  20- 21.12.2014 at Alibaug, Maharashtra.
The theme of  th the 13  Meet blended contextual issues with futuristic  ones-“Nex t ‘Big’ interventions for harnessing  potentials”.
The way forward: “Plan, Projectize,  Perform”.
6.
CHANGE AGENTS’ MEET T o connect with Gen-next ONGCians, billed as  'Change Agents' and engaging and preparing them for  future challenges and for realization of Perspective  Plan - 2030, the Change Agent Meet is organized.
No  meet was held in 2014-15.
7.
RESUME OF DIRECTORS PROPOSED TO BE RE- APPOINTED nd The notice of the 22  Annual General Meeting shall  Contain the brief resume of Directors retiring by  rotation and Additional Directors se eking  appointment including nature of their experience in  specific functional areas, names of companies in  which they hold directorship and membership/  # Does not include Directorships of Foreign Companies, Section 8 Companies and Private Limited Companies.
*Chairmanship/Membership of the Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of Public Limited Companies  (including ONGC).
(ii) Part-time Non official Independent Directors Prof. Deepak Nayyar 0 (upto 19.06.2014) Shri Arun Ramanathan 0 (upto 19.06.2014) Prof. S.K.
Barua  (upto 13.12.2014) 09 Yes 04 01 05 Shri O.P .
Bhatt  (upto 13.12.2014) 07 Yes 04 Nil 09 Shri K.N.
Murthy 11 Yes 09 05 03 Shri P .
Umashankar  (upto 19.09.2014) 06 No 02 Nil 02 Shri S. Ravi  (upto 19.09.2014) 06 No 07 05 05 Shri R.K. Singh 0 (from 23.05.2014  to 19.09.2014) 2 NA 02 01 05 2 NA 06 04 04 5 No Nil Nil Nil Corporate Governance Report 151 chairmanship of Board/ Committee  8.
BOARD COMMITTEES  The Company has the following Committees of the  Board: 8.1 AUDIT & ETHICS COMMITTEE (The Committee  was earlier named as Audit, Ethics and Financial  Management Committee upto 13.11.2014) The terms of reference of the Audit & Ethics  Committee are in accordance with Section 177 of the  Companies Act, 2013, guidelines set out in Clause  49(III) of the Listing Agreement and the Guidelines on  Corporate Governance for Central Public Sector  Enterprises issued by the Department of Public  Enterprises in May, 2010.
Composition Shri Arun Ramanathan, an Independent Director was  the chairman of the committee upto 19.06.2014.
Thereafter, the Committee has been headed by Shri  K.N.
Murthy w.e.f.
03.11.2014.
Prof. S.K.
Barua, Shri  O.P .
Bhatt, Shri S. Ravi, Shri P .
Umashankar , Shri U.P .
Singh  and Shri Shashi Shanker were/are the other  members of the Committee.
The composition of the  Audit & Ethics Committee was not in compliance with  Clause 49(III)(A) of the Listing Agreement from  14.12.2014.
All members of the Committee have requisite financial  and management experience and have held or hold  senior positions in other reputed organizations.
Director (Finance) and Chief Internal Audit are  permanent invitees.
Representatives of Statutory  Auditors and Cost Auditors are invited to participate in  the meetings whenever required.
Functional  Directors, Executives of Finance and other  departments are invited, if required.
Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the  Committee.
The role of the audit committee has been modified  during the year in line with the Companies Act, 2013  and amended Listing Agreement and shall include the  following: 1.
Oversight of the company’s financial reporting  process and the disclosure of its financial information  to ensure that the financial statement is correct,  sufficient and credible.
2.
Recommendation for appointment, remuneration and  terms of appointment of auditors of the company;  3.
Approval of payment to statutory auditors for any  other services rendered by the statutory auditors.
4.
Reviewing, with the management and examination of  the annual financial statements and auditor’s report  thereon before submission to the Board for approval,  with particular reference to: a.
Matters required to be included in the Director’s  Responsibility Statement to be included in the Board’s  report in terms of clause (c) of sub- section 3 of  Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013 b.
Changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices  and reasons for the same c. Major accounting entries involving estimates based  on the exercise of judgment by management d. Significant adjustments made in the financial  statements arising out of audit findings e. Compliance with listing and other legal requirements  relating to financial statements f. Disclosure of any related party transactions g. Qualifications in the draft audit report.
5.
Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly  financial statements before submission to the Board  for approval.
6.
Reviewing, with the management, the statement of  uses / application of funds raised through an issue  (public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, etc.
), the  statement of funds utilized for purposes other than  those stated in the offer document/prospectus/notice  and the report submitted by the monitoring agency  monitoring the utilization of proceeds of a public or  rights issue, and making appropriate recommendations  to the Board to take up steps in this matter.
7. Review and monitor the auditor’s independence and  performance, and effectiveness of audit process.
8.
Approval or any subsequent modification of  transactions of the company with related parties;  9.
Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments;  10.
Valuation of undertaking or assets of the company,  wherever it is necessary.
11.
Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk  management systems.
12.
Reviewing, with the management, performance of  statutory and internal auditors, and adequacy of the  internal control systems;  13.
Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, if  any, including the structure of the internal audit  department, staffing and seniority of the official  Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report 152 Attendance: Members No.
of Meetings held during the tenure No.
of Meetings Attended Shri K. N. Murthy 13 13 Shri Arun Ramanathan (upto 19.06.2014) 05 05 Shri O. P .
Bhatt (upto 13.12.2014) 11 09 Prof. S. K. Barua (upto 13.12.2014) 11 09 Shri P .
Umashankar (upto 19.09.2014) 07 07 Shri S. Ravi (upto 19.09.2014) 07 07 Shri U.P .
Singh (from 21.01.2015) 02 02 Shri Shashi Shanker 01 01 Shri D. K. Sarraf Permanent Invitees: Shri A. K. Banerjee, Director (Finance) 13 12 Shri Pradeep Prasad, Chief I.A.
13 13 Shri A.K.
Srinivasan,ED-CCF 12 10 01 01 heading the depar tment, repor ting structure  coverage and frequency of internal audit; 14.
Discussion with internal auditors on any significant  findings and follow up there on.
15.
Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations  by the internal auditors into matters where there is  suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal  control systems of a material nature and reporting the  matter to the Board.
16.
Discussion with statutory auditors before the Audit  Commences, about the nature and scope of audit as  well as post-audit discussion to ascertain any area of  concern.
The Audit Committee may call for the  comments of the auditors about internal control  systems, the scope of audit, including the  observations of the auditors and review of financial  statement before their submission to the Board and  may also discuss any related issues with the internal  and statutory auditors and the management of the  company.
17.
T o look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the  payment to the depositors, debenture holder  shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared  dividends) and creditors; 18.
T o oversee & review the functioning of the Vigil  mechanism including whistle Blower Mechanism and  if any of the members of the committee have a conflict  of interest in a given case, they should recuse  themselves and the others on the committee would  deal with the matter on hand.
19.
Approval of appointment of CFO (i.e., the Whole- time  Finance Director or any other person heading the  finance function or discharging that function) after  assessing the qualifications, experience and  background, etc.
of the candidate; 20.
T o review the Audit paras referred to A&EC by the  internal Audit / Board and / Government of India and to  provide its suggestions / guidance / comments on the  issues referred to it.
21.
The Audit Committee shall review the financial  statements, in particular, the investments made by the  unlisted subsidiary company.
Audit & Ethics Committee Meetings st st During 1  April, 2014 to 31  March, 2015, thirteen  meetings of Audit & Ethics Committee were held on  th th th th th th th 7 & 24  April, 19 & 29  May, 13 & 27  June, 13   th th th August, 19  September, 14 & 26  November,  th th th 5  December, 2014,14  February and 19  March,  2015.
The details of meetings attended by the members and  their tenure as member of the above Committee is  reflected in the table below:- Corporate Governance Report 153 personnel and other employees involving a balance  between fixed and incentive pay reflecting short and  long-term performance objectives appropriate to the  working of the company and its goals.
II.
Shall lay down the evaluation criteria for performance  evaluation of Independent Directors.
III.
Identify persons who are qualified to become  directors and who may be appointed in senior  management in accordance with the criteria laid  down, and recommend to the Board their  appointment and removal, IV .
Carry out evaluation of every director’s performance.
V .
Formulate the criteria for determining qualifications,  positive attributes and independence of a director.
VI.
Deciding the Annual Bonus / Variable Pay Pool and  Policy for its distribution across the Executives and  Non Unionised Supervisors, within the prescribed  limits and as per the guidelines issued in this regard by  the Government of India.
VII.
Consideration of any other item which may be  delegated in this regard by the Board of Directors.
VIII.
Any other role assigned for the Committee due to  changes/modification in the Companies Act,  2013,SEBI & DPE Guidelines.
The details of meeting attended by the members and  their tenure as member of the above Committee is  reflected in the table below:- 8.2 NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE   ONGC, being a Public Sector Undertaking, the  appointment, tenure and remuneration of directors  are decided by the Government of India.
As per the  DPE Guidelines, a Remuneration Committee was  constituted to decide the annual bonus/variable pay  pool and policy for its distribution within the  prescribed limits.
However, as per Clause 49(IV) of the  revised listing Agreement and Section 178 of the  Companies Act, 2013, the Company has renamed the  Commit tee as Nomination and Remuneration  Committee w.e.f.
03.11.2014.
The composition of the  committee was not in compliance with clause  49(IV)(A) of the Listing Agreement from 14.12.2014.
Prof. S.K.
Barua, an Independent Director was the  Chairman of the Commit tee upto13.12.2014.
Thereafter, the Committee has been headed by Shri  K.N.
Murthy w.e.f.
21.01.2015.
Prof. Deepak Nayyar,  Shri Arun Ramanathan, Shri P .
Umashankar, Shri O.P .
Bhatt ,Shri U.P .
Singh and Shri D.K.
Sarraf were/are the  other members of the Committee.
Director (HR) and Director (Finance) are the  permanent Invitees.
Director (HR) is the convener of  the Committee.
One meeting of the above Committee was held on  th 12  December, 2014.
Role of the Committee I.
Recommend to the Board a policy, relating to the  remuneration for the directors, key managerial  Members No.
of Meetings held during the tenure No.
of Meetings Attended Shri K.N.Murthy 01 01 Prof. Deepak Nayyar (upto 19.06.2014) N.A N.A Shri Arun Ramanathan (upto 19.06.2014) N.A N.A Prof. S.K.
Barua (upto 13.12.2014) 01 01 Shri O.P .
Bhatt (upto 13.12.2014) 01 01 Permanent Invitees: Shri A. K. Banerjee,  Director (Finance)-upto 30.04.2015 01 01 Shri D.D.
Misra, Director (HR) 01 01 8.2.1 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION ONGC being a Government Company, terms and conditions of appointment and remuneration of Whole-time  Functional Directors are determined by the Government through administrative ministry, the Ministry of Petroleum &  Natural Gas.
The Non-executive (part-time non-official) or Independent Directors are paid sitting fees @ ` 20,000/-  for each Board/ Committee meeting attended by them.
Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report 154 8.2.2 STOCK OPTIONS The Company has not issued any Stock Options to  its Directors/ Employees.
8.2.3 EQUITY SHARES HELD BY DIRECTORS  Except as stated hereunder, none of the Directors,  hold any Equity Shares in the Company as per the  declarations made by them to the Company in their  own names: (a) Executive Directors   ( in Million)`  * Superannuation ** Resignation *** Includes provision for performance related pay for FY  14-15 (disclosed under amount payable in note no.
39.3.2 of Standalone Financial statements).
Note: 1.
Performance related pay of Functional Directors  (including CMD) is paid as per DPE norms.
2.
Notice period of 3 months or salary in lieu thereof is  required for severance of service.
(b) Non-Executive Directors (Part-time non-official) Non-Executive non-official Directors were paid sitting  fee@ ` 20,000/- for attending each meeting of the  Board/ Committees thereof.
Details of sitting fees  st st paid during the period of 1  April, 2014 to 31  March,  2015 under review is as follows: st st Remuneration of Directors during 1  April 2014 to 31  March, 2015 was as follows: S. No  including  DA & perks and *** Gratuity  on  Retire- ment 1.
Shri D.K.Sarraf 2.10 1.09 0.88 1.29 0.28 0.52 6.15 30.09.2017 2.
Shri K. S. Jamestin (upto 31.07.2014)* 3.
Shri A. K. Banerjee* 1.93 1.65 0.49 0.88 0.25 0.53 5.73 30.04.2015 4.
Shri Shashi Shanker 1.74 1.52 0.78 0.80 0.23 0.44 5.51 30.11.2017 5.
Shri T .K.Sengupta 1.82 1.73 0.48 1.73 0.24 0.49 6.49 31.12.2017 6.
Shri N. K. Verma** (upto 26.08.2014) 7.
Shri Ashok Varma 1.66 0.88 0.51 0.72 0.20 0.29 4.25 31.07.2015 8.
Shri D.D.Misra (from 01.08.2014) 9.
Shri A.K.
Dwivedi (from 16.03.2015) Names Salary Other Leave Perform- Contrib- Provision Grand Term benefits Enca-  ance ution to for Leave, Total shment Incentives PF & Gratuity  other & PRBS  Funds as per  AS- 15 0.66 1.12 4.16 0.31 0.09 - 6.33 31.07.2014 0.76 0.47 0.15 0.81 0.10 0.45 2.74 26.08.2014 1.19 0.98 0.59 1.12 0.16 0.29 4.33 31.07.2018 0.16 0.14 0.64 0.04 - 0.02 1.00 31.07.2019 Names Sitting fees (`In Million) Shri Arun Ramanathan 0.18 Prof Deepak Nayyar 0.12 Prof. S.K.Barua 0.72 Shri O.P .
Bhatt 0.66 Shri K. N. Murthy 1.02 Shri P .
Uma Shankar 0.48 Shri S. Ravi 0.52 Shri R. K. Singh 0.10 Total 3.80 Name of Directors No.
Of Shares held Shri D. K. Sarraf, Chairman  & Managing Director Shri K. S. Jamestin, Director (HR)  (upto 31.07.2014) Shri A. K. Banerjee, Director  (Finance) Shri T .
K. Sengupta, Director  (Offshore) Shri Shashi Shanker,  Director (T&FS) Shri D.D.
Misra, Director  (from 01.08.2014) Prof. Deepak Nayyar (upto 19.06.2014) Shri R. K. Singh  (upto 19.09.2014) Shri A K Dwivedi, Director  (Exploration) (from 16.03.2015) 3,192 3,600 3,172 3,672 3,712 (HR) 1700 200 78 820 Corporate Governance Report 155 8.3 STAKEHOLDERS’ RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE Stakeholders Relationship Committee specifically  looks into redressal of complaints/ grievances of  Shareholders and Investors, pertaining to transfer/  transmission of shares, non-receipt of annual reports,  dividend payments, issue of duplicate share certificates  and other miscellaneous complaints.
The Committee  oversees and reviews performance of the Registrar and  T ransfer Agent and recommends measures for overall  improvement in the quality of investor services.
The  Committee also monitors implementation and  compliance of Company’s Code of Conduct for  Prevention of Insider T rading in ONGC’s securities.
Shri K. N. Murthy, an Independent Director is the  Chairman of the Committee.
Other Members of the  Committee were/are Shri Deepak Nayyar, Shri Arun  Ramanathan, Prof. S.K.
Barua, Shri O.P .
Bhatt, Shri S. Ravi, Director (Finance) and Director (HR).
The  Company Secretary acts as a Convener of the  Committee.
During the year 2014-15, Three meetings were  th th held on 26  June, 19  September, 2014 and  th 19  March, 2015.
The details of meetings attended by the members and  their tenure as member of the above Committee is  reflected in the table below:- 8.3.1 COMPLIANCE OFFICER Shri N. K. Sinha, Company Secretary and  Compliance Officer superannuated on 30.06.2015  on attaining the age retirement.
Shri V .
N. Murthy  took over as Company Secretory and designated  as Compliance Officer of the Company with effect  from 01.07.2015, who is primarily responsible to  ensure Compliance with applicable statutory  requirements.
He is the interface between the  management and the regulatory authorities on  governance matters.
8.3.2   REDRESSAL OF INVESTORS’ GRIEVANCE  The Company addresses all complaints,  suggestions and grievances of the investors  expeditiously and usually resolves them within 7  days except in case of dispute over facts or other  legal constraints.
Except for the complaints pertaining to ‘ONGC  Offer for Sale - 2004’ by Government of India, the  Company received 30 shareholders’ complaints  from Stock Exchanges/ SEBI which inter-alia  includes non-receipt of dividend/ annual report,  issue of Bonus Shares amongst others.
The  complaints were duly attended to and the  Company/ RTA have furnished necessar y  documents / information to the shareholders.
As far  as the Investors’ Grievances on “ONGC Offer for  Sale-2004” is concerned, considerable progress  has been made by constant interaction with SEBI,  Department of Disinvestment and MCS.
No request for share transfer is pending beyond 30  days except those that are disputed or sub-judice.
All requests for de-materialization of shares are  l i k e w i s e  p r o c e s s e d  a n d  c o n f i r m a t i o n   communicated to investors and Depository  Participants within 10 working days.
The total number of complaints/ queries/  correspondence received and replied/ attended to  the satisfaction of the shareholders was 2256.
The  number of complaints pending as on 31.03.2015  are 101 out of which 97 complaints are related to  Offer for Sale- 2004.
Attendance:-     Members No.
of Meetings held Meetings  during the tenure attended Shri K. N. Murthy 03 03 Shri O.P .
Bhatt  02 02 (upto 13.12.2014) Prof. Deepak Nayyar N.A N.A (upto 19.06.2014) Shri Arun Ramanathan N.A.
N.A.
(upto 19.06.2014) Prof. S. K. Barua - - (from 03.11.2014  to 13.12.2014) Shri S. Ravi 01 01 (upto 19.09.2014) Shri A. K. Banerjee, 01 01 (from 21.01.2015) Shri D. D. Misra, 01 01 (from 21.01.2015) Permanent  Invitees (upto 20.01.2015) Shri K.S.
Jamestin01 01 (upto 31.07.2014) Shri D.D.
Misra 01 00 (from 01.08.2014) Shri A.K.
Banerjee02 02 Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report 156 officials, headed by Director (Finance) have been  assigned the responsibility of up-keep of the said  link and to serve as a platform for the shareholders  to express their opinions, views, suggestions, to  understand the influencing factors in their  investment decision-making process.
Besides,  this, the team is also instrumental in maintaining  close liaison and to share information through  periodic meets including tele-conferencing in India  and abroad, regular interactions with investment  bankers, research analysts and institutional  investors.
The Company is committed to take such  additional steps as may be necessary to fulfil the  expectations of the stakeholders.
8.4 H U M A N  R E S O U R C E  M A N A G E M E N T   COMMITTEE     The terms of reference include consideration of all  issues/ areas concerning Human Resource  8.3.4   INVESTOR RELATIONS CELL In line with global practices, the Company is  committed towards maintaining, the highest  standards of Corporate Governance, reinforcing  the relationship between the Company and its  Shareholders.
‘Investor Service Center’ with  information frequently required by investors and  analysis is available on the Company’s corporate  website w w w.ongcindia.com.
This website  provides updates on financial statements, investor- related events and presentations, annual reports,  dividend information and shareholding pattern  along with media releases, company overview and  report on Corporate Governance etc.
Existing and  potential investors are able to interact with the  Company through this link for their queries and for  seeking information.
A Core T eam comprising of senior, experienced  Sl.
No.
Nature of Complaint Contact Office Action to be taken 8.3.3 SETTLEMENT OF GRIEVANCES Investors may register their complaints in the manner stated below: Complaint regarding allocation  of Shares, Refund order under  Of fer for Sale, 2004 by  Government of India MCS Limited, F-65, Okhla  Industrial Area, Phase-I,  Delhi- 110020.
Phone Nos.
: 011-41406149, 51-52  Fax Nos.
:  011-41709881. e-mail: admin@mcsdel.com Application giving  details of Application No,  No.
of shares applied, No.
of Shares  allotted, DP ID, Client ID, Nature of  complaint,  Applicant Name(s) and  complete  postal address.
1 Dividend from financial years  2007-08 (final) to 2014-15  nd (2  interim)and all mat ters  pertaining to Bonus Shares and  shares held in Physical mode;  For Physical Shares- Change of address, status, Bank  a c c o u n t ,  m a n d a t e ,  E C S   mandate etc.
Karvy Computershare Private  Limited, Karvy Selenium T ower B, Plot  31-32, Gachibowli Financial  District,  Nanakramguda, Hyderabad-500  032 Phone No.040- 67162222 Fax No: 040- 23001153 T oll Free No.
1800-345-4001 e-mail: mailmanager@karvy.com Letter on plain paper stating the nature of  complaint, Folio/DPID/Client ID No; lodging  of original shares and other documents/  instruments as the case may be.
Members are requested to apply for  renewal or issue of duplicate dividend  warrants for the Final Dividend 2007-08 and  th Interim Dividend 2008-09 before 18   th October, 2015 and 18 January, 2016  respectively as the same will be transferred  by the Company to the Investor Education &  Protection Fund (IEPF) set up by  Government of India and no claim will lie  against IEPF or the Company.
2 For Dematted Shares- Change of address, status, Bank  a c c o u n t ,  m a n d a t e ,  E C S   mandate etc.
C o n c e r n e d  D e p o s i t o r y   Par ticipant (DP) where the  Shareholder is maintaining  his/her account As per instructions of DP3 All complaints except of  Sl.
no.1 & 3.
Company Secretary  Oil and Natural Gas Corporation   L t d .
, 1 2 4 ,  I n d i r a  C h o w k ,   New Delhi-110001 Phone: 011-23301299 & 23301257 e-mail: secretariat@ongc.co.in On plain paper stating nature of complaint,  folio/DPID/Client ID No., Name and  address.
4 Corporate Governance Report 157 Planning & Management, HR policies and initiatives  and Promotions for the post of Group General  Manager (GGM) and Executive Director (ED) and  appeals of officers in terms of CDA Rules of ONGC.
Prof. S. K. Barua, an Independent Director was the  Chairman of the committee upto 13.12.2014.
Thereafter, the committee has been headed by  Shri K. N. Murthy w.e.f 21.01.2015 Shri A.Giridhar, Prof. Deepak Nayyar, Shri P .
Umashankar, Shri S. Ravi, Shri O.P .
Bhatt, Shri U.P .
Singh , CMD and all Functional Directors were/are  the members of the Committee.
Director (HR) is  the Member-Convener of the Committee.
st st During 1  April, 2014 to 31  March, 2015, six  th th meetings were held on 28  April, 28  May,  th th th 29  July, 26  November, 12  December , 2014 and  th 19  March,2015.
The details of meetings attended by the members  and their tenure as member of the above  committee is reflected in the table below: 8.5 PROJECT APPRAISAL COMMITTEE The Project Appraisal Committee examines and  makes recommendations to the Board on projects/  capital investment exceeding 2500 million.
Proposals upto `2500 million are appraised in- house, while the proposals exceeding 2500  million are first appraised by Financial Institutions  and thereafter considered by the Project Appraisal  Committee which recommends the proposal to the  Board with its views.
The Project Appraisal  Committee also monitors IOR/ EOR Schemes.
It  also reviews the activities and operating  performance of OVL and MRPL.
Shri O.P .
Bhatt, Independent Director was the  Chairman of this Committee upto 13.12.2014.
Thereafter, the Committee has been headed by  Shri K.N.
Murthy w.e.f.
21.01.2015.
Prof. S.K.
Barua, Shri A. Giridhar, Shri Arun Ramanathan,  Shri P .
Umashankar, Shri S. Ravi, Shri U.P .
Singh ,  Shri T .K.
Sengupta, Shri A.K.
Banerjee &  Concerned Functional Director were/are the  members of the Committee.
Director (Offshore) is  the Member-Convener of the Committee.
st st During 1  April, 2014 to 31  March, 2015, ten  th th meetings were held on: 28  May, 26  June,  th th th th 30  July, 13 & 28  August, 19  September,  th th th 13  November, 2014, 20  January, 13  February  th and 19  March, 2015.
The details of meetings attended by the members  and their tenure as member of the above  Committee is reflected in the table below:- ` ` *These Directors attended the meetings as member concerning  the Projects of their responsibilities.
Members No.
of Meetings No.
of  held during Meetings  the tenure attended Shri O. P .
Bhat t (upto 13.12.2014) 07 05 Shri A. Giridhar, (upto 15.10.2014) 06 00 Shri Arun Ramanathan  (upto 19.06.2014) 01 00 Prof. S. K. Barua (upto 13.12.2014) 07 06 Shri K. N. Mur thy 10 08 Shri A. K. Banerjee 10 10 Shri T .
K. Sengupta 10 10 *Shri Shashi Shanker 02 01 Shri K.S.
Jamestin  (upto 31.07.2014) 03 03 *Shri D.K.
Sarraf 01 01 as Director (Onshore) Shri P .
Umashankar 05 05 (upto 19.09.2014) Shri S. Ravi (upto 19.09.2014) 05 05 Shri U.P .
Singh (from 03.11.2014) 04 01 *Shri Ashok Varma 04 04 (from 19.06.2014) *Shri A. K. Dwivedi 01 01 (from 16.03.2015) Members No.
of Meetings No.
of  Prof. S. K. Barua 0 (upto 13.12.2014) Shri A. Giridhar,  0 Nominee   (upto 15.10.2014) Prof. Deepak Nayyar 0 (upto 19.06.2014) Shri K. N. Murthy 0 (from 03.11.2014) Shri D. K. Sarraf, CMD 06 06 Shri K. S. Jamestin 0 (upto 31.07.2014) Shri A. K. Banerjee 06 06 Shri T .
K. Sengupta 06 05 Shri Shashi Shanker 0 Shri N. K. Verma 0 (upto 26.08.2014) Shri O.P .
Bhatt 0 (upto 13.12.2014) Shri P .
Umashankar 0 (upto 19.09.2014) Shri S. Ravi 0 (upto 19.09.2014) Shri Ashok Varma 0 (from 19.06.2014) Shri U.P .
Singh 0 (from 03.11.2014) Shri D.D.
Misra 0 (from 01.08.2014) Shri A. K. Dwivedi0 (from 16.03.2015) held during Meetings  the tenure attended 5 05 3 02 Government  2 02 3 03 3 03 5 05 3 03 2 02 3 03 3 03 4 04 3 01 3 03 1 01 Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report 158 8.6    H E A LT H  S A F E T Y  &  E N V I R O N M E N T   COMMITTEE(HSE) The terms of reference includes review of policy,  processes and systems on Safety, Health,  Environment and Ecology aspects.
Shri P .
Umashankar, an Independent Director was  the Chairman of the Committee upto      19.09.2014.
Thereafter, the Committee has been headed by  Shri O.P .
Bhatt upto 13.12.2014.
Shri A. Giridhar,  Prof. Deepak Nayyar, Prof. S.K.Barua, Shri U.P .
Singh ,CMD and all functional Directors were/ are  members of the Committee.
Director (T&FS) acts as  a Member-Convener.
st st During 1  April, 2014 to 31  March, 2015,  th t wo meetings were held on 19  May &  th 29  July,  2014.
The details of meetings attended by the members  and their tenure as member of the above Committee  is reflected in the table below:- 8.7 FINANACIAL MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Role of the Committee includes examining the  matters pertaining to Budget, Delegation of  Powers (Empowerment), Commercial Issues, Forex  and T reasury Management, Investments, Risk  Management, Capital Structure, Issue of Securities,  Short and Long T erm Loans.
Prof. S.K.Barua, an Independent Director was the  Chairman of the Committee w.e.f 03.11.2014.
Thereafter, the Committee has been headed by  Shri K.N, Murthy from 21.01.2015.
Shri O.P .
Bhatt,  CMD, Director (Finance) and Concerned Functional  Director were/are the other members of the  Committee.
Company Secretary is the Convener.
st st During 1  April, 2014 to 31  March, 2015,  thr e e me etings of the Commit te e were  th th held on 14  November, 12  December, 2014 and  th 20  January, 2015 The details of meetings attended by the members  and their tenure as member of the above Committee  is reflected in the table below:- (The Audit, Ethics and Financial Management  Committee were demerged into Audit & Ethics  Committee and Financial Management Committee w.e.f   03.11.2014)  8.8 COMMITTEE ON DISPUTE RESOLUTION The Committee has been constituted to review the  disputes bet ween ONGC and its vendors/  contractors for suitable redressal.
Shri S.Ravi, an Independent Director, was Chairman  of the Committee upto 19.09.2014.Thereafter, the  Committee has been headed by Shri K.N.
Murthy  w.e.f.
03.11.2014.Shri Arun Ramanathan,  Shri O.P .
Bhat t, Prof. S.K.
Barua, Director  (Finance), Director (Onshore), Director (T&FS),  Shri U. P .
Singh and Concerned Functional Director  were/ are the other members.
Director (T&FS) is the  Members No.
of Meetings No.
of  Shri A. Giridhar 02 00 Prof. Deepak Nayyar 0 (upto 19.06.2014) Prof. S. K. Barua 0 (upto 13.12.2014) Shri O. P .
Bhatt 0 (upto 13.12.2014) Shri K. S. Jamestin0 (upto 31.07.2014) Shri A. K. Banerjee02 01 Shri Shashi Shanker 0 Shri N. K. Verma 0 (upto 26.08.2014) Shri P .
Uma Shankar0 (upto 19.09.2014) Shri D. K. Sarraf 02 02 Shri T .
K. Sengupta 02 02 Shri Ashok Varma 0 (from 19.06.2014) Shri U.P .
Singh                      (from 03.11.2014)                                  Shri K.  Murthy held during Meetings  the tenure attended 1 01 2 02 2 00 2 00 2 02 2 02 2 02 1 01 After 03.11.2014 no meeting of the committee was held.
N. (from 03.11.2014) Members No.
of Meetings No.
of  Prof. S. K. Barua (upto 13.12.2014) 02 02 Shri O. P .
Bhatt (upto 13.12.2014) 02 02 Shri K. N. Murthy 03 03 Shri A. K. Banerjee 03 03 Shri D. K. Sarraf (from 21.01.2015) - - held during Meetings  the tenure attended Corporate Governance Report 159 terms of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 it is  necessary to constitute a Corporate Social  Responsibility Committee to oversee the CSR  activities.
Accordingly, a Corporate Social  Responsibility and Sustainable Development  Committee was constituted by the Board of  th Directors in its 246  meeting held on 12.08.2013.
Prof. Deepak Nayyar, an Independent Director was  the Chairman of the Committee upto 19.06.2014.
Thereafter, the Committee has been headed by  Prof. S. K. Barua w.e.f.
03.11.2014.
CMD, Director  (Finance), Director (HR) were/are the other  members the Committee.
Chief CSR act as  Convener of the Committee.
The T erms of Reference of the Committee were  approved by the Board on 29.04.2015.
The CSR  policy was approved by the Board on 28.05.2015  and is uploaded on the website of ONGC.
st st During 1  April, 2014 to 31  March, 2015, four  th th meetings were held on 19  June, 11  December,  th th 2014 , 20  January and 19  March, 2015.
The details of meetings attended by the members  and their tenure as member of the above Committee  is reflected in the table below:- Member-Convener of the Committee.
st st During 1  April, 2014 to 31  March, 2015, five  th meetings of the committee were held on 24  April,  th th th th 29  May, 26  June, 28  August, and 13  November,  2014.
The details of meetings at tended by the  members and their tenure as member of  the above Commit tee is reflected in the  table below:- *Attended the meetings as member concerning the Projects of  their responsibilities.
8.9 Corporate Social Responsibilit y and  Sustainability Development ONGC implements various measures in the area of  Corporate Social Responsibility across India.
Department of Public Enterprise has issued  guidelines on implementation of CSR activities by  Public Sector Under takings, which require  formation of a CSR & SD Committee.
Further, in  Members No.
of Meetings No.
of  Shri K. N. Murthy 05 04 Shri Arun Ramanathan  (upto 19.06.2014) 02 02 Shri O. P .
Bhatt (upto 13.12.2014) 05 05 Shri N.K.
Verma  (upto 26.08.2014)02 02 Shri A. K. Banerjee 05 04 Shri Shashi Shanker 05 04 Shri S. Ravi  (upto 19.09.2014) 04 04 Shri D. K. Sarraf as  Director (Onshore)*01 01 Shri T .K.
Sengupta 03 03 Shri Ashok Varma (from 19.06.2014)03 03 Shri U.P .
Singh (from 03.11.2014  upto 13.11.2014)01 00 Prof. S.K.
Barua 01 01 held during Meetings  the tenure attended Members No.
of Meetings No.
of  Shri K. S. Jamestin 01 01 Shri A. K. Banerjee 04 04 Prof. Deepak Nayyar 01 01 Prof. S. K. Barua 0 (upto 13.12.2014) Shri N.K.
Verma 01 00 Shri D. K. Sarraf 04 03 Shri K.N.
Murthy 0 (from 03.11.2014) Shri D.D.
Misra 0 (from 01.08.2014) held during Meetings  the tenure attended 2 01 3 03 3 03 Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report 160 8.10 Committee of Directors for Issue of Duplicate  share Certificates In compliance of Rule 6(2)(a) of the Companies  (Share Capital and Debentures ) Rules, 2014 and  General Circular No.
19/ 2014 dated 12.06.2014 of  Ministry of Corporate affairs, Government of India,  th the Board of Directors in its 264  Meeting held on  12.12.2014 have constituted a Committee of  Directors for issue of Duplicate Share  Certificates comprising of Director (Finance),  Director (T&FS) and Director (HR)  Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the   Committee of Directors.
The role of the Committee shall be to approve the  issue of Duplicate Share Certificates and any other  matter incidental thereto.
th st During 12  December, 2014 to 31  March, 2015 ,  th One meeting was held on 6  January,  2015 The details of meetings attended by the members  and their tenure as member of the above Committee  is reflected in the table below:- 4.
Define, the risk appetite for the Company, advice  business units/support functions on risk initiatives.
5. Review and approve changes in the risk appetite of  the company.
6.
Suggest improvements to risk management  techniques and lift management awareness.
7.
Provide quarterly updates to Board through the  A&EC on the current risk management procedures  and status of key risks.
8.
Monitor emerging issues and best practices.
9.
Monitor Business Risk Reporting.
10.
Ensure communication of Policies and standards to  successive levels of Management.
11.
Consideration of any other item which may be  delegated in this regard by the Board of Directors.
12.
Any other role assigned for the Committee due to  changes/modification in the Companies Act, 2013,  Listing Agreement, SEBI & DPE Guidelines.
The details of meetings attended by the members  and their tenure as member of the above Committee  is reflected in the table below:-Members No.
of Meetings No.
of  Shri A.K.
Banerjee 01 01 Shri Shashi Shanker 01 01 Shri D.D Misra 01 01 held during Meetings  the tenure attended 8.11 Risk Management Committee In compliance of SEBI Circular dated 17.04.14 on  Corporate Governance, the Board of Directors of the  th th Company in its 264  Meeting held on 12  December,  2014 constituted a Board Level 'Risk Management  Committee'  comprising of Director (Finance),  Director (T&FS), Director (Of fshore), Director  (Onshore), Director (HR) , Director (Exploration) and   Shri K. N. Murthy, Independent Director Director (Finance) is the Chairman of the Committee  and Chief Risk Officer (CRO) is the convener.
The role of the Committee includes the following: 1.
Ensure compliance with Risk Management Policy.
2. Review adequacy and effectiveness of Business  Risk Management .
3.   Review the organization wide risk portfolio and  consider it against the risk appetite.
Members No.
of Meetings No.
of  Shri A.K.
Banerjee 01 01 Shri Shashi Shanker Shri T .K.
Sengupta 01 01 Shri Ashok Varma 01 01 Shri D.D.
Misra 01 01 Shri K.N.
Murthy 01 01 Shri A. K. Dwivedi 01 01 Shri D. K. Sarraf 0 held during Meetings  the tenure attended N.A.
N.A.
1 - Corporate Governance Report 161 8.12 Research and Development Committee th The Board of Directors of the company in its 265   st Meeting held on 21  January, 2015 have constituted  a 'Research and Development Committee'   comprising of Shri K.N.
Murthy, Independent  Director, Director (Finance), Director (T&FS),  Director (Offshore), Director (Onshore), Director  (HR) and Director (Exploration).
Director (T&FS) is the convener and the Company  Secretary acts as the secretary to the committee.
The T erms of Reference of the Research &  Development Committee shall broadly be to  oversee the operations and functioning of the  various R&D activities being carried out in the  various Institutes of ONGC.
It shall also include  reviewing the parameters with regard to HR, Capex  and Opex of the R&D activities.
The final T erms of  Reference shall be finalised by the Committee.
No meeting of the R&D Committee was held during  2014-15.
8.13 Project Monitoring Committee th The Board of Directors of the company in its 265   st Meeting held on 21  January, 2015 have constituted  a ‘Project Monitoring Committee’ comprising of  Shri K.N.
Murthy, Chairman.
Shri U.P .
Singh, Director  (Finance), Director (Of f shore), Concerned  Functional Director are other members of the  committee.
Director (Of fshore) is the convener of the  committee.
Role of Project Monitoring Committee The role of the Committee shall inter – alia include  the following: During Project Implementation: 1.
The Functional Directors shall ensure that the  various projects of value more than `100 Crore  (capex) being implemented under their domain are  placed before the PMC on a periodical basis for  monitoring and review.
2.
The PMC shall look into the reasons for cost over-run  (capex & opex) and time over-run of the project and  would advise how to reduce over run of cost & time.
3.
It will have the power to order investigation into  abnormal delays in implementation of a project  4.
The observations and recommendations of the  Committee on the various projects shall be placed  before the Board for review / information.
5.
T o recommend closure of the project after its  completion / on declaration of its unviability or  otherwise.
6.
T o suggest mechanisms for improvisation in project  implementation/ management 7.
Any other related issues as may be suggested by the  PMC for effective and focussed monitoring of the  projects.
Post Project Implementation: 1.
The Functional Directors shall put up the status  including capex, opex, production achieved,  vaiability analysis etc.
of each completed project of  value more than 100 Crore within 6 months of  actual date of completion of a project.
2.
Further, performance of every completed project  needs to be reviewed at least once in two years.
3. Review to cover functional parameters anticipated at  the time of project implementation vis-à-vis actual  performance.
4.
T o suggest measures for improvement, if required.
5.
Reporting to Board on lessons learnt.
The details of meetings attended by the members  and their tenure as member of the above Committee  is reflected in the table below:- Only one meeting of the Committee was held on  th 19  March, 2015.
` Members No.
of Meetings No.
of  Shri K.N.
Murthy 01 01 Shri U.P .
Singh 01 01 Shri A.K.
Banerjee 01 01 Shri T .K.
Sengupta 01 01 Shri Ashok Varma* 01 01 *Attended the meeting as member concerning the  Projects of his responsibility held during Meetings  the tenure attended Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report 162 8.14 OTHER FUNCTIONAL COMMITTEES Apart from the above, the Board, from time to time,  constitutes Functional Committees with specific  terms of reference as it may deem fit.
Meetings of  such Committees are held as and when the need  arises.
Time schedule for holding the meetings of  such Committees is finalized in consultation with  Committee members.
9.0 CODE OF CONDUCT FOR MEMBERS OF THE  BOARD AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT      The Company is committed towards conducting  business in accordance with the highest standards  of business ethics and complying with applicable  laws, rules and regulations.
The existing code of  Conduct has been revised in line with the provisions  of the Companies Act, 2013, SEBI Guidelines and  Listing Agreement and approved by the Board of  th Directors of the Company in its 268  meeting held  on 29.04.2015   A copy of the Code has been placed  on the Company’s website www.ongcindia.com.
All members of the Board and Senior Management  i.e.
‘Key Executives’ have confirmed compliance  with the Code of Conduct for the year under review.
A declaration signed by Chairman & Managing  Director is given below: Code of Conduct – Compliance affirmation (Pursuant to Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement) “I hereby confirm that the Company has obtained  from the members of the Board and senior  management (Key Executives), affirmation that they  have complied with the Code of Conduct for  Directors and senior management in respect of the  financial year 2014-15” Sd/- (Dinesh Kumar Sarraf) Chairman & Managing Director New Delhi th 9 June, 2015 10.0 WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY In terms of revised Clause 49 of the Listing  Agreement, the company shall establish a vigil  mechanism for directors and employees to report  concerns about unethical behaviour, actual or  suspected fraud or violation of the company’s code  of conduct or ethics policy.
Accordingly ONGC has  th implemented the Whistle Blower Policy on 30   November, 2009, which is in line with the Listing  Agreement.
ONGC has provided ample opportunities to  encourage the employees to become whistle  blowers (employees who voluntarily and  confidentially want to bring the unethical practices,  actual or suspected fraudulent transactions in the  organization to the notice of the competent authority  for the greater interest of the organization and the  Nation).
It has also ensured a very robust  mechanism within the same framework to protect  them (whistle blowers) from any kind of harm.
It is  hereby affirmed that no personnel has been denied  access to the Audit Committee.
The Company has a Vigilance Department which is  headed by an officer on deputation from the  Government of India in the rank of Joint Secretary or  above.
10.1 ONGC’ CODE ON INSIDER TRADING In pursuance of the Securities and Exchange Board  of India (Prohibition of Insider T rading) Regulations,  2015, the Board has approved the "The Code of  Internal Procedures and Conduct in dealing with the  th Securities of ONGC” in its 268  Board meeting held  on 29.04.2015.
The objective of the Code is to  prevent purchase and/ or sale of shares of the  Company by an Insider on the basis of unpublished  price sensitive information.
Under this Code,  Insiders (Directors, Advisors, Key Executives,  Designated Employees and other concerned  persons) are prohibited to deal in the Company’s  shares/derivatives of the Company during the  closure of T rading Window and other specified  period(s).
T o deal in securities, beyond specified  limit, permission of Compliance Officer is required.
All Directors/ Advisors/ Of ficers/ designated  employees are also required to disclose related  information periodically as defined in the Code.
10.2 CEO/ CFO CERTIFICATION In terms of Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement, the  certification by the CEO and CFO on the financial  statement and internal controls relating to financial  reporting for the year 2014-15 was submitted to the  th Board in its meeting held on 28  May, 2015.
10.3 FINANCE MANUAL ONGC’s Finance Manual is a compendium based on  existing practices and systems, comprehensively  covering various finance activities such as  accounting, budgeting, costing, pre-audit and  treasury management.
This manual provides the  users with existing practices, processes, finance  Corporate Governance Report 163 policies & procedures, and guides Finance officers  while ensuring consistency and uniformity across  locations in terms of processes and methodologies.
This manual also helps new incumbents' and  Finance officers to enlighten them as well as outside  agencies such as Statutory Auditors, Government  Auditors associated with ONGC.
11.0 SUBSIDIARY MONITORING FRAMEWORK The Company has two direct subsidiary companies,  Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL)  and ONGC Videsh Ltd. (unlisted, non-material).
The  list of subsidiaries of MRPL and OVL is given in the  consolidated accounts of ONGC, which forms part  of the Annual Report.
All subsidiaries of the Company are Board managed  with their Boards having the rights and obligations  to manage such companies in the best interest of  their stakeholders.
CMD, ONGC is the Chairman of  MRPL and OVL.
In terms of Clause 49.V(B) to (G) of the Listing  Agreement and DPE guidelines, performance of the  listed and unlisted subsidiary companies is  reviewed by the Audit and Ethics Committee and the  Board of ONGC   as under: a) Financial Statements of the listed and unlisted  subsidiary companies, are reviewed by the Audit  and Ethics Committee; b) Minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors are  placed before the Company’s Board, periodically; c) A statement of all significant transactions and  arrangements entered into by the Subsidiary  Company are also reviewed by the Company.
The Company does not have any material unlisted  subsidiary company in terms of the clause 49 of the  Listing Agreement.
12.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETINGS Location, date and time of the AGMs held during the preceding 3 years are as under: Year Location Date Time (IST) 2011-12 Siri Fort Auditorium, Khel Gaon, August Kranti Marg, New Delhi- 110049 24.09.2012 10.00 a.m 2012-13 NDMC Indoor Stadium, T alkatora Garden, New Delhi-110001 25.09.2013 10.00 a.m 2013-14 NDMC Indoor Stadium, T alkatora Garden, New Delhi-110001 19.09.2014 10.00 a.m There was no special resolution passed by the Company at the last Three Annual General Meetings.
No special  resolution is proposed to be passed in the ensuing AGM.
Further, no resolution requiring Postal Ballot is proposed at  the ensuing AGM.
13.
DISCLOSURE 13.1 MATERIAL CONTRACTS/ RELATED PARTY  TRANSACTIONS The Company has not entered into any material  financial or commercial transactions with the  Directors or the Management or their relatives or the  companies and firms, etc., in which they are either  directly or through their relatives interested as  Directors and/or  Partners except with certain  PSUs, where the Directors are Directors without the  required  shareholdings.
The Company has  obtained declarations from all concerned in this  regard, which were noted by the Board.
A  comprehensive policy on Related Party T ransaction  th (RPT) has been approved by the Board in its 264   meeting held on 12.12.2014.
The Policy is in line  with the Listing Agreement and Companies Act,  2013.
The Policy as above has been uploaded on  the website of ONGC.
The details of transactions with related parties are  disclosed in Note No.
39 of the Notes to Financial  st Statements for the year ended 31  March, 2015.
Being a State Enterprise, no disclosure has been  made in respect of the transactions with State  Enterprises, including subsidiary companies, in line  with Accounting Standard-18 on Related Party  T ransactions.
13.2    COMPLIANCES  The Company has complied with applicable rules  (except as otherwise stated in this report) and the  requirement of regulatory authorities on capital  market and no penalties or strictures were imposed  on the Company during last three years.
All returns/ reports were filed within stipulated time  with stock exchanges/ other authorities.
Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report 164 14.
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION • Quarterly/ Annual Results:  The Company  regularly intimates un-audited as well as audited  financial results to the Stock Exchanges,  immediately after these are approved.
These  financial results are normally published in the  leading English and vernacular dailies having wide  circulation across the country.
The results are also  displayed on the website of the Company  www.ongcindia.com.
The results are not sent  individually to the shareholders • News Release, Presentation etc.
: The official  news releases, detailed presentations made to  media, institutional investors, financial analysts etc.
are displayed on the Company’s website  www.ongcindia.com • W e b s i t e :  T h e  C o m p a n y ’ s  w e b s i t e   www.ongcindia.com contains separate dedicated  section ‘Investor Relations’ where the information  for shareholders is available.
Full Annual Report,  Shareholding Pattern and Corporate Governance  Report etc.
are also available on the web-site in a  user-friendly manner • Annual Report: Annual Report containing inter- alia, Audited Accounts, Consolidated Financial  Statements, Board's Repor t, Management  Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) Report, Business  Responsibility Report, Corporate Governance  Report, Auditors’ Report, including Information for  the Shareholders and other important information is  circulated to the members and others entitled  thereto 15.
SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION 15.1 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING th Date T uesday, 15  September, 2015.
Time 10:00 Hrs.
Venue NDMC Indoor Stadium, T alkatora Garden, New Delhi – 110001.
Adoption of Quarterly Results for the Quarter ending meeting of the Board th 30  , 2015 (with limited  review by Statutory Auditors)  2015 th 30  , 2015 (with  th limited review by Statutory 12   Auditors) st 31  , 2015 (with limited  review by Statutory Auditors) February, 2016 st 31  , 2016 (audited) Saturday,  May, 2016 These dates are tentative and subject to change and the last  date for submission of the unaudited quarterly and year to  date financial results to the stock exchange is within  forty- five days of end of each quarter (except the last quarter).
The last date for submission of the financial results of the last  quarter is within sixty days from the end of the financial year.
Tentative date of the June Thursday,  th 13  August,  September Thursday, November, 2015 December Thursday, th 11   March th 28   15.3 BOOK CLOSURE PERIOD The Book Closure period is from Wednesday, the  th th 9  September, 2015 to T uesday, the 15  September,  2015 (both days inclusive) for the payment of Final  Dividend.
15.4 DIVIDEND PAYMENT DATE th Final Dividend would be paid on or after 15   September, 2015.
15.5 LISTING ON STOCK EXCHANGES: The equity shares of the Company are part of the  Sensex and S&P CNX Nifty Index and are listed on  the following Stock Exchanges: 15.2   FINANCIAL CALENDER Name & Telephone/Fax/ E-mail ID/Website   Bombay Stock  Exchange  (BSE) P .J.
T owers, Dalal  Street, Fort Mumbai-400001 National Stock  Exchange of  India Ltd.  (NSE) Exchange  Plaza,C-1, G  Block, Bandra- Kurla Complex,  Bandra(E),  Mumbai-400051  T rading  Address ID Symbol T elephone:022-22721233/4 500312  Fax: 022-22721919 ONGC  E-mail:info@bseindia.com Website:www.bseindia.com T elephone: 022-26598100 ONGC -8114 Fax: 022-26598120 E-mail: cc_nse@nse.co.in Website: www.nseindia.com Corporate Governance Report 165 15.6    LISTING FEES Annual listing fees for the year 2014-15, as  applicable, have been paid to the above Stock  Exchanges.
15.7  DEMAT ISIN NUMBERS IN NSDL & CDSL (Stock Code): INE213A01029 Custody Fee of NSDL and CDSL has been paid for  the Financial Year 2014-15 15.8 STOCK MARKET INFORMATION  The stock price performance of ONGC scrip during  st st the period 1  April, 2014 to 31  March, 2015 in  comparison to BSE is plotted below: 16.
SHARE TRANSFER SYSTEM Karvy Computershare Private Ltd. (Karvy) is the  Registrar and Share T ransfer Agent (RTA) for  physical shares.
Karvy is also the depository  interface of the Company with both National  Securities Depository Ltd. (NSDL) and Central  Depository Services (India) Ltd. (CDSL) The transfer of shares received in physical form is  overseen by an Officers Committee (constituted by  the Board of Directors) which usually meets once in  a fortnight to ratify the shares received for transfer,  transmission, re-materialization and dematerialization  etc.
The shares for transfer received in physical form  are transferred expeditiously, provided the  documents are complete and the share transfer is  not under any dispute.
The Minutes of the aforesaid  Committee are placed before the Stakeholders’  Relationship Committee.
A summary of transfer/  transmission of securities so approved by the  aforesaid Committee are placed at Board Meetings.
The share certificates duly endorsed are sent to the  shareholders by RTA.
Confirmation in respect to the  requests for dematerialization of shares is sent to the  respective depositories i.e.
NSDL and CDSL,  expeditiously.
With a view to further expedite the process of transfer  and transmission of shares in physical mode, the  15.8.1  MARKET PRICE DATA: HIGH, LOW DURING EACH MONTH IN LAST FINANCIAL YEAR Sour ce: Web-sites of BSE and NSE Month Bombay Stock Exchange National Stock Exchange High ( ) Low (`) Volume High ( ) Low ( ) Volume April‘2014 332.00 313.70 4039126 332.45 313.55 89919232 May’2014 424.80 322.90 11074136 425.00 322.65 120130347 June’2014 472.00 378.40 23520602 471.85 378.25 204380766 July’2014 429.95 391.00 10237691 430.00 390.55 117991632 August’2014 440.35 384.75 11904455 440.50 384.15 102209527 September’2014 458.95 395.25 8939581 457.95 395.10 92487706 October’2014 432.00 389.05 7553006 429.00 388.65 86517359 November’2014 412.40 375.00 6252608 412.50 375.00 77911364 December’2014 380.05 329.65 9376747 382.00 329.10 98547362 January’2015 357.80 328.60 8780525 358.00 328.10 94258715 February’2015 373.70 313.00 9214585 373.80 312.65 88976033 March’2015 329.80 301.00 12064376 329.60 298.80 93556140 ` ` ` Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report 166 Board of Directors have authorised the Share  Transfer Agent to process the transfer /  transmission.
The details of the transfers etc are  placed before the Committee of Officers for  ratification.
Pursuant to the Clause 47(C) of the Listing  Agreement, certificates on half yearly  basis  confirming due compliance of share transfer  formalities by the Company, certificate for timely  dematerialization of the shares as per SEBI  (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996  are sent to the stock exchanges.
In addition, as a part of the capital integrity audit, a  Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit confirming that  the total issued capital of the Company is in  agreement with the total number of shares in  physical form and the total number of  dematerialized shares held with NSDL and CDSL, is  placed before the Board on a quarterly basis.
A  copy of the Audit Report is submitted to the stock  exchanges.
The total number of transfer deeds processed and  shares transferred during the last three years are as  under: Years No.
of transfer deeds No.
of shares transferred 2014-15 724 21508 2013-14 1,722 23,884 2012-13 1,178 24,633 processed 17.
S H A R E H O L D I N G  P AT T E R N  A S  O N   st 31  MARCH, 2015 held 812,463,740 9.49 6,142,86,761 7.18 Category No.
of Shares Percentage of  Shareholding President of India 5,897,760,333 68.94 Banks, Financial  Institutions and  Insurance Companies Foreign Institutional  Investors Mutual Funds & UTI 78,857,327 0.92 NRIs4,106,786 0.05 Bodies Corporate: 995,178,016 11.63 Employees 5,344,068 0.06 Public 147,493,089 1.73 Total 8,555,490,120 100.00 st 17.1   TOP 10 SHAREHOLDERS AS ON 31  MARCH, 2015 S. No Name No.
of Shares held % of total Shareholding 1 PRESIDENT OF INDIA .
5,897,760,333 68.94 2 LIFE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA 677,182,291 7.92 3 INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED 657,923,428 7.69 4 GAIL (INDIA) LIMITED 205,601,068 2.40 5 FRANKLIN TEMPLETON INVESTMENT FUNDS 73,193,580 0.86 6 VANGUARD EMERGING MARKETS STOCK INDEX  FUND, ASERIE 7 ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY L TD 37,140,388 0.43 8 GOVERNMENT PENSION FUND GLOBAL 24,757,906 0.29 9 COPTHALL MAURITIUS INVESTMENT LIMITED 21,720,748 0.25 10 HSBC GLOBAL INVESTMENT FUNDS A/C HSBC  GIF MAURITIU 37,374,692 0.44 20,880,830 0.24 Corporate Governance Report 167 st 17.2 Distribution of Shareholding by Size as on 31  March, 2015 Category Number of Shareholders  Shareholders of Shares  Shareholding 1-500 485,451 90.14 57,403,915 0.67 501-1000 25,227 4.68 18,564,513 0.22 1001-2000 12,562 2.33 18,306,706 0.21 2001-3000 5,737 1.07 14,339,610 0.17 3001-4000 5,164 0.96 18,372,360 0.21 4001-5000 1,599 0.30 7,150,940 0.08 5001-10000 1,327 0.25 8,853,349 0.10 10001 and above 1,475 0.27 8,412,498,727 98.33 Total 538,542 100.00 8,555,490,120 100.00 % of Total number % of st  17.3 Geographical Distribution of Shareholders as on 31 March, 2015 S. No City                                      Shareholders                              Shareholding Nos % age No of shares %age  of Shareholding 1 MUMBAI 138,960 25.80 2,320,473,230 27.12 2 NEW DELHI 55,763 10.35 6,118,835,672 71.52 3 CHENNAI 20,570 3.82 19,396,306 0.23 4 CALCUTTA 27,953 5.19 11,302,760 0.13 5 AHMEDABAD 31,169 5.79 10,737,393 0.13 6 VADODARA 16,597 3.08 7,015,940 0.08 7 DEHRADUN 5,174 0.96 5,206,056 0.06 8 BANGALORE 24,293 4.51 5,032,499 0.06 9 JORHAT 3,936 0.73 3,954,366 0.05 10 OTHERS 214,127 39.76 53,535,898 0.63   TOTAL 538,542 100.00 8,555,490,120 100.00 Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report 168 17.4 History of Paid-up Equity Share Capital (Face value of `5 each) Year No.
of Shares Cumulative Details 1993-94 10 10 Initial Subscription to the Memorandum Of Association on  rd 23  June, 1993. st 1993-94 34,28,53,716 34,28,53,726 Issued to the President of India on 1  February, 1994 on transfer of Undertaking of Oil and Natural Gas Commission in terms of Oil and Natural Gas Commission (T ransfer of Undertaking and Repeal) Act, 1993.
1994-95 66,39,300 34,94,93,026 Issued to the Employees at a premium of `260 per Share (includes 600 shares issued in 1995-96).
1995-96 107,64,40,966 142,59,33,992  Issue of Bonus Shares in ratio of 3.08: 1 on 24.04.1995 by Capitalization of General Reserve.
2006-07 (-)18,972 142,59,15,020 Forfeiture of Shares on 12.04.2006.
71,29,57,510 213,88,72,530 Issue of Bonus Shares in ratio of 1:2 on 08.11.2006 by Capitalization of General Reserve.
2010-11 - 8,555,490,120 Each equity Share of ONGC was split from the face value of  into two equity shares of the face value of  5 each.
Bonus Shares were issued in the ratio of 1:1 by Capitalization of Reserves to the shareholders as on 09.02.2011 (Record Date).
2011-12 - 8,555,490,120 President of India (PoI) acting through Ministry of Petroleum  & Natural Gas, Government of India on 05.03.2012 has sold 420,416,170 number of equity shares (4.91% shares) in ONGC through the offer for sale through Stock Exchange Mechanism.
2012-13 - 8,555,490,120 - 2013-14 - 8,555,490,120 President of India (PoI) acting through Ministry of Petroleum  & Natural Gas, of India on 27.03.2014 has sold 24,786,189 number of equity shares (0.29% shares) in ONGC through Off Market T ransaction to Central Public Sector Enterprises Exchange T raded Fund.
2014-15 - 8,555,490,120 `10 ` Government  Corporate Governance Report 169 18.
CORPORATE BENEFITS DIVIDEND HISTORY Years Rate (%) Per Share( ) Amount (`in million) 2008-09 • Interim 180 18 38,499.66 • Final 140 14 29,944.22 2009-10  • Interim 180 18 38,499.66 • Final 150 15 32,083.09 2010-11 • Interim 320 32 68,443.92 • Final 15 0.75 6,416.62 2011-12 • First Interim 125 6.25 53,471.84 • Second Interim 30 1.50 12,833.23 • Final 40 2.00 17,110.98 2012-13 • First Interim 100 5.00 42,777.45 • Second Interim 80 4.00 34,221.96 • Final (Proposed) 10 0.50 4,277.75 2013-14 • First Interim 100 5.00 42,777.45 • Second Interim 85 4.25 36,360.83 • Final 5 0.25 2138.87 2014-15 • First Interim 100 5.0 42,777.45 • Second Interim 80 4.0 34221.96 • Final (Proposed) 10 0.5 4,277.75 ` 19.
TRANSFER OF UNPAID/ UNCLAIMED DIVIDEND  AMOUNT TO INVESTOR EDUCATION &  PROTECTION FUND (IEPF) During the year under report, an amount of  `11,661,126.00 and 13,803,858.00 pertaining to  unpaid dividend for the financial year 2006-07 (Final)  and 2007-08 (Interim) respectively was transferred  to the Investor Education & Protection Fund (IEPF)  set up by the Central Government.
This is in  accordance with the Sections 124 and 125 of the  Companies Act, 2013 requiring transfer of dividend  remaining unclaimed and unpaid for a period of 7  years from the due date to the IEPF .
` The unpaid/unclaimed amount of Final Dividend  th declared on 19  September, 2008 for the financial  th year 2007-08 and interim dividend declared on 19   December, 2008 for the financial year 2008-09 will be  transferred to the Investor Education and Protection  th Fund (IEPF) of the Central Government by 18   th October, 2015 and 18  January, 2016 respectively.
Members who have not encashed their dividend  warrants pertaining to the said years may approach  the Company or its Registrar & Share T ransfer Agent  for obtaining payment thereof.
Given below are the proposed dates for transfer of  the unclaimed dividend to IEPF by the Company:- Annual Report 2014-15 Corporate Governance Report 170 20.
DEMATERIALIZATION OF SHARES AND  LIQUIDITY   S. Shares % of    1.
PHYSICAL 11,838 6,215,239 0.07 2.
NSDL 394,005 1,760,461,822 20.58 3.
CDSL 132,699 6,788,813,059 79.35 Total 538,542 8,555,490,120 100.00 Description No.
of   No.
Share Holders Equity The shares of the Company are in compulsory  dematerialized segment and are available for trading in  depository system of both National Securities Depository  Limited and Central Depository Services (India) Limited.
21.
OUTSTANDING GDRs/ ADRs / WARRANTS OR  CONVERTIBLE INSTRUMENTS No GDRs/ ADRs/ Warrants or Convertible Instruments  have been issued by the Company during the year.
22.
ASSETS/ BASINS/ PLANTS/ INSTITUTES/CODs A.
ASSETS                                        1.
Mumbai High Asset, Mumbai 2.
Neelam & Heera Asset, Mumbai 3.
Bassein & Satellite Asset, Mumbai 4.
Ahmedabad Asset, Ahmedabad 5.
Ankleshwar Asset, Ankleshwar 6.
Mehsana Asset, Mehsana 7.
Rajahmundry Asset, Rajahmundry 8.
Karaikal Asset, Karaikal 9.
Assam Asset, Nazira 10.
T ripura Asset, Agartala 11.
Eastern Offshore Asset, Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh B. BASINS 1.
Western Offshore Basin,  Mumbai 2.
Western Onshore Basin,  Vadodara 3.
KG-PG Basin, Chennai 4.
Cauvery Basin, Chennai 5.
Assam & Assam-Arakan Basin, Jorhat 6.
MBA Basin and CBM Development Project,  Kolkata/Bokaro 7.
Frontier Basin, Dehradun C. PLANTS 1.
Uran Plant, Uran 2.
Hazira Plant, Hazira 3.
C C C  Plant, Dahej, Gujarat2 3 4 D.   INSTITUTES 1.
Keshava Deva Malaviya Institute of Petroleum  Exploration (KDMIPE), Dehradun 2.
Institute of Drilling T echnology (IDT), Dehradun 3.
Institute of Reservoir Studies, (IRS) Ahmedabad 4.
Institute of Oil & Gas Production T echnology (IOGPT)  Navi Mumbai 5.
Institute of Engineering & Ocean T echnology (IEOT)  Navi Mumbai 6.
Geo- data Processing & Interpretation Center  (GEOPIC), Dehradun 7.
ONGC Academy, Dehradun 8.
Institute of Petroleum Safety, Health & Environment  Management (IPSHEM),Goa 9.
Institute of Biotechnology & Geotectonics Studies  (INBIGS), Jorhat 10.
School of Maintenance Practices (SMP), Vadodara 11.
Centre for Excellence in Well Logging (CEWL),  Vadodara 12.
Regional T raining Institutes (RTIs) Navi Mumbai,  Chennai, Sivasagar &  Vadodara 13.
ONGC Energy Centre E.    Centres of Deliveries 1.
CBM, New Delhi 2.
Shale Gas, Vadodara 3.
Deep water, Mumbai 4.
High T emperature/ High Pressure, Chennai 23.
INVESTOR SERVICES AND ADDRESSES FOR  SHAREHOLDERS’ CORRESPONDENCE.
These have been given at 8.3.3 and 8.3.4 above 24.
RISK MANAGEMENT The Risk Management Policy has been rolled out  across the organization in all Assets, Basins, Plants,  Institutes and offices.
Details are given under Risk Management Committee.
25.
COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE OF THE AUDITORS  Certificate from the Auditors of the Company,  confirming compliance with the conditions of  Corporate Governance as stipulated under Clause 49  of the Listing Agreement, is annexed to this Report.
The Certificate has also been forwarded to the stock  exchanges where the securities of the Company are  Financial Year Date of       to IEPF* 2007-08- Final 19.09.2008 18.10.2015 2008-09-Interim 19.12.2008 18.01.2016 *Indicative dates, actual dates may vary.
Proposed  Date Declaration for transfer  Corporate Governance Report 171 listed.
ONGC has implemented most of the non- mandatory requirements.
26.
A D O P T I O N  O F  N O N - M A N D A T O R Y   REQUIREMENTS OF CLAUSE - 49 Beside the mandatory requirement of Clause 49 of the  Listing Agreement, the following non-mandatory  requirements have been implemented and reflected  elsewhere in this report:- • As far as Audit Qualifications are concerned, the  Company is in the regime nil qualifications.
• The Internal Auditor reports directly to the Audit  Committee.
27.
GUIDELINES ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BY  DPE In May, 2010, the Department of Public Enterprises  has issued Guidelines on Corporate Governance for  Central Public Sector Enterprises which are now  mandatory in nature.
No Presidential Directives have been issued during  st st the period 1  April, 2014 to 31  March, 2015.
ONGC is  complying with these guidelines to the extent possible   No items of expenditure have been debited in books of  accounts, which are not for the purpose of business.
No expenses, which are personal in nature, have been  incurred for the Board of Directors and top  management.
The General Administrative expenses were 5.32% of  total expenses during 2014-15 as against 6.57%  during the previous year.
28.
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT Secretarial Audit Report confirming compliance to the  applicable provisions of Companies Act, 2013,  Revised Listing Agreement, SEBI guidelines, DPE  Guidelines and all other related rules and regulations  relating to capital market, though not mandatory,  obtained from a practicing Company Secretary, was  noted by the Board and forms part of the Board's  Report.
29.
FEE TO STATUTORY AUDITORS The fee paid/ payable to the Statutory Auditors for the  year was `25.01 million (previous year `22.92 million)  including `1.12 million (previous year `1.01 million) as  fee for certification of Corporate Governance Report,   `5.06 million (previous year  `5.06 million) for limited  review report and  `3.66 million (previous year `3.14  million) for other certification including certification  under Section 33(2AB) of Income T ax Act  for R&D   Institutes plus reasonable travelling and out of pocket  expenses actually incurred / reimbursable.
The exploration field party personnel stay in remote locations for months away from their family, exploring energy for India.
T eam- spirit is what keeps them going and motivated to take on any challenge that comes their way.
Annual Report 2014-15  Auditors Certificate on Corporate Governance  172 Auditors’ Certificate on Compliance of Conditions of Corporate Governance To The Members  Oil And Natural Gas Corporation Limited 1.
We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Oil And Natural Gas Corporation  st Limited (“the company”)for the year ended 31  March, 2015, as stipulated in Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement entered  into by the Company with the Stock Exchanges.
2.
The Compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management.
Our examination was  carried out in accordance with the Guidance Note on Certification of Corporate Governance issued by The Institute of  Chartered Accountants of India and was limited to a review of the procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by  the Company, for ensuring the compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance (as stipulated in Clause 49 of the  Listing Agreement).
It is neither an audit nor an expression of an opinion on financial statements of the Company.
3.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, subject to the following  i. as stated in item no 2.1, 8.1, and 8.2 of Corporate Governance Report,the company has not complied with the  conditions of clause 49 with regard to minimum number of independent directors in the composition of Board  of Directors, Audit & Ethics Committee and Nomination and Remuneration Committee for the period as  mentioned therein, ii.
as stated in item no 2.1, the vacancies caused due to resignation or retirement of the Independent Directors  have not been filled within the time period as specified in terms of the Listing Agreement, iii.
as stated in item no 2.1, during the year no separate meeting of the independent director was held, we certify that the Company, has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in Clause 49 of the  Listing Agreement.
4.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency  or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
M/s G. D. Apte & Co. Chartered Accountants Office No.
1, 2 & 3, Rahimtoola  th House, 7  Homji Street,  Fort Mumbai – 400 001 M/s Mehra Goel & Co. Chartered Accountants 505, Chiranjiv T ower 43, Nehru Place, New Delhi – 110 019 M/s Varma & Varma Chartered Accountants Sreela T errace, Level – 4 Unit – D, No.
105 First Main Road Gandhi Nagar, Adayar Chennai – 600 020 M/s Khandelwal Jain & Co. Chartered Accountants 12-B, Baldota Bhawan, th 5  Floor, 117, MK Road Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020 M/s Lodha & Co.  Chartered Accountants 14, Government Place East, Kolkata – 700069 For  G. D. Apte & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No: 100515W (C. M. Dixit) Partner (M. No.
017532) For Khandelwal Jain & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No: 105049W (Akash Shinghal) Partner (M. No.
103490) For Lodha & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No: 301051E (H. K. Verma)  Partner (M. No.
055104) st Date : 1 July, 2015 Place : New Delhi For  Mehra Goel & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No: 000517N For Varma & Varma Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No: 004532S (R. K. Mehra) Partner (M. No.
006102) P .
R. Prasanna Varma Partner (M. No.
025854) Business Responsibility Report Secretarial Audit Report Annual Report 2014-15 Business Responsibility Report 174 Business Responsibility Report 2014 -15 7.
Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in  (industrial activity code-wise): ONGC is a global Energy Company meaningfully  integrated in the entire energy value-chain.
Its core  business is Exploration and Production of oil and gas;  however, its business spread include related areas  like - processing of crude oil & natural gas; oil field  services, transportation of the oil and natural gas,  production of value added products like – LPG,  Naphtha, Superior Kerosene Oil,ATF, C2-C3,  Refining, Petrochemicals, Power, unconventional  and alternate sources of energy.
It is present in  downstream business through its subsidiary refinery  MRPL and in the petrochemical business through  Joint Ventures such as ONGC Petro additions Ltd  (OPaL) and In the non-conventional sources, it is  aggressively pursuing opportunities such as- Shale  and gas hydrates, CBM (Coal Bed Methane) UCG  (Underground Coal Gasification).
It has ventured into  electric power generation through 726MW gas based  power project at T ripura (ONGC T ripura Power  Company Ltd.) and wind power electricity generation  through installing a 51 MW wind power project at  Bhuj, Gujarat.
It is also pursuing opportunities in  alternate energy which has potential to change the  landscape of alternate energy business in the country.
8.
List three key products/services that the Company  manufactures/provides (as in balance sheet)  The three key products of the company are: (i) Crude  Oil (ii) Natural Gas& (iii) Liquefied Petroleum Gas.
9.
Total number of locations where business activity  is undertaken by the Company  i.
Number of International Locations (Provide  details of major 5)   ONGC’s overseas operations are managed by its fully  owned subsidiary, ONGCVidesh Limited (OVL),  which operates in 17 countries with 36 hydrocarbon  assets.
ONGC, principally, focuses on domestic  operations which have a pan-India spread.
The major five international locations as per oil & gas  production are – Russia, Colombia, Brazil, Vietnam,  Venezuela.
The major five international locations as per oil & gas  reserves are – Mozambique, Russia, Venezuela,  Myanmar and Vietnam.
ii.
Number of National locations: ONGC has business activities pan India, spread  across the length and breadth of the country, both  onshore and offshore.
The major locations are  detailed as below: Section A: General Information about the Company  1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company: L74899DL1993GOI054155 2.
Name of the Company : Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited 3.
Registered address : Jeevan Bharti Building, T ower-II 124, Indira Chowk, New Delhi, India-110001 4.
Website : www.ongcindia.com 5.
E-mail id : secretariat@ongc.co.in 6.
Financial Year reported : 2014-15 a) Offshore Locations (Oil & Gas producing including JV) : Mumbai High Asset - (Mumbai High, Cluster  7, WO-16, B Series,  BHE/BH-35, B-127,  Western Periphery)  ONGC WESTERN OFFSHORE EASTERN OFFSHORE JV Bassein & Satellite  Asset (South Bassein, NB  Prasad-D1, B193, B- 22, B-55, Vasai (East),  Vasai (West), SB-14,  C-Series, North T apti) Neelam & Heera  Asset (Neelam, Heera,  B-134, B-173) Eastern Offshore  Asset (NELP Block KG-98/2  and G1GS15, G-29) Panna, Mukta, T apti,  CB-OS/2 Ravva Business Responsibility Report 175 b) 1.
Gujarat 5.
T ripura 2.
Assam 6.
3.
Andhra Pradesh 7.
West Bengal 4.
Tamil Nadu 8.
Madhya Pradesh Onshore Locations (Oil & Gas producing, including JV) : Rajasthan (including RJ-ON-90/1) Assam T ripura Ahmedabad Ankleshwar Cambay Kakinada Karaikal Mehsana Rajahmundry Uran (Maharashtra) Hazira, Gujarat Ankleshwar, Gujarat Dahej (Gujarat) T atipaka (A P) Vadodara Mumbai Chennai KG & Jorhat, Kolkata WON Basin WOFF Basin Cauvery Basin A & AA Basin MBA Basin Dehra Dun Frontier Basin Keshava Deva Geo-data Processing Institute of Drilling Institute of Engineering Institute of Malaviya Institute of & Interpretation T echnology & Ocean T echnology Petroleum Safety, Petroleum Exploration Centre (GEOPIC), (IDT), Dehradun (IEOT), Panvel Health & (KDMIPE), Dehradun Dehradun Environment Management (IPSHEM), Goa Institute of Reservoir ONGC Academy Regional T raining School of Maintenance Centre for Excellence Studies (IRS), (ONGCA), Institutes (RTI's) Practices (SMP), in Well Logging Ahmedabad Dehradun Navi Mumbai, Vadodara T echnology Chennai, Sivasagar  (CEWELL), & Vadodara Vadodara Institute of Biotechnology and Geo-tectonicStudies  (INBIGS), Jorhat c) Basins : Oil & Gas exploratory locations  d) Plants: Processing of Oil & Gas and production of Value added products (LPG, SKO, Naptha, C2-C3, etc.)
e) Institutes : Knowledge support and applied R&D for E&P activities f) Subsidiaries ONGC Videsh Limited (ONGC Videsh), New Delhi Mangalore Refineries & Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL), Mangalore Annual Report 2014-15 Business Responsibility Report 176 g) Associates including joint ventures ONGC T ripura Power ONGC Petro- Mangalore Special ONGC TERI Biotech Company Limited additions Limited Economic Limited Limited (OTBL), New (OTPC), T ripura (OPaL), Gujarat (MSEZ), Karnataka Delhi Petronet MHB limited Petronet LNG Dahez SEZ Limited, Pawan Hans Limited  (PMHBL), Mangalore Limited (PLL), New Delhi Dahej, Gujarat (PHL), New Delhi 10.
Markets served by the Company: ONGC is marketing its domestic products, mainly  crude oil to the Public Sector Oil Marketing  Companies (OMCs)– Indian Oil, BPCL and HPCL.
It  also markets its crude oil to MRPL, ONGC’s  subsidiary.
ONGC supplies its produced natural gas  mainly through GAIL; however, part ofthe gas is also  marketed directly by ONGC.
It markets Value Added  Products directly to the Indian consumers and  internally consumes products such as HSD & ATF;  however, in case of off-take constraints by the  domestic users some products like Naphtha, HSD,  ATF, etc.,are also exported.
Section B: Financial Details of the Company              Sl.
No.
Particulars Amount  1 Paid up capital 4277.76 2 T otal T urnover 83,094 3 PAT 17,733 4 T otal spending on CSR as a % of PAT  (2014-15) 15 PAT) (` Crore) `495.23Crore (2.79% of FY  ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Ltd (OMPL) which was a joint venture of ONGC has now become a subsidiary of MRPL.
List of activities in which expenditure in 4 above has been incurred:- Sl.
Sector of Activity 1 Promoting health care including preventative health care and sanitation and making available safe drinking water.
2 Promoting education including special education and employment enhancing vocation skills especially among children, women, elderly, and the differently abled and livelihood enhancement projects 3 Ensuring environmental sustainability, ecological balance, protections of flora and fauna, animal welfare, agro forestry, conservation of natural resources and maintaining quality of soil, air and water 4 Rural development projects 5 (1) Setting up homes and hostels for women and orphans; setting up old age homes, day care centres and other such facilities for senior citizens (2) Protection of national heritage, art and culture including restoration of buildings and sites of historical importance and works of art; setting up public libraries; promotion and development of traditional arts and handicrafts (3) T raining to promote rural sports, regionally recognised sports, Paralympics sports and Olympic sports (4) Other areas mentioned in Schedule – VII Business Responsibility Report 177 Section C: Other Details  1.
Does the Company have any Subsidiary  Company/Companies?
Yes.
ONGC has two direct subsidiary companies  as detailed above in section A9(ii)f. 2.
Do the Subsidiary Company/Companies  participate in the BR Initiatives of the parent  company?
If yes, then indicate the number of  such subsidiary company(s) Since these Subsidiaries and the joint ventures  are separate entities, they carry out Business  Responsibility initiatives on their own as per the  policies applicable to the respective companies.
3.
Do any other entity/entities (e.g.
suppliers,  distributors etc.)
that the Company does  business with; participate in the BR initiatives  of the Company?
If yes, then indicate the  percentage of such entity/entities?
[Less than  30%, 30-60%, More than 60%]  The BR initiative of ONGC has the cooperation of  all its stakeholders (Govt.
of India, employees,  contractors, vendors, and the community at  2.
Principle-wise {as per National Voluntary  Guidelines (NVGs)} BR Policy/policies  Nine Business Responsibility Principles Principle 1: Businesses should conduct and  govern themselves with Ethics, T ransparency and  Accountability Principle 1.1  Do you have policy/policies for principle 1?
ONGC, being a listed Public Sector Enterprise,  conducts and governs itself with Ethics,  T ransparency and Accountability as per policies  mandated by DPE Guidelines on Corporate  Governance, Listing Agreement and other guidelines  and policies of the DPE in particular and Govt.
of  India in general.
ONGC also pursues some policy initiatives voluntarily  large) and these stakeholders help ONGC in  achieving its business responsibility.
However, it  is difficult to establish the extent their support  helps in facilitating ONGC’s business  responsibility initiative.
Section D: BR Information  1.
Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR  a) Details of the Director responsible for  implementation of the BR policy/policies  Implementation of Policies related to Carbon  Management and Sustainability Services are  taken care of by Director (Exploration) while  policies on Ethics and T ransparency and the  overall Business Responsibility of the company  lies with the Chairman & Managing Director who  gets them implemented through the respective  group heads.
• DIN Number : 00147870 • Name : Shri D K Sarraf • Designation : Chairman & Managing Director • T elephone No : +91-11-23301101 • E-mail id : cmd@ongc.co.in towards Ethics, T ransparency and Accountability:   • The company has well defined and well codified Book  of Delegated Powers which has been thoroughly  revised in 2015 and after approval of the Board  implemented across the organisation, HR Manual,  Material Management Manual (which has also been  reviewed, revised and implemented in 2015) and  Works Manual for ensuring continuity, transparency  and fairness in following the laid down procedures.
The company has an Enterprise Risk Management  Cell (ERM), risk framework, risk policy and risk  portfolio which are periodically monitored by the Risk  Management Committee, Audit & Ethics Committee  and the Board.
In terms of the Listing Agreement, the  Board has re-constituted the Risk Management  Committee with Board level members in 2014.
S.No.
Particulars Details  1 DIN Number (if applicable) Nil  2 Name Dr. V Banerjee 3 Designation ED – CM&SG 4 T elephone number +91-11-22440829 5 e-mail id banerjee_v@ongc.co.in b) Details of the BR heads Responsibility of implementing the Sustainable Development (SD) policies of ONGC under the given ambit of BR Policies lies with ED-Chief Carbon Management & Sustainability Group.
The details are given below: Annual Report 2014-15 Business Responsibility Report 178 • Company has a well-structured vigilance department  with units spread across the organization at various  Regions, Assets, Basins and Plants constantly  ushering transparency, efficiency and integrity and  best corporate practices in the working of the  organization • The Company has a Whistle Blower Policy meant for  employees to raise any ethical issues within the  organisation.
• The Company has positioned an Integrity Pact (in  association with T ransparency International) which is  signed with bidders to enable them to raise any issues  with regard to tenders floated by the Company.
ONGC was the first Indian company to sign the  Integrity Pact.
People with high repute and integrity  are appointed as Independent External Monitors to  oversee implementation of the Pact.
Principle 1.2 Has the policy been formulated in consultation  with the relevant stakeholders?
All policies have been formulated af ter wide  consultation and discussion amongst the  stakeholders and further the same gets reviewed  from time-to-time to cater to emerging and new  business realities/paradigms, af ter wider  consultations amongst stakeholders.
The Company  being a Public Sector Enterprise and a National Oil  Company, pursues policies laid down by the  Government of India and other statutory bodies.
It is  assumed that those policies are worked out after  wider consultations and discussions by the  Government of India.
Principle 1.3 Does the policy conform to any national/  international standards?
If yes, specify?
(50 words) The policy and laid down procedures conform to  statutes and policies of the Govt.
of India, DPE and  other statutory bodies.
It also conforms to mandated  applicable international standards.
ONGC voluntarily  follows principles and policies for transparency which  are of international standards like T ransparency  International.
Principle 1.4 Has the policy been approved by the Board?
If  yes, has it been signed by MD/owner/CEO/  appropriate Board Director?
All policies mandated by the Government of India,  DPE and other Indian statutory bodies are followed  by ONGC after due approval of the ONGC Board.
All  other policies/manuals which ONGC pursues come  in effect only after ONGC Board or the assigned  Competent Authority, as delegated by the Board,  approves it.
Principle 1.5 Does the company have a specified committee of  the Board/Director/Of ficial to oversee the  implementation of the policy?
The Company has an Audit & Ethics Committee of  the Board of Directors which is bound by its T erms of  Reference as per the Listing Agreement and the  Companies Act, 2013 and is approved by the Board.
Company also has a well-structured vigilance  department with units spread across the organization  at various Regions, Assets, Basins and Plants  constantly ushering transparency, efficiency and  integrity and best corporate practices.
However, as  the visage of the Principle is very wide, this is  overseen by various organs of the Company.
Principle 1.6 Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?
The website of the Company (www.ongcindia.com)  has reference to the various tenets as stated in the  principle under the section on Corporate Governance.
Principle 1.7 Has the policy been formally communicated to all  relevant internal and external stakeholders?
ONGC policies and operational framework is available  on the ONGC website as well as intranet of ONGC.
The engagement routes across all the stakeholders  are:  • The Customers are engaged through Crude Oil Sales  Agreement (COSA), Gas Sales Agreement (GSA)  and regular meeting with B2B partners  • The Communities in and around our areas of  operation are engaged through CSR projects • Business partners/vendors/contractors are engaged  through vendor meets, business partners meet and  pre-bid conference • Contract workers are engaged through regular  trainings and SAHYOG Scheme • Employees are engaged through open house forums   like –VicharManthan, VicharDhara, VicharVishlesan,  Mantrana, etc., and employee web portal and also  through various in-house magazines • Government and regulatory bodies are engaged  through meetings with the administrative ministry i.e.
Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas (MoP&NG),  Department of Public Enterprises (DPE) under the  Ministry of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises (HI  & PE), Oil Industry Safety Directorate (OISD), Oil  Industry Development Board (OIDB) Business Responsibility Report 179 • Shareholders and investors are engaged through  Investor & Analysts’ Meet, Investors’ Conference,  corporate website www.ongcindia.com and press  release  Principle 1.8 Does the company have in-house structure to  implement the policy/policies?
ONGC follows laid down policy for every critical  activity such as-procurement, payment, tendering,  contracting, HR and other functions that are governed  by well documented policies available for reference to  all concerned.
Principle 1.9 Does the Company have a grievance redressal  mechanism related to the policy/policies to address  stakeholders’ grievances related to the policy/  policies?
Yes.
The Company has a structured grievance  redressal mechanism in place to address both  employees and stakeholders’ grievances related to  the policy/policies.For employees, company has a  well laid down CDA rules (Conduct, Discipline and  Appeal) and also has structured laid down  procedures in place to escalate the matter/issues up  the hierarchy to seek justice and redress grievances  related to the policies.
For external stakeholders, the company has a well  laid down grievance redressal system in place with  adequate provisions to escalate the matters up the  hierarchy up to the Board(Stakeholders Relationship  Committee – a Board level Committee headed by an  Independent Director).
ONGC voluntarily facilitates resolving grievances  through Independent External Monitors (IEMs) and  through Outside Expert Committee (OEC).
Principle 1.10 Has the company carried out independent  audit/evaluation of the working of this policy by an  internal or external agency?
The implementation of Clause 49 of the Listing  Agreement with regard to Corporate Governance  is audited by the Statutory Auditors.
Other policies  are validated from time to time by the concerned  authorities.
1.
Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and  corruption cover only the company?
All the policies relating to ethics, bribery and  corruption are “inclusive” and covers company as  well as its employees and all other external  stakeholders.
2.
Does it extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/  Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/Others:  Yes 3.
How many stakeholder complaints have been  received in the past financial year and what  percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the  management?
If so, provide details thereof, in  about 50 words or so.
ONGC is a pioneer organization in introducing the  Integrity Pact (IP) in India.
The mechanism of  monitoring IP through Independent Ex ternal  Monitors (IEM) has considerably reduced time for  resolution of representation/issues coming up during  tender processing and has met the objectives set by  T ransparency International (India) such as greater  transparency with regard to integrity between the  buyer and seller, improved sense of ethics, reduction  in frivolous law suits and representation/complaints  from vendors, reduction in external interventions and  reduced political/diplomatic/administrative  interference.
Representations from bidders/ contractors as well as  opinion sought by ONGC against various tenders are  referred to IEM.
IEMs discuss the issues with ONGC  and bidders’ representatives wherever felt necessary  by IEMs and give their opinion through a speaking  order.
ONGC also has in place a “Stakeholders Relationship  Committee”.The Committee specifically looks into  redressing Shareholders’ and Investors’ complaints  pertaining to transfer/transmission of shares, non- receipt of annual report, dividend payments, issue of  duplicate share certificates and other miscellaneous  complaints.
The commit tee also monitors  implementation and compliance of company’s code  of conduct for prevention of insider trading in ONGC  securities.
The committee also oversees and  monitors the performance of the registrars and  transfer agent and recommends measures for overall  improvement in the quality of investor services.
• Number of complaints received during April, 2014 to  March, 2015 from Vendors: 37 • All representations were forwarded to IEMs who  promptly gave their opinions in all cases for further  action.
• Number of complaints received from investors during  2014-15:The total number of complaints/ queries/  correspondence received and replied/ attended to  the satisfaction of the shareholders was 2256.
The  number of complaints pending as on 31.03.2015 are  101 out of which 97 complaints related to Offer for  Sale- 2004.
Principle 2:  Businesses should provide goods and services  that are safe and contribute to sustainability  throughout their life cycle.
Annual Report 2014-15 Business Responsibility Report 180 Principle 2.1:  Do you have policy/policies for principle 2?
ONGC pursues its business activities in a safe and  sustainable manner.
All work practices, procedures  and production endeavours comply with the highest  Health, Safety and Environment standards as per the  Industry norms, Government and relevant statutory  bodies.
All the products that ONGC make conform  strictly to the respective product-making-procedures,  laws, statutes and standards governing their  production.
The exploration & production business  activities are pursued and aligned in such a manner  that exploitation & production of resources is done in  a sustainable manner encompassing their life cycle.
It is further a matter of privilege for ONGC and a sign  of unflinching responsive commitment to  sustainability development that Shri D.K.
Sarraf,  CMD, ONGC has been nominated as a member of the  UN Global Compact Board.
Principle 2.2:  Has the policy been formulated in consultation  with the relevant stakeholders?
ONGC follows all work practices, procedures and  production endeavours pertaining to its area of  activities/operations as mandated by Industry,  Government and relevant statutory bodies (as  detailed in Principle 1.2).
Principle 2.3:  Does the policy conform to any national/  international standards?
If yes, specify?
(50 words) Yes; ONGC follows the international standards,  practices and standard operating procedures as  followed by other E&P companies across the world.
Besides, ONGC being a national oil company  adheres to all the statutes and policies of the Govt.
of  India and other statutory bodies such as DGH &  OISD.
Principle 2.4:  Has the policy been approved by the Board?
If  yes, has it been signed by MD/owner/CEO/  appropriate Board Director?
Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas is the apex body  for the Hydrocarbon industry in the country.
All other  areas of operations fall under various laws as enacted  by the Govt.
of India.Subject to above, all internal  policies are approved by the Board or authority  delegated for the same by the Board.
Principle 2.5:  Does the company have a specified committee of  the Board/Director/Of ficial to oversee the  implementation of the policy?
The Board oversees the compliance and  implementation of the policies through its various  Committees as detailed in the Corporate Governance  Report of the Annual Report.
Principle 2.6:  Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?
The website of the Company (www.ongcindia.com)  has reference to the various tenets as stated in the  principle under various places.
Further, internal  policies applicable to various functions of the  organisation are available on intranet.
Principle 2.7:  Has the policy been formally communicated to all  relevant internal and external stakeholders?
ONGC’s policies and operational framework are  available on the ONGC website as well as intranet of  ONGC.
Principle 2.8:  Does the company have in-house structure to  implement the policy/policies?
Yes.
The Company has well-established in-house  infrastructure, manpower pool, documented  standard operating procedure and other executive &  administrative machineries to implement the given  policies in the area of safe and sustainable production  of goods & services of the Company.
The HSE  (Health, Safety & Environment) and CM&SG (Carbon  Management &Sustainability Group) department of  company along with apex management, acts as the  nodal department to execute and oversee policies  pertaining to safe, healthy and environment friendly  operations and compliance with sustainability  parameters as mandated and desired.
The process of procurement, payment, tendering,  risk management, safe remittance, fraud prevention,  control self-assessment (internal controls) and  various other processes are covered by well  documented policies, which are available for  reference on the website of the Company.
Principle 2.9:  Does the Company have a grievance redressal  mechanism related to the policy/policies to  address stakeholders’ grievances related to the  policy/policies?
Yes: as detailed earlier in Principle1.9.
Principle 2.10:  Has the company carried out independent  audit/evaluation of the working of this policy by an  internal or external agency?
ONGC is subject to various audits such as Statutory  Audit by firms of Chartered Accountants, CAG Audit,  Cost Audit, Secretarial Audit, T echnical Audits,  Quality Audit, Energy Audit, Safety audit, and these  Business Responsibility Report 181 Auditors ensure compliance to various internal and  external policies.
1.
List up to 3 of your products or services whose  design has incorporated social or environmental  concerns, risks and/or opportunities.
a. Estimation of casing head gas: Ahmedabad Asset, under the Global methane Initiative  programme steered by CM&SG, has successfully  implemented a project to recover well head casing gas  from SRP wells and bring it back to production  mainstream.
Casing gas in SRP wells are required to be  bled off to sustain production causing a concomitant  and significant loss of the natural gas and GHG  emission.
World over, E&P companies employ various  means to capture this accumulated gas.
Ahmedabad Asset has installed a cost effective  system to recover the casing gas and bring it back to  the production mainstream.
CM&SG has undertaken  estimation study and has found that 21500 SCMD of  natural gas is being recovered, mitigating around  98112 tons of CO2 equivalent of GHG emission.
CM&SG is in the process of formulating policy to  implement similar technology at other onshore  Assets.
b Rain water harvesting: Rain Water Har vesting (RWH) projects are  implemented/being implemented at different work  centres of ONGC under the umbrella of Sustainable  Water Management.
The harvested water is being  used for beneficial use like gardening, toilet flushing,  etc and also for recharging of ground water  aquifers.
ONGOING RWH PROJECTS:- Sl.No.
Name of project 1.
RWH project at AvaniBhavan -01 Recharge  well & Sabarmati complex with 03 Recharge  wells  2.
RWH projects at Saij & Naika Colony for  ground water Recharge through 04 and 06  Recharge wells  3.
RWH project at Cementing section, for  ground water Recharge through 01  Recharge well  4.
RWH project at WSS, Saij with 01 Recharge  well 5.
RWH project at WSS, Shertha with 02   Recharge well 6.
R W H  p r o j e c t  a t  E a s t e r n  C o l o n y ,   Chandkheda,  with 05 Recharge wells 7.
RWH project at Western Colony  with 05  Recharge wells 8.
RTRWH at K V ,ONGC, Agar tala for  gardening and Rooftop RWH at NOBH, D- Type quarters, officers club, Auditorium for  ground water recharge  9.
RTRWH at 02 Multi- storied buildings of  Colony, Vadodara, harvested water is being  used for domestic uses.
10.
Surface run-off RWH Inside ONGC Complex,  Makarpura for ground water recharge  through 07 recharge wells 11.
RWH from 105 acre campus to harvest  rain  water through storm water drains and store in  ground tanks  for gardening purpose 12.
Surface run-off RWH system in the campus  with 10 recharge wells for ground water  recharge c R&D pilot on CO2 capture and reformation— ONGC  has successfully undertaken  a six month  long R&D project at Hazira plant on CO2 capture and  reformation through micro algal route from SRU vent.
The R&D pilot has successfully captured 50% of CO2  from the SRU vent at 0.5 Bar( with a potential of 100%  absorption at higher pressure) and the carbonated  medium has been used as the micro algal nutrient for  growth.
The micro algae has then been harvested for  biomass which upon digestion produced  appreciable quantity of biogas.
The project is ready  for scaling up for field pilot.
2.
For each such product, provide the following  details in respect of resource use (energy, water,  raw material etc.)
per unit of product(optional):  Measurement of usage of water, fuel, per unit is yet to  be carried.
However the company has put in place all  policies and processes to conserve energy and  natural resources.
i.
Reduction during sour cing/pr oduction/  distribution achieved since the previous year  throughout the value chain?
ii.
Reduction during usage by consumers (energy,  water) has been achieved since the previous year?
The company has embarked upon a number of  measures for reduction in use of energy and water.
The company aims to sustain operations with less  dependence on fresh water resources.
The company  has undertaken water foot printing of ONGC work  centres in a big way and already completed water  foot printing at 7 Assets, 2 plants & 1 institute by  adopting the concept of 4R: Reduce: Identify areas to reduce fresh water  usage.
Reuse: Identify opportunities to reuse fresh water Annual Report 2014-15 Business Responsibility Report 182 Recycle: Identify ways to use produced/effluent  water in place of fresh water.
Replenish: Replenishing ground water through rain  water harvesting.
a) Usage of casing gas head will mitigate methane  emission into atmosphere by 21500 SCMD at  Ahmedabad Asset which will be replicated at other  onshore Assets with concomitant environmental  mitigation.
b) The rain water harvesting projects mentioned above  are a part of replenishment.
c) The R&D project, if successfully impleneted at the  commercial scale, will help mitigate the emission of  30000 SCMD of CO2.
3.
Does the company have procedures in place for  sustainable sourcing (including transportation)?
Company has in place a well-devised procedure for  sustainable sourcing.
Company has a well- documented Material Management Policy (the Policy  has been revamped recently and is available on the  website of ONGC) that helps in sourcing the  requisites for operations and business activities in a  steady, continuous and sustainable manner.
Company has policies of long-term contracts and  rate-contracts to ensure that operations and business  pursuits do not suffer owing to externalities   Sustainability and Sustainable Development has  been embedded in work practices as a Corporate  Mantra and are aligned with Kyoto protocol  negotiations, GHG mitigation, Carbon management,  sustainability and greening the vendor chain.
The Company is pursuing in letter & spirit the concept  of “Greening the vendor in its entire value chain”.
Through this policy ONGC is seeking to promote  efforts that lowered carbon footprint not only with in  ONGC but also amongst its stakeholders down the  vendor’s chain (business partners).
T o this effect  ONGC would consider giving preference in course of  time to products/services that are eco-friendly,  energy efficient that lead to reduced emissions and  conservation of natural resources.
I.
If yes, what percentage of your inputs was sourced  sustainably?
Also, provide details thereof, in  about 50 words or so.
The Company at present does not have a process in  place to measure this particular parameter.
However,  in the future, efforts will be made to capture relevant  information.
4.
Has the company taken any steps to procure  goods and services from local & small producers,  including communities surrounding their place of  work?
Being an Indian CPSE (Central Public Sector  Enterprise), ONGC’s procurement policy and  practices are guided by the Government Policies and  practices.
These are based on transparent  procurement mechanisms which promote  procurement from technically competent suppliers.
However, care is also taken for the interest of local  suppliers and contractors within the frame work of  CVC‘s guidelines.
For example ONGC has a special  policy to encourage small entrepreneurs in North  East Region to provide services pertaining to  transport.
If yes, what steps have been taken to improve their  capacity and capability of local and small  vendors?
ONGC has always encouraged local suppliers to  participate in its tendering process and also promote  them through vendor development programs.
Our  continued pursuit in the direction has seen improved  participation of small local players and socio- economic development of communities in and  around operational locations.
At work centres,  Vendors Meet are regularly held to explain  procedures and policies per taining to the  procurements of goods and services to help small  local vendors.
The Company is also in the process of  implementing guidelines of MSMEs (Medium, Small  and Micro Enterprises) for procurement goods and  services.
ONGC also provides certain incentive to  MSMEs (Medium, Small & Micro Enterprises) such as  exemption from tender fee and Exemption from Bid  Security.
MSMEs (not their dealers/distributors)  registered with District Industry Centres or Khadi and  Village Industries Commission or Khadi and Village  Industries Board or Coir Board or National Small  Industries Corporation (NSIC) or Directorate of  Handicrafts and Handloom or any other body  specified by Ministry of MSME are exempted from  payment of tender fees.
Further they are also  exempted from payment of Bid  Security  irrespective  of  monetary  limit mentioned  in  their   registration   certificate provided they are registered for the  items   for which they intend to  quote.
5.
Does the company have a mechanism to recycle  products and waste?
If yes what is the percentage  of recycling of products and waste (separately as  <5%, 5-10%, >10%).
Also, provide details thereof,  in about 50 words or so.
ONGC has a policy for Management of Hazardous  Chemicals and Materials that was issued in 2002.
As  per the policy personnel handling hazardous  chemical are to be trained for safe handling practices.
Separate designated area are provided for storage of  hazardous chemicals and all personnel is to be  provided Personnel Protective Equipment (PPE) first  aid training.
Further, instructions were issued for the  Business Responsibility Report 183 auction/sale of Hazardous waste in 2004.
The  Ministry of Environment & Forest regulates the  recycling/reprocessing of hazardous wastes such as  used/waste oil,used  lead acid batteries and other  non-ferrous metal waste under registration scheme ,  with the objective of channelizing such waste to only  those units which possess  Environmentally Sound  Management (ESM) facilities.
The registration is  being implemented by Central Pollution Control  Board that regularly updates the list of registered  units in their website http://cpcb.delhi.nic.in and the  hazardous waste is required to be sold / auctioned  only to units registered by CPBP .
Thus clear  instructions have been issued and the above policy is  being followed.
For example all lead acid batteries are  to be sold back to suppliers at the time of purchase of  new batteries.
For disposal of  e-waste, the limited tender from the  firms registered  with Central Pollution Control Board  for such items is to be invited and the items of e-waste  is to be sold to them only to ensure safe disposal of  the items.We have an e-waste policy to manage our e- waste.
ONGC is committed to recycling of materials,  wherever feasible.
ONGC’s Mehsana asset has  established ef fective infrastructure to control  expenses, non-optimal usage of costly materials,  ground water and also to effectively manage waste  disposal and has upgraded existing mud preparation  plants through enhancing the mud preparation and  storage capacity.
Mehsana Asset is now transporting the costly  polymer based mud from drill sites to centralized mud  plant for treatment and storage and thereafter sent to  other drill sites, where new wells are under drilling.
Drilling being our most water intensive operation,  recycling of drilling mud has effectively reduced our  water consumption.
Waste generated in ONGC during exploration and  production operations are primarily drilling mud and  mud cuttings (non-hazardous), chemical sludge and  tank bottom sludge (hazardous).
Chemical sludge is  collected in lagoons having leachate collection  facility where water is drained to reduce the quantity  of sludge.
This chemical sludge is disposed of by land  filling in accordance with norms of the State Pollution  Control Board.
T o treat tank bottom sludge, which is  mainly organic in content, bio-remediation  techniques are employed.
Best practices in the oil  industry are adopted to manage solid waste arising  from operations.
Drill mud and cuttings are disposed,  re-used in land filling or sold to authorized vendors as  per industry practices.
Waste management has been identified as a material  issue by ONGC for sustainable development  activities.
Accordingly, ONGC is working toward  development of a waste management policy and  plans to guide and improve its waste management  system.
ONGC has been adopting a three way  strategy to reduce and manage waste: • Know your waste footprint – Establish the waste base line • Undertake waste management project wherever  feasible and apply  • Manage waste & reporting Solid & Oily waste Management Drill cuttings, drilling fluid and generation of oily  sludge from cleaning of storage tanks and from  various process units of effluent treatment plants are  few important wastes.
The tank bottom sludge and  oily waste were identified as hazardous waste and is  disposed-off according to local statutory guidelines.
Oily sludge removed periodically is treated by  environmentally sound bioremediation techniques  using a consortium of bacteria known as Oil Zappers  and is rendered non-hazardous.
Land is normally  acquired by ONGC for short duration to carry out its  drilling activities.
The land degradation takes place  during drilling operations due to discharge of waste  water from various sources.
The land acquired for  drilling activities is reclaimed/ restored to its pristine  condition before returning to land owners.
Produced water/ Effluents The Water produced with the oil and gas, is the major  effluent for the Company as part of its production  activities.
The produced water, which is part of well  fluid is separated and sent to Effluent T reatment  Plants (ETPs) for further treatment.
ONGC operates  twenty two ETPs to treat the effluent generated at  onshore Installations.
In  order to cope up with  enhanced liquid production due to high water cut  because of aging of oil fields, twenty one new/  substitute ETPs have been planned /under  construction.
At drill sites waste water generated during drilling  activities is collected in a waste pit that lined with High  Density Poly Ethylene Sheets (HDPE).
The waste  water from waste pit is recycled for mud preparation  and other uses.
In North East Sector, where heavy  rainfall takes place, waste water is treated by mobile  ETPs and reused to avoid overflow of water from  waste pits to nearby areas.
In onshore locations, part of treated produced water  is used for water injection into the reservoir for  pressure maintenance; the remaining quantities are  re-injected into sub surface disposal wells located  1000 mts underground.
In offshore location, treated  produced water is disposed 40 mts below the sea  surface.
The company has developed a comprehensive  Annual Report 2014-15 Business Responsibility Report 184 corporate waste management policy to quantify and,  segregate waste at the source for better planning and  management.
For non-hazardous wastes, there will  be efforts to minimise the disposable quantity  through reuse and recycle route.
Principle 3: Businesses should promote the well  being of all employees.
Principle 3.1 Do you have policy/policies for principle 3?
Yes.
The Company has a wide range of HR policies  covering all categories of the employees (workers,  officers, women employees, SC/ST employees,  sports person).
It addresses all aspect of professional  skill & knowledge up-gradation, employee motivation  & welfare measures, employees’ health & general  wellbeing measures, women empowerment,  empowerment of SC/ST and other disadvantageous  class of employees, separation /superannuation and  post-retirement welfare measures.
Principle 3.2 Has the policy been formulated in consultation  with the relevant stakeholders?
The HR policies of ONGC are formulated in line with  DPE guidelines and after due consultation with  Collectives and employees.
Principle 3.3 Does the policy conform to any national/  international standards?
If yes, specify?
(50 words) HR Policies of ONGC conform to the best of  International and National standards.
The company is  perceived to be one of the best employers in the  country.
Principle 3.4 Has the policy been approved by the Board?
If yes,  has it been signed by MD/owner/CEO/appropriate  Board Director?
All HR policies are approved by competent authorities  as delegated by the Board and signed accordingly.
Principle 3.5 Does the company have a specified committee of  the Board/ Director/Official to oversee the  implementation of the policy?
The Board of Directors have constituted a Board level  Human Resource Management Committee to  oversee the major decisions in the area of human  resources.
Principle 3.6 Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?
The intranet of the Company “reports.ongc.co.in”  and “webice.ongc.co.in” has link to the various HR  policies.
In addition, various welfare policies are  communicated via issue of office orders, circulars  from time to time and the same are uploaded on the  intranet of the Company “reports.ongc.co.in” for  wider publicity.
Principle 3.7 Has the policy been formally communicated to all  relevant internal and external stakeholders?
Yes.
ONGC’s HR policies are available on-line on the  Company website as well as on the Company’s  internal web-ice portal and on ongcreports.net.
All  policies, procedures and work-flows are documented  and are available on-line for easy access, use and  information by all employees.
Any new initiatives,  changes or new announcements are communicated  to employees on-line through internal websites and  also through formal orders posted on notice boards  and through circulation to individuals.
Principle 3.8 Does the company have in-house structure to  implement the policy/policies?
ONGC has a structured Human Resource  Department set- headed by Director (HR) who  implements the policies throughout the Company  with the support of senior HR executives.
Principle 3.9 Does the Company have a grievance redressal  mechanism related to the policy/policies to  address stakeholders’ grievances related to the  policy/policies?
Yes.
ONGC has a structured employees’grievance  redressal mechanism.
The mechanism/procedures  allow employees to escalate their grievances to the  level of Director (HR) of the Company and in some  case even to the Executive Committee for justifiable  redressal of issues & concerns.
Collectives and  Officers association are engaged/associated at every  stage to discuss/ negotiate the vexed issues and  address their concerns.
An Executive Director level  position oversees employee relations and industrial  relations (ER & IR) and maintains cordial, motivated  and a spirited work atmosphere.
All the employees  have access to CMD and Directors through e-mails as  well.
Principle 3.10 Has the company carried out independent  audit/evaluation of the working of this policy by an  internal or external agency?
The HR policies and practices are reviewed at regular  intervals taking cognizance of emerging realities.
Regular independent audits, both internal & external,  gets carried out to gauge level of employee  engagement & satisfaction.
Wherever desired and  warranted, expert advice from external agencies/  Business Responsibility Report 185 consultancies is solicited to ramp up our practices/  policies to best of industry standards.
The company has carried out independent audit/  evaluation of HR policies.
Frequent audits like ISO  9001:2008 Audit, Internal Audit, external audit by  government agencies are carried out across the  organization.
1.
Total number of employees:  33,185 (As on  31.03.2015) 2.
Total number of employees hired on temporary/  contractual/casual basis.
• Contractual workers: 14691 • T enure based: 1202 • Casual workers/contingent : 566 3.
In addition to the above, approx.
19121 contract  labour were deployed by Contractors providing  various services to ONGC during the year.
4.
Please indicate the Number of permanent women  employees: 2195 5.
Please indicate the Number of permanent  employees with disabilities: 156 6.
Do you have an employee association that is  recognized by management?
Yes A.
Executive Cadre: The Association of Scientific and  T echnical Officers (ASTO) has been recognized to  represent the issues related to the officers B. Non-Executive Cadre: Ten recognized unions: 1.
ONGC (BOP) KarmachariSanghatana, Mumbai 2.
ONGC Workmens’ Association, Kolkata 3.
Petroleum Employees Union, Chennai 4.
Petroleum MazdoorSangh, Ahmedabad 5.
ONG Mazdoor Sangh,  Ankleshwar 6.
ONGC Employees MazdoorSabha, Baroda 7.
ONGC Purbanchal Employees’ Association Sivasagar 8.
National Union of ONGC Employees, Dehradun 9.
ONGC Workers Union, Agartala 10.
T rade Union of ONGC Workers, Silchar.
(Besides above All India SC/ST Employees  Welfare Association and All India OBC/MOBC  Employees Welfare Association are recognized by  ONGC) 7.
What percentage of your permanent employees is  members of this recognized   employee  association?
Most executives are member of ASTO.
The non- executive cadres of employees are affiliated to  various recognised unions.
ASTO has a membership  of nearly about 94% of executives.
T en recognised  unions have been conferred recognition by the  Company on the basis of verification through secret  ballot.
They recognize all the unionized categories of  employees in their respective work-centres, though  some may hold membership with rival unions.
8.
Please indicate the Number of complaints relating  to child labour, forced labour, involuntary labour,  sexual harassment in the last financial year and  pending, as at the end of the financial year.
9.
What percentage of your under mentioned  employees were given safety & skill up-gradation  training in the last year?
Principle 4: Businesses should respect the  interests of, and be responsive towards all  stakeholders, especially those who ar e  disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized Principle 4.1 Do you have policy/policies for principle 4?
Yes.
ONGC complies with Government directives for  upliftment of weaker section of the society.
It is fully  committed to the welfare of marginalized and  vulnerable sections of society.
Each of our strategic  business units (SBU) has the responsibility to identify  and engage with relevant stakeholders to establish a  symbiotic relationship.
The Company has a number of policies in place to  address the interests of all stakeholders.
As a PSE, the  company pursues all such policies as mandated by  Sl.
Category No of No of complaints No complaints pending at the   filed during end of the the financial  financial year year   1 Child labour/forced NIL NIL labour/involuntary labour  2 Sexual harassment NIL NIL 3 Discriminatory NIL NIL employment  • Permanent Employees  • Permanent Women Employees  • Casual/Temporary/Contractual Employees  • Employees with Disabilities Training of 20084 executives  and 4729 non-executives  were provided through our  premier institutes of IPSHEM  Goa and ONGC Academy,  Dehradun.
Apar t from the  above, casual, temporary and  contractual employees were  given requisite training in  safety of operations.
Annual Report 2014-15 Business Responsibility Report 186 the government.
The Corporate Social Responsibility  (CSR) and Sustainable Development policy along  with a host of policies of the Government of India are  directed towards disadvantaged, vulnerable and  marginalized section of the society.
The DPE revised  st its Guidelines for CSR effective from 01  April 2014  with ef fect from the same day the amended  Companies Act containing Section 135 making CSR  spend mandatory, came into force along with  Companies (CSR Rules) 2014.
Abiding by the  directives of DPE guidelines, ONGC has aligned its  CSR policies.
To substantiate our stakeholder  engagement, a ‘communication policy for stakeholder  engagement’ has been drafted.
The goal is to:  Connect, Listen, Respond, Sustain’ – leading to  business value creation with Economic, Social and  Environmental sustainability in view.
As per our CSR & SD policy, ONGC has a well-defined  set of objectives, clearly delineated beneficiaries,  strategy and project activities which characterize its  social projects.
The relevant provisions of section 135  and Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013 have  also been taken into account while finalising the  aforesaid policy.
The projects are designed to yield  discernible, long-term, sustainable benefits for the  communities specially disadvantaged, vulnerable  and marginalized sections.
Through community  driven developments, we foster a symbiotic  relationship with our stakeholders across  communities to create more employment  opportunities to realize our strategic objective of  growing responsibility while improving the livelihoods  of people.
The table below depicts the manner in which the  Company engages to address the interests of all  stake-holders: Principle 4.2 Has the policy been formulated in consultation  with the relevant stakeholders?
The CSR policy and policy of Sustainable  development is in compliance with the Companies  Act, 2013 and Companies (CSR Policy) Rules, 2014  and DPE Guidelines.
Separate Stakeholder Engagement policy is also  under formulation by ONGC, as part of the CSR  Policy.
All policies have been formulated af ter wide  consultation and discussion amongst the  stakeholders and further the same gets reviewed from  time-to-time to cater to emerging and new business  realities/paradigms, af ter wider consultations  amongst stakeholders.
The Company being a Public  Sector Enterprise and a National Oil Company,  pursues policies laid down by the Government of India  and other statutory bodies.
It is assumed that those  policies are worked out after wider consultations and  discussions by the Government of India.
Stakeholders Mode of engagement Customers Structured engagement through Crude Oil Sales Agreement (COSA)& Gas Sales Agreement (GSA); Regular / periodic meetings with B2B partners.
Communities Direct engagement at work centres through CSR programmes and HR departments.
Business partners/  contractors/vendors Contract workers Safety trainings&SAHYOG Scheme Employees Open House; Vichar-Manthan; Vichar-Dhara; Vichar-Vishlesan; Mantrana; Employee web portal Regulatory bodies (DGMS, NSE,  BSE, SEBI, OISD, OIDB, etc.)
MoP&NG, DPE, HI & PE, OISD, OIDB, etc.
Government bodies Shareholders, investors Investor & Analyst Meet; AGM; Investor Conferences; Corporate web site and press releases Vendor meets; Business partner meets; Pre-bid conferences Structured engagement through meetings with administrative Ministry Business Responsibility Report 187 Principle 4.8 Does the company have in-house structure to  implement the policy/policies?
ONGC has a structured framework and laid down well  documented procedures in place to execute &  implement its policies.
ONGC has separate  Departments for (i) CSR - headed by Chief CSR, to  implement CSR activities throughout the  organisation and (ii) Carbon Management and  Sustainable Development - headed by Chief CM&SG  to implement the Sustainability agenda of the  Company.
Principle 4.9 Does the Company have a grievance redressal  mechanism related to the policy/policies to  address stakeholders’ grievances related to the  policy/policies?
Yes: as detailed earlier in Principle 1.9.
Principle 4.10 Has the company carried out independent  audit/evaluation of the working of this policy by an  internal or external agency?
Policies directed towards the bet terment of  disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised  stakeholders are audited & reviewed regularly by  internal groups and by Collectives/Of ficers  Associations to oversee whether it is meeting  intended objectives or not.
CSR policies are reviewed  and revamped periodically depending upon needs  and instructions of the Govt.
of India.
SD policies also  get reviewed regularly by the concerned  stakeholders through interaction with internal &  external agencies.
Since 2011-12, the Sustainability  Repor t published by ONGC is third par t y  assured.Also, since 2011-12, ONGC has been  carrying out the third party Impact Assessment of  select CSR initiatives.
1.
Has the company mapped its internal and external  stakeholders?
Yes.
The company has well mapped internal &  external stakeholders and it is reflected in Global  Reporting Initiative (GRI) report on the corporate  website www.ongcindia.com.
The key stakeholders  are shown below.
• Employees  • Customers  • Communities  • Business partners / contractors/vendors  • Contract workers  • Regulatory bodies (DGMS, NSE, BSE, SEBI, OISD,  OIDB)  • Government bodies  • Shareholders, investors Principle 4.3 Does the policy conform to any national  /international standards?
If yes, specify?
The policy and laid down procedures conform to  statutes and policies of the Govt.
of India, DPE and  other statutory bodies.
It also conforms to mandated  applicable international standards.
ONGC voluntarily  follows principles and policies for transparency which  are of international standards like T ransparency  International.
Principle 4.4 Has the policy been approved by the Board?
If yes,  has it been signed by MD/owner/CEO/appropriate  Board Director?
All such policies being pursued by ONGC gets  approved by the Board through its various  Committees or by Director (HR).
The revised CSR  Policy as per Companies Act, 2013 has been  approved by the Board and has been uploaded on the  website of ONGC.
Principle 4.5 Does the company have a specified committee of  the Board/Director/Of ficial to oversee the  implementation of the policy?
Yes.
Director (HR) has been delegated power to  implement CSR initiatives of ONGC.
The  implementation of CSR policy is to be overseen by a  Board Level Committee on Corporate Social  Responsibilit y & Sustainable Development  (CSR&SD), as per the Companies Act, 2013.
Further,  in line with the approval of the Board, ONGC has set  up and registered an ONGC Foundation under the  Indian T rust Act, 1882 for carrying out CSR activities.
Necessary steps are on hand to recruit manpower for  making the ONGC Foundation an effective tool for  implementation of CSR policy of ONGC Principle 4.6 Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?
The website of ONGC, www.ongcindia.com, has the  link to the CSR and SD activities and to a host of  policies directed towards the bet terment of  disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised section  of stakeholders.
Principle 4.7 Has the policy been formally communicated to all  relevant internal and external stakeholders?
Yes.
For internal stakeholders, all these policies  are available on-line on Company websites and  also perpetuated through its Collectives,  Officers Association and other relevant associations.
For external stakeholders, communication in this  regard is pursued through interactions at multiple  levels.
Annual Report 2014-15 Business Responsibility Report 188 2.
Out of the above, has the company identified the  disadvantaged, vulnerable & marginalized  stakeholders?
Yes.
ONGC complies with Government directives for  upliftment of priority section of the society.
It is fully  committed to the welfare of marginalized and  vulnerable sections of society.Each of our strategic  business units (SBU) has the responsibility to identify  and engage with relevant stakeholders to establish a  symbiotic relationship.
3.
Are there any special initiatives taken by the  company to engage with the disadvantaged,  vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders?
If so,  provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.
CSR activities are planned to maximise benefits to the  disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized  stakeholders.
Engagement with these stakeholders is  d o n e  s o m e t i m e s  t h r o u g h  t h e i r  e l e c t e d   representatives, local Government of ficials and  NGOs working in their area.
Notable CSR initiatives in  this regard are Varistha jana Swasthya Sewa Abhiyan,  Swavalamban Abhiyan, Akshaya Patra Project, etc.
The Company has suitable processes, policies and  departments in place to identify and engage with  such groups of stakeholders..
Principle 5: Businesses should respect and  promote human rights Principle 5.1 Do you have policy/policies for principle 5?
All policies of ONGC take into account the Human  Rights of not only employees but also people likely to  be affected by the operations of the Company.
ONGC is committed to conducting its business  operations and strategies with the ten universally  accepted principles in the area of Human Rights,  Child labour, Anti- corruption and Environment.
ONGC embraces and supports those ten principles,  particularly that on the Human Rights viz: “Businesses  should support and respect the protection of  internationally proclaimed human rights” and “Make  sure that they are not complicit in human rights  abuses”.
ONGC is fully committed to the principles of  United Nations Global Compact on human rights and  subscribe to the international agreements/  conventions such as Kyoto protocol, Montreal  Protocol, UNCLOS (MMD), SOLAS and MARPOL  within the framework of Government of India  directives.
The Company ensures compliance with  various labour protection Acts such as Payment of  Wages Act 1936, Minimum Wages Act 1948, Equal  Remuneration Act 1976, Industrial Dispute Act 1947,  ESI Act 1948, Employees Provident fund and  Miscellaneous Act 1952, CLRA 1970, Child Labour  (Prohibition and Regulation) Act 1986.
As a  responsible principal employer, ONGC ensures that  contract labour is treated fairly as per law and for any  complaints or disputes, the contractor is advised to  settle the issue in accordance with the law.
Various in- house policies like service rules, leave rules, gratuity  rule, CPF rules, HBA, conveyance advance,  education loans also confirm to Human Right values.
Principle 5.2 Has the policy been formulated in consultation  with the relevant stakeholders?
ONGC being a Public Sector Enterprise is primarily  guided by Government of India policies.
The entire  gamut of its policies, rules and regulations which  govern its functioning have “people first” as its  fulcrum.
Principle 5.3 Does the policy conform to any national/  international standards?
If yes, specify?
(50  words) The policies of ONGC are in line with national  standards and relevant international standard for its  operations and business pursuits.
Principle 5.4 Has the policy been approved by the Board?
If yes,  has it been signed by MD/owner/CEO/appropriate  Board Director?
All the policies are approved either by the Board or by  designated competent authorities.
Principle 5.5 Does the company have a specified committee of  the Board/ Director/Official to oversee the  implementation of the policy?
Each Policy incorporates safeguards to ensure that its  functioning is overseen by a Competent Authority /  Committee.
Principle 5.6 Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?
The website of ONGC www.ongcindia.com has the  link to various policies, rules and regulations of ONGC Principle 5.7 Has the policy been formally communicated to all  relevant internal and external stakeholders?
All Policies of ONGC have been suitably  communicated to concerned stakeholders, both  internal as well as external.
Principle 5.8 Does the company have in-house structure to  implement the policy/policies?
Yes.
The company has in place a structured set-up  with adequate empowerment to implement requisite  policies.
Business Responsibility Report 189 Principle 5.9 Does the Company have a grievance redressal  mechanism related to the policy/policies to  address stakeholders’ grievances related to the  policy/policies?
Yes (as detailed earlier).
Principle 5.10 Has the company carried out independent  audit/evaluation of the working of this policy by an  internal or external agency?
The policies, rules and regulations in the direction as  stipulated by the principle 5 are subject to periodic  audit/reviews both by internal and external agencies.
Moreover, frequent audits like ISO 9001: 2008,  Internal Audit, external audit by government agencies  are carried out across the organization.
1.
Does the policy of the company on human rights  cover only the company or extend to the  Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/  NGOs/Others?
The policies towards upholding the Human Rights  extend to JV’s and subsidiaries of ONGC 2.
How many stakeholder complaints have been  received in the past financial year and what  percent was satisfactorily resolved by the  management?
Please refer answer to para 3 of Principle 1.
Principle 6: Business should respect, protect, and  make efforts to restore the environment Principle 6.1 Do you have policy/policies for principle 6?
ONGC has always ensured that it protects and cares  for the environment.
The Company has an integrated  Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Policy.
The  company continually strives to mitigate the  environmental impact, that may arise from its  business activities such as exploration, drilling &  production, by investing in state-of-art technologies,  effluent & solid waste management, environment  monitoring and reporting, bio-diversity conservation  ef for ts and up-gradation and sustenance of  environment management systems.
ONGC has a  robust process of internal audit and management  review for QHSE management system and regularly  reviews its QHSE policy and maps risks.
Some  notable HSE practices are – Regular QHSE internal  audit, Fire safety measures, regular fire and earth  quake mock drill, health awareness program, Material  Safety Data Sheet (MSDS), Personal Protective  Equipment, implementation of Environment  Management Systems (EMS), Occupational Health  Safety (OHS), near miss reporting, Governance, Risk  management and Compliance reporting.
Principle 6.2 Has the policy been formulated in consultation  with the relevant stakeholders?
Yes.
All policies of the company have been formulated  in consultation with stakeholders, primarily in  consultation with and under the guidelines of  MoP&NG and Ministry of Environment, Govt.
of India  and other statutory bodies.
Principle 6.3 Does the policy conform to any national/  international standards?
If yes, specify?
(50 words) The HSE policy of ONGC is in line with International  Standards and conforms to ISO - 14000 and OSHAS -  18001.Policies confirm to all standards, practices and  statutes pertaining to environmental commitments as  expected from and as mandated to a company  engaged in the oil & gas business.
Principle 6.4 Has the policy been approved by the Board?
If yes,  has it been signed by MD/owner/CEO/appropriate  Board Director?
Yes, the policy has been approved by the Board and  signed by Chairman & Managing Director, ONGC.
Principle 6.5 Does the company have a specified committee of  the Board/ Director/Official to oversee the  implementation of the policy?
ONGC has a Committee of Directors (COD) on  Health, Safety & Environment chaired by an  independent director.
This Board level committee  oversees and reviews decisions on policy matters  concerning HSE.
Principle 6.6 Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?
The website of ONGC,www.ongcindia.com, has a  separate link for HSE activities.
Principle 6.7 Has the policy been formally communicated to all  relevant internal and external stakeholders?
The HSE Policy is displayed at all the work centres  and has been communicated to each employee as  well as contractual employees.
A link to our HSE  policy has been provided on ONGC website for  external stakeholders.ONGC continuously engages  with stakeholders at multiple levels through diverse  channels.
This engagement helps in the formulation  of company policies directed at progressively  enriching practices and sustainable operations over  time.
Annual Report 2014-15 Business Responsibility Report 190 Principle 6.8 Does the company have in-house structure to  implement the policy/policies ?
ONGC has dedicated HSE Department at Corporate  level as well as at the Strategic Business units (SBU’s)  level comprising of Assets, Basin, Plants and  Institutes.
Safety officers suitably trained and certified  are posted at SBU levels to effectively manage and  report safety performance.
Principle 6.9 Does the Company have a grievance redressal  mechanism related to the policy/policies to  address stakeholders’ grievances related to the  policy/policies?
Yes.
Principle 6.10 Has the company carried out independent  audit/evaluation of the working of this policy by an  internal or external agency?
Company undertakes HSE audit at regular pre- defined intervals.
External bodies engaged in granting  ISO-14000 and OHSAS and other certification agencies  conduct regular audits within the certification period to  oversee that pre-requisites are being met before  granting extensions to these certification.
1.
Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover only the  company or extends to the Group/Joint Ventures/  Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/others.
The HSE policy and processes cover ONGC and its  vendors.
All suppliers, NGOs and others Business  partners doing business with the Company within the  Company’s premise subscribes to the Company’s  policies and commitment to the environment.
The policies of the Company ex tend to its  wholly owned subsidiaries, other subsidiaries and to  joint ventures after getting approval of its JV partners  on the tenets & premises of environmental  commitment.
2.
Does the company have strategies/ initiatives to  address global environmental issues such as  climate change, global warming, etc.?
The Company is aware of the risks arising due to  climate change.
It has a dedicated Carbon  Management & Sustainability Group (CM&SG) with a  specific mandate to position ONGC as the leading  organisation in sustainable development (SD) and to  voluntarily take up carbon management as an activity  to synergise all business activities with sustainable  development particularly to address issues related to  climate change risks and opportunities arising from  carbon mitigation initiatives.
The management has  been active in engaging with national and international  climate change forum to ensure that the organization  stays current with global climate change negotiations  and India’s domestic commitments.Fugitive methane  emissions from oil and natural gas systems are  primarily the result of normal operations and system  disruptions.These emissions can be cost-effectively  reduced by upgrading technologies or equipment,  and by improving operations.
The Global Methane  Initiative (GMI) is an action-oriented initiative from  USEPA to reduce global fugitive methane emissions to  enhance economic growth, promote energy security,  improve the environment, and reduce greenhouse  gases emission.
The Global Methane Initiative  facilitates cooperative mitigation activities that result in  bringing more gas to markets through the  Identification, Quantification, and Reduction (IQR)  path.
ONGC entered into a MoU with the United States  Environment Protection Agency (USEPA) in August  2007, to undertake Methane to Market (now GMI)  projects in ONGC and ONGC has formed an internal  and measurement team, procured methane emission  detection and measurement equipment in order to  under take Fugitive Emission detection and  quantification at its operating facilities in-house and  has reduced approx.
14 MMSCM of fugitive methane  over the years.
ONGC has also drawn an effective  plan to map all its production installations for fugitive  hydrocarbon emission and make the installations leak  free in the near future.
3.
Does the company identify and assess potential  environmental risks?
Yes.
The environmental footprints are mapped during  the project planning phase and based on impact  assessment remedial measures are put in place  during the operational phase.
After September, 2006  gazette notification on Environmental Clearance of  Ministry of Environment & Forests, all new and  expansion projects of ONGC are mandated to obtain  prior environmental Clearance from Expert Appraisal  Committee (EAC) of MoEF before commencing  operational activities.
The company has obtained 131  environmental clearances so far.
The company has  implemented globally recognized environmental  management system like ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001  and ISO 14001 at all its operational work centres.
4.
Does the company have any project related to  Clean Development Mechanism?
If so, provide  details thereof, in about 50 words or so ONGC commenced its CDM journey in 2006.Currently  ONGC has 12 registered CDM projects with UNFCCC  that yield Certified Emissions Reductions (CER) approx.
1.9 million yearly.
The registered CDM projects are as  under: Business Responsibility Report 191 5.
Has the company undertaken any other initiatives  on–clean technology, energy efficiency, renewable  energy, etc.
Yes.
The Company has taken a host of initiatives to  pursue clean technologies, energy ef ficiency  measures and renewable energy pursuits.
Some of  these initiatives are spelled out in detail at Principle-2  under questionnaire 2 &3 (please refer to these for our  supplementary response against this questionnaire).
T o name a few, the Company has taken some energy  saving initiatives such as: • Flare gas recovery • Use of turbo-expanders in LPG production • Use of wind and solar energy • Use of Gas gen set/Gas based captive power plant • Use of wind ventilators/vapour recovery unit • Waste heat recovery from gas turbines • Use of solar water heating systems and energy  efficient lighting • Arrest of steam leakages Focussing on cleaner and renewable sources of  energy ONGC has implemented the renewable energy  wind project 51 MW at Bhuj, Gujarat, commissioned in  2008.
The second of wind power project of 102 MW is  being developed at Jaisalmer, Rajasthan.
ONGC aims  to reduce GHG emissions by focusing on improved  energy efficiency.
The Company has also established  “ONGC Energy Centre”, a T rust set up by ONGC to  actively pursue alternate energy opportunities.
If yes, please give hyperlink for web page: http://www.ongcindia.com/wps/wcm/connect/ongc india/Home/Initiatives/Corporate+Sustainability/ 6.
Are the Emissions/Waste generated by the  company within the permissible limits given by  CPCB/SPCB for the financial year being reported?
Yes.
The emissions & waste generated by the  Company is within permissible limits.
Annual  Environment Compliance reports are submitted by  the respective work units to respective State Pollution  Control Boards (SPCB).
All the installations comply  with environmental regulations.
Procedures are in  place for storage, handling and disposal of hazardous  chemicals and wastes.
7.
Number of show cause/ legal notices received  from CPCB/SPCB which are pending (i.e.
not  resolved to satisfaction) as on end of Financial  Year:  There are few incidental instances of environmental  pollution as per regulations.
All issues have been  resolved with CPCB / SPCB.
Principle 7: Businesses, when engaged in  influencing public and regulatory policy, should do  so in a responsible manner Principle 7.1 Do you have a policy/policies for principle 7?
Public and regulatory policies relating to operation of  E&P Companies in India are formulated by the  Government of India.ONGC, perse, is not engaged in  influencing public and regulatory policy.
However,  being a PSE and a responsible corporate citizen of  India, it conducts its business in a responsible manner  and always pursues the best ethical business  practices.
Sl no Project CER/annum 1 1 Waste heat recovery from Process Gas Compressors (PGCs), Mumbai high south (offshore platform) 2 Up-gradation of Gas T urbine 1 (GT 1) and Gas T urbine 2 (GT 2) at co-generation plant of Hazira Gas Processing Complex (HGPC) 3 Flare gas recovery project at Uran plant 97740 4 Flare gas recovery project at Hazira Gas Processing Complex (HGPC), Hazira plant 8793 5 Amine Circulation Pumps Energy Efficiency at Hazira Plant 4043 6 51 MW wind power project of ONGC at Surajbari 85762 7 Energy Efficient Green Building at Mumbai 544 8 Energy Efficient Green Building at Dehra Dun 735 9 Gas Flaring Reduction at Neelam&Heera Asset 65811 10 OTPC Natural gas based combined cycle power plant in T ripura, India 1612506 11 Energy Efficient Green Building at Kolkata 1881 12 Energy Efficient Green Building at Delhi 5940 Total 1896877 5320 7802 Annual Report 2014-15 Business Responsibility Report 192 Principle 7.2 Has the policy been formulated in consultation  with the relevant stakeholders?
ONGC being a Public Sector Enterprise is under the  control of the Government of India, through the  Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas.
Principle 7.3 Does the policy conform to any national  /international standards?
If yes, specify?
(50words) The Company pursues its business in a responsible  manner and policies are as per the best of prevailing  National & International standards as applicable for  E&P industry.
ONGC was bestowed with ‘Certificate of  Recognition’ for adopting exemplary corporate  governance practices, instituted by the Institute of  Company Secretaries of India.
ONGC has also  received “Excellent” Rating for the year 2014-15 for  Compliance of Guidelines on Corporate Governance,  issued by Department of Public Enterprises (DPE) for  Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs).
ONGC  has secured 100% Score in this regard and is the only  Maharatna to achieve this distinction.
Principle 7.4 Has the policy been approved by the Board?
If yes,  has it been signed by MD/owner/CEO/appropriate  Board Director?
ONGC follows policies of the Govt.
of India.
All its  internal policies are approved by the Board of  Directors or its designated authority.
Principle 7.5 Does the company have a specified committee of  the Board/Director/Of ficial to oversee the  implementation of the policy?
Depending upon the area of operation, the relevant  function is under the purview of the concerned  Functional Director who ensures that the same is  being implemented in a responsible manner.
The  ONGC Board has constituted a number of Board level  Committees to oversee functioning of respective  areas which are detailed in the Corporate Governance  Report of the Annual Report 2014-15.
Principle 7.6 Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?
The website of ONGC (www.ongcindia.com) has  links to the various policies of ONGC through which  one can assess that ONGC conducts its business in a  responsible manner.
Principle 7.7 Has the policy been formally communicated to all  relevant internal and external stakeholders?
ONGC functions in a transparent and ethical manner  and its policies are available on-line for all its internal &  external stakeholders.
Further, being a PSE, it is  obliged to provide all information to citizens in line with  Right to Information Act, 2005.
Principle 7.8 Does the company have in-house structure to  implement the policy/policies?
ONGC has an elaborate organisation structure  comprising of 6 functional directors headed by  Chairman & Managing Director to ensure proper  implementation of all the policies in place.
Principle 7.9 Does the Company have a grievance redressal  mechanism related to the policy/policies to  address stakeholders’ grievances related to the  policy/ policies?
Yes.
Principle 7.10 Has the company carried out independent  audit/evaluation of the working of this policy by an  internal or external agency?
The Company has a dedicated Internal Audit  department and concurrently audits are conducted  through external agencies on regular basis to ensure  that the policies produce the desired results.
Further,  being a PSE under Govt.
of India’s ambit, the  Company is subject to scrutiny by statutory bodies  such as CAG.
1.
Is your company a member of any trade and  chamber or association?
If Yes, Name only those  major ones that your business deals with:  Yes.
The Company has association with a number of  trade chambers & associations such as: • Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and  Industry (FICCI) • Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) • Standing Conference on Public Enterprises (SCOPE) • Petroleum Federation of India (PetroFed) 2.
Have you advocated/lobbied through above  associations for the advancement or improvement  of public good?
Yes/No; if yes specify the broad areas (drop box:  Governance and Administration, Economic  Reforms, Inclusive Development Policies, Energy  security, Water, Food Security, Sustainable  Business Principles, Others)  ONGC has always advocated constructive suggestion  in area of taxation matters, pricing policies, subsidy  sharing, exploration and licensing policies, policies  towards pursuing the energy security, sustainable  development, corporate social responsibility, that are  beneficial to the Industry in specific and society in  general.
Further, details are available on the  Company’s site www.ongcindia.com.
Business Responsibility Report 193 Principle 8: Businesses should support inclusive  growth and equitable development Principle 8.1 Do you have policy/policies for principle 8?
ONGC supports inclusive growth and equitable  development.
A well-defined set of objectives,  beneficiaries, strategy and project activities are  undertaken by ONGC through its Corporate Social  Responsibility (CSR) and Sustainable Development  (SD) projects thereby contributing towards inclusive  development of the Nation.
The objective is to yield  discernible, long-term, sustainable benefit for  communities in its operational areas & other backward  districts as identified by the Planning Commission,  GOI.
This principle is one of the main pillars of the  existing CSR Policy.
Principle 8.2 Has the policy been formulated in consultation with  the relevant stakeholders?
ONGC being a Public Sector Enterprise follows CSR  Policy and policy on Sustainable Development as per  DPE Guidelines formulated by the Govt.
of India and  relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
Principle 8.3 Does the policy conform to any national/  international standards?
If yes, specif y?
(50 words) The CSR policy complies with Companies Act, 2013  and DPE Guidelines which meet International norms  on CSR.
Principle 8.4 Has the policy been approved by the Board?
If yes,  has it been signed by MD/owner/CEO/appropriate  Board Director?
All activities pursued under CSR & SD schemes are  approved by the competent authority as per Book of  Delegated Powers – 2015.
Principle 8.5 Does the company have a specified committee of  the Board/ Director/Official to oversee the  implementation of the policy?
The Company has a Committee on CSR & SD chaired  by an Independent Director which conforms to the  DPE Guidelines on CSR & SD as well as section 135 of  the Companies Act, 2013.
Director (HR) is the nodal  Functional Director for implementation of CSR  initiatives of ONGC who executes the activities through  corporate and work centre level units.
Principle 8.6 Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?
The website of ONGC – www.ongcindia.com has a  link to the CSR policy and policy on Sustainable  Development and other such activities of ONGC.
Principle 8.7 Has the policy been formally communicated to all  relevant internal and external stakeholders?
The existing policy has been uploaded on the website  of ONGC.
Principle 8.8 Does the company have in-house structure to  implement the policy/policies?
ONGC has dedicated departments for CSR at  corporate level as well as work centre level.
Principle 8.9 Does the Company have a grievance redressal  mechanism related to the policy/policies to  address stakeholders’ grievances related to the  policy/policies?
Yes.
Principle 8.10 Has the company carried out independent  audit/evaluation of the working of this policy by an  internal or external agency?
Since 2011-12, ONGC has been carrying out the third  party Impact Assessment of select CSR initiatives.
The impact assessment was carried out for the  following projects: 1) Varisthajan Swasthya Sewa  Abhiyan 2) Computer education project 3) Project  Utkarsh 4) Project eastern swamp deer 5) Project  mangrove restoration and conservation education  unit 6) project Haritmoksha.
The assessment  shows a good correlation of results with its intended  objective.
1.
Does the company have specified programmes/  initiatives/projects in pursuit of the policy related  to Principle 8?
Yes.
ONGC has played an anchor role in meeting  inclusive developmental goals across the country  particularly in the North Eastern parts of the country.
ONGC’s operational presence is source of local  employment and livelihood generation which  improves the overall economic standards of the  community and region.Some of the projects and  initiatives in the given direction are as follows:  Projects on health care (i) VaristhajanaSwasthyaSewaAbhiyan: ONGC and Help-Age India Initiative  (ii) Community Hospital in Lakhimpur- Kheri, Uttar Pradesh: (iii) Aids and Appliances to person with disability: (iv) Government General Hospital (GGH), Kakinada: (v) ONGC Mission Ujala:  Education & Vocational courses: i. ONGC-GICEIT Computer Education Program:  ii.
ONGC- The AkshayaPatra Foundation:  iii.
Community School at Sitapur, Uttar Pradesh: iv.
ONGC Super 30         Annual Report 2014-15 Business Responsibility Report 194 Projects for Physically and Mentally challenged i. ONGC Centre for vocational rehabilitation for the  differently abled:  ii.
ONGC –Cheshire Home Project for Physically and  Mentally Challenged:  Environment Sustainability: i.
Eastern Swamp Deer Conservation Project (Phase II) : ii.
Harit Moksha: Green Cremation System  Development of Backward Districts: The sustainable development project is being  implemented in Jaisalmer, a backward district in  Rajasthan.
Project involves setting up of 49 Wind  T urbine Generators (WTG) each of capacity of 2.1 MW  with total capacity of 102.9 MW in association with M/S  Suzlon Energy Ltd. ONGC contribution towards the  project is `5620 million.
22 nos.
of WTG have been  installed.
Women Empowerment: ONGC as a leading organization and among the  founder member of Women in Public Sector (WIPS)  established way back in 1990 under the aegis of SCOPE  has always spearheaded women empowerment  Initiatives.
Women Development Forum (WDF) an  internal wing of ONGC women Employees was also  formed in line with WIPS to encourage women  employee to explore their potential to the fullest.
The basic aims and objectives of WIPS are: • T o promote the growth and development of Women in Public Sector.
• T o assist the Public Undertakings in optimising the full potential in Women employees.
• T o play a catalytic role in improving the status of Women in and around PSEs Other CSR Initiatives: i) Hortoki Water Supply Scheme ii) Rajeev Gandhi International Sports Complex,  Dehradun iii) Dashrath Stadium at Agartala iv) IIIT, Agartala In addition to above major CSR initiatives undertaken  in 2014-15, ONGC has partnered with many NGO and  other non- profit organization in implementing several  other CSR initiative across our country.
All work centre  of ONGC have designated CSR office to take care of  the local people.
2.
Are the programmes/projects undertaken through  in-house team/own foundation/external NGO/  government structures/any other organization?
The company undertakes projects through in-house  department, NGO’s and government agencies.
The  CSR activities are essentially guided by project based  approach in line with the guidelines issued by the  Department of Public Enterprises and Ministry of  Corporate Affairs of the Government of India.
As per  DPE Guidelines, PSEs cannot implement the projects  through their employees / staff.
3.
Have you done any impact assessment of your  initiative?
Yes as stated at 8.10.
4.
What is your company’s direct contribution to  community development projects- Amount in INR  and the details of the projects undertaken?
Out of the total budget of ` 6606.12 million, an amount  of `4952.29 million was spent on various projects as  stated below during 2014-15: CSR Expenditure for the FY 2014-15 Focus Area  Amt.
consumed Education including Vocational courses          46,07,70,250  Health Care          35,77,58,278  Environment and ecological conservation       2,87,41,84,398  Entrepreneurship (self help and livelihood)            1,38,56,873  Initiatives for physically and mentally challenged            3,36,72,170  Women's empowerment and girl child development              83,23,966  Promotion of artisans, craftsmen, musicians            2,08,80,463  Promoting sports and sports persons            1,22,10,264  Protection of heritage sites            1,57,00,000  Infrastructural support near ONGC operational area          93,86,76,949  Support for cultural / sports events, etc.
20,40,00,923  Water management including ground water recharge            1,22,53,307  Grand Total       4,95,22,87,841  Business Responsibility Report 195 5.
Have you taken steps to ensure that this  community development initiative is successfully  adopted by the community?
Please explain in 50  words, or so.
Yes.
Successful adoption of community development  initiatives by the respective community is ensured  through the project implementing agency.
The CSR  project is developed based on need assessment after  due interaction with the opinion makers and / or  elected representatives and / or local government  agencies.
The project implementation strategy  includes information dissemination, which helps in  adoption of the project by the local community.
Moreover, ONGC’s operations are not adversely  affecting indigenous communities.
We have not  received any reported incidents of violation involving  rights of local community and indigenous people.
CSR policy covers engagement of communities  impacted by our operations and activities to come up  with solutions that enrich the social capital and  enhance positive outcomes of our activities.
For  instance, we provide elderly health care through 20  mobile medical units operated by HelpAge.
We also  provide prosthetic support to physically challenged  persons.
Other communit y initiatives are  Haritmokhsa, education to tribal people, eradication  of malnutrition amongst others.
Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and  provide value to their customers and consumers in  a responsible manner Principle 9.1 Do you have policy/policies for principle 9?
ONGC engages with customers and consumers in a  manner that demonstrates best business practises  and is a win-win proposition for all doing business  with the Company as per mutually agreed upon  business principles and deliverables.
ONGC’s main  customers are Oil Refining & Gas Marketing  Companies to which the Company’s produce that is  oil and gas is allocated by the Government of India.
The Company enters into a Crude Oil Sale Agreement  (COSA) with the Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs)  and Gas Sales Agreement (GSA)with GAIL to whom it  sells the Crude Oil, Natural Gas etc, following the  crude oil /gas sales allocations as done by Govt.
of  India.
The COSA/GSA incorporates suitable  provisions with regard to the quality and quantity of  the product being supplied by ONGC.
Besides this,  ONGC also sells its produce to other direct customers  under GSA which is governed by the policies and  business principles of ONGC.
Principle 9.2 Has the policy been formulated in consultation  with the relevant stakeholders?
The COSA/GSA of ONGC has been arrived at in  consultation with OMCs and Gas marketing  companies on mutually agreed principles.
Other  sales or purchase agreement are also agreed  mutually.ONGC has therefore laid down policies and  guidelines for engaging with and providing value to  their customers and consumers in a responsible  manner.
Principle 9.3 Does the policy conform to any national/  international standards?
If yes, specify?
(50  words) The specifications of quality and measurement in  COSA/GSA are in accordance with International  standards.
More over ONGC ensures that policies  followed are as per guidelines of the Government of  India.
Principle 9.4 Has the policy been approved by the Board?
If  yes, has it been signed by MD/owner/CEO/  appropriate Board Director?
Yes.
The COSA/GSA are signed by the designated  authorities after seeking approval as per Book of  Delegated Powers 2015.
Principle 9.5 Does the company have a specified committee  of the Board/Director/Official to oversee the  implementation of the policy?
Company has a structured and dedicated marketing  department / establishment headed by a General  Manager to oversee implementation of relevant  policies in this regard.
Principle 9.6 Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?
COSA/GSA being a bipartite agreement is a  confidential document and is not available for  inspection to the public.
However, general guidelines  with respect to conducting business with ONGC and  also the standard business/contract terms &  conditions of conducting business with ONGC are  available on the site www.ongcindia.com.
Principle 9.7 Has the policy been formally communicated to all  relevant internal and external stakeholders?
Policies, being an internal policy document, have  been circulated within the company (internal stake  holders).
The need for circulation to external  stakeholders has not been felt; moreover, it may  compromise ONGC’s commercial interests.
Principle 9.8 Does the company have in-house structure to  implement the policy/policies?
As given in response against 9.5 above.
Principle 9.9 Does the Company have a grievance redressal  mechanism related to the policy/policies to  address stakeholders’ grievances related to the  policy/policies?
Yes.
COSA/GSA has a built in mechanism for  stakeholders’ grievance redressal.
Annual Report 2014-15 Business Responsibility Report 196 Principle 9.10 Has the company carried out independent  audit/evaluation of the working of this policy by an  internal or external agency?
The COSA/GSA is subject to review as may be  mutually agreed upon.
1.
What percentage of customer complaints/  consumer cases are pending as on the end of  financial year :  None.
There are no incidents this year for non- compliance with regulations.
We have been  complying with all laws and regulations concerning  provision of our products and services and have not  been imposed any fines for non-compliance this  year.
2.
Does the company display product information on  the product label, over and above what is  mandated as per local laws?
For crude oil sale, Batch wise certificates are issued  for Crude Oil, which includes various quality  parameters including the BS&W.
Product labelling  related to storage procedures and safet y  precautions is clearly indicated at the ONGC  installation holding the crude.
All Natural Gas supplied by ONGC to various  customers conforms to the agreed contractual  specifications.
All VAP’s are supplied with batch-wise test reports  and standard handling procedures to be followed in  line with OISD/other statutory standards.
Relevant  BIS specifications (if applicable) and quality  certificates with parameters are issued while  dispatching.
Product labelling related to storage  procedures and safety precautions are clearly  indicated  at ONGC installations holding the VAP  product.
3.
Is there any case filed by any stakeholder against  the company regarding unfair trade practices,  irresponsible advertising and/or anti-competitive  behaviour during the last five years and pending  as on end of financial year:  No.
4.
Did your company carry out any consumer  survey/ consumer satisfaction trends?
Yes.
The Company interacts on regular basis with its  B2B customers’ with respect to product quality and  pricing.
This kind of engagement with our partners  ensures customer satisfaction.
Any concerns related  to the product by any of our consumers are  addressed immediately.
In view of constant  interaction and feedback through meetings, no need  has been felt to undertake separate surveys to  measure customer satisfaction.
NOT APPLICABLE 3.
Governance related to BR  • Indicate the frequency with which the Board of  Directors, Committee of the Board or CEO to  assess the BR performance of the Company.
Within 3 months, 3-6 months, Annually, More than  1 year Annually.
• Does the Company publish a BR or a  Sustainability Report?
What is the hyperlink for  viewing this report?
How frequently it is  published?
This is the third Report on Business Responsibility  and forms part of Annual Report 2014-15.
ONGC also publishes its ‘Sustainability Report’  annually based on Global Reporting Initiative’s latest  reporting guidelines.
The Sustainability Reports for  FY 09-10 till 13-14 are available on the corporate  website of the company www.ongcindia.com.
2a.
IF ANSWER TO S.NO.
1 AGAINST ANY PRINCIPLE, IS ‘NO’, PLEASE EXPLAIN WHY: (TICK UP TO 2 OPTIONS) Sl.
Questions P 1 P 2 P 3 P 4 P 5 P 6 P 7 P 8 P 9  1 The company has not understood the Principles  2 The company is not at a stage where it finds itself in a  position to formulate and implement the policies on  specified principles 3 The company does not have financial or manpower  resources available for the task  4 It is planned to be done within next 6 months  5 It is planned to be done within the next 1 year  6 Any other reason (please specify)  Secretarial Audit Report 197 Secretarial Audit Report We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance  of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to  good corporate practices by Oil and Natural Gas  Corporation Limited (“the company”).
Secretarial Audit  was conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable  basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory  compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the company’s books, papers,  minute books, forms and returns filed and other records  maintained by the company and also the information  provided by the Company, its officers, agents and  authorized representatives during the conduct of  secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the  company has, during the audit period covering the financial  st year ended 31  March, 2015, complied with the statutory  provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company has  proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in  place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the  reporting made hereinafter: We have examined the books, papers, minute books,  forms and returns filed and other records maintained by Oil  and Natural Gas Corporation Limited for the financial year  st ended 31  March, 2015 according to the provisions of: (i) The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the Rules made  thereunder; (ii) The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956  (‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder; (iii) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and  Bye-laws framed thereunder; (iv)Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the  rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent of  Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment  and External Commercial Borrowings; (v) The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed  under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act,  1992: (a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and T akeovers)  Regulations, 2011; (b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Prohibition of Insider T rading) Regulations,1992; (c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue  of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2009; (d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee  Stock Purchase Scheme) Guidelines, 1999; (e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue  and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008; (f) The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Registrars to an Issue and Share T ransfer Agents)  Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act  and dealing with client; (g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009;  and (h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 1998; We have also examined compliance with the  applicable clauses of the following: (i) Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of  Company Secretaries of India, though not mandatory;  (ii) The Equity Listing Agreements entered into by the  Company with the National Stock Exchange of India  Ltd. and the Bombay Stock Exchange Ltd.; and (iii) Guidelines on Corporate Governance for Central Public  Sector Enterprises as stipulated in the O.M.
No.
th 18(8)/2005-GM dated 14  May, 2010 of the Ministry of  Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises, Government  of India.
During the period under review the Company has  To, The Members, Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited CIN: L74899DL1993GOI054155 Annual Report 2014-15 Secretarial Audit Report 198 complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules,  Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, etc.
mentioned  above except to the extent as mentioned below: st th 1.
Except for the period from 1  April, 2014 to 30  April,  rd th 2014 and 23  May, 2014 to 18  June, 2014, the  composition of the Board of Directors of the Company  during the year 2014-15 did not comply with the  provisions of Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement i.e.,  the Board of Directors did not comprise of the required  number of Independent Directors as per the terms of  the above mentioned Listing Agreements.
The  vacancies caused due to retirement / vacation of the  Independent Directors have also not been filled up  within 180 days as per the terms of the Equity Listing  Agreement.
2.
For part of the year the composition of the Audit &  Ethics Commit tee and the Nomination and  Remuneration Committee were not as per the  requirements of the Act and the Listing Agreement.
3.
During the year no separate meeting of the  Independent Directors was held.
We further report that: Subject to our observations at serial No.1 to 3 above,  the Board of Directors of the Company is duly  constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors,  Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors.
The changes in the composition of the Board of  Directors that took place during the period under  review were carried out in compliance with the  provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the  Board and Committee Meetings.
Agenda and detailed  notes on agenda are invariably dispatched by post or in  person or by e-mail and simultaneously placed on a  dedicated Portal (for Board members only) of the  Company which is password protected, at least seven  days in advance.
However, if required, supplementary  note(s) on agenda are sent later, at shorter notice, for  information of the board members and a system exists  for seeking and obtaining further information and  clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting  and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
Unanimous decision is carried through while the  dissenting members’ views are captured and recorded  as part of the minutes.
During the period under review the Company has spent  ₹4952.30 Million (2.79% of FY' 15 PAT) on Corporate  Social Responsibility Measures.
We further report that there are adequate systems and  processes in the company commensurate with the size  and operations of the company to monitor and ensure  compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and  guidelines.
For P .
P .
Agarwal & Co. Company Secretaries Pramod Prasad Agarwal Proprietor  FCS No.
: 4955  C. P .
No.
:10566 Place : New Delhi Date : 01.07.2015 Note: This report is to be read along with our letter of even date which is annexed as ‘ Annexure-A’ and forms an integral part  of this report.
Secretarial Audit Report 199 T o, The Members, Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited The Secretarial Audit report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the company.
Our responsibility is to  express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the  correctness of the contents of the Secretarial records.
The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct  facts are reflected in secretarial records.
We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a  reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the  company.
4.
Where ever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and  regulations and happening of events etc.
5.
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the  responsibility of management.
Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6.
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the company nor of the efficacy or  effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the company.
ANNEXURE- A For P .
P .
Agarwal & Co.    Company Secretaries Pramod Prasad Agarwal                        Proprietor       FCS No.
: 4955      C. P .
No.
:10566 Place: New Delhi Date : 01.07.2015 The offshore operations involve a high-level of precision and  expertise, something which is part of ONGCians'  everyday life Independent Auditors’ Report on Standalone Financial Statements Standalone Financial Statement Annual Report 2014-15 Auditors’ Report on Standalone Financial Statement 202 1.
Report on the Standalone Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying standalone  financial statements of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation  Limited  (“the Company”), which  comprise the  st Balance Sheet as at March 31  2015, the Statement of  Profit and Loss, the Cash Flow Statement for the year  then ended, and a summary of the significant  accounting policies and other explanatory information.
2.
Management’s Responsibility for the Standalone  Financial Statements The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for  the matters stated in Section 134 (5) of the Companies  Act 2013 (“The Act”) with respect to the preparation of  these standalone financial statements that give a true  and fair view of the financial position, financial  performance and cash flows of the Company in  accordance with the accounting principles generally  accepted in India, including the Accounting Standards  specified under Section 133 of the Act, read with Rule 7  of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
This  responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate  accounting records in accordance with the provisions  of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company  and for preventing and detecting frauds and other  irregularities; selection and application of appropriate  accounting policies; making judgments and estimates  that are reasonable and prudent; and design,  implementation and maintenance of adequate internal  financial controls, that were operating effectively for  ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the  accounting records, relevant to the preparation and  presentation of the financial statements that give a true  and fair view and are free from material misstatement,  whether due to fraud or error.
3.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these  standalone financial statements based on our audit.
We have taken into account the provisions of the Act,  the accounting and auditing standards and matters  which are required to be included in the audit report  under the provisions of the Act and the Rules made  thereunder.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the  Standards on Auditing specified under Section 143 (10)  of the Act.
Those Standards require that we comply with  ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to  obtain reasonable assurance about whether the  financial statements are free from material  misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit  evidence about the amounts and the disclosures in the  financial statements.
The procedures selected depend  on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of  the risks of material misstatement of the financial  statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making  those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal  financial control relevant to the Company’s preparation  of the financial statements that give a true and fair view  in order to design audit procedures that are  appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the  purpose of expressing an opinion on whether the  company has in place an adequate internal financial  controls system over financial reporting and the  operating effectiveness of such controls.
An audit also  includes evaluating the appropriateness of the  accounting policies used and the reasonableness of  the accounting estimates made by the Company’s  Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation  of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is  sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our  audit opinion on the standalone financial statements.
4.
Opinion In our opinion and to the best of our information and  according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid  standalone financial statements give the information  required by the Act in the manner so required and give  a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting  principles generally accepted in India, of the state of  affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2015, and its  profit and its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
5.
Emphasis of Matter We draw attention to Note No.
44.1.1.b to the financial  statements with regard to the dispute between the  company and the Government of Gujarat in respect of  payment of Royalty on the crude oil produced in the  State.
The accrual of the additional liability of  `117,242.00 million, (reduced to the extent 16,440.00  million paid to Gujarat Government- refer note no.
31.2  to the financial statements), against which an amount of  `21,067.60 million has been paid with effect from  February 1, 2014 and considered as deposit, would  depend on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court  of India.
The amount of `117,242.00 million has been  disclosed as contingent liability.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
6.
Other Matters I.
The financial statements include the Company’s share  in the total value of assets, liabilities, expenditure and  income of 134 blocks under New Exploration Licensing  Policy (NELPs)/Joint Venture (JVs) accounts for  exploration and production out of which 6 NELPs/JVs  accounts have been certified by other Chartered  Accountants and 17 NELP/JVs have been certified by  the management in respect of NELPs/JVs operated by  other operators.
Our opinion is based solely on the  certificate of the other Chartered Accountants and  management certified accounts.
II.
We have placed reliance on technical/commercial  evaluation by the management in respect of  categorization of wells as exploratory, development,  producing and dry well, allocation of cost incurred on  them, proved developed hydrocarbon reserves and  depletion thereof on producing proper ties,  ` To The Members of Oil And Natural Gas Corporation Limited Independent Auditors’ Report on Standalone Financial Statements Auditors’ Report on Standalone Financial Statement 203 impairment, liability for abandonment costs, liability  for NELP and nominated blocks for under  per formance against agreed Minimum Work  Programme and allocation of depreciation on process  platforms to transportation and facilities.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of these matters.
7.
Report on the Other Legal and Regulatory  Requirements I.
As required by the Companies (Auditors Report)  Order, 2015 (“the Order”), issued by the Central  Government of India in terms of the section 143(11) of  the Act, we give in Annexure 1 a statement on the  matters specified in the paragraphs 3 and 4 of the said  Order, to the extent applicable.
II.
Based on the verification of books of account of the  Company and according to information and  explanations given to us, we give below a report on the  directions issued by the Comptroller and Auditors  General of India in terms of section 143 (5) of the Act: a.
According to information and explanations given  to us, the company has not been selected for  disinvestment.
b.
According to information and explanations given  to us, the cases of waiver/write off of debts/loans/  interest wherever applicable during the year along  with the reasons and amounts involved are stated  in Annexure 2. c. According to information and explanations given  to us, the company has maintained adequate  records in respect of inventories lying with third  parties and assets received by the company as a  gift from Government or other authorities.
d. We have carried out a review of age wise analysis  of significant pending legal/arbitration cases  based on the information and explanations made  available to us and report that the reasons for the  pendency are mainly on account of adjournment  and other matters related to legal procedures.
We  also report that the company has in place a  monitoring mechanism for expenditure incurred  on such cases.
III.
As required by section 143(3) of the Act, we report that: a.
We have sought and obtained all the information  and explanations which to the best of our  knowledge and belief were necessary for the  purposes of our audit.
b.
In our opinion, proper books of account as required  by law have been kept by the Company so far as it  appears from our examination of those books.
c. The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and  Loss, and the Cash Flow Statement dealt with by  this Report are in agreement with the books of  account.
d. In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial  statements comply with the Accounting Standards  specified under Section 133 of the Act, read with  Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules 2014.  e. On the basis of the written representations  received from the directors as on 31st March 2015  taken on record by the Board of Directors, none of  the directors is disqualified as on 31stMarch 2015  from being appointed as a director in terms of  Section 164 (2) of the Act.
f. The matter described under “Emphasis of Matters”  para above in the event of being decided  unfavourably, in our opinion, may have an adverse  impact on the functioning of the company.
g. With respect to the other matters to be included in  Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the  Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 in our  opinion and to the best of our information and  according to the explanations given to us: i.
The company has disclosed the impact of the  pending litigations on its financial position in its  financial statements- Refer Note 44.1.1 to the  financial statements.
ii.
According to information and explanations given  to us, the company did not have any long term  contracts including derivative contracts for which  there were any material foreseeable losses- Refer  Note 51 to the financial statements.
iii.
There has been no delay in transferring  amounts, required to be transferred, to the  Investor Education and protection Fund by the  Company.
For G. D. Apte & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No: 100515W (C.M.
Dixit) Partner (M.No.
017532) For Mehra Goel& Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No:000517N (R. K. Mehra) Partner (M.No.
006102) For Khandelwal Jain & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No: 105049W (Narendra Jain) Partner (M.No.
048725) Date  : May 28, 2015 Place : New Delhi For Varma & Varma Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No:004532S (P .
R. Prasanna Varma) Partner (M.No.025854) For Lodha & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No: 301051E (R. P .
Singh) Partner (M.No.
052438) Annual Report 2014-15 Auditors’ Report on Standalone Financial Statement 204 i. a.
The Company has generally maintained proper  records showing full par ticulars including  quantitative details and situation of fixed assets.
b.
As per the information and explanations given to us,  the fixed assets having substantial value, other than  those which are underground/submerged/under  joint venture have been physically verified by the  management in a phased manner, which in our  opinion is reasonable, having regard to the size of  company and nature of its business.
The  reconciliation of physically verified assets with the  book records is in progress.
Discrepancies noticed  on the physical verification and consequential  adjustments are carried out on completion of  reconciliation.
According to information and  explanations given by the management and in our  opinion, the same is not material.
ii.
a.
According to the information and explanations  given by the management, the inventory has been  physically verified in the phased manner (excluding  inventory lying with third parties, at some of the  site-locations, inventory with joint ventures and  intra site material in transit) during the year by the  management.
In our opinion, the frequency of  verification is reasonable.
b.
In our opinion, considering the size of the company  and nature of its business, the procedure of  physical verification of inventory followed by the  management needs to be strengthened further.
c. The Company has generally maintained proper  records of inventory.
During the year, the  management has identified certain discrepancies  in the physical stock of crude oil which has been  written off as stated on Note No.
50 to the financial  Statements.
According to the information and  explanations given by the management and in our  opinion, other  than as stated above the  discrepancies noticed on physical verification  between the physical stock and book records were  not material having regard to the size of the  Company and nature of its business.
In case where  discrepancies noticed on physical verification have  been identified with inventory records, necessary  adjustments have been carried out in the books of  account.
In respect of cases where the  reconciliation is not complete, the management  has stated that the effect of the same on the  accounts would be adjusted on completion of  reconciliation.
iii.
The Company has granted secured loans to five  parties covered in the register maintained under  section 189 of the Act.
a.
According to information and explanations given to  us and based on our verification of books of  account, the receipt of principal amount and  interest are regular.
b.
According to information and explanations given to  us and based on our verification of books of  account we report that, there was no overdue  amount in respect of such loans granted.
iv.
In our opinion, and according to the information and  explanations given to us, the internal control  procedures are generally adequate and  commensurate with the size of the Company and  the nature of its business with regard to purchases  of inventory and fixed assets and for the sale of  goods and services.
During the course of our audit  we have not observed any continuing failure to  correct major weaknesses in internal controls.
v. In our opinion and according to information and  explanations given to us, the Company has not  accepted any deposits as per the provision of the  Act.
vi.
We have broadly reviewed the costs records  maintained by the Company pursuant to the  Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014,  as amended and prescribed by the Central  Government under sub section (1) of section 148 of  the Companies Act, 2013 and we are of the opinion  that prima facie the prescribed accounts and  records have been made and maintained.
However, we have not made a detailed examination  of the cost records with the view to determine  whether they are accurate or complete.
vii.
a.
According to records of the Company, undisputed  statutor y dues including Provident Fund,  Employees’ State Insurance, Income T ax, Sales  T ax, Service T ax, Wealth T ax, Duty of Customs,  Duty of Excise, Value Added T ax, Cess and other  statutory dues have been generally regularly  deposited with the appropriate authorities.
According to the information and explanations  given to us, no undisputed amounts payable in  respect of the aforesaid dues were outstanding as  at March 31, 2015 for a period more than six months  from the date of becoming payable.
b.
According to the information and explanations given to  us, there were no dues in respect of Income T ax,  Duty of Excise, Duty of Customs, Cess, Sales T ax,  Service T ax, Value Added T ax and Wealth T ax  which have not been deposited on account of any  dispute except the following: Annexure 1 to Independent Auditors’ Report (Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal  and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date) Auditors’ Report on Standalone Financial Statement 205    Name of  the Nature of Forum where dispute Period to Gross Amount Amount Amount         statute Dues is pending which the Involved Paid under Unpaid amount relates  Protest  (financial year) Central Excise Central excise Commissioner (Appeals) of 2002-2007  109.20  108.54  0.66  Act, 1944 duty/Interest/ Central Excise, Custom and  Penalty Service T ax Custom, Excise and Service 2001-2013  4,116.17  109.37  4,006.80  T ax Appellate T ribunal Hon.
High Court 1996-2015  351.33  -    351.33  Hon.
Supreme Court 1980-2005  1,283.30  -    1,283.30  Total (A) 5,860.00  217.91  5,642.09  Oil Industries Cess/ Interest Custom, Excise and Service 2004-2009  6.57  -   6.57  (Development) T ax Appellate T ribunal Act, 1974   Total (B) 6.57  -    6.57  A.P .
Mineral Cess/ Interest Hon.
High Court 2005-2014  2,371.75  -    2,371.75   Bearing  Ordinance  (infrastructure)  Cess Rules,  2005 Total (C) 2,371.75 - 2,371.75  The Custom Custom duty/ Custom, Excise and Service 2007-08  5.00  1.00  4.00  Act, 1962 Penalty/ T ax Appellate T ribunal Interest Total (D) 5.00  1.00  4.00  Income T ax Income T ax/ Commissioner (Appeals) 2006-2012  74,701.19  44,819.55  29,881.64  Act, 1961 Penalty/ Hon.
High Court 2003-2010  1,002.78  14.86  987.92  Interest Hon.
Supreme Court 1983-1986  740.22  -    740.22  Income T ax Appellate T ribunal 1995-2011  3,556.25  566.45  2,989.80  Total (E) 80,000.44  45,400.86  34,599.58  Central Sales Sales T ax/ Appellate T ribunal 1993-2000  146.95  20.92  126.03   T ax Act, 1956 T urnover T ax/ Hon.
High Court 1978-2013  24,439.03  655.16  23,783.87  and respective Penalty/ Joint Commissioner/ 2000-2010  3,227.65  39.38  3,188.27 States Sales Interest Commissioner CT-AppealsT ax Act   Total (F) 27,813.63  715.46  27,098.17  Finance Act, Service T ax/ Commissioner/Joint/Deputy 2004-2015  2.09  1.98  0.11  1994 Interest/ Commissioner of Central  Penalties Excise, Custom and  Service T ax Custom, Excise and Service 2005-2012  93.46  93.42  0.04  T ax Appellate T ribunal Directorate General of 2006-2008  637.40  -    637.40  Central Excise, Custom  and Service T ax Hon.
High Court 2004-2007  32.48  -    32.48  Total (G) 765.43  95.40  670.03  Grand Total (A+B+C+D+E+F+G) 116,822.82  46,430.63  70,392.19  (` in million) Annual Report 2014-15 Auditors’ Report on Standalone Financial Statement 206 c. The amount required to be transferred to investor  education and protection fund in accordance with  the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 (1  of 1956) and rules made thereunder has been  transferred to such fund within time.
viii.
The Company does not have accumulated losses at  the end of the current financial year and has not  incurred cash losses either during the year or during  the immediately preceding financial year.
ix.
The Company has not issued any debentures and  has not borrowed any fund from financial institutions.
The company has not defaulted in repayment of dues  to the bank.
x.
In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, the terms and conditions on  which the Company has given guarantees for loans  taken by others from banks or financial institutions  are not prima facie prejudicial to the interest of the  Company.
xi.
The company has not availed any term loan during  the year.
xii.
According to the information and explanations given  to us, except for over reporting of crude oil  production and inventor y which is under  investigation as stated in note no.
50 to the financial  statements, no fraud on or by the Company has been  noticed or reported during the year.
For G. D. Apte & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No: 100515W (C.M.
Dixit) Partner (M.No.
017532) For Mehra Goel& Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No:000517N (R. K. Mehra) Partner (M.No.
006102) For Khandelwal Jain & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No: 105049W (Narendra Jain) Partner (M.No.
048725) Date  : May 28, 2015 Place : New Delhi For Varma & Varma Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No:004532S (P .
R. Prasanna Varma) Partner (M.No.025854) For Lodha & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No: 301051E (R. P .
Singh) Partner (M.No.
052438) Auditors’ Report on Standalone Financial Statement 207 Annexure 2 to Independent Auditors’ Report (Referred to in paragraph ii (b)  under ‘Report on Other Legal and  Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date) Cases of waiver/write off of debts/loans/Interest The cases of waiver/write offs of debts/loans/interest, wherever applicable during the year along with the reasons and  amount involved are as under: `  in million Reasons 26.40 Settlement of Arbitration award  0.01 Details of deposit not available  0.01 Forfeiture of Deposit  1.40 Disallowance of insurance claim  0.26 Long outstanding balance 28.08   Preparation of shot-hole drilling for seismic survey; ONGC made 22 new discoveries in FY'15 - 10 new prospects and 12 new pools Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 208 st Balance Sheet as at 31  March, 2015 I.
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1 Shareholders’ funds (a) Share capital 3  42,777.60  42,777.60  (b) Reserves and surplus 4  1,403,232.15  1,324,472.45  2 Non-current liabilities (a) Deferred tax liabilities (Net) 5  177,331.54  165,786.78  (b) Other Long term liabilities 6  11,288.85  11,779.09  (c) Long-term provisions 7  254,433.79  257,270.72  3 Current liabilities (a) Short-term borrowings 8  13,930.00  -    (b) T rade payables 9  54,891.03  63,724.81  (c) Other current liabilities 10  102,938.07  119,257.45  (d) Short-term provisions 11  19,975.78  7,815.39  TOTAL 2,080,798.81  1,992,884.29  II.
ASSETS 1 Non-current assets (a) Fixed assets (i) T angible assets 12  314,211.24  302,291.89  (ii) Producing Properties 13  667,110.29  657,832.64  (iii) Intangible assets 14  696.04  500.61  (iv) Capital work-in-progress 15  126,906.58  116,450.34  (v) Exploratory/Development Wells in Progress 16  158,885.29  139,127.59  (b) Non-current investments 17  181,242.83  172,043.06  (c) Long-term loans and advances 18  194,708.20  181,783.61  (d) Deposit under Site Restoration Fund Scheme 19  125,443.80  113,101.59  (e) Other non-current assets 20  9,962.00  11,319.96  2 Current assets (a) Current investments -    -    (b) Inventories 21  59,635.27  58,825.41  (c) T rade receivables 22  135,782.74  81,656.70  (d) Cash and Cash Equivalents 23  27,600.68  107,988.77  (e) Short-term loans and advances 24  69,476.77  43,669.60  (f) Other current assets 25  9,137.08  6,292.52  TOTAL 2,080,798.81  1,992,884.29  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements 1 to 54 Particulars Note No.
As at st 31  March, 2015 As at st  31 March, 2014 (` in million) (A. K. Srinivasan)  Chief Financial Officer (D.K.Sarraf) Chairman & Managing Director For and on behalf of the Board (N. K. Sinha) Company Secretary For  Mehra Goel & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
000517N (R.K.Mehra)  Partner (M.No.
006102) For Khandelwal Jain & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
105049W (Narendra Jain)  Partner (M. No.
048725)  New Delhi  th 28  May, 2015 For Varma & Varma Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
004532S For Lodha & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.301051E (R.P .
Singh)                                   Partner (M.No.
052438) (P .
R.Prasanna Varma) Partner (M. No.
025854) For  G D Apte & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
100515W (C. M. Dixit) Partner (M. No.
017532) In terms of our report of even date attached Standalone Financial Statement 209 I INCOME Revenue from operations (Gross) 26  830,934.67  842,027.80  Less: Excise Duty  2,225.06  3,125.09  Revenue from operations (Net)  828,709.61  838,902.71  Other Income 28  53,665.67  67,131.99  Total Revenue  882,375.28  906,034.70  II EXPENSES (Increase)/ Decrease in inventories 29  (1,674.29)  1,042.80  Purchases of Stock-in-T rade 44.2.2  44.11  31.80  Production, T ransportation, Selling and Distribution Expenditure 31  392,662.80  393,334.90  Exploration Costs written off - Survey Costs  19,146.47  15,911.62  - Exploratory well Costs  86,078.16  62,445.15  Depreciation, Depletion, Amortisation and Impairment 32  114,583.12  109,258.90  Financing Costs 33  27.87  3.57  Provisions and Write-offs 34  2,115.60  2,188.50  Adjustments relating to Prior Period (Net) 35  3,839.09  (2,501.86) Total  Expenses  616,822.93  581,715.38  Profit before Exceptional, Extraordinary items and Tax  265,552.35  324,319.32  Exceptional items  -    -    Profit before Extraordinary items and Tax  265,552.35  324,319.32  Extraordinary items  -    -    Profit before Tax  265,552.35  324,319.32  Tax Expense   - Current T ax  82,000.00  65,500.00  - MAT Credit Entitlement  -    (2,800.00) - Earlier years  (5,848.30)  2,145.87  - Deferred T ax  12,071.11  38,525.38  Profit after T ax  177,329.54  220,948.07  Earnings per Equity Share - Basic and Diluted  (`) 36 20.73 25.83  (Face Value ` 5/-Per Share) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements 1 to 54 Particulars (` in million) Statement of Profit & Loss st for the year ended 31  March, 2015 Note No.
2014-15 2013-14 (A. K. Srinivasan)  Chief Financial Officer (D.K.Sarraf) Chairman & Managing Director For and on behalf of the Board (N. K. Sinha) Company Secretary For  Mehra Goel & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
000517N (R.K.Mehra)  Partner (M.No.
006102) For Khandelwal Jain & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
105049W (Narendra Jain)  Partner (M. No.
048725)  New Delhi  th 28  May, 2015 For Varma & Varma Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
004532S For Lodha & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.301051E (R.P .
Singh)                                   Partner (M.No.
052438) (P .
R.Prasanna Varma) Partner (M. No.
025854) For  G D Apte & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
100515W (C. M. Dixit) Partner (M. No.
017532) In terms of our report of even date attached Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 210 A.
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net Profit before tax and extraordinary items 265,552.35 324,319.32  Adjustments For: - Prior Period Items 3,839.09 (2,501.86) - Depreciation, Depletion, Amortisation & Impairment  114,583.12 109,258.90 - Exploratory Well Costs Written off 86,078.16 62,445.15 - Interest on Borrowings 27.87 3.57  - Unrealized Foreign Exchange Loss/(Gain) 222.91 341.11 - Provision for Leave Encashment 1,556.81 (17,273.47) - Provision for other Employee Benefits 3,279.49 2,764.16 - Other Provision and Write offs 2,115.60 2,188.50 - Excess Provision written back  (6,456.33) (16,328.86) - Provision for Abadonnment  283.48 243.56 - Interest Income (30,564.45) (33,006.23) - Excess Liability written Back (856.54) (2,836.39) - Amortization of Government Grant (14.17) (2.87) - Dividend Income (4,889.51) 169,205.53 (3,744.37) 101,550.90  Operating Profit before Working Capital Changes 434,757.88 425,870.22  Adjustments for:- - Receivables (54,503.49) 2,779.65 - Loans and Advances  (28,881.97) (2,677.53) - Other Current Assets (225.33) 4,300.38 - Inventories (542.54) (2,704.45) - T rade Payable and Other Liabilities  (24,277.96) (108,431.29) 29,225.79 30,923.84 Cash generated from Operations 326,326.59 456,794.06  Direct T axes Paid (Net of tax refund) (76,080.81) (78,080.58) Cash Flow before prior period 250,245.78 378,713.48  Prior period items (Cash items) (524.60) 166.71 Net Cash Flow from Operating Activities 'A' 249,721.18 378,880.19  B.
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchase of Fixed Assets (82,389.32) (101,082.42) Sale of Fixed Assets 62.27 7.28  Exploratory and Development Drilling (177,557.51) (199,047.62) Advance/Investment in Joint Controlled Entities (2,516.54) (9,910.69) Loan to Associates 350.45 337.88  Loan and advances to Subsidiary (5,961.93) 6,941.01  Investments/Loans to Public Sector Undertakings - (26,707.47) Deposit in Site Restoration Fund (12,342.21) (11,770.38) Dividend Received from Associates 37.80 11.46  Dividend Received from Other Investment 4,851.71 3,732.91  Interest Received 26,332.31 31,984.50  Net Cash Flow from Investing Activities 'B' (249,132.97) (305,503.54) Year Ended st  31 March, 2015 Year Ended st  31 March, 2014 (` in million) Cash Flow Statement st for  the  year  ended  31  March, 2015 Standalone Financial Statement 211 Cash Flow Statement st for the  year  ended  31  March, 2015 C. CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Short T erm Borrowings 13,930.00 -    Dividend Paid (79,133.08) (83,399.48) T ax on Dividend (15,748.94) (14,170.69) Interest Paid (24.28) (3.57) Net Cash Flow from Financing Activities 'C' (80,976.30) (97,573.74) Net increase/(decrease) in Cash and (80,388.09) (24,197.09) Cash Equivalents (A+B+C) st Cash and Cash Equivalents as at 1  April, 2014 107,988.77 132,185.86  (Opening Balance) st Cash and Cash Equivalents as at 31  March, 2015*        Note 23 27,600.68 107,988.77  (Closing Balance) (80,388.09) (24,197.09) Notes: 1.
The above Cash Flow Statement has been prepared under the 'Indirect Method' as set out in the Accounting Standard (AS) 3  on Cash Flow Statements issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
2.
*Includes T erm deposits of `17,340 million (Previous year nil)  pledged to Banks against Short term loan taken from Banks.
Also includes restricted amount of ` 247.24 million (Previous year `242.01 million) earmarked for payment of  unclaimed dividend.
3.
Brackets indicate cash outflow/ deduction.
4 Previous year figures have been re-grouped/re-classified wherever necessary to conform to the current years presentation.
Year Ended st  31 March, 2015 Year Ended st  31 March, 2014 (` in million) (A. K. Srinivasan) Chief Financial Officer (D.K.Sarraf) Chairman & Managing Director For and on behalf of the Board (N. K. Sinha) Company Secretary For  Mehra Goal & Co Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
000517N (R. K. Mehra)         Partner (M.No.
006102)   For Khandelwal Jain & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
105049W (Narendra Jain) Partner (M. No.
048725) New Delhi th 28  May, 2015 For Varma & Varma Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
004532S (P .
R. Prasanna Varma) Partner (Mem.
No.
025854) For  Lodha & Co.       Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
30105IE (R.P .
Singh)                                   Partner (M.No.
052438) For G.D. Apte & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
100515W (C.M.
Dixit) Partner (M. No.
017532) In terms of our report of even date attached Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 212 st Notes to Financial Statements for the year ended 31  March, 2015 1.
Corporate information Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (‘ONGC’ or  ‘the Company’) is a public limited company domiciled  and incorporated in India.
The Company’s shares are  listed and traded on Stock Exchanges in India.
The  Company is engaged in exploration, development and  production of crude oil and natural gas.
2.
Significant Accounting Policies a.
Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared under the  historical cost convention on accrual basis in  accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting  Principles (GAAP), applying the Successful  Efforts Method as per the Guidance Note on  Accounting for Oil and Gas Producing Activities  (Revised) issued by the Institute of Chartered  Accountants of India and Accounting Standards  as prescribed under the Companies (Accounts)  Rules, 2014 and provisions of the Companies Act,  2013.
As the operating cycle cannot be identified in  normal course due to the special nature of  industry, the same has been assumed to have  duration of 12 months.
Accordingly, all assets and  liabilities have been classified as current or non- current as per the Company’s operating cycle  and other criteria set out in the Schedule III to the  Companies Act, 2013.
The financial statements are presented in Indian  Rupees and all values are rounded to the nearest  million except otherwise stated.
b.
Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements requires  estimates and assumptions which affect the  reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenues  and expenses of the reporting period.
The  dif ference between the actual results and  estimates are recognized in the period in which  the results are known or materialized.
c. Government Grant Government Grant related to acquisition of Fixed  Assets is treated as ‘Deferred Government Grant’  and an amount equal to propor tionate  depreciation of such assets is credited to  Statement of Profit and Loss.
d. Fixed Assets d.1 Tangible Assets d.1.1 Fixed assets are stated at historical cost less  accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Fixed assets received as donations/gifts are  capitalised at assessed values with corresponding  credit taken to Capital Reserve.
d.1.2 All costs, net of applicable tax credits, relating to  acquisition of fixed assets till the time of bringing  the assets to working condition for intended use  are capitalised.
d.2 Intangible Assets Intangible assets are stated at cost of acquisition,  net of applicable tax credits, less accumulated  amortization and impairment.
e. Exploration, Development and Production Costs e.1 Pre-acquisition cost Expenditure incurred before obtaining the right(s)  to explore, develop and produce oil and gas are  expensed as and when incurred.
e.2 Acquisition Cost Acquisition costs of an oil and gas property are  costs related to right to acquire mineral interest  and  are accounted/ treated as follows:- Exploration and Development stage:  Acquisition cost relating to projects under  exploration or developments are initially  accounted as capital work in progress.
Such  costs are capitalized by transferring to Producing  Property when a well is ready to commence  commercial production.
In case of abandonment/  relinquishment, such costs are written off.
Production stage:  Acquisition costs of a producing oil and gas  property are capitalized as proved property  acquisition cost under producing properties and  amortized over the production profile of the  underlying asset using the unit of production  method over proved reserves.
e.3 Survey Cost Cost of Survey and prospecting activities  conducted in the search of oil and gas are  expensed as exploration cost in the year in which  these are incurred.
e.4 Exploratory/ Development Wells in Progress   e.4.1 All exploration costs incurred in drilling and  equipping exploratory and appraisal wells, cost of  drilling exploratory type stratigraphic test wells  are initially capitalized as Exploratory Wells in  Progress till the time these are either transferred  to Producing Properties on completion as per  note no.2.
f.1.1 or expensed as exploration cost  (including allocated depreciation) as and when  determined to be dry or of no further use, as the  case may be.
e.4.2 Costs of exploratory wells are not carried unless  there are indications of sufficient quantity of  reserves and sufficient progress is being made in  assessing the reserves and the economic and  operating viability of the project.
All such carried  costs are subject to review for impairment as per  note no.
2.n.7.
Standalone Financial Statement 213 e.4.3 All costs relating to Development Wells are initially  capitalized as ‘Development Wells in Progress’  and transferred to ‘Producing Properties’ on  “completion” as per note no.
2.f.
f. Producing Properties  f.1.1 Producing Properties are created in respect of an  area/field having proved developed oil and gas  reserves, when the well in the area/field is ready  to commence commercial production.
f.1.2 Cost of temporary occupation of land, successful  exploratory wells, all development wells,  depreciation on related equipment, facilities and  estimated future abandonment costs are  capitalised and reflected as Producing Properties.
g. Production Costs  Production costs include pre-well head and post- well head expenses including depreciation and  applicable operating costs of support equipment  and facilities.
h. Side tracking h.1 In case of an exploratory well, Cost of Side-tracking  is treated in the same manner as the cost incurred  on a new exploratory well.
The cost of abandoned  portion of side tracked exploratory wells is  expensed as ‘Exploratory Well Cost written off.’.
h.2 In case of development wells, the entire cost of  abandoned por tion and side tracking is  capitalised.
h.3 In case of Producing wells, if the side-tracking  results in additional proved developed oil and gas  reserves or increases the future economic  benefits therefrom beyond previously assessed  standard of performance, the cost incurred on  side tracking  is capitalised, whereas the cost of  abandoned portion of the well is depleted in the  normal way.
Otherwise, the cost of side tracking is  expensed as ‘Work over Expenditure’ i. Abandonment Cost i.1 The full eventual estimated liability towards costs  relating to dismantling, abandoning and restoring  well sites and allied facilities are recognized in  respective assets when the well is complete /  facilities are installed.
The abandonment cost on  dry well is expensed as exploratory well cost.
i.2 Provision for abandonment cost is updated based  on the technical assessment at current costs.
The  effects of changes resulting from revisions to  estimated liability are adjusted to the carrying  amount of the related Asset and considered for  depletion on a prospective basis.
j.
Jointly Controlled Assets The Company has Joint Ventures in the nature of  Production Sharing Contracts (PSC) with the  Government of India and various body corporates  for exploration, development and production  activities.
j.1 The company’s share in the assets and liabilities  along with attributable income and expenditure of  the Jointly Controlled Assets is  merged on line by  line basis with the similar items in the Financial  Statements of the Company and adjusted for  depreciation, depletion, survey, dry wells,  abandonment, impairment and sidetracking in  accordance with the accounting policies of the  Company.
j.2 Disposal of Interest   Gain or loss on sale of interest in a cost center, is  recognized in the statement of profit and loss,  except that no gain is recognized at the time of  such sale if substantial uncertainty exists about  the recovery of the costs applicable to the  retained interest or if the company has substantial  obligation for future performance.
The gain in  such situation is treated as recovery of cost  related to that cost center.
j.3 The hydrocarbon reserves in such areas are  taken in proportion to the participating interest of  the Company.
k. Investments Long-term investments are valued at cost.
Provision is made for any diminution, other than  temporary, in the value of such investments.
Current Investments are valued at lower of cost  and fair value.
l. Inventories l.1 Finished goods (other than Sulphur) and stock in  pipelines/tanks and carbon credits are valued at  cost or net realisable value whichever is lower.
Cost of finished goods is determined on  absorption costing method.
Sulphur is valued at  net realisable value.
The value of inventories  includes excise dut y, royalt y (wherever  applicable) but excludes Cess.
l.2 Crude oil in unfinished condition in flow lines up to  Group Gathering Stations/platform and Natural  gas is not valued as it is not stored.
l.3 Inventory of stores and spare parts is valued at  weighted average cost or net realisable value,  whichever is lower.
Provisions are made for  obsolete and non-moving inventories.
l.4 Unserviceable and scrap items, when determined,  are valued at estimated net realisable value.
m. Revenue Recognition m.1 Revenue from sale of products is recognized on  transfer of custody to customers.
m.2 Sale of crude oil and gas (net of levies) produced  from Wells in Progress is deducted from  expenditure on such wells.
m.3 Sales are inclusive of all statutory levies except  Value Added T ax (VAT).
Any retrospective revision  in prices is accounted for in the year of such  revision.
Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 214 m.4 Revenue in respect of the following is recognized  when there is a reasonable certainty regarding  ultimate collection: a.
Short lifted quantity of gas b.
Gas pipeline transportation charges c. Reimbursable subsidies and grants d. Surplus from Gas Pool Account e. Interest on delayed realization from customers f. Liquidated damages from contractors/suppliers m.5 Dividend income is recognized when right to  receive is established.
Interest income is  recognized on time proportion basis taking into  account the amount outstanding and rate applicable.
n. Depreciation, Depletion, Amortisation and  Impairment  Depreciation n.1 Depreciation on fixed assets is provided for under  the written down value method over the useful life of  Asset as specified in Schedule II to the Companies  Act, 2013 except in case of certain items of plant  and equipment where useful life ranging from 3 to  25 years has been considered based on technical  assessment by the management which is lower  than the useful life prescribed under schedule II to  the Companies Act 2013. n.2 Depreciation on additions/deletions during the  year is provided on pro rata basis with reference  to the date of additions/deletions except low value  items not exceeding ` 5,000/- which are fully  depreciated at the time of addition.
n.3 Depreciation on subsequent expenditure on fixed  assets arising on account of capital improvement  or other factors is provided for prospectively over  the remaining useful life.
Depreciation on refurbished/revamped assets  which are capitalized separately is provided for  over the reassessed useful life, which is not more  than the life specified in Schedule II to the  Companies Act, 2013.  n.4 Depreciation on fixed assets (including support  equipment and facilities) used for exploratory/  development drilling and on production facilities  is initially capitalised as part of drilling cost or  producing properties and expensed/depleted as  stated in Note no.
2.f and 2.n.5.
Depreciation on  equipment/ assets deployed for survey activities  is charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
n.5 Depletion   Producing Properties are depleted using the  “Unit of Production Method”.
The rate of depletion  is computed with reference to an area covered by  individual lease/license/asset/ amortization base  by considering the proved developed reserves  and related capital costs incurred including  estimated future abandonment costs net of  salvage value.
Acquisition cost of Producing  Properties is depleted by considering the proved  reserves.
These reserves are estimated annually  by the Reserve Estimates Committee of the  Company, which follows the International  Reservoir Engineering Procedures.
Amortisation n.6 Leasehold land is amortized over the lease period  except perpetual leases.
Intangible assets are amortized on Straight Line  Method (SLM) over the useful life not exceeding  five years from the date of capitalization.
Impairment n.7 Producing Properties, Development Wells in  Progress (DWIP), and Fixed Assets (including  Capital Works in Progress) of a “Cash Generating  Unit” (CGU) are reviewed for impairment at each  Balance Sheet date.
In case, events and  circumstances indicate any impairment,  recoverable amount of these assets is  determined.
An impairment loss is recognized,  whenever the carrying amount of such assets  exce eds the recoverable amount.
The  recoverable amount is higher of its ‘value in use’  or ‘net selling price’ (if determinable).
In assessing  value in use, the estimated future cash flows from  the use of assets and from its disposal at the end  of its useful life are discounted to their present  value at appropriate rate.
An impairment loss is reversed if there is increase  in the recoverable amount and such loss either no  longer exists or has decreased.
Impairment loss /  reversal thereof is adjusted to the carrying value  of the respective assets, which in case of CGU, is  allocated to its assets on a pro-rata basis.
Subsequent to impairment, depreciation is  provided on the revised carrying value of the  assets over the remaining useful life.
Impairment testing during exploratory phase is  carried out at area level when further exploration  activities are not planned in near future or when  sufficient data exists to indicate that although a  development in the specific area is likely to  proceed, the carrying amount of the exploration  asset is unlikely to be recovered in full from  successful development or by sale.
Impairment is  reversed subsequently, to the extent that  conditions for impairment are no longer present.
o.
Foreign Exchange T ransactions T ransactions in foreign currencies are accounted  for at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of  the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary  assets and liabilities at the year-end are translated  using mean exchange rate prevailing on the last  day of the financial year.
The loss or gain thereon  and also the exchange differences on settlement  of the foreign currency transactions during the  year are recognized as income or expense and  Standalone Financial Statement 215 adjusted to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
p. Employee Benefits p.1 All short term employee benefits are recognized  at their undiscounted amount in the accounting  period in which they are incurred.
p.2 Employee Benefit under defined contribution  plans comprising provident fund etc.
is  recognized based on the undiscounted amount  of obligations of the company to contribute to the  plan.
The same is paid to a fund administered  through a separate trust.
p.3 Employee benefits under defined benefit plans  comprising of gratuity, leave encashment,  compensated absences, post-retirement medical  benefits and other terminal benefits are  recognized based on the present value of defined  benefit obligation, which is computed on the basis  of actuarial valuation using the Projected Unit  Credit Method.
Actuarial Liability in excess of  respective plan assets is recognized during the  year.
Actuarial gains and losses in respect of post- employment and other long-term benefits are  recognized during the year.
The Company  contributes all ascertained liabilities with respect  to Gratuity and leave/compensated absences to  the ONGC’s Gratuity Fund T rust (OGFT) and Life  Insurance Corporation of India (LICI) respectively.
Other defined benefit schemes are unfunded.
q.
Voluntary Retirement Scheme  Expenditure on Voluntary Retirement Scheme  (VRS) is charged to the Statement of Profit and  Loss when incurred.
r. General Administrative Expenses  General administrative expenses which are directly  attributable are allocated to activities and the  balance is charged to Statement of Profit and Loss.
s. Insurance claims The company accounts for insurance claims as  under :- s.1 In case of total loss of asset, by transferring either  the carrying cost of the relevant asset or  insurance value (subject to deductibles),  whichever is lower under the head “Claims  Recoverable-Insurance” on intimation to Insurer.
In case insurance claim is less than carrying cost,  the difference is charged to Statement of Profit  and Loss.
s.2 In case of partial or other losses, expenditure  incurred/payments made to put such assets back  into use, to meet third party or other liabilities  (less policy deductibles) if any, are accounted for  as “Claims Recoverable-Insurance”.
Insurance  Policy deductibles are expensed in the year the  corresponding expenditure is incurred.
s.3 As and when claims are finally received from  insurer, the difference, if any, between Claims  Recoverable-Insurance and claims received is  adjusted to Statement of Profit and Loss.
t. Research Expenditure Expenditure of capital nature are capitalised and  expenses of Revenue nature are charged to the  Statement of Profit and Loss, as and when  incurred.
u.
Taxes on Income  Provision for current tax is made as per the  provisions of the Income T ax Act, 1961.
Deferred  Ta x Liabilit y/Asset resulting from ‘timing  difference’ between book profit and taxable  profit is accounted for considering the tax rate  and laws that have been enacted or substantively  enacted as on the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred  T ax Asset is recognized and carried forward only  to the extent that there is reasonable certainty  that the asset will be realized in future.
v. Borrowing Costs Borrowing Cost specifically identified to the  acquisition or construction of qualifying assets is  capitalized as part of such assets.
A qualifying  asset is one that necessarily takes substantial  period of time to get ready for intended use.
All  other borrowing costs are charged to the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
w. Rig Days Costs Rig movement costs are booked to the next  location drilled/planned for drilling.
Abnormal Rig  days’ costs are considered as unallocable and  charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
x. Unamortised Expenditure Dry docking charges of Rigs/ Multipurpose  Supply Vessels (MSVs), Geo T echnical Vessels  (GTVs), Well Stimulation Vessels, Of fshore  Supply Vessels (OSVs), Rig/equipment  mobilization expenses and other related  expenditure is amortized over the period of use  not exceeding five years and the balance is  carried under head “Unamortized Expenditure" in  the  Balance Sheet.
y.
Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and  Contingent Assets Provisions involving substantial degree of  estimation in measurement are recognized when  there is a present obligation as a result of past  events and it is probable that there will be an  outflow of resources embodying economic  benefits.
Contingent Assets are neither  recognized nor disclosed in the financial  statements.
Contingent liabilities are disclosed by  way of notes to account.
z.
Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share are computed by  dividing the net profit after tax by the weighted  average number of equity shares outstanding  Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 216 during the period.
Diluted earnings per share is  computed by dividing the profit after tax by the  weighted average number of equity shares  considered for deriving basic earnings per share  and also the weighted average number of  equity shares that could have been issued  upon conversion of all dilutive potential equity  shares.
aa.
Cash Flow Statement Cash flows are reported using the indirect method,  where by profit before tax is adjusted for the effects  of transactions of a non-cash nature, any deferrals  or accruals of past or future operating cash receipts  or payments and item of income or expenses  associated with investing or financing cash flows.
The cash flows from operating, investing and  financing activities of the Company are segregated.
As at st 31  March, 2015 As at st 31  March, 2014 (` in million)3.
Share Capital Authorised: 30,000,000,000 Equity Shares of  5 each 150,000.00 150,000.00 (Previous Year 30,000,000,000 Equity Shares of ` 5 each) Issued and Subscribed: 8,555,528,064 Equity Shares of  5 each 42,777.64   42,777.64 ( Previous Year 8,555,528,064 Equity Shares of ` 5 each) Paid up : 8,555,490,120 Equity Shares of ` 5 each 42,777.45   42,777.45 (Previous Year 8,555,490,120 Equity Shares of ` 5 each) Add: Shares forfeited 0.15            0.15 TOTAL  42,777.60   42,777.60  ` ` 3.1 Reconciliation of the equity shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the reporting period Outstanding at the beginning of the year 8,555.49 42,777.45 8,555.49 42,777.45 Changes during the year - - - - Outstanding at the end of the year 8,555.49 42,777.45 8,555.49 42,777.45 st As at 31  March, 2015 st As at 31  March, 2014 No.
in  million No.
in  million ` in  million ` in  million Particulars 3.2 Terms/rights attached to equity shares The company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 5 per share.
Each holder of equity shares  is entitled to one vote per share.
The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the  shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
In the event of liquidation of the company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of  the company, after distribution of all preferential amounts.
The distribution will be in proportion to the number of  equity shares held by the shareholders.
3.3 Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the company are as under:- President of India 5897.76 68.94 5897.76 68.94 Life Insurance Corporation of India 677.18 7.92 666.70 7.79 Indian Oil Corporation Limited 657.92 7.69 657.92 7.69 As at March, 2015 st  31 As at  March, 2014 st  31 No.
in  million No.
in  million % holding % holding Name of the Share Holders Particulars Standalone Financial Statement 217 3.4 Pursuant to the approval of the members dated  28.01.2011, during the financial year 2010-11, one  equity   share having face value of `10/- each had  been sub-divided into two equity shares of `5/-  each and bonus shares in proportion of one new  equity bonus share of `5/- each for every one fully  paid up equity share of `5/- each held on  09.02.2011 (record date) had been allotted.
The  company has issued total 4,277.75 million equity  shares of face value of `5 each issued as fully paid  up by way of bonus shares during the period of five  years immediately preceding the reporting date.
3.5 Shares reserved for issue under option: Nil  (previous year nil) 4.
Reserves and Surplus Capital Reserve  (Note-4.1) As per last Balance Sheet  159.44  159.44  Deferred Government Grant (Note-2.c)  a) As per last Balance Sheet  24.66  27.53   b) Less: Deduction during the year*  14.17 10.49  2.87 24.66    General Reserve  a) As per last Balance Sheet  1,324,288.35 1,201,567.67   Less: Depeciation Adjusted against reserves  (net of deferred tax) (Note 12.5) 1,022.20 -  b) Less: Impairment loss  (net of deferred tax) - 3,143.02  c) Add: T ransferred from Surplus  79,796.07 1,403,062.22 125,863.70 1,324,288.35  Surplus a) As per last Balance Sheet  -    -    b) Add: Profit after T ax for the year  177,329.54 220,948.07  c) Less: Proposed Dividend (Note 4.2) 4,277.75 2,138.87  d) Less: Interim Dividend 76,999.44  79,138.31  e) Less: T ax on Dividend  16,256.28   13,807.19  f)  Less: T ransferred to General Reserve  79,796.07 - 125,863.70 -    TOTAL  1,403,232.15 1,324,472.45 As at  st 31  March, 2015 As at  st 31  March, 2014 Particulars * Represents the amount equivalent to depreciation transferred to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
4.1 Represents assessed value of assets received as gift.
4.2 The Board of Directors has recommended a final dividend of 0.50 per share (previous year 0.25 per share)  which is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting over and above  the interim dividend of 9.00 per share (Previous year 9.25 per share).
` ` ` ` (` in million) Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 218 (` in million) 5.
Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net) As at st 31  March, 2015 As at st 31  March, 2014 (i) Liabilities  Depletion of Producing Properties  228,520.78  218,766.58  Depreciation Allocated to Wells in Progress and  21,984.40  23,002.57  expenses relating to NELP  blocks    Unamortised Expenditure written off  3,385.09  3,718.06  Development Wells-in-Progress  11,103.75  10,052.58  Others  12,511.65  7,300.79  Total  (i) 277,505.67 262,840.58 (ii) Assets Depreciation 14,670.18 19,978.75 Exploratory wells written off 29,079.78 18,340.46 Provision for Non Moving Inventories 1,762.13 1,876.75 Provision for Doubtful Debts/Claims/Advances/Interest Accrued 4,858.02 4,270.17 Provision for Abandonment 34,364.43 38,633.84 Provision towards Additional Profit Petroleum & interest thereon 3,638.61 3,426.45 Provisions unpaid u/s 43B of Income T ax Act, 1961 1,735.81 766.87 Others 10,065.17 9,760.51 Total (ii) 100,174.13 97,053.80 DEFERRED TAX LIABILITY (Net) (i - ii) 177,331.54 165,786.78 Disclosure under Accounting Standard-22 on 'Accounting for T axes on Income' is as under: (` in million) (` in million) 6.
Other Long term Liabilities 7.
Long Term Provisions As at st 31  March, 2015 As at st 31  March, 2015 As at st 31  March, 2014 As at st 31  March, 2014 T rade payables - Outstanding dues to other than Micro & Small Enterprises  720.24  998.01  Others - Deposits from Suppliers and Contractors 252.34  31.23  - Liability for Capital Goods  94.62  88.60  - Liquidated Damages deducted  9,538.19  9,904.05  - Other Liabilities  683.46  757.20  TOTAL 11,288.85  11,779.09  Provision for Employee benefits (Note 37.1.1) Post Retirement Medical & T erminal Benefits  26,421.00  23,329.52  Long Service Reward (Note 37.1.6.b)  -    5,207.47  Gratuity for Contingent Employees (Note 37.9)  73.44  71.08  Provision for Abandonment (Note 43)  227,137.68  228,022.08  Provision for Others (Note 43)  801.67  640.57  TOTAL 254,433.79 257,270.72  Particulars Particulars Particulars Standalone Financial Statement 219 (` in million) (` in million) 8.
Short Term borrowings As at st 31  March, 2015 As at st 31  March, 2014 Secured Short Term Loans from Banks (Note-8.1)  13,930.00  -    (Repayble on demand) TOTAL  13,930.00 -  10.1 No amount is due for deposit in Investor Education and Protection Fund.
Particulars (` in million)10.
Other current liabilities As at st 31  March, 2015 As at st 31  March, 2014 Interest Accrued but not due on Loans 3.59  -    Advance from Customers  512.09  26,202.83  Unclaimed Dividend (Note-10.1)  247.24  242.01  Liability for Capital Goods  17,161.04  18,926.10  Liability for Statutory Payments  28,414.46  17,395.01  Deposits from Suppliers and Contractors  2,984.65  6,914.34  Liability for Employees  5,804.80  9,414.76  Liability for Post Retirement Benefit Scheme  1,125.95  1,142.43  Cash call payable to JV Partners  18,527.83  9,927.26  Liquidated damages deducted  8,110.86  10,666.22  Other Liabilities  20,045.56  18,426.49  TOTAL  102,938.07  119,257.45  Particulars (` in million)11.
Short Term provisions As at st 31  March, 2015 As at st 31  March, 2014 Particulars Provision for Employees  Benefits (Note-37.1.1) Unavailed Leave (Note-37.1.2 & 37.1.3)4,123.49 2,566.68 Post Retirement Medical & T erminal Benefits 1,630.27 1,445.70 Long Service Reward (Note 37.1.6.b)  -   646.86  Gratuity for Contingent Employees (Note 37.9)  5.28 4.20  Provision for Abandonment (Note-43) 405.93 417.11  Provision for income tax net of Advance tax and TDS  8,565.20 -    Provision for Others Proposed Dividend 4,277.75 2,138.87  T ax on Proposed Dividend 870.85 363.50  Provision for Wealth tax  115.16  126.00  Less: Paid 65.17 49.99 58.82 67.18  Other Provisions (Note-43) 47.02 165.29  TOTAL 19,975.78 7,815.39  8.1 Secured against `17,340 million of principal amount of T erm deposit receipt.
9 T rade Payables As at st 31  March, 2015 As at st 31  March, 2014 - Outstanding dues to Micro & Small Enterprises (Note - 47)  74.99  81.44  - Outstanding dues to other than Micro & Small Enterprises  54,816.04  63,643.37  TOTAL  54,891.03  63,724.81  Particulars Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 220 12.
Tangible Assets Land Freehold  4,256.66  459.85  46.41  4,670.10  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    4,670.10  4,256.66  Land Leasehold  5,780.76  16.36  2.47  5,794.65  628.19  124.46  0.76  751.89  -    -    -    -    -    5,042.76  5,152.57  Building & Bunk Houses  22,641.04  2,340.08  (660.95)  25,642.07  9,882.47  2,742.03  (330.19)  12,954.69  125.84  1.27  -    -    127.11  12,560.27  12,632.73  Plant & Equipment  1,025,353.81  61,521.20  6,773.66  1,080,101.35  751,261.91  48,331.20  5,349.78  794,243.33  1,927.18  17.68  1.01  -    1,943.85  283,914.17  272,164.72  Furnitures & Fixtures  6,974.78  801.39  323.43  7,452.74  4,537.82  1,038.24  136.00  5,440.06  12.29  1.54  0.05  -    13.78  1,998.90  2,424.67  Vehicles#  7,314.72  2,691.18  477.84  9,528.06  4,300.58  1,043.26  449.72  4,894.12  10.25  -    -    -    10.25  4,623.69  3,003.89  Office Equipment  6,364.84  968.30  561.68  6,771.46  3,686.76  1,724.08  62.23  5,348.61  21.43  2.41  2.34  -    21.50  1,401.35  2,656.65  Total  1,078,686.61  68,798.36  7,524.54  1,139,960.43  774,297.73  55,003.27  5,668.30  823,632.70  2,096.99  22.90  3.40  -    2,116.49  314,211.24  302,291.89  Previous Year  963,840.67  118,359.55  3,513.61  1,078,686.61  687,737.04  89,901.03  3,340.34  774,297.73  2,066.83  78.43  8.22  40.05  2,096.99  302,291.89  Share in Joint Ventures  74,089.54  12,833.45  2,596.36  84,326.63  54,511.51  4,391.56  2,542.17  56,360.90  821.73  -    -    -    821.73  27,144.00  18,756.30  Previous Year  67,697.26  6,421.52  29.24  74,089.54  48,775.46  5,749.19  13.14  54,511.51  797.53  24.20  -    -    821.73  18,756.30  Description st  At 1   April, 2014 st  At 1   April, 2014 st  At 1 April, 2014 For the year For the year Written back/ Adjustments Re classification/ Adjustments Additions Gross Block Accumulated Depreclation Accumulated Impairment Net Block Deletion/ Adjustments Deletion/ Adjustments st  At 31   March, 2015 st  At 31   March, 2015 st  At 31 March, 2015 st  At 31   March, 2015 st   At 31 March, 2014 # Vehicles includes Survey Ships, Crew Boats and Helicopters.
Vehicles also include cost of 20 (Previous year 10) Immediate suppor t vessels (ISV) amounting to 2,595.16 million (Previous year  1079.50 million) handed over for operation by Indian Navy for security of the offshore installation.
Notes 12.1 Land includes lands in respect of cer tain projects for which execution of lease/conveyance deeds are in process.
12.2 Registration of title deeds in respect of cer tain Buildings is pending execution.
12.3 Depreciation for the year includes -0.04 million per taining to prior period (Previous Year 48.02 million).
12.4 Building includes cost of undivided interest in land.
st 12.5 Pursuant to the enactment of the Companies Act, 2013 the company has, effective from 1  April, 2014, revised the estimated useful life of its fixed assets generally in accordance with Schedule-II to  the Companies Act, 2013.
Accordingly, an amount of 1,548.55 million has been reduced from the accumulated depreciation and ₹1022.20 million has been adjusted in the opening balance of  retained earnings and ₹526.35 million adjusted against deferred tax  in respect of assets whose useful life has exhausted as at April 1, 2014.
The impact of change in useful lives as above on the  statement of profit and loss is not ascer tainable due to complexity of allocation of cost as mentioned at note no.2.
n.4.
` ` ` ` ` (` in million) Standalone Financial Statement 221 13.
Producing Properties Gross Cost   Opening Balance  (Note 13.2)  1,365,455.52  1,146,652.17  T ransfer from Exploratory Wells-in-Progress  10,189.11  8,950.30  T ransfer from Development Wells-in-Progress  68,439.05  92,576.75  Depreciation on Facilities  33,475.86  64,756.79  Increase/(Decrease) in estimated Abandonment costs  (3,624.27)  52,578.56  Other Adjustments (Note 13.3)  (6,031.50) 1,467,903.77  (59.05) 1,365,455.52  Less: Depletion & Impairment     Depletion  Opening Balance  704,025.21  618,948.25  Depletion for the year (Note 13.1, 32 & 35)  97,651.46  85,076.96  Other Adjustments (Note 13.3)  (5,676.86) 795,999.81  -   704,025.21      Impairment Opening Balance  3,597.67  3,296.81  Impairment provided during the year  1,386.05  417.20  Write back of Impairment  (190.05) 4,793.67  (116.34) 3,597.67     NET PRODUCING PROPERTIES  667,110.29  657,832.64  As at  st 31  March, 2015 As at  st 31  March, 2014 Particulars 13.1 During the previous year 2013-14, PMT JV had  downgraded reserves for the Mid and South T apti  fields due to geological surprises.
As a result, the  production profile is envisaged only up to 2015-16  and the sale realization (net of operating expenses  and statutory levies) is being transferred to Site  Restoration Fund pursuant to the Production  Sharing Contract.
Under these circumstances, the  field has been fully depleted and depletion  aggregating to 184.69 million (Previous year  9,090.44 million) has been charged to the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
Similarly, as at March  31, 2015, the provision for impairment of 263.62  million (Previous year 441.87 million) representing  the net asset value and Capital Work in Progress in  Tapti field has been carried in the financial  statements.
13.2 In respect of Ratna R series field, a producing field of  the company, MOPNG had during 1995-96, issued  an award of the contract for development of the field  ` ` ` ` to a consortium of Essar Oil Limited and Premier Oil  limited consequent to which the company stopped  production.
Pending the execution of the Production  Sharing Contract, the company continues to include  2,313.96 million in gross producing property  (including provision for abandonment of 891.74  million.)
The said field has been fully impaired and  the net carrying amount as at March 31, 2015 is Nil.
13.3 Other adjustment includes an amount of 4,196.00  million which Government of India (GoI) vide letter  st dated 1  January, 2015, has reimbursed as  compensation for past costs incurred by ONGC in  certain discovered fields awarded to Joint Ventures/  Private Companies.
Accordingly an amount of  257.17 million has been adjusted against the Net  Carrying Amount of assets of Panna, Mukta, T apti  and Ravva fields and balance amount of 3,938.83  million has been accounted for as other income  during the year.
` ` ` ` ` (` in million) Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 222 14.
Intangible Assets As at  st 31  March, 2015 As at  st 31  March, 2014 As at  st 31  March, 2014 Share in Joint Venture As at  st 31  March, 2015 Application Software Gross Block Opening Balance  6,357.79  6,300.68  99.96  92.76  Additions during the year  504.35  112.03  8.66  7.20  Deletions/Adjustments  97.32  54.92  1.45  -    Closing Balance  6,764.82  6,357.79  107.17  99.96  Amortisation Opening Balance  5,834.91  5,480.46  54.93  38.29  Provided during the year  308.52  409.37  20.62  16.64  Deletions/Adjustments  96.95  54.92  1.08  -    Closing Balance  6,046.48  5,834.91  74.47  54.93  Impairment Opening Balance  22.27  22.27  -    -    Provided during the year  0.03  -    -    -    Closing Balance  22.30  22.27  -    -    Net Block as at the year end  696.04  500.61  32.70  45.03  15.
Capital Works-In-Progress Acquisition Costs-E&P Asset  28.59  28.59  Buildings  5,665.95  4,605.30  Plant and Equipment (Note-15.1)  119,545.11  106,608.89  Capital Stores (including in transit)  3,953.76  7,686.30  Less: Provision for Non-Moving Items  87.00 129,077.82  77.51 118,822.98      Less: Impairment Opening Balance  2,401.23  2,331.14  Provided during the year  164.52  686.78  Other adjustments (Note -34)  (354.09)  -    Write back of Impairment  (11.83) 2,199.83  (616.69) 2,401.23      NET CAPITAL WORKS-IN-PROGRESS  126,906.58  116,450.34  As at  st 31  March, 2015 As at  st 31  March, 2014 Particulars (` in million) (` in million) 15.1 Plant and Equipment includes an amount of 8,448.52 million (Previous Year 8,436.64 million) in respect of Capital  Works in Progress (CWIP) for C2-C3 plant (including C3-C4 blending and recycling facilities) which is mechanically  complete and will be capitalized on completion of test run.
` ` Standalone Financial Statement 223 16.
Exploratory/Development Wells in Progress A) EXPLORATORY WELLS-IN-PROGRESS Gross Cost Opening Balance  133,955.37  86,489.94  Expenditure during the year  111,701.28  116,872.08   Less: Sale proceeds of Oil and Gas  {(Net of levies `49.19 million)   (Previous year `148.65 million)} 547.85 111,153.43  470.54 116,401.54     Depreciation during the year (Note no.
32)  3,284.45  2,506.44  248,393.25  -    205,397.92  Less : T ransfer to Producing Properties  10,189.11  8,950.30  Wells written off during the year  88,137.36  62,508.91  Other adjustments  2,638.80 100,965.27  (16.66) 71,442.55     147,427.98  133,955.37  Less: Provisions (Note-16.1)/Impairment (Note-42.6) Opening Balance  24,518.71  17,169.79  Provided during the year  1,177.50  7,348.92  Write back during the year  (1,203.23) 24,492.98  -   24,518.71     Exploratory Wells-In-Progress (A) 122,935.00  109,436.66  B) DEVELOPMENT WELLS-IN-PROGRESS Opening Balance  30,303.45  35,820.64  Expenditure during the year  71,963.72  85,188.40  Depreciation during the year (Note no.
32)  3,297.72  1,871.16  Less: T ransfer to Producing Properties  68,439.05 37,125.84  92,576.75 30,303.45     Less: Impairment Opening Balance  612.52  382.05  Provided during the year  563.03  264.47  Write back during the year  -   1,175.55  (34.00) 612.52   DEVELOPMENT WELLS-IN-PROGRESS (B)  35,950.29  29,690.93  EXPLORATORY/DEVELOPMENT  WELLS-IN-PROGRESS (A+B)  158,885.29  139,127.59  As at  st 31  March, 2015 As at  st 31  March, 2014 Particulars (` in million) 16.1 During the Financial year 2004-05, the company  had acquired 90% Participating Interest in  Exploration Block KG-DWN-98/2 from M/s Cairn  Energy India Ltd. for a lump sum consideration of  `3,711.22 million which, together with subsequent  exploratory drilling costs of wells had been  capitalised under exploratory wells in progress.
During the financial year 2012-13, the company  had acquired the remaining 10% participating  interest in the block from M/s Cairn Energy India  Ltd. on actual past cost basis for a consideration of  2,124.44 million.
Initial in-place reserves have  been established in this block and adhering to  ` original PSC time lines, a Declaration of  Commerciality (DoC) with a conceptual cluster  development plan was submitted on 21.12.2009  for Southern Discovery Area and on 15.07.2010 for  Northern Discovery Area.
Thereafter, in the  revised DoC submitted in December, 2013, Cluster  wise development of the Block had been  envisaged by division of entire development area  into three clusters.
The DoC in respect of Cluster II  has been reviewed by the Management  Committee (MC) of the block on 25.09.2014 and  preparation of Field Development Plan (FDP) in  progress.
The review of DOC in respect of Cluster I  Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 224 and Cluster III by the MC is pending as on  st 31  March, 2015.
The exploration period of this block had been  restructured by Government up to 29.12.2013 in  accordance with the Rig Holiday Policy and  further extended to 25.1.2014.
Under the New  Policy guidelines in this regard, the Government  has permitted the contractor to undertake  appraisal drilling, seismic API and related activities  till submission of FDP which is currently underway  and drilling of two appraisal wells is in progress.
Pending approval of FDP by the MC in respect of  Cluster II and review of DoC by the MC in respect  of Cluster I and III, as a matter of abundant caution,  the company has retained the provision of  17,216.18 million (Previous Year 17,210.82   million) towards acquisition costs and cost of  exploratory wells.
` ` A.
TRADE INVESTMENTS Investment in Equity Instruments (i) Investment in Subsidiaries (a) ONGC Videsh Limited-(Unquoted) 1,000,000,000 100 100,000.00 100,000.00 (Note 17.4) (1,000,000,000) (b) Mangalore Refinery and 1,255,354,097 10 10,405.73 10,405.73 Petrochemicals Limited (Quoted) (1,255,354,097) (c) ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals  Limited (unquoted) (Note- 17.1) 920,000,000 10 9,200.00 119,605.73 - 110,405.73 - (ii) Investment in Associate (a) Pawan Hans Limited (formerly 120,350 10,000 1,203.50 1,203.50 known as "Pawan Hans Helicopter  Ltd") (Unquoted) Ex tent of holding 49% (120,350) (previous year 49%)  (iii) Investment in Joint Venture  Companies Unquoted (a) Petronet MHB Limited.
157,841,000 10 1,578.41 1,578.41 (157,841,000) (b) Mangalore SEZ Limited.
13,000,000 10 130.00 130.00 (13,000,000) (c) ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals - 10 - 0.23 Limited (Note-17.1) (23,000) (d) ONGC Petro Additions Limited 997,955,639 10 9,979.55 9,979.55 (Note-17.2) (997,955,639) (e) ONGC Teri Biotech Limited 24,990 10 0.25 0.25 (24,990) (f) ONGC Tripura Power Company 267,489,998 10 2,674.90 2,674.90 Limited (Note-17.2) (267,489,998) 17.
Non-Current Investments Particulars (` in million)          As at  st 31  March, 2015 As at  st  31 March, 2014 No.
of  Fully Paid  Shares/ Bonds/Units Face Value per Share/ Bond/Unit  (in `) Standalone Financial Statement 225 (g) Dahej SEZ Limited 23,025,000 10 230.25 230.25  (23,025,000) Quoted Patronet LNG Limited 93,750,000 10 987.50 15,580.86 987.50 15,581.09 (93,750,000) (iv) Investment in Others (a) Indian Oil Corporation Limited- 334,303,814 1040,427.97 40,427.97 (Quoted) (334,303,814) (b) GAIL (India) Limited (Quoted) 61,259,323 10 2,451.06 2,451.06 (61,259,323) (c) Oil Spill Response Limited 100 0.01 0.01 (Unquoted) (Note-17.3) (100) 42,879.04 42,879.04 Total (A) 179,269.13 170,069.36 B. NON-TRADE INVESTMENTS Investment in Government or  197,370 10,000 1,973.70 1,973.70 Trust Securities (Unquoted) (197,370) 8.40%  GoI Special Bonds 2025 Total (B) 1,973.70 1,973.70 Total Non-current Investment (A+B) 181,242.83 172,043.06 Total Quoted Investments 54,272.26 54,272.26 Total Unquoted Investments 126,970.57 117,770.80 181,242.83 172,043.06   Total Market Value of Quoted Investment 247,691.15 189,917.38 Particulars (` in million)          As at  31st March, 2015 As at  st  31 March, 2014 No.
of  Fully Paid  Shares/ Bonds/Units Face Value per Share/ Bond/Unit  (in `) th 17.1 With effect from 28  February, 2015, ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited has become subsidiary (previous  year Joint venture) of ONGC on account of direct holding of 48.99% (previous year 46%) and indirect holding of  51.00% (previous year 3%) stake through subsidiary company MRPL.
17.2 The Company is restrained from diluting the investment in the respective companies till the sponsored loans are  fully repaid as per the covenants in the loan agreements.
17.3 Shares of Oil Spill response limited valued at GBP one each at the time of issuance.
T otal value in INR at the time of  issuance of shares was `6,885/-.
17.4 Loan to ONGC Videsh limited (wholly owned subsidiary) amounting to Nil (previous year 50,000 million) has been  converted into nil (previous year 500 million) fully paid Equity Shares of 100 each.
` ` Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 226 18.
Long Term Loans and Advances (Unsecured, considered good unless otherwise stated) Capital Advances  1,530.90  65.39 Deposits  With Customs/Port T rusts etc.
23.24  22.96  Others - Considered Good  3,731.49  3,251.90  - Considered Doubtful  1,010.69  629.88 4,765.42  3,904.74  Less: Provision for Doubtful Deposits  1,010.69 3,754.73  629.88 3,274.86    Advances to Related Party against Equity pending 12,150.88 18,834.11 allotment (Note no.
39.3.1)    Loans & Advances to Subsidiaries  98,713.58  92,343.43 Loans to Public Sector Undertakings - Considered Good  -    -    - Considered Doubtful 240.50 240.50  Less : Provision for Doubtful Loans  240.50 -  240.50 -    Loans & Advances to Associate (Secured) 33.20  367.84  Loans and Advances to Employees (Note-18.1) - Secured and Considered Good 7,739.54  7,612.28  - Unsecured and Considered Good  501.07  502.58  - Unsecured and Considered Doubtful  7.48  1.73  Less: Provision for Doubtful Loans/Advances  7.48 8,240.61  1.73 8,114.86    Advance Recoverable in Cash or in kind or  value to be received - Considered Good (Note 18.3)  7,008.03  7,354.33  - Considered Doubtful (Note-18.2)  14,931.69  13,141.40 Less: Provision for Doubtful Claims/Advances  14,931.69 7,008.03 13,141.40 7,354.33 Cash Call Receivable from JV Partners - Considered Good 339.52 340.27  - Considered Doubtful  6,451.35 6,245.07  Less: Provision for Doubtful Claims/Advances  6,451.35 339.52  6,245.07 340.27 MAT Credit Entitlement  -    2,800.00 Advance Payment of Income T ax  256,636.83  329,320.26 Less: Provision for Income T ax  193,700.08 62,936.75  281,031.74 48,288.52 TOTAL 194,708.20 181,783.61 As at  st  31 March, 2015 As at  st  31 March, 2014 Particulars (` in million) Standalone Financial Statement 227 18.1 Loans and advances to employees include an  amount of `0.24 million (Previous Year `0.37  million) outstanding from Key Managerial  Personnel.
18.2 In Ravva Joint Venture, the demand towards  additional profit petroleum raised by Government  of India (GoI), due to differences in interpretation  of the provisions of the Production Sharing  Contract (PSC) in respect of computation of Post  T ax Rate of Return (PTRR), based on the decision  of the Malaysian High Court setting aside an earlier  arbitral tribunal award in favour of operator, was  disputed by the operator M/s Cairn India Ltd.
The  company is not a party to the dispute but has  agreed to abide by the decision applicable to the  operator.
The company had made a provision  towards the claim made by the GoI in earlier years  and the amount of provision outstanding as on  th 31  Mar, 2015 is `10,513.79 million (equivalent to  USD 167.84 million) after adjustments for interest  and exchange rate fluctuations.
The GoI had  recovered the above amount [including interest  thereon USD 54.88 million (`3437.68 million)]  from the company in earlier years which has  been carried as recoverable under Long T erm  Loans and advances in the Balance Sheet as at  st  31 March, 2015.
In subsequent legal proceedings, the Appellate  Authority of the Honourable Malaysian High Court  of Kuala Lumpur had set aside the decision of the  Malaysian High Court and the earlier decision of  arbitral tribunal in favour of operator was restored,  against which the GoI has preferred an appeal  before the Federal Court of Malaysia.
The Federal  Cour t of Malaysia, vide its order dated  th 11  October, 2011, has dismissed the said appeal  of the GoI.
The company has taken up the matter regarding  refund of the recoveries made in view of the  favorable judgment of the Federal Court of  Malaysia with MoP&NG.
However, according to a  th communication dated 13  January, 2012 received,  MoP&NG expressed the view that ONGC’s  proposal would be examined when the issue of  ONGC carry under Ravva PSC is decided in its  entirety by the Government along with other  partners.
In view of the perceived uncertainties in obtaining  the refund at this stage, the provision made in the  books as above has been retained and netted off  against the amount recoverable as above in the  st financial statements for the year ending 31  Mar  2015.
(Figures in INR are reinstated).
18.3 During the financial year 2010-11, the Oil  Marketing Companies, nominees of the GoI  recovered USD 32.07 million (`2,009.02 million)  ONGC’s share as per directives of GoI in respect of  Jointly Controlled Assets-Panna Mukta and T apti.
The recovery is towards certain observations  raised by auditors appointed by the Director  General of Hydrocarbons (DGH) under Production  Sharing Contract (PSC) for the period 2002-03 to  2005-06 in respect of cost and profit petroleum  share payable to GoI.
BGEPIL along with RIL  (“Claimants”) have served a notice of arbitration  on the GoI in respect of dispute, differences and  claims arisen in connection with the term of Panna,  Mukta and T apti PSCs.
Since the company is not a  party to the arbitration proceedings, it had  requested MoP&NG that in case of an arbitral  award the same be made applicable to ONGC  also, as a constituent of contractor for both the  PSCs.
Subsequently, vide letter dated July 4, 2011  MoP&NG has advised ONGC not to participate in  the arbitration initiated by RIL and BGEPIL under  Panna Mukta and T apti PSCs.
MoP&NG has also  stated that in case of an arbitral award, the same  will be applicable to ONGC also as a constituent of  the contractor for both the PSCs.
Pending final  arbitral award, the same has been shown as  Receivable from GoI under ‘ Advance Recoverable  in Cash or Kind or Value to be Received’ under  Long T erm Loans and Advances.
(Figures in INR  are reinstated).
19.
Deposit under Site Restoration Fund Scheme: A sum of `125,443.80 million till 31.03.2015  (previous year `113,101.59 million) has been  deposited with banks under section 33ABA of the  Income T ax Act, 1961 and can be withdrawn only  for the purposes specified in the Scheme i.e.
towards removal of equipments and installations in  a manner agreed with Central Government  pursuant to an abandonment plan to prevent  hazards to life, property, environment etc.
This  amount is considered as restricted cash and  hence not considered as ‘cash and cash  equivalents’.
Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 228 21.
Inventories* Raw Materials (Condensate) 4.92 4.61  Finished Goods (Note 21.1)  8,670.87 6,997.45 T raded Goods  1.48 0.61  Stores and spare parts -  on hand  52,760.63 51,995.52  -  in transit (including inter-project transfers)  3,042.53 5,111.51   55,803.16 57,107.03  Less: Provision for non-moving items 5,004.68 50,798.48 5,411.10 51,695.93   Unserviceable Items 159.52 126.81 TOTAL  59,635.27 58,825.41 As at  st  31 March, 2015 As at  st  31 March, 2014 20.
Other Non-Current Assets (Unsecured, Considered Good unless otherwise stated)  A.
Long Term T rade Receivables - Considered Good  1,239.98 863.62 - Considered Doubtful  1,299.80 947.99  Less : Provision for doubtful receivables 1,299.80 1,239.98 947.99 863.62 B.
Other Receivables - Considered Good  17.22 14.17 - Considered Doubtful 516.63 521.48  Less: Provision for doubtful receivables 516.63 17.22 521.48 14.17 C. Interest Accrued - On Employee Loans and Advances (Secured)  2,998.57 2,951.13 On Deposits  22.76 26.40 On Other Loans & Advances - Considered Good  118.73 100.32 - Considered Doubtful 22.87 41.89  141.60 142.21  Less: Provision for doubtful interest accrued 22.87 118.73 41.89 100.32 D. Unamortised Expenditure - Dry Docking Charges  4,426.69 6,621.33 - Mobilisation Charges  1,138.05 5,564.74 742.99 7,364.32 TOTAL  9,962.00 11,319.96 As at  st  31 March, 2015 As at  st  31 March, 2014 (` in million) (` in million) * valued as per accounting "policy no.l" 21.1     This includes an amount of `7.68 million (previous year `3.66 million) in respect of Carbon Credits.
Particulars Particulars Standalone Financial Statement 229 (` in million) (` in million) 22.
T rade Receivables 23.
Cash and Cash Equivalents As at st 31  March, 2015 As at st 31  March, 2015 As at st 31  March, 2014 As at st 31  March, 2014 (Unsecured, Considered Good unless otherwise stated)   - Outstanding for a period exceeding six months from the due date  10,138.23 3,396.05  - Others 125,644.51 78,260.65 TOTAL  135,782.74 81,656.70  Balances with Banks  2,269.61 1,388.09 Cash on Hand  6.73 6.27 Short T erm Investment in Mutual Funds  - 12,052.40    Bank Deposits  (Note-23.1 & 8.1)  25,077.10 94,300.00 Unclaimed Dividend Account (Note-23.2)  247.24 242.01  TOTAL  27,600.68 107,988.77 23.1 The deposits maintained by the company with banks comprise time deposit, which can be withdrawn by the  company at any point without prior notice or penalty on the principal.
23.2 Amount deposited in unclaimed dividend account is earmarked for payment of dividend and cannot be used for  any other purpose.
24.
Short Term Loans and Advances (Unsecured, Considered Good unless otherwise stated)  Deposits      With Customs/Port T rusts etc.
4.45 4.49     Others (Note no.
24.1 & 31.2)  33,259.70 33,264.15 4,809.69 4,814.18     Loans to Associate (Secured) 334.64 350.45   Loans to Subsidiaries  6,857.20 6,857.20  Receivable from Subsidiaries  402.65 810.87 Loans and Advances to Employees (Note 24.2) Secured and Considered good 2,036.42 2,030.47  Unsecured and Considered good 399.60 2,436.02 473.78 2,504.25 Cash Call Receivable from JV Partners 7,809.49 8,389.09 Advance Recoverable in Cash or in kind or  value to be received  18,372.62 19,943.56   TOTAL  69,476.77 43,669.60  As at st 31  March, 2015 As at st 31  March, 2014 (` in million) 24.1 Includes 21,067.60 million (Previous year 2,092.23 million) towards differential royalty being deposited from  st 1  February, 2014 as per the interim order of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India.
(also refer Note no.
44.1.1.b)  24.2 Includes an amount of 0.13 million (Previous Year 0.13 million) outstanding from Key Managerial Personnel.
` ` ` ` Particulars Particulars Particulars Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 230 25.
Other Current Assets 26.
Revenue From Operations Secured, considered good Interest  accrued on Employee Loans and Advances  296.61 246.15    Unsecured, considered good  Interest Accrued  - On Investments 1.38  1.38   - On Deposits  1,406.36 1,270.20  - On Loans & Advances  14.19 1,421.93 24.92 1,296.50 Unamortised Expenditure  - Dry Docking Charges  3,581.16 2,933.68  - Mobilisation Charges  635.33 4,216.49 640.69 3,574.37 Other Current Assets *  3,202.05 1,175.50  TOTAL 9,137.08 6,292.52 A.
Sale of Products Own Products  856,872.65  873,702.43  Less: T ransfer to Wells in progress {includes levies  of `49.19 million (Previous year `148.65 million)}  597.04  522.58  Less: Government of India's (GoI's) share in  Profit Petroleum  32,847.82  38,526.99  823,427.79  834,652.86 T raded Products  60.08 823,487.87  44.42 834,697.28     B.
Other Operating Revenue Contractual Short Lifted Gas Receipts (Note 26.4)  224.15  80.21  Pipeline T ransportation Receipts  697.77  691.61  North-East Gas Subsidy (Note 26.5)  2,702.83  2,366.91  Surplus from Gas Pool Account (Note 26.6)  3,267.04  3,720.47  Production Bonus  109.03  57.29  Processing Charges  445.98 7,446.80  414.03 7,330.52     TOTAL 830,934.67  842,027.80  As at  st 31  March, 2015 2014-15 As at  st 31  March, 2014 2013-14 (` in million) (` in million) *Includes receivable of `532.02 million (Previous Year `442.80 million) from Gratuity T rust as funded status is more  than obligation.
Particulars Particulars Standalone Financial Statement 231 26.2 For Crude Oil produced in Assam, sales revenue is  based on the pricing formula provided by  MoP&NG.
Revenue from rest of nominated crude is  accounted in terms of Crude Oil Sales Agreements  (COSAs) already signed and made effective from  st 1  April, 2010.
26.3 During the previous year, based on the directives  issued by MoP&NG and Petroleum Planning and  st Analysis Cell (PPAC) vide letters dated 31  May,  st 2012 and 1  June, 2012 respectively, w.e.f.
1st April,  2012, refineries started making deductions from  ONGC payments towards Octroi/ VAT/ CST on  discounts allowed by ONGC to refineries on  supplies of crude oil.
T otal deduction made by  st th refineries on this account from 1  April, 2012 to 30   September, 2013 amounting to 25,032.60 million  (includes 15,846.70 million for the year 2012-13)  was provided for.
The company had revised the  sales revenue and corresponding statutory levies  st w.e.f.
1  April 2012 onwards, considering deductions  made by refineries based on MoP&NG directives.
th Aforesaid provision made by the Company till 30   September, 2013 had also been written back.
26.4 Recognition of revenue on account of Short Lifted  Gas amounting to 1,774.13 million (Previous Year  1,253.74 million) has been postponed.
This will be  recognized when there is reasonable certainty  regarding ultimate collection as per the policy of the  company.
26.5 Sales revenue of Natural Gas is based on gas price  fixed by GoI from time to time.
Till October’14, sales  st revenue is based on MoP&NG order dated 31   st May’10 wherein effective from 1  June’10, the price  of APM gas produced by NOCs was fixed at US$  4.2/mmbtu less royalty (on NCV basis).
On  ` ` ` ` th 25  October’14, GoI notified “New Domestic  Natural Gas Pricing Guidelines, 2014” applicable  st from 1  November’14.
Under said guidelines, price  of domestic gas produced in India during  st st 1  November’14 to 31  March’15 has been fixed as  US$ 5.05/mmbtu (on GCV basis).
For gas  consumers in North-East, consumer price is 60% of  the producer price and the difference between  producer price and consumer price is paid to the  company through GoI Budget and shown as  ‘North-East Gas Subsidy’.
26.6 The company is supplying majority of Natural gas  to Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) which also  purchases gas from other sources and sells to APM  and non-APM consumers.
Based on the  Government directives, excess in Gas Pool  Account at the end of financial year is transferred to  ONGC/ OIL in accordance with their contribution.
Based on the details received from GAIL, an  amount of 2,292.30 million (Previous year  3,508.10 million) for Gas Pool Receipts for the  current year and 974.74 million (Previous year  212.37 million) on account of interest on Gas Pool  Account has been considered as ‘Surplus from  Gas Pool Account’.
` ` ` ` (` in million) 2014-15 2013-14 Gross Revenue 362,996.20 563,842.85 Less: Value Added T ax (VAT) 10,025.10 17,841.84 Sales Revenue 352,971.10 546,001.01 Less: Statutory Levies 43,374.95 68,440.26 Profit Before Tax 309,596.15 477,560.75 Decrease in 26.1 In terms of the decision of Government of India (GOI), the company has shared 362,996.20 million (Previous Year  563,842.85 million) towards under-recoveries of Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) on price sensitive products  th th viz.
Diesel (till 18   October’14), Domestic LPG and PDS Kerosene for the year 2014-15 (Nil in 4  quarter of FY  2014-15 as per GoI directives) by extending the discount in the prices of Crude Oil, Domestic LPG and PDS  Kerosene based on the rates of discount communicated by Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) and  Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (MoP&NG).
The impact of discount is as under: ` ` Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 232 2014-15 2013-14Products QuantityUnit QuantityValue (` in  million) Value (` in  million) 27     Quantitative Details of Sales Revenue  Crude Oil* MT  24,106,063  567,710.93  23,605,821  561,680.71  Less: From Exploratory areas  15,328  397.40  2,339  61.63  Less: Government of India's share  in Profit Petroleum  30,675.91  536,637.62  35,885.46  525,733.62  3 Natural Gas* 000M  17,983,442  189,752.42  19,632,724  186,393.70  Less: From Exploratory areas  29,045  199.64  51,398  460.95  Less: Government of India's share  in Profit Petroleum  2,171.91  187,380.87  2,641.53  183,291.22  Liquified Petroleum Gas MT  1,090,432  34,379.87  1,073,413  30,145.14  Naphtha MT  1,124,307  50,834.86  1,378,894  75,742.79  Ethane/Propane MT  337,294  10,063.93  428,399  14,836.58  Superior Kerosene Oil MT  74,215  2,770.55  85,187  2,779.17  Low Sulphur Heavy Stock MT  18,662  704.92  28,455  1,295.06  High Speed Diesel (HSD) MT  5,638  312.00  8,369  522.43  HSD incl.
ULS HSD (Trading) KL  385  21.57  54  2.95  Motor Spirit (Trading) KL  534  38.22  542  41.06  Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF) MT  5,325  285.72  3,301  220.03  Liquid Diesel Oil  -    -    26  1.70  Mineral Turpentine Oil MT  845  46.86  1,137  78.02  Others  10.88  7.51  TOTAL  823,487.87  834,697.28  * Quantity includes share from Joint Ventures as per the Participating Interest or Entitlement Interest, whichever is  applicable.
Standalone Financial Statement 233 28.
Other Income Interest  on: Long T erm  Investments  165.79  165.79  Deposits with Banks/PSUs  11,439.83  15,125.80  Loans and Advances to Subsidiaries and Associate  4,828.09  4,937.52  Loans and Advances to Employees  482.84 473.44 Income T ax Refund  3,371.10  2,395.49  Site Restoration Fund Deposit  10,031.12  9,432.74  Delayed Payment from Customers and Others  245.68 30,564.45  475.45 33,006.23 Dividend Income from: Investment in Associates  37.80  11.46  Other Long T erm Investments  3,641.15  2,173.11  Short T erm -Debt Mutual Funds  1,210.56 4,889.51  1,559.80 3,744.37 Other Non Operating Income Excess Provisions written back (Note 26.3 & 37.1.6.b) 6,456.33  16,328.86  Liabilities no longer payable written back  856.54  2,836.39  Contractual Receipts  605.31  1,310.16  Profit on sale of Investments  -    23.59  Miscellaneous Receipts* (Note 13.3)  10,293.53 18,211.71  9,882.39 30,381.39 TOTAL  53,665.67  67,131.99  2014-15 2013-14 (` in million) (` in million)29.
(Increase)/Decrease in Inventories 2014-15 2013-14 Closing Stock- Finished Goods and Stock in T rade 8,672.35  6,998.06 Opening Stock-  Finished Goods and Stock in T rade  6,998.06  8,040.86  (INCREASE)/DECREASE IN INVENTORIES*  (1,674.29)  1,042.80 Particulars Particulars * includes compensation of 821.90 million towards loss of oil & gas, received from Dedicated Freight Corridor  Corporation of India (DFCCIL).
` * includes decrease in value of crude oil stock of `623.00 million on account of Prior Period Adjustments.
Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 234 As at 31.03.2015 As at 31.03.2014Particulars QuantityUnit QuantityValue (` in  million) Value (` in  million) 30       Details of Opening and Closing Inventories: Opening stock     Crude Oil* MT 1,091,633 6,554.46 977,410 7,341.29 Liquefied Petroleum Gas MT 10,230 49.39 15,529 108.60 Naphtha MT 70,545 294.70 91,829 482.04 Ethane/Propane MT 650 11.01 477 7.32 Superior Kerosene Oil MT 8,690 30.95 9,520 28.26 Aviation Turbine Fuel MT 1,775 11.83 1,204 8.60 Low Sulphur Heavy Stock MT 102 1.64 565 9.34 High Speed Diesel MT 2,463 20.55 4,286 37.95 Propane MT - - 90 0.34 Mineral Turpentine Oil MT 144 2.79 164 3.24 High Speed Diesel ** KL 10 0.48 5 0.26 Motor Spirit** KL 1 0.13 8 0.49 Carbon Credits Units 140,277 3.66 10,508 0.56 Others  16.47 12.57 Total   6,998.06 8,040.86 Closing stock   Crude Oil* MT 949,050 8,048.78 1,091,633 6,554.46 Liquefied Petroleum Gas MT 7,858 73.28 10,230 49.39 Naphtha MT 97,389 458.79 70,545 294.70 Ethane/Propane MT 778 11.69 650 11.01 Superior Kerosene Oil MT 5,951 23.41 8,690 30.95 Aviation Turbine Fuel MT 478 2.28 1,775 11.82 Low Sulphur Heavy Stock MT 282 5.47 102 1.64 High Speed Diesel MT 1,535 30.19 2,463 20.55 Mineral Turpentine Oil MT 151 3.25 144 2.79 High Speed Diesel ** KL 25 0.96 10 0.48 Motor Spirit** KL 10 0.42 1 0.13 Carbon Credits Units 264,029 7.68 140,277 3.66 Others 6.15 16.48 TOTAL 8,672.35  6,998.06 * Includes Company’s share in stock of Joint venture.
** Purchased for trading.
Standalone Financial Statement 235 (` in million) 2014-15 2013-14 Royalty (Note 31.2)  116,079.01 114,889.79  Cess  102,535.02 99,733.91  Motor Spirit Cess  -  2.83  National Calamity Contingent Duty  1,123.42 1,097.40  Excise Duty on stock (Net) (Note-31.1)  (18.57) (48.87) Sales T ax  2,585.82 3,122.96  Service T ax  289.81 438.76  Education cess  90.85 2,348.31  Octroi and Port T rust Charges  6,083.06 4,896.60  Staff Expenditure  16,953.45 19,356.57  Workover Operations  21,015.21 20,944.08  Water Injection, Desalting and Demulsification  12,791.13 11,794.01  Consumption of Stores and Spares  6,118.74 5,753.24  Consumption of Raw Materials  664.43 887.53  Pollution Control  6,695.90 6,189.78  T ransport Expenses  4,220.30 3,971.37  Insurance  1,866.47 2,090.83  Power and Fuel  1,867.37 1,935.40  Repairs and Maintenance  9,723.74 9,143.15  Contractual payments including Hire charges etc.
16,646.31 14,403.13  Other Production Expenditure  4,947.89 5,100.75  T ransportation and Freight of Products  11,908.72 11,559.67  Research and Development  5,445.29 6,014.37  General Administrative Expenses  32,805.73 38,236.23  CSR expenditure  2,156.01 1,723.68  Exchange Loss (Net)  240.86 1,020.68  Other Expenditure  7,826.83 6,728.74  TOTAL  392,662.80 393,334.90  31.
Production, T ransportation, Selling And Distribution Expenditure 31.1 Excise duty on sale of product has been deducted from Sales revenue and Excise duty shown above represents the  difference between Excise duty on opening and closing stock of finished goods.
31.2 During the year, Government has directed the company to make following payments/adjustments towards  differential royalty at uniform rate of discount for the period 2008-09 to 2013-14 to the State and Central Government: Particulars Differential royalty payable to State Governments: ` in million Gujarat 16,440.00 Andhra Pradesh 1,260.00 T amil Nadu 220.00 Differential royalty recoverable from State/ Central Government : Assam 980.00 Central Government 9,310.00 Net differential royalty paid by ONGC 7,630.00 The same has been accounted for as expenditure on royalty on crude oil.
In the absence of any further directive, no  provision is considered necessary for the current year.
Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 236 (` in million) 2014-15 2013-14 33.3      Details of Nature wise Expenditure  Manpower Cost (a) Salaries, Wages, Ex-gratia etc.
68,260.95 64,241.44 (b) Contribution to Provident and other funds  9,447.01 9,026.52 (c) Provision for gratuity  (83.74)  (495.95) (d) Provision for leave  3,999.80 5,153.04 (e) Provision for Post Retirement Medical & T erminal Benefits 3,270.81 2,721.44 (f) Staff welfare expenses  1,404.08 23,404.04 Sub Total:  86,298.92  104,050.53  Consumption of Raw materials, Stores and Spares (Note-44.3) 49,526.55 51,246.56  Cess  102,550.46  99,737.56  National Calamity Contingent Duty  1,123.45  1,097.39  Excise Duty  2,206.49  3,075.85  Royalty  116,105.10  114,889.82  Sales T ax  2,592.96  3,122.99  Octroi and Port T rust Charges  6,083.50  4,896.64  Service T ax  289.81  438.76  Education cess  90.85  2,349.09  Rent  4,368.73  3,454.80  Rates and taxes  174.49  93.86  Hire charges of equipments and vehicles  133,029.22  142,686.33  Power, fuel and water charges  3,901.18  3,807.67  Contractual drilling, logging, workover etc.
64,607.40  58,279.47  Contractual security  4,752.38  4,030.52  Repairs to building  924.37  726.24  Repairs to plant and equipment  6,471.97  5,737.39  Other repairs  3,063.03  2,410.41  Insurance  3,540.45  4,064.91  Expenditure on T our / T ravel  3,835.78  3,709.08  CSR Expenditure (Note - 31.3.1)  2,156.01  1,723.68  Exchange Loss (Net)  240.86  1,020.68  Miscellaneous expenditure (Note - 31.3.2)  15,197.16  15,451.33   613,131.12  632,101.56  Less: Allocated to exploration, development drilling, capital jobs,  recoverables etc.
Excise duty adjusted against sales revenue  2,225.06  3,125.09  Prior Period Adjustment  -    2,609.20  Production, T ransportation, Selling and Distribution  Expenditure  218,243.26  233,032.37  392,662.80  393,334.90  Particulars Standalone Financial Statement 237 S.No.
Particulars In Cash Yet to be paid in cash Total     i. Construction/acquisition of any asset  2,447.73  348.55 2,796.28      ii.
On purpose other than (i) above 928.65 1,227.36 2,156.01 Total 3,376.38 1,575.91  4,952.29 31.3.2 The Expenditure in Note no 31.3 includes Statutory Auditors Remuneration  as under:  31.3.1 The CSR expenditure contains the following: a.
Gross amount required to be spent by the company during the year:  `6,606.12 million b.
Amount spent during the year on:  (` in million) Payment to Auditors (including service tax) 2014-15 2013-14 Audit Fees 15.17 11.24 Certification and Other Services 9.84 11.68 T ravelling and Out of Pocket Expenses 19.40 21.44 Total 44.41 44.36 (` in million) (` in million) 31.4 The expenditure incurred by various in house R&D institutes on scientific research eligible for deduction under section 35(2AB) of Income T ax Act, 1961 is as under: Particulars 2014-15 2013-14 Capital Expenditure 302.25 213.31 Revenue Expenditure 4,023.62 5,296.06 32.
Depreciation, Depletion, Amortization and Impairment Depletion 97,723.26 85,106.88  Depreciation & Amortisation 55,311.83 90,262.39  Less: Allocated to : Exploratory Drilling  3,284.45  2,506.43  Development Drilling  3,297.72  1,871.16  Depreciation on Facilities  33,475.86  64,756.79  Others  297.50 14,956.30  162.25 20,965.76     Impairment Loss (Note - 42) Provided during the year  3,308.68  3,993.34  Less: Reversed during the year  1,405.12 1,903.56  807.08 3,186.26     TOTAL  114,583.12  109,258.90  2014-15 2013-14 (` in million) Particulars Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 238 34.
Provisions and Write Offs PROVISIONS  For Doubtful Debts  358.30  130.55  For Doubtful Claims/Advances  1,174.58  771.45  For Non-Moving Inventories  147.22  976.04  For Others  44.94  96.16  Sub-Total  1,725.04  1,974.20  WRITE-OFFS Disposal/Condemnation of Fixed Assets 596.48  157.79  Less: Provision written back 354.09 242.39  -   157.79     Claims/Advances  28.08  1.20  Less: Provision 19.01  9.07  -    1.20  Inventory  139.10  55.31  Bad debts  -    129.96  Less: Provision written back  -   -  129.96 -       Sub-Total  390.56  214.30  TOTAL  2,115.60  2,188.50  2014-15 2013-14 (` in million) Particulars 33 Finance Cost (` in million) Particulars 2014-15 2013-14 i) On Short T erm Loan   14.83 -    ii) On Cash Credit   12.83 3.18  iii) Others  0.21 0.39  TOTAL  27.87 3.57  Standalone Financial Statement 239 (` in million) 2014-15 2013-14 A.
EXPENDITURE Statutory levies  (41.45)  -    Other production, selling & distribution expenditure  512.38 (255.98) Excess Abandonment Provision written back  (Refer Note No.
43) - (2,353.23) Survey  2.52  (6.30) Exploratory Wells written off  3,443.99  82.55  Depletion  (71.80) (29.93) Depreciation  (0.04)  48.02  Sub-Total  3,845.60  (2,514.87) B.
INCOME Sales  -    (13.36) Interest -Others  0.30  0.22  Other Income  6.21  0.13  Sub-Total  6.51  (13.01) TOTAL  3,839.09  (2,501.86) 35.
Adjustments Relating to Prior Period (Net)  Particulars 2014-15 2013-14 Net Profit after T ax (` in million)  177,329.54  220,948.07  Weighted average number of equity shares (No.
in million)  8,555.49  8,555.49  Basic & Diluted earnings per equity share (`)  20.73  25.83 Face Value per equity share (`)  5.00  5.00  36.
Earning Per Equity Share Particulars Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 240 37.
Disclosure under the Revised Accounting Standard -15 on “Employee Benefits” 37.1 Brief Description: A general description of the type of Employee Benefits Plans is as follows:  37.1.1 All the employee benefit plans of the Company are run as Group administration plans (Single Employer  Scheme) including employees seconded to ONGC Videsh Limited (OVL), 100% subsidiary.
37.1.2 Earned Leave (EL) Benefit   Accrual – 30 days per year Encashment while in service – 75% of Earned Leave balance subject to a maximum of 90 days per calendar year Encashment on retirement – maximum 300 days  37.1.3 Good Health Reward (Half pay leave)  Accrual - 20 days per year Encashment while in service - Nil Encashment on retirement - 50% of Half Pay Leave balance.
37.1.4 Gratuity  15 days salary for each completed year of service.
Vesting period is 5 years and the payment is restricted to `1.00  million.
37.1.5 Post-Retirement Medical Benefits  Upon payment of one time prescribed contribution by the employees, full medical benefits on superannuation and  on voluntary retirement subject to the completion of minimum 20 years of service and 50 years of age.
37.1.6 Terminal Benefits  a.
At the time of superannuation, employees are entitled to settle at a place of their choice and they are eligible for  T ransfer T ravelling Allowance.
b.
Employees are gifted gold coins on retirement up to 31.01.2015, depending upon their level and years of  service.
This scheme has been discontinued w.e.f.
27.02.2015.
Accordingly `5,854.33 million provided in  earlier years has been written back (Note 7 & 11).
Re-measured figures are restated accordingly in note no.
37.3 and 37.5.
37.2 The amounts recognized in the financial statements for defined contribution plans are as under:  (` in million) Defined Contribution Plans Amount recognized  during the period Management Personnel Contributory Provident Fund 3,590.02                            (1.27) Employee Pension Scheme-95 (EPF)                           (0.02) Composite Social Security Scheme  (CSSS)                              (0.14) Post Retirement Benefit Scheme  (PRBS)                              (1.59) Contribution for Key 1.35 (CPF) (3,544.51) 352.75 0.05 (208.54) 625.48 0.15    (633.09) 4,876.99 2.15 (20,747.66) Standalone Financial Statement 241 37.3       The amounts recognized in the balance sheet for post-employment benefit plans are as under:                (` in million) Sl No.
Particulars Gratuity          Leave Post-Retirement Medical Benefits (Note 37.1.6) 1 Present Value of Funded Obligation 20,712.01 (21,867.14) 2 Present Value of Unfunded Obligation - -       27,566.63          (6,310.52) 3 Fair Value of Plan Assets 21,244.03 (19,300.46) 4.
Unrecognized Past Service Cost - - - - 5 Net Obligation -532.02 (-442.80) (2,566.68) (24,319.03) (6,310.52) 6 Liability for Retired employees - -  - - 7 Total  Provision -532.02 (–442.80) (2,566.68) (24,319.03) (6,310.52) Terminal Benefits 20,099.65 NA NA (20,890.48) 484.64 (24,319.03) 15,977.45 NA NA (21,333.28) 4,122.20 27,566.63 484.64 4,122.20 27,566.63 484.64 37.4 The amounts included in the fair value of plan assets of gratuity fund in respect of Reporting Enterprise’s own  financial instruments and any property occupied by, or other assets used by the reporting enterprise are  Nil  (Previous Year Nil)     37.5 Reconciliation showing the movements during the period in the net liability recognized in the balance  sheet.
Sl No.
Particulars Gratuity          Leave Post-Retirement Medical Benefits (Note 37.1.6) 1 Opening defined benefit obligation 20,890.48   (20,990.07)  (20,030.97) (21,518.98) (6,277.36) 2 Current Service Cost 849.66 (861.99)  (1076.57) (393.04) (400.75) 3 Past Service Cost - - - - 4.
Interest Cost 1,827.92 (1,784.16) (1,752.71)  (1,882.87) (533.58) 5.
Actuarial losses/(-) gains -1,066.79   (-1,432.31)  (2,946.96) (1,729.36) (-884.01) 6.
Exchange differences on foreign plans - - - - 7.
Benefits paid -1,789.26 (-1,313.43) (-3,940.06) (-17.15) 8A Current Obligation 20,712.01 (20,890.48)  (2,195.06) (1,403.44) (689.11) 8B Non-Current Obligation - 17,862.87  (19,672.08) (22,915.59) (5,621.41) Total (8A+8B) 20,712.01 (20,890.48) (21,867.14) (24,319.03) (6,310.52) Terminal Benefits 21,867.14 24,319.03 456.19 872.88 365.62 19.45 1,913.38 2,127.91 39.92 3,158.71 2,172.95 -11.75 -7,712.46 -1,418.88 -19.17 (-1,205.22) 2,236.78 1,579.86 50.41 25,986.77 434.23 20,099.65 27,566.63 484.64 (` in million) Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 242 37.6                        The total amount recognized in the financial statements before allocation is as follows:  (` in million) Sl No.
Particulars Gratuity          Leave Post-Retirement Medical Benefits Terminal Benefits 1 Current Service Cost 851.72 744.19 362.36 19.28 (861.99) (1,076.57) (393.04) (400.75) 2 Interest on Obligation 1,827.92 1,913.38 2,126.64 39.86 (1,784.16) (1,752.71) (1,882.87) (533.58) 3 Expected return on plan assets -1,855.11 -1,688.11 NA NA (-1,825.97)  (-1,752.71) 4.
Net actuarial  Losses/(-) Gains recognized in period -921.87 3,017.60 2,176.81 -11.63 (-1,432.31)  (4,231.68) (1,729.36) (-884.01) 5 Past Service Cost - - - - 6 Losses (Gains) on curtailments and settlement - - - - 7 T otal included in ‘employee benefit expense’ -97.34 3,987.05 4,665.80 47.51 (-462.78) (5,308.25) (4,005.27) (50.31) 8.
Actual return on plan assets 1,710.20 1,811.85 NA NA (1,676.61)  (467.99) (` in million) Particulars For Year ended For Year ended  on 31.03.2015 on 31.03.2014 Fair Value of Plan Asset at Beginning 21,333.28 21,079.98 Adjustment in opening corpus consequent to audit (10.19) (115.90) Expected Return on Plan Assets 1,855.11 1,825.97 Contribution by employer - - Benefits Paid (1,789.26) (1,307.41) Actuarial gain/(loss) on Plan Assets (144.91) (149.36) Fair Value of Plan Asset at the end of the period (Unaudited) 21,244.03 21,333.28 37.7     Statement of Reconciliation of balance of Fair Value of Plan Assets in respect of Gratuity:- Standalone Financial Statement 243 37.8    Statement of Reconciliation of balance of Fair Value of Plan Assets in respect of Leave:- (` in million) Particulars For Year ended For Year ended  on 31.03.2015 on 31.03.2014 Fair Value of Plan Asset at Beginning           19,300.46           20,030.97  Adjustment in opening corpus consequent to audit                  (7.75)                      -    Expected Return on Plan Assets             1,688.11             1,752.71  Contribution by employer             2,567.98                      -    Benefits Paid           (7,712.46)           (1,198.50) Actuarial gain/(loss) on Plan Assets                141.11           (1,284.72) Fair Value of Plan Asset at the end of the period (Unaudited)           15,977.45           19,300.46  (` in million) Gratuity As at As at As at As at As at 31-03-2015 31-03-2014 31-03-2013 31-03-2012 31-03-2011 Present Value of Funded obligation 20,712.01 20,890.48 21,067.89 20,534.65 19,674.39 as at the end of the period Fair Value of plan assets as at the 21,244.03 21,333.28 21,079.98 20,114.96 18,171.17 end of the period Surplus/(Deficit) 532.02 442.80 12.09 (419.69) (1,503.22) Experience Adjustment on plan 1,364.85 1,107.26 1,052.97 526.08 (903.84) Liabilities (loss)/gain Experience Adjustment on plan (147.05) (170.32) (164.39) (217.84) (118.25) Assets (loss)/gain 37.9    Other disclosures: Expected Contribution in respect of Gratuity for next year will be 185.53 million (Previous Year 318.68 million) The company has recognized a gratuity liability of 78.72 million as on 31.03.2015 (Previous year 75.28) as per actuarial  valuation for 558 (Previous year 589) Contingent Employees engaged in different work centres.
` ` ` ` Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 244 (` in million) Leave Encashment As at As at As at As at As at 31-03-2015 31-03-2014 31-03-2013 31-03-2012 31-03-2011 Present Value of Funded obligation 20,099.65 21,867.14 NA NA NA  as at the end of the period  (Note no.37.1.1, 37.1.2 and 37.1.3) Fair Value of plan assets as at the 15,977.45 19,300.46 NA NA NA end of the period Surplus/(Deficit) (4,122.20) (2,566.68) NA NA NA Experience Adjustment on plan (2,878.21) (2,946.96) - - - Liabilities  (loss)/gain Experience Adjustment on plan 141.11 (1,284.72) NA NA NA Assets (loss)/gain (` in million) Leave Encashment As at As at As at As at As at 31-03-2015 31-03-2014 31-03-2013 31-03-2012 31-03-2011 Present Value of unfunded NA NA 19,840.16 17,841.28 16,180.23 obligation as at the end of the period  (Note no.37.1.1, 37.1.2 and 37.1.3) Experience Adjustment on plan NA NA (2,943.61) (2,062.27) (2,917.77 ) Liabilities  (loss)/gain (` in million) Post-Retirement Medical Benefits As at As at As at As at As at 31-03-2015 31-03-2014 31-03-2013 31-03-2012 31-03-2011 Present Value of Unfunded obligation 27,566.63 24,319.03 21,562.76 19,203.33 16,495.66 as at the end of the period Experience Adjustment on plan (1,743.57) (1,729.36) (1,714.98) (2,072.83) (2,010.67 ) Liabilities (loss)/gain (` in million) Sensitivity Analysis ( In respect of Post-Retirement Medical Benefits)                               As at 31-03-2015 1.00 % (+) 1.00 % (-) Effect on service and interest cost 308.16 (299.06) Effect on PBO (Closing) 3,542.68 (2,485.58) (` in million) Terminal Benefits As at As at As at As at As at 31-03-2015 31-03-2014 31-03-2013 31-03-2012 31-03-2011 Present Value of Unfunded obligation 484.64 6,310.52 6,302.64 1,152.11        1,058.67  as at the end of the period Experience Adjustment on plan 18.01 884.01 (4,695.45) (23.05) (356.15) Liabilities (loss)/gain Standalone Financial Statement 245 37.10     Investments of Gratuity T rust Particulars                                                                                                   % of Investment As at 31.03.2015 As at 31.03.2014 Central Govt.
Securities 28.57 28.83 State Govt.
Securities 15.59 15.47 PSU Bonds 27.44 28.82 T reasury Bills 0.03 0.11 Insurance Investment 28.14 26.55 Equity Mutual Fund 0.23 0.22 Total 100.00 100.00 37.11                       Principal actuarial assumption at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages):  Sl No.
Particulars Gratuity          Leave Post-Retirement Medical Benefits Terminal Benefits 1 Discount rate 8.50% 8.50% 8.50% 8.50% (8.75%) (8.75%) (8.75%) (8.75%) 2 Expected return on plan assets 8.70% 8.75% NA NA (8.71%) (9.50%) 3.
Annual increase in costs NA NA 6.00% 6.00% (6.00%) (6.00%) 4.
Annual Increase in Salary 6.00% 6.00% NA NA (6.00%) (6.00%) The discount rate is based upon the market yield available on Government bonds at the Accounting date with a term  that matches.
The salary growth rate takes account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant factor on  long term basis.
Expected rate of return on plan assets is based on market expectation, at the beginning of the year,  for return over the entire life of the related obligation.
38.
Disclosure under Accounting Standard -17 on “Segment Reporting” The segment information is presented under the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as required under  the standard.
39.
Disclosure under Accounting Standard -18 on “Related Party Disclosure”: 39.1 Name of related parties and description of relationship: Jointly Controlled Entity i. Petronet LNG Limited ii.
ONGC T eri Biotech Limited iii.
Mangalore SEZ Limited iv.
ONGC Petro-additions Limited v. ONGC T ripura Power Co. Limited vi.
Dahej SEZ Limited vii.
ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited (up to 28.02.2015) Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 246 39.2 Key Managerial Personnel:   i) Shri D K Sarraf, Chairman and Managing Director ii) Shri A K Banerjee, Director (Finance) up to 30.04.2015 iii) Shri T K Sengupta, Director (Offshore)  iv) Shri Ashok Verma, Director (Onshore) from 19.06.2014 v) Shri D D Misra, Director (HR) from 01.08.2014 vi) Shri A K Dwivedi, Director (Exploration) from 16.03.2015 vii) Shri Shashi Shanker, Director (T&FS)   viii) Shri N K Verma, Director (Exploration) up to 26.08.2014 ix) Shri K.S Jamestin, Director (HR) up to 31.07.2014 x) Shri N K Sinha, Company Secretary 39.3 Details of T ransactions: 39.3.1 Jointly Controlled Entities                                                                       (` in million) 2013-142014-15Details Details Sale of Gas-ONGC T ripura Power Co. limited 3,247.91 1,236.49 Services Received from : a) ONGC T eri Biotech Limited b) Dahej SEZ Limited.
c) Mangalore SEZ Limited d) ONGC T ripura Power Co.  Limited0.17 0.10 Services Provided to : a) ONGC Petro-additions Limited b) ONGC T eri Biotech Limited c) Petronet LNG Limited d) ONGC T ripura Power Co.  Limited e) ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited (up to 28.02.2015)3.49 5.90 Dividend Income - Petronet LNG Limited 187.50 234.38 Advance against Equity during Year: a) ONGC Petro-additions Limited b) ONGC T ripura Power Co.  Limited 4,645.36 2,925.10 As at  31.03.2015  31.03.2014 Amount Receivable From :  a) ONGC Petro-additions Limited b) Petronet LNG Limited c) ONGC T ripura Power Co.  Limited d) ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited (as on 28.02.2015)3.46 1.85 Amount Payable :  a) ONGC T eri Biotech Limited b) Dahej SEZ Limited.
c) ONGC T ripura Power Co. limited d) Mangalore SEZ Limited                    0.17 0.09 Advance towards equity pending allotment  : a) ONGC Petro-addition Limited 7,505.52 6,709.24 b) ONGC T ripura Power Co.  Limited 4,645.36 2,925.10 c) ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited (upto 28.02.2015) - 9,199.77 244.72 112.42 19.04 9.12 0.39 0.09 125.94 117.63 0.15 0.12 0.05 - 125.82 235.96 7,505.52 6,985.60 As at 67.17 54.69 0.10 - 345.08 373.80 148.33 51.55 7.54 7.54 - 0.02 39.3.2  Key Managerial Personnel (` in million) Particulars 2014-15 2013-14 Remuneration to Key Management Personnel   38.04 37.56 Amount Receivable 1.04 1.39 Amount Payable 9.49 10.32 Standalone Financial Statement 247 40.
Disclosure under Accounting Standard - 19 on ‘Leases’  The company has certain office/residential premises on Operating Lease which are cancellable by giving  appropriate notice as per the respective agreements.
During the year ` 977.22 million (Previous year  934.64  million) had been paid towards cancellable Operating Lease.
41.
Disclosure under Accounting Standard - 27 on Financial Reporting of Interest in Joint Ventures: 41.1 Jointly Controlled Assets In respect of certain blocks, the Company’s Joint Ventures (JV) with certain bodies corporate have entered into  Production Sharing Contracts (PSCs) with GoI.
Details of these blocks and JVs as on 31.03.2015 are as under: ` Sl.
Blocks Company's PI * Others Partners and their PI in the JV/Operatorship*** A Jointly Operated JVs 1 Panna,  Mukta and T apti 40% (40%) BGEPIL 30%,  RIL  30% 2 AN-DWN-2009/3 60% (60%) OIL 40% B ONGC Operated JVs 3 CB-OS/1  Development Phase** 55.26% (55.26%) TPL  6.7%, HOEC  38.04% 4 MN-DWN-98/3** 100% (100%) 5 MN-OSN-2000/2 40% (40%) GAIL  20%, IOC    20%, OIL    20% 6 AA-ONN-2001/2 80% (80%) IOC  20% 7 CY-ONN-2002/2 60% (60%) BPRL  40% 8 KG-ONN-2003/1 51% (51%) Cairn India Limited-49% 9 CB-ONN-2004/1** 60% (60%) GSPC 40%,  10 CB-ONN-2004/2 55% (55% ) GSPC 45%  11 CB-ONN-2004/3 65% (65%) GSPC 35%  12 CY-ONN-2004/2 80% (80%) BPRL 20% 13 MB-OSN-2005-1 80% (80%) GSPC  20% 14 Raniganj 74% (74%) CIL  26% 15 Jharia 74% (90%) CIL 26% (CIL 10%) 16 NK-CBM-2001/1 80% (80%) IOC 20% 17 BK-CBM-2001/1 80% (80%) IOC  20% 18 CB-ONN-2005/4 51% (51%) GSPC 49% 19 CB-ONN-2005/10** 100% (51%) (GSPC 49%) 20 WB-ONN-2005/4 75% (75%) OIL  25% 21 AN-DWN-2009/2 60% (60%) OIL 40% No.
Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 248 Sl.
Blocks Company's PI * Others Partners and their PI in the JV/Operatorship***No.
22 AN-DWN-2009/1 70% (70%) OIL 30%  23 AN-DWN-2009/5** 100% (100%) 24 GK-OSN-2009/1 40% (40%) AWEL  20%, GSPC 20%, IOC 20% 25 GK-OSN-2009/2 40% (40%) AWEL 30%, IOC 30% 26 KG-OSN-2009/1 80% (80%) APGIC 10%, NTPC 10% 27 KG-OSN-2009/2 90% (90%) APGIC 10% 28 KG-OSN-2009/4 50% (50%) APGIC 10%, OIL 30%, NTPC 10% 29 AA-ONN-2009/3 50% (50%) OIL 50% 30 CB-ONN-2009/4 50% (50%) GSPC 50% 31 GK-OSN-2010/1 60% (60%) OIL-30%, GAIL-10% 32 GK-OSN-2010/2 90% (90%) GAIL- 10% 33 CB-ONN-2010/6 80% (80%) IOC- 20% C Operated by JV Partners 34 Ravva 40% (40%) Cairn India Limited (Operator) 22.5%,   VIL 25%, ROPL 12.5% 35 CY-OS-90/1 (PY3) 40% (40%) HEPI (operator) 18%, HOEC 21%, TPL 21% 36 RJ-ON-90/1 30% (30%) Cairn India Limited (Operator) 35%, CEHL 35% 37 CB-OS/2 –Development Phase 50% (50%) Cairn India Limited (operator) 40%, TPL 10% 38 CB-ON/7 –Development Phase 30% (30%) HOEC (Operator) 35%,  GSPC 35% 39 CB-ON/3 – Development Phase 30% (30%) EOL (Operator)70% 40 AA-ONN-2002/3 70% (70%) OIL (Operator) 30%                                                                              41 AN-DWN-2003/2 45% (45%) ENI (Operator) 40%, GAIL 15% 42 PR-OSN-2004/1 35% (35%) Cairn India Limited (Operator) 35%, TPL 30% 43 CB-ON/2- Development phase 30% (30%) GSPC (Operator) 56%, Geo-Global Resources 14% 44 RJ-ONN-2005/3 40% (40%) GSPC (Operator) 60% 45 AA-ONN-2009/4 50% (50%) OIL (Operator) 50% 46 CY-OSN-2009/2 50% (50%) OIL (Operator) 50% 47 AA-ONN-2010/2 30% (30%) OIL -40%, GAIL-20%, EWP-10% 48 AA-ONN-2010/3 40% (40%) OIL-40%, BPRL-20% * PI - Participating Interest **Approval towards assignment of PI is awaited from GoI *** There is no change in previous year details unless otherwise stated.
Standalone Financial Statement 249 Abbreviations:- APGIC- AP Gas Infrastructure Corporation Ltd, AWEL- Adani Welspun Exploration Ltd, BGEPIL-  British Gas Exploration and Production India Ltd, BPRL- Bharat Petro Resources Ltd, CEHL- Cairn Energy  Hydrocarbons Ltd,  CIL- Coal India Ltd, ENI- Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi, Ensearch- Ensearch, EOL- Essar Oil Ltd. ,  GAIL- Gas Authority of India Ltd, GSPC- Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Ltd, HEPI- Hardy Exploration &  Production India Ltd,  HOEC- Hindustan Oil Exploration Company Ltd, IOC- Indian Oil Corporation Ltd, NTPC-  National Thermal Power Corporation Ltd, OIL- Oil India Ltd, VIL- Videocon Industries Ltd, RIL- Reliance Industries  Ltd, ROPL- Ravva Oil (Singapore) Private Ltd, TPL- T ata Petrodyne Ltd. Sl.
No.
Joint Ventures / PSCs Company’s PI * 1 NEC-DWN-2002/2 100% (100%) 2 KK-DWN-2002/2 80% (80%) 3.
CY-ONN-2004/1 80% (80%) 4.
PR-ONN-2005/1 80% (80%) 5.
GV-ONN-2005/3 80% (80% ) 6.
KG-OSN-2005/1 60% (60%) 7.
KG-OSN-2005/2 80% (80%)  8.
KG-DWN-2005/1 70% (70%) 9.
PA-ONN-2005/1 100% (100%) 10.
MB-OSN-2005-5 70% (70% ) 11.
MB-OSN-2005-6 80% (80% ) 12.
KK-DWN-2005/2 90% (90%) 13.
AN-DWN-2009/18 60% (60%) 14.
KG-DWN-2009/1 45% (45%) 15.
CY-DWN-2004/3 70% (70%) 16.
AA-ONN-2001/3 85% (85%) 17.
AA-ONN-2005/1 60% (60%) 18.
AA-ONN-2001/4 100% (100%) 19.
AA-ONN-2002/4 90% (90%) 20.
CY-PR-DWN-2004/1 70% (70%) 21.
AN-DWN-2009/13 80% (80%) 22.
RJ-ON/6 – Development phase (refer note 41.3.5) 30% (30%) 41.2 List of the blocks surrendered during the year are given below: * PI- Participating Interest   Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 250 41.3 The Financial position of the JV/NELP blocks are as under: No.
of JVs/ NELP Blocks NELP Block-100% PI 16 30,348.05 233.14 0.17 (96.45) (20,154.93) (-20,058.48) Blocks with other  partners (67)     (103,668.42) (44,450.57) (182,462.92) (142,405.71) (40,057.21) Surrendered 70 (49) (5,209.85) (9,565.83) (0.37) (2,045.23) (-2,044.86) Total 134    (135) (146,652.17) (54,358.24) (182,559.74) (164,605.87) (17,953.87) Assets Liabilities Income Expenditure Profit / (-) Loss before tax 24,557.43 -24,557.26 (19) (37,773.90) (341.84) 48      93,976.40 46,927.57 1,46,952.80 1,08,133.48 38,819.32 4,680.45 12,369.44 276.54 12,024.63 -11,748.09 129,004.90 59,530.15 147,229.51 144,715.54 2,513.97 No.
of JVs/ NELP Blocks Assets Liabilities Income Expenditure Profit / (-) Loss before tax Audited 117 121,162.67 48,412.46 134,036.87 132,756.44 1,280.43 (124) (145,807.09) (51,823.77) (182,255.94) (163,656.37) (18,599.58) Unaudited 17 7,842.23 11,117.69 13,192.64 11,959.10 1,233.54 (11)      (845.08) (2,534.47) (303.80) (949.50) (-645.71) Total 134 129,004.90 59,530.15 147,229.51 144,715.54 2,513.97 (135) (146,652.17) (54,358.24) (182,559.74) (164,605.87) (17,953.87) 41.3.1 The financial statements of 117 (previous year 124) out of 134 (previous year 135) JVs/NELP blocks have been  incorporated in the accounts to the extent of Company’s participating interest in assets, liabilities, income,  expenditure and profit / (loss) before tax on the basis of statements certified in accordance with production sharing  contract and in respect of balance 17 (previous year 11) JVs/NELP blocks, the figures have been incorporated on  the basis of uncertified statements prepared under the production sharing contracts.
Both the figures have been  adjusted for changes as per Note No.
2.j.1 The financial positions of JV/NELP are as under:  (` in million) (` in million) 41.3.2 As per the Production Sharing Contracts signed  by the Company with the GoI, the Company is  required to complete Minimum Work Programme  (MWP) within stipulated time.
In case of delay in  completion of the MWP, Liquidated Damages (LD)  is payable for extension of time to complete MWP .
Further, in case the Company does not complete  MWP or surrenders the block without completing  the MWP, the estimated cost of completing  balance work programme is required to be paid to  the GoI.
During the year LD amounting to (net of  reversal) `24.08 million (Previous year `245.65  million) and cost of unfinished MWP (net of  reversal) `1,420.64 million (Previous year (net of  reversal) `(-) 59.14 million), paid/payable to the  GoI is included in survey and wells written off  expenditure respectively.
41.3.3 In respect of 3 NELP blocks (previous year 12)  st which have expired as on 31  March, 2015, the  Company’s share of Unfinished Minimum Work  Programme (MWP) amounting to `820.40 million  (previous year to `18,014.12 million) has not been  provided for since the company has already applied  for further extension of period in these blocks as  ‘excusable delay’/special dispensations citing  technical complexities, within the extension policy  of NELP Blocks, which are under active  consideration of GoI.
The delays have occurred  generally on account of pending statutory  clearances from various Govt.
authorities like  Ministry of Defense, Ministry of Commerce,  environmental clearances, State Govt.
permissions  etc.
The above MWP amount of `820.40 million  (previous year `18,014.12 million) is included in  MWP commitment under note no.
44.1.6.
Standalone Financial Statement 251 41.3.4 The company had acquired Participating Interest (PI) of British Gas Exploration and Production India Ltd (BGEPIL)  in the following blocks, effective from the following dates as approved by the board of directors.
Name of the Block PI Date of T ransfer of PI KG OSN 2004/1 45% 25.11.2011 KG DWN 98/4 30% 18.05.2011 MN DWN 2002/2 25% 01.12.2011 British Gas has agreed to pay a lump sum amount of USD 50 Million, towards full and final settlement of carry  costs/cash calls due in all the above blocks, subject to government approval for transfer of PI in all the above  blocks.
Since the government approval in respect of MN DWN 2002/2 is pending, no adjustment is made in the  accounts towards the lump sum amount due as above.
41.3.5 The company has relinquished 30% Participating Interest (PI) in SGL Field with future interest in block RJ-ON/6  Jaisalmer Basin Rajasthan to Focus Energy Ltd (Operator), on condition that Focus Energy Ltd (Operator) to pay  towards 100% past royalty obligation, PEL/ML fees, other statutory levies and waive off development/ Production  costs payable by ONGC in SGL Field of the block as well as take all future 100% royalty obligation of ONGC as  licensee and also not exercise its option of acquiring 30% PI in two gas discoveries namely SSG-1 and SSF-2 in  Block.
Pending farm out agreement/ government approval, no adjustment is made in the accounts in respect of  relinquishment of RJ-ON/6.
41.4 Jointly Controlled Entities: 41.4.1 Company has ownership interest in following Jointly Controlled Entities: Petronet LNG Limited India 12.50 12.50 Petronet MHB Limited India 28.77 28.77 Mangalore SEZ Limited India 26.00 26.00 ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals  Limited (Note 17.1) India - 46.00 ONGC Petro-additions Limited India 49.36 49.36 ONGC T ripura Power Co. Limited India 49.52 49.52 ONGC T eri Biotech Limited India 49.98 49.98 Dahej SEZ Limited India 50.00 50.00 Ownership Interest (%) Name As at 31.03.2015            As at 31.03.2014 Country of  Incorporation 41.4.2 The Company’s share in assets, liabilities, income, expenses, contingent liabilities and capital commitments of Jointly Controlled Entities: (` in million) Description As at 31.03.2015 As at 31.03.2014 i) Assets   Fixed Assets 134,214.88 136,189.25 Other Non-Current Asset 12,754.17 19,794.25 Deferred T ax Assets 548.63 256.91 Current Asset 11,410.67 13,334.56 ii) Liabilities Long T erm Borrowings 92,189.53 104,535.79 Other Non-Current liabilities and provisions 6,328.85 6,819.94 Deferred T ax Liability 1,604.41 896.17 Current liabilities and provisions 29,965.13 26,507.16 iii) Income 61,119.59 49,208.33 iv) Expenses 63,002.08 47,442.17 v) Contingent liabilities 13,212.91 8,868.61 vi) Capital commitments 12,156.07 18,372.56 Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 252 42.
Disclosure under Accounting Standard – 28 and  Guidance note on Accounting for Oil and gas  producing Activities (Revised) on “Impairment  of Assets”  42.1 The Company is engaged mainly in the business of  oil and gas exploration and production in On-shore  and Offshore.
In case of onshore assets, the fields  are using common production/transportation  facilities and are suf ficiently economically  interdependent to constitute a single cash  generating unit (CGU).
Accordingly, impairment  test of all onshore fields are performed in  aggregate of all those fields at the Asset Level.
In  case of Offshore Assets, a field is generally  considered as CGU except for fields which are  developed as a Cluster, for which common  facilities are used, in which case the impairment  testing is performed in aggregate for all the fields  included in the cluster.
42.2 The Value in Use of producing/developing CGUs is  determined under a multi-stage approach, wherein  future cash flows are initially estimated based on  P r o v e d  D e v e l o p e d  R e s e r v e s .
U n d e r   circumstances where the further development of  the fields in the CGUs is under progress and where  the carrying value of the CGUs is not likely to be  recovered through exploitation of proved  developed reserves alone, the Proved and  probable reserves (2P) of the CGUs are also taken  for the purpose of estimating future cash flows.
In  such cases, full estimate of the expected cost of  evaluation/development is also considered while  determining the value in use.
42.3 In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash  flows from the continuing use of the assets and  from its disposal at the end of its useful life are  discounted to their present value.
The present  values of cash flows are determined by applying  discount rates of 19.71% (previous year 19.10 %)  for Rupee transactions and 13.89% (previous year  13.00 %) for crude oil and value added products  revenue, which are measured in USD.
Future cash  inflows from sale of crude oil and value added  products are computed using the future prices, on  the basis of market-based average prices of the  Dated Brent crude oil as per assessment by ‘Platt’s  Crude Oil Market wire’ and its co-relations with  benchmark crudes and other petroleum products.
Future cash flows from sale of natural gas is also  computed based on the expected future prices on  the basis of the notification issued by the  Government of India and discounted applying the  rate applicable to the cash flows measured in USD  in view of the new pricing guidelines issued by GoI.
(refer note no.26.5) 42.4  During the year `2,136.53 million (Previous Year  `1,025.48 million) is provided as impairment loss.
Out of this, an amount of `380.89 million (Previous  Year `355.97 million) has been provided as  additional impairment in respect of onshore CGUs  – Jodhpur and Silchar.
`146.40 million (Previous  Year `69.05 million) has been provided for already  impaired offshore CGU- Ratna.
For B 121 an  amount of `49.73 million (Previous Year `20.09  million) has been provided as additional  impairment.
In addition, ` 367.91 million (Previous  Year `30.42 million) pertaining to block CY-OS- 90/1 (PY-3) has been provided as presently the  field does not have any potential to produce.
An  amount of `1,025.81 million (Previous Year `79.40  million) mainly represents additional impairment  charge in respect of certain onshore Pre- NELP  joint venture blocks (RJ ON 6, CB ON 2 and CB ON  3) due to adjustment of cost recovery from revenue  and sharing of 100% royalty.
Balance amount of  `73.38 million, `91.14 million (previous year `15.90  million) and `1.27 million has been provided for  Ankleswar, Hazira Plant and Retail T rading  respectively.
42.5 Further, `201.88 million (Previous Year `806.08  million) impairment losses has been reversed  because of decrease in Abandonment cost  estimation in respect Offshore CGU D-18 and  T apti.
42.6 Impairment testing of assets under exploratory  phase (Exploratory Wells in Progress) has been  carried out as on 31.03.2015, and an amount of  `1,172.15 million (Previous year `2,546.46 million)  has been provided during the year 2014-15 as  impairment loss.
Further, `1,203.23 million  (Previous Year Nil) impairment loss has been  reversed in the Statement of Profit and Loss as  exploratory phase assets have been transferred to  producing properties.
Standalone Financial Statement 253 43.
Disclosure under Accounting Standard - 29 on “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”: Movement in Provisions for Abandonment and others: Other provisions represent provision for Court cases, arbitration and others, where the timing of expected outflows  is upon settlement of the proceedings:  42.7 The following 2P reserves for the respective CGU considered as a basis for the impairment assessment.
(` in million) Particulars Provision for Abandonment                         Others 2014-15 2013-14 2014-15 2013-14 Opening Balance 228,439.19 177,454.45 805.86 761.86 Add: Provision made during the year 3,185.16 53,337.97 42.83 96.16 Less: Provision written back/ reclassified/  reduction during the year Closing Balance 227,543.61 228,439.19 848.69 805.86 4,080.74 2353.23 - 52.16 Name of the CGU Quantity of Reserves used for Impairment Assessment(In Mmt) G1-GS 15 4.12 Jodhpur Onshore Asset 2.09 Silchar Onshore Asset 1.20 RJ-ON-06 (Pre NELP PSC Block) 1.05 CB-ON-02 (Pre NELP PSC Block) 0.09 Cluster B-193 9.12 Cluster B-22 5.42 ONGC’s offshore drilling rig ‘Sagar Kiran’; ONGC has drilled 1184 oil wells and 151 gas wells in Offshore; Western Offshore  production up by 4.3% (16.18 MMT in FY-15 against 15.51 MMT in FY-14) Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 254 44.1.1   Contingent Liabilities: Claims against the Company/ disputed demands not acknowledged as debt:-      (` in million) I In respect of Company  i.
Income T ax  80,032.68 55,087.45  ii.
Excise Duty  8,572.86 9,406.06  iii.
Custom Duty    190.61 1,599.77  iv.
Royalty (Note - 44.1.1.b)  117,738.83 117,301.90  v. Cess 6.57 6.57  vi.
AP Mineral Bearing Lands (Infrastructure) Cess  2,371.76 2,211.27  vii.
Sales T ax  24,776.47 46,086.36  viii.
Service T ax  1,374.57 4225.07 ix.
Octroi  205.52 68.54  x.
Specified Land T ax (Assam)  3,863.05 3,528.89  xi.
Claims of contractors (Incl.
LAQ) in Arbitration/Court  72,750.49 50,783.08  xii.
Employees Provident Fund 66.35 66.35  xiii.
Others  53,578.89 53,911.41  Sub Total (A) 365,528.65 344,282.72 II In respect of Joint Ventures i.
Income T ax  8.91 8.91  ii.
Excise Duty  4.17 4.17  iii.
Custom Duty 1,473.86 3,798.73  iv.
Sales T ax and Service T ax  2,880.48 2,879.82  v  Claims of contractors in Arbitration / Court  5,356.90 5,095.94  vi.
Others  867.31 854.74  Sub Total (B) 10,591.63 12,642.31  TOTAL (A + B) 376,120.28 356,925.03 Particulars        As at  st 31  March, 2014 As at  st 31  March, 2015 a.
The Company’s pending litigations comprise of  claims against the Company and proceedings  pending with Ta x/Statutor y/Government  Authorities.
The Company has reviewed all its  pending litigations and proceedings and has  made adequate provisions, wherever required  and disclosed the contingent liabilities, wherever  applicable, in its financial statements.
The  Company does not expect the outcome of these  proceedings to have a material impact on its  financial position.
Future cash outflows in respect  of the above are determinable only on receipt of  judgments/decisions pending with various  forums/ authorities.
b.
In terms of the statutory provisions of Oilfields  (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948 (ORDA),  Petroleum & Natural Gas (PNG) Rules 1959 and  Notifications issued thereunder; the Company is  liable to pay royalty to Central Government (GoI)  and State Governments, on production of Crude Oil  and Natural Gas from offshore fields and onshore  fields, respectively.
Since 2008-09, the Company  has been paying royalty on crude oil at realized  price which is net of under-recovery of the OMCs  shared by the Company as per GoI directives.
On an  application filed by the  State of Gujarat, the Hon’ble  High Court of Gujarat in its order dated 30.11.2013  has directed the Company to pay the shortfall of  royalty on crude oil produced from the onshore  fields in the State of Gujarat on pre-discount prices  from 01.04.2008 onwards.
Based on the Special  Leave Petition filed by the Company against the said  order of the Hon’ble High Court of Gujarat, pending  further orders, Hon’ble Supreme Court vide order  44.
Other Disclosures under Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013:  44.1 Contingent liabilities and commitments (to the extent not provided for) Standalone Financial Statement 255 Products Unit 2014-15 2013-14 Crude Oil MT 25,942,770 25,994,105 3 Natural Gas 000 M 23,523,675 24,851,248 Liquefied Petroleum Gas MT 1,095,081 1,067,230 Ethane/Propane MT 339,319 430,447 Naphtha MT 1,154,660 1,358,414 Superior Kerosene Oil MT 72,189 84,305 Aviation T urbine Fuel MT 11,448 9,658 Low Sulphur Heavy Stock MT 18,841 27,992 High Speed Diesel MT 28,703 36,311 Mineral T urpentine Oil MT 852 1,117 Light Diesel Oil MT - 50 dated 13.02.2014 stayed the operation of the  impugned judgment subject to the condition that the  company pays royalty to the State of Gujarat on  pre-discounted price of crude oil w.e.f.
01.02.2014  onwards.
Accordingly, dif ferential amount of  `117,242.00 million (reduced to the extent  16,440.00 million which is paid to Gujarat Govt.-  refer Note No.
31.2) on this account for the period  from April, 2008 to March, 2015 ( 116,326.96 million  as on 31.03.2014) has been considered as Contingent  Liability.
Pending the final outcome of the SLP filed  before the Hon’ble Supreme Court, differential  royalty (royalty on pre-discount price minus royalty  on post-discount price) amounting to  21,067.60  million   deposited w.e.f.
February, 2014 ( 2,092.23  million as on 31.03.2014) in terms of Hon’ble  Supreme Court order has been shown as deposit.
44.1.2 Corporate Guarantees executed by the  Company on behalf of its wholly owned  subsidiary, ONGC Videsh Limited (OVL): 44.1.3 Guarantees executed for financial obligations:  i) Amount of Guarantee 304,152.81 million  (Previous year  321,657.40 million) ii) Amount outstanding 301,671.35 million  (Previous year 314,417.66 million) 44.1.4 Corporate Guarantees executed by the  Company on behalf of its subsidiary, MRPL:   i) Amount of Guarantee 29,754.00 million  (Previous year 13,513.50 million) ii) Amount outstanding 3,290.04 million  (Previous year 7,370.56 million) ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` 44.1.5 Capital Commitments: Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be  executed on capital account:-  i) In respect of Company: 134,081.19 million  (Previous year  83,351.44 million).
ii) In respect of Joint Ventures: 3,842.99  million (Previous year 4,367.54 million).
44.1.6 Other Commitments   Estimated amount of Minimum Work Programme  (MWP) committed under various ‘Production  Sharing Contracts’ with Government of India/  Nominated Blocks: i) In respect Nominated Blocks Nil (Previous  year 441.59  million).
ii) In respect of NELP blocks in which the  Company has 100% participating interest:  3,000.14 million (Previous year 9,600.47  million).
iii) In respect of NELP blocks in Joint Ventures,  company’s share: 32,705.26 million  (Previous year 62,247.39 million).
44.1.7 The Company has given an undertaking to The  State Bank of India, for a Rupee term loan  agreement amounting to 30,350 million (previous  year 30,350 million) in respect of ONGC T ripura  Power Co. Limited (OTPC) for not to dilute the  shareholding till two years after Commercial  Operation Date (COD) of the project and to bear  any cost overrun to the extent of 10% of the  estimated project cost of 40,470 million.
` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` 44.2 Quantitative Details   44.2.1 Production Quantities (Certified by the Management): Notes: 1.
Production includes internal consumption and intermediary losses.
2.
Crude oil production includes condensate of 1.448 MMT (Previous year 1.819 MMT).
Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 256 44.5 Expenditure in Foreign Currency: 2013-142014-15 Services * 174,771.93 182,380.14 Others 649.03 1,348.49   Total 175,420.96 183,728.63   (` in million)  Particulars 44.2.3 Raw  Material  Consumed: 2014-15 Quantity QuantityValue at cost ( ` in million ) Value at cost ( ` in million ) Unit 2013-14 Out of own production: Crude Oil MT 60,374 710.35 89,117 654.94 3 Natural Gas 000M 919,773 5,700.30 864,774 5,671.75 3 Gas Equivalent Condensate 000M 410,900 1,768.98 482,772 2,132.78 Purchases Gas Equivalent Condensate MT 15,908 664.93        20,329 889.73 For production of Liquefied  Petroleum Gas, Ethane/Propane,  Naphtha, Superior Kerosene Oil,  Low Sulphur High Stock, Aviation  T urbine Fuel and High Speed Diesel.
2014-15 % %Amount ( ` in million ) Amount ( ` in million ) 2013-14 44.3   Consumption of Raw Material, Stores and Spare Parts: Imported 10,542.40 21.29 10,766.35 21.01 Indigenous 38,984.15 78.71 40,480.21 78.99 Total 49,526.55 100.00 51,246.56 100.00 2013-142014-15 44.4 Value of Imports on CIF Basis: Capital items        1,508.63 3,850.75  Stores and Spare Parts 12,268.40 13,152.26  Total 13,777.03 17,003.01   (` in million) *Includes stage payments made against capital works.
44.2.2      Purchases (T raded Products): 2014-15 Quantity QuantityValue ( ` in million ) Value ( ` in million )UnitParticulars 2013-14 High Speed Diesel KL 400 16.65 59 2.68 Motor Spirit KL 548 27.18 541 28.80 Others  - 0.28 - 0.32 Total  44.11 31.80 Standalone Financial Statement 257 2013-142014-15 44.6 Earnings in Foreign Currency: Services            2.43            53.46  FOB value of Sales      50,153.48      74,818.30 Others            72.08            18.08   Total     50,227.99     74,889.84   (` in million)  Particulars 45.
Disclosure under Guidance Note on Accounting for “Oil and Gas Producing Activities” (Revised)  Crude Oil (MMT) Crude Oil (MMT) Gas (Billion Cubic Meter) Gas (Billion Cubic Meter) Total Oil Equivalent (MMTOE)* Total Oil Equivalent (MMTOE)* Details Details As at 31.03.2015 As at 31.03.2015 As at 31.03.2015 As at 31.03.2015 As at 31.03.2015 As at 31.03.2015 As at 31.03.2014 As at 31.03.2014 As at 31.03.2014 As at 31.03.2014 As at 31.03.2014 As at 31.03.2014 Opening 212.16 222.98 202.723 203.245 414.87 426.22 Addition 12.36 4.71 3.480 18.652 15.84 23.36 Production 16.39 15.54 18.321 19.174 34.71 34.71 Closing 208.13 212.15 187.882 202.723 396.00 414.87 Opening 189.31 190.81 150.595 155.897 339.90 346.71 Addition 9.18 7.94 2.365 0.020 11.55 7.96 Production 8.74 9.44 4.909 5.321 13.65 14.76 Closing 189.75 189.31 148.051 150.596 337.80 339.91 Opening 401.47 413.79 353.318 359.142 754.78 772.93 Addition 21.54 12.65 5.845 18.671 27.39 31.33 Production 25.13 24.97 23.230 24.496 48.36 49.47 Closing 397.88 401.47 335.933 353.317 733.81 754.79 Opening 158.99 160.62 132.710 110.254 291.70 270.87 Addition 11.88 13.90 8.304 41.630 20.18 55.54 Production 16.39 15.53 18.321 19.174 34.71 34.71 Closing 154.48 158.99 122.693 132.710 277.17 291.70 Opening 146.60 150.81 106.984 110.010 253.58 260.81 Addition 5.99 5.18 1.853 2.225 7.84 7.41 Production 8.85 9.39 5.002 5.251 13.85 14.64 Closing 143.74 146.60 103.835 106.984 247.57 253.58 Opening 305.58 311.43 239.694 220.264 545.28 531.69 Addition 17.88 19.09 10.157 43.855 28.03 62.94 Production 25.24 24.92 23.323 24.425 48.56 49.35 Closing 298.22 305.58 226.528 239.694 524.75 545.28 45.2     Company's share of Proved Developed Reserves on the geographical basis is as under: 45.1    Company's share of Proved Reserves on the geographical basis is as under: Offshore Onshore Total Offshore Onshore Total 3 * MMTOE denotes “Million Metric T onne Oil Equivalent” and for calculating Oil equivalent of Gas, 1000 M  of Gas has  been taken to be equal to 1 MT of Crude Oil.
Variations in totals, if any, are due to internal summation and rounding off.
Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 258 45.3 The year-end reserves of the company have  been estimated by the Reserves Estimation  Committee (REC) which follows international  reservoir engineering procedures consistently.
The company has adopted deterministic  approach for reserves estimation and is  following Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE)  – 1997 guidelines which defines reserves as  “estimated volumes of crude oils, condensate,  natural gas, natural gas liquids and associated  substances anticipated to be commercially  recoverable from known accumulations from a  given date forward, under existing economic  conditions, by established operating practices,  and under current Government regulations.” Volumetric estimation is the main procedure in  estimation, which uses reservoir rock and fluid  properties to calculate hydrocarbons in-place  and then estimate that portion which will be  recovered from it.
As the field gets matured with  reasonably good production history is available  then performance method such as material  balance, simulation, decline curve analysis are  applied to get more accurate assessments of  reserves.
The Company uses the services of third party  agencies for due diligence and it gets the reserves of  its assets audited by third party periodically by  internationally reputed consultants who adopt latest  industry practices for their evaluation.
The annual revision of estimates is based on the  yearly exploratory and development activities and  results thereof.
New in- place Volume and Ultimate  Reserves are estimated for new field discoveries or  new pool discoveries in already discovered fields.
Also, appraisal activities lead to revision in estimates  due to new subsur face data.
Similarly,  reinterpretation exercise is also carried out for old  fields due to necessity of revision in petro-physical  parameters, updating of static and dynamic models  and performance analysis leading to change in  reserves.
Intervention of new technology, change in  classifications and contractual provisions also  necessitates revision in estimation of reserves.
46.
Disclosure pursuant to clause 32 of the Listing Agreement:  (` in million) Outstanding  as at  31.03.2015 Parliculars Outstanding  as at  31.03.2014 Maximum Amount  Outstanding during the year 2014-15 Maximum Amount  Outstanding during the year 2013-14 a) Loans to Subsidiaries:* i) ONGC Videsh Limited (OVL)* ii) Mangalore Refinery and  Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) b) Loan to Associate: i) Pawan Hans Limited   (formerly Pawan Hans  Helicopter Ltd)  (PHL) c) Where there is no  repayment schedule:  i) ONGC Videsh Limited (OVL) 66,142.28 66,142.28 52,914.93 119,576.99 d) Having repayment schedule  of beyond  seven years : i) Employees 10,538.42 10,583.71       10,379.28 10,379.28 e) Where no interest or interest  below Section 186(11) of  Companies Act:  i) ONGC Videsh Limited (OVL)*  ii) Mangalore Refinery and  Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) f) In the nature of loans to   companies in which   are interested:  66,142.28 66,142.28 52,914.93 119,576.99 39,428.50 46,285.70 46,285.70 50,700.00 367.84 718.17 718.17 1,056.17  66,142.28 66,142.28 52,914.93 119,576.99 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Firms\  directors  *Excludes Current account transaction Standalone Financial Statement 259 g) Investments by the ONGC Videsh Limited (OVL), loanee: Name of Subsidiary st As at 31  March, 2015 No.
of Shares No.
of Shares` in million ` in million st As at 31  March, 2014 a) ONGC Nile Ganga B.V .
Equity Shares   Class A                                  Class B                                  Class C 880 234.25 880 b) ONGC Narmada Limited       Equity Shares 20,000,000  6.94 20,000,000  6.94 c) ONGC Amazon Alaknanda Ltd. Equity Shares  Preference Shares 227,216,319 10,486.04 d) Imperial Energy Limited  (formerly Jarpeno Limited) Equity Shares  Preference Shares e) Carabobo One AB  Equity Shares 377,678 2,822.02     377,678 2,822.02 f) ONGC (BTC) Limited Equity Shares 7,398,001 2,339.30 8,000,001 2,529.66 g) Beas Rovuma Energy  Mozambique Limited Equity Shares 7,680 94,289.92 7,680 94,289.92 h) ONGC Videsh Rovuma Limited Equity Shares 10,000 0.19 - - i) ONGC Videsh Atlantic Limited Equity Shares 40,000 1.06 - -  40 8,462.12 40 8,462.12 100 21,155.29 100 21,155.29 234.25 12,000 0.56 12,000 0.56 165,797,732 7,651.57 1,450 15,574.46 1,450 15,574.46 192,210 86,744.37 192,210 86,744.37 Notes :  1.
Loan to OVL is repayable within a notice period of minimum one year and carries no interest during the years  2014-15  and 2013-14.
2.
Loan to MRPL carries interest @State Bank Advance Rate (SBAR) with a spread of minus 385 basis points.
The Loan is  repayable quarterly in 28 equal instalments.
The repayment of loan had started from the last quarter of FY 2013-14.
ONGC can call these loans on notice of 90 days.
MRPL can prepay whole or part of the loan to ONGC as per its  requirement.
3.
The Company has not advanced any money to its employees for the purposes of investment in the securities of the  Company.
Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 260  (` in million) a) Principal amount remaining unpaid but not due as at year end 74.99 81.44 b) Interest due thereon as at year end - - c) Interest paid by the Company in terms of Section 16 of Micro,  Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006,  along with the amount of the payment made to the supplier  beyond the appointed day during the year- - d) Interest due and payable for the period of delay in making  payment (which have been paid but beyond the appointed  day during the year) but without adding the interest  specified under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises  Development Act, 2006- - e) Interest accrued and remaining unpaid as at year end - - f) Further interest remaining due and payable even in the  succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues  as above are actually paid to the small enterprise- -  Particulars 2014-15 2013-14 48.
Disclosure on Foreign currency exposures at year end that have not been hedged by derivative  instrument  or otherwise are given below: Particulars  st As at 31  March, 2015 Foreign Currency Foreign Currency Equivalent ` Equivalent `  st As at 31  March, 2014 Import Creditors AED  0.27  4.61  0.29  4.78  AUD  1.07  51.11  0.64  35.70  CHF  0.11  6.82  -    -    EUR  12.15  821.82  14.03  1,158.49  GBP  3.58  331.68  5.86  585.30  JPY 519.05  270.48  974.24  572.86  NOK  1.28  10.01  8.61  86.31  OMR  0.04  6.33  0.04  6.07  SEK  0.03  0.22  0.03  0.28  SGD  0.38  17.51  0.44  21.07  USD  782.90  49,040.84  927.84  55,726.36  Total  50,561.44  58,197.21  Export Receivables USD  197.92  12,397.94  459.78  27,614.20  MWP  Provision USD  175.30  10,980.66  162.71  9,772.25  Cash Call Payable USD  1.18  74.13  0.89  53.71  Cash Call Receivable USD 47.78  2,992.94 81.94  4,921.32  47.
Disclosure under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006: Company had sought confirmation from the vendors whether they fall in the category of Micro or Small  Enterprises.
Based on the information available, the required disclosure for Micro and Small Enterprises under the  above Act is given below:  (Figures in million) Standalone Financial Statement 261 49.
The Company has a system of physical verification of Inventory, Fixed Assets and Capital Stores in a phased  manner to cover all items over a period of three years.
Adjustment of differences, if any, is carried out on completion  of reconciliation.
50.
Discrepancies of crude oil of 96,496 MT (valued at `395.47 million as on March 31, 2014) between physical and  book records at Ankleshwar Asset have been ascertained by the management during the year and accordingly  these have been written off/adjusted in inventories.
Further, 70,746 MT of pit oil lying in book of Ahmedabad Asset  (valued at  nil as on March 31, 2014) has also been written off during the year.
These write offs and consequential  adjustments thereto have been made on account of over reporting of crude oil production in earlier financial years.
The discrepancies as mentioned above are under investigation by the appropriate authorities.
51.
The Company did not have any long term contracts including derivative contracts for which there were any material  foreseeable losses.
52.
Some balances of T rade/Other Receivables, T rade/Other Payables and Loans and Advances are subject to  confirmation/reconciliation.
Adjustments, if any, will be accounted for on confirmation/reconciliation of the same,  which will not have a material impact.
53.
Previous year's figures have been regrouped/reclassified, wherever necessary, to conform to current year's  classification.
54.
Figures in parenthesis as given in these Notes to Financial Statement relate to previous year.
An FPSO (Floating Production Storage and Offloading vessel) unit; ONGC has taken a slew of initiatives to quickly put its fields on  production using the latest state-of-the-art technology.
The induction of FPSO units to its fleet has greatly advanced the production  schedule in the eastern offshore.
Annual Report 2014-15 Standalone Financial Statement 262 Segment Information - Standalone 2014-15 2013-14 Total Unallocated Grand Total Un Grand Particulars Offshore Onshore Segments Total Offshore Onshore Segments Total Revenue External Sales  596,731  234,204 830,935  -   830,935 599,403 242,612 842,015  -   842,015 Inter Segment Sales  -    -    -    -    -    -    Gross Revenue 596,731 234,204 830,935  -   830,935 599,403 242,612 842,015  -   842,015 Less: Excise Duty 2,032 193 2,225 2,225 2,772 353 3,125 3,125 Total Revenue 594,699 234,011 828,710  -   828,710 596,631 242,259 838,890  -   838,890 Results Segment Result Profit(+)/Loss(-) 226,272 19,946 246,218 246,218 266,862 35,847 302,709 302,709 Unallocated Corporate Expenses  -   16,092 16,092  -   15,137 15,137 Operating Profit 226,272 19,946 246,218  (16,092) 230,126 266,862 35,847 302,709  (15,137.00) 287,572 Interest Expenses  -   28 28  -   4 4 Interest/Dividend Income  -   35,454 35,454  -   36,751 36,751 Income T axes  -   88,223 88,223  -   103,371 103,371 Profit from Ordinary Activities 226,272 19,946 246,218  (68,889) 177,329 266,862 35,847 302,709  (81,761) 220,948 Extraordinary Gain  -    -    -    -    Net Profit 226,272 19,946 246,218  (68,889) 177,329 266,862 35,847 302,709  (81,761) 220,948 Other Information Segment Assets 1,004,659 537,448 1,542,107 1,542,107 941,101 469,261 1,410,362 1,410,362 Unallocated Corporate Assets  -   538,692 538,692  -   582,522 582,522 Total Assets 1,004,659 537,448 1,542,107 538,692 2,080,799 941,101 469,261 1,410,362 582,522 1,992,884 Segment Liabilities 289,560 103,877 393,437 393,437 325,744 101,478 427,222 427,222 Unallocated Corporate Liabilities  -   241,351 241,351  -   198,412 198,412 Total Liabilities 289,560 103,877 393,437 241,351 634,788 325,744 101,478 427,222 198,412 625,634 Capital Expenditure 184,284 74,557 258,841 4,237 263,078 211,567 76,933 288,500 4,328 292,828 Depreciation, Depletion and  Amortisation  Non-cash Expenses 755 1,001 1,756 6 1,762 1,595 646 2,241  (53) 2,188 allocated 88,224 25,120 113,344 1,167 114,511  87,195 21,326 108,521 756 109,277  (` in million) Statement Pursuant to Section 129 (AOC-1) ONGC Group Performance at a Glance Independent Auditors’ Report on  Financial Statement Consolidated Consolidated Financial Statement  Annual Report 2014-15 Statement Pursuant to Section 129 (AOC-1) 264 Statement Pursuant to Section 129 (AOC-1) 265 Annual Report 2014-15 Group Performance at a Glance 266 FINANCIAL FINANCIAL Income form Operations  1,660,669  1,782,051  1,658,482  1,511,003  1,252,873 Income from Operations (Gross) 1085787 1105621 1036483 898872 755854  Other Non-operating Income  59,644  68,899  54,907  47,934  37,180 Statutory Levies 213391 229963 240025 216411 175823  Total Revenue  1,720,313  1,850,950  1,713,389  1,558,937  1,290,053 Operating Expenses 407693 430150 374072 307502 255258  Statutory Levies  306,836  299,174  284,369  269,402  247,631 Exchange Loss/(Gain) (10671) 11716 1018 (2675) (463) Operating Expenses  821,770  901,110  824,465  639,629  488,606 Profit Before Interest Depreciation & Tax (PBIDT) 475374 433792 421368 377634 325236  Exchange Loss/(Gain)  (465)  (650)  4,206  11,925  42 Recouped Costs 187391 155705 139533 124154 103549  Exploration costs written off*  109,514  84,881  110,457  105,136  92,620 Operating Income (PBIT) 287983 278087 281835 253480 221687  Profit Before Interest, Depreciation & Tax (PBIDT)  482,658  566,435  489,892  532,845  461,154 Interest(Net) (16431) (32950) (27375) (19241) (11715) Depreciation, Depletion, Amortisation and Impairment  180,330  166,057  117,633  131,866  113,644 Profit before Tax and Extraordinary Items 304414 311037 309210 272721 233402  Profit Before Interest & Tax (PBIT)  302,328  400,377  372,259  400,979  347,510 Extraordinary Items- Excess of Insurance Claims over BV 0 658 0 4751 6405  Interest Payment  28,624  6,243  4,838  4,349  4,377 Profit before Tax 304414 311695 309210 277472 239807  Profit before Tax and Exceptional Items  273,704  394,134  367,421  396,630  343,133 Corporate T ax 107138 110094 106999 98454 84932  Exceptional item  -    -    -    31,405  -   Profit after Tax 197276 201601 202211 179018 154875  Profit before Tax  273,704  394,134  367,421  428,035  343,133 Share in Associates for the year 78 99 21 102 107  Corporate T ax  96,975  127,604  127,519  143,746  114,883 Profit relating to minority 3319 3747 3509 1424 1006  Profit after Tax  176,729  266,530  239,902  284,289  228,250 Group Profit after Tax 194035 197953 198723 177696 153976  Share in Associates for the year  303  118  38  (11)  30 Dividend 70583 68444 68444 66305 64167  Profit relating to minority  (6,303)  1,583  (2,256)  2,842  3,720 T ax on Dividend 11992 12017 12014 10383 9172  Group Profit after Tax  183,335  265,065  242,196  281,436  224,560 Share Capital 21389 21389 21535 21416 14259  Dividend  81,277  81,277  81,277  83,416  74,859 Net Worth (Equity) 1005653 915729 774127 661994 564017  T ax on Dividend  16,317  13,842  13,053  13,611  12,528 Borrowings 51769 13091 9427 12964 22342  Share Capital  42,778  42,778  42,778  42,778  42,778 Working Capital 192787 172257 240202 202408 173164  Net Worth (Equity)  1,794,742  1,710,556  1,510,417  1,352,666  1,145,312 Capital Employed 869009 752781 693329 618263 513037  Long-term Borrowings  475,827  316,809  88,428  52,086  39,771  Working Capital  26,969  (44,857)  63,899  96,213  75,237 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE RATIOS Capital Employed  1,781,914  1,447,991  1,183,203  1,003,223  909,267 PBIDT to T urnover (%) 43.78 39.2 40.7 42.0 43.0 PBDT to T urnover (%) 45.29 42.2 43.3 44.2 44.6 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE RATIOS Profit Margin(%)- incl.
extraordinary items 17.87 17.9 19.2 19.8 20.4 PBIDT to T urnover (%)  29.06  31.79  29.54  35.26  36.81 ROCE(PBIDT to Capital Employed) (%) 54.70 57.6 60.8 61.1 63.4 PBDT to T urnover (%)  27.34  31.44  29.25  34.98  36.46 Net Profit to Equity (%)- incl.
extraordinary items 19.29 21.6 25.7 26.8 27.3 Profit Margin (%)- incl.
exceptional items  11.04  14.87  14.60  18.63  17.92  ROCE(PBIDT to Capital Employed) (%)  27.09  39.12  41.40  53.11  50.72 BALANCE SHEET RATIOS Net Profit to Equity (%)- incl.
exceptional items  10.22  15.50  16.04  20.81  19.61 Current Ratio 1.38:1 1.31:1 1.75:1 1.79:1 1.97:1 Debt Equity Ratio 0.05 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.04 BALANCE SHEET RATIOS Debtors T urnover Ratio(Days) 24 24 25 20 21 Current Ratio 1.05:1 0.93:1 1.13: 1 1.21:1 1.21:1 Debt Equity Ratio 0.27 0.19 0.06 0.04 0.03 PER SHARE DATA Debtors T urnover Ratio (Days) 38.27  32.83  33.88  28.31  29.05 Earning Per Share (Rs.
)- before extraordinary items* 22.68  23.09  23.23  20.40  17.50  Earning Per Share (Rs.
)- after extraordinary items* 22.68  23.14  23.23  20.77  18.00  PER SHARE DATA Dividend (%) 330 320 320 310 450 Earning Per Share (`)  21.43 30.98 28.31 32.90 26.25 Book Value Per Share(Rs.
)* 118 107 90 77 66 Dividend (%)  190  190  190  195  175  Book Value Per Share (`)  210  200  177  158  134 *restated Post Bonus & split  ONGC Group Performance at a Glance  (` in million unless otherwise stated) 2014-15 2013-14 2012-13 2011-12 2010-11 In  view of the Notification no.
S.O 447(E) dated 28.02.2011, issued by Ministry of Corportae Affairs, the Balance sheet of the Company is mandatorily  required to be prepared in Revised Schedule VI  w.e.f 1  April, 2011 onwrads  Accordingly, the figures of FY 2014-15, FY 2013-14, FY  2012-13, FY 2011-12 and FY 2010-11 are given as per the requirement of Revised  Schedule VI and earlier years figures are as per Old Schedule VI.
* Exploration Costs written off towards Survey & Dry Wells have been regrouped from Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization since these  represents cash expenditure and shown as a separate item.
st st (Schedule III after implementation of Companies Act, 2013 w.e.f.
1  April,  2014).
Group Performance at a Glance 267 FINANCIAL FINANCIAL Income form Operations  1,660,669  1,782,051  1,658,482  1,511,003  1,252,873 Income from Operations (Gross) 1,085,787 1,105,621 1,036,483 898,872 755,854  Other Non-operating Income  59,644  68,899  54,907  47,934  37,180 Statutory Levies 213,391 229,963 240,025 216,411 175,823  Total Revenue  1,720,313  1,850,950  1,713,389  1,558,937  1,290,053 Operating Expenses 407,693 430,150 374,072 307,502 255,258  Statutory Levies  306,836  299,174  284,369  269,402  247,631 Exchange Loss/(Gain) (10,671) 11,716 1,018 (2,675) (463) Operating Expenses  821,770  901,110  824,465  639,629  488,606 Profit Before Interest Depreciation & Tax (PBIDT) 475,374 433,792 421,368 377,634 325,236  Exchange Loss/(Gain)  (465)  (650)  4,206  11,925  42 Recouped Costs 187,391 155,705 139,533 124,154 103,549  Exploration costs written off  109,514  84,881  110,457  105,136  92,620 Operating Income (PBIT) 287,983 278,087 281,835 253,480 221,687  Profit Before Interest, Depreciation & Tax (PBIDT)  482,658  566,435  489,892  532,845  461,154 Interest(Net) (16,431) (32,950) (27,375) (19,241) (11,715) Depreciation, Depletion, Amortisation and Impairment  180,330  166,057  117,633  131,866  113,644 Profit before Tax and Extraordinary Items 304,414 311,037 309,210 272,721 233,402  Profit Before Interest & Tax (PBIT)  302,328  400,377  372,259  400,979  347,510 Extraordinary Items- Excess of Insurance Claims over Book Value - 658 - 4,751 6,405  Interest Payment  28,624  6,243  4,838  4,349  4,377 Profit before Tax 304,414 311,695 309,210 277,472 239,807  Profit before Tax and Exceptional Items  273,704  394,134  367,421  396,630  343,133 Corporate T ax 107,138 110,094 106,999 98,454 84,932  Exceptional item  -    -    -    31,405  -   Profit after Tax 197,276 201,601 202,211 179,018 154,875  Profit before Tax  273,704  394,134  367,421  428,035  343,133 Share in Associates for the year 78 99 21 102 107  Corporate T ax  96,975  127,604  127,519  143,746  114,883 Profit relating to minority 3,319 3,747 3,509 1,424 1,006  Profit after Tax  176,729  266,530  239,902  284,289  228,250 Group Profit after Tax 194,035 197,953 198,723 177,696 153,976  Share in Associates for the year  303  118  38  (11)  30 Dividend 70,583 68,444 68,444 66,305 64,167  Profit relating to minority  (6,303)  1,583  (2,256)  2,842  3,720 T ax on Dividend 11,992 12,017 12,014 10,383 9,172  Group Profit after Tax  183,335  265,065  242,196  281,436  224,560 Share Capital 21,389 21,389 21,535 21,416 14,259  Dividend  81,277  81,277  81,277  83,416  74,859 Net Worth (Equity) 1,005,653 915,729 774,127 661,994 564,017  T ax on Dividend  16,317  13,842  13,053  13,611  12,528 Borrowings 51,769 13,091 9,427 12,964 22,342  Share Capital  42,778  42,778  42,778  42,778  42,778 Working Capital 192,787 172,257 240,202 202,408 173,164  Net Worth (Equity)  1,794,742  1,710,556  1,510,417  1,352,666  1,145,312 Capital Employed 869,009 752,781 693,329 618,263 513,037  Long-term Borrowings  475,827  316,809  88,428  52,086  39,771  Working Capital  26,969  (44,857)  63,899  96,213  75,237 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE RATIOS Capital Employed  1,781,914  1,447,991  1,183,203  1,003,223  909,267 PBIDT to T urnover (%) 43.78 39.21 40.70 41.96 42.98 PBDT to T urnover (%) 45.29 42.18 43.27 44.20 44.60 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE RATIOS Profit Margin(%)- incl.
extraordinary items 17.87 17.89 19.16 19.80 20.40 PBIDT to T urnover (%)  29.06  31.79  29.54  35.26  36.81 ROCE(PBIDT to Capital Employed) (%) 54.70 57.63 60.77 61.08 63.39 PBDT to T urnover (%)  27.34  31.44  29.25  34.98  36.46 Net Profit to Equity (%)- incl.
extraordinary items 19.29 21.62 25.67 26.84 27.30 Profit Margin (%)- incl.
exceptional items  11.04  14.87  14.60  18.63  17.92  ROCE(PBIDT to Capital Employed) (%)  27.09  39.12  41.40  53.11  50.72 BALANCE SHEET RATIOS Net Profit to Equity (%)- incl.
exceptional items  10.22  15.50  16.04  20.81  19.61 Current Ratio 1.38:1 1.31:1 1.75:1 1.79:1 1.97:1 Debt Equity Ratio 0.05 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.04 BALANCE SHEET RATIOS Debtors T urnover Ratio(Days) 24 24 25 20 21 Current Ratio 1.05:1 0.93:1 1.13: 1 1.21:1 1.21:1 Debt Equity Ratio 0.27 0.19 0.06 0.04 0.03 PER SHARE DATA Debtors T urnover Ratio (Days) 38.27  32.83  33.88  28.31  29.05 Earning Per Share (`)- before extraordinary items* 22.68  23.09  23.23  20.40  17.50  Earning Per Share (`)- after extraordinary items* 22.68  23.14  23.23  20.77  18.00  PER SHARE DATA Dividend (%) 330 320 320 310 450 Earning Per Share (`)  21.43 30.98 28.31 32.90 26.25 Book Value Per Share(`)* 118 107 90 77 66 Dividend (%)  190  190  190  195  175  Book Value Per Share (`)  210  200  177  158  134  ONGC Group Performance at a Glance  (  in million unless otherwise stated) ` 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 2006-07 2005-06 *restated Post Bonus & split  Annual Report 2014-15 Statement of Income and Retained Earnings of ONGC Group 268 REVENUES REVENUES Sales Sales Crude Oil  662,845  654,029  621,576  640,041  558,993 Crude Oil 527312 491127 543631 475295 382311  Natural Gas  204,306  194,594  174,558  151,320  135,329 Natural Gas 81405 82835 78560 80117 73383  LPG  34,380  30,145  31,484  23,711  18,368 LPG 21924 22752 20169 14867 16279  Naptha  50,835  75,743  76,805  72,167  56,342 Naptha/Aromatic Rich Naptha 47137 48406 43848 37907 35679  Ethane/Propane  10,064  14,837  13,440  12,741  8,796 Ethane/Propane 10249 9890 9291 9095 7401  Superior Kerosene Oil  2,770  2,779  3,686  1,520  679 Superior Kerosene Oil 3255 16701 10775 15754 10605  HSD  312  522  170  103  134 HSD 156 61910 48621 42037 23403  Motor Spirit  -    -    -    30  -   Motor Spirit 27 11062 9159 4530 3797  Others  676,896  796,713  727,355  599,982  447,972 Others 370250 349257 254297 183064 188892  Price Revision Arrears  -    -    -   Price Revision Arrears 0 0 0 11 156  Sub- Total  1,642,408  1,769,362  1,649,074  1,501,615  1,226,613 Sub- Total 1061715 1093940 1018351 862677 741906  T raded Products  60  44  43  34  172 Write Back of Excess Liability 0 0  Other Operating Revenue  18,201  12,645  9,365  9,354  26,088 Pipeline Revenue 3126 5267 4644 3351 3214  Total Revenue from Operations  1,660,669  1,782,051  1,658,482  1,511,003  1,252,873 Other Receipts 17217 9858 12387 23029 11279  Other Non-operating Income  59,644  68,899  54,907  47,934  37,180 Accretion / (Decretion)  in stock 3729 (3444) 1101 9815 (545) Total Revenues  1,720,313  1,850,950  1,713,389  1,558,937  1,290,053 Total Revenues 1085787 1105621 1036483 898872 755854  COST & EXPENSES COST & EXPENSES Operating, Selling & General Operating, Selling & General Statutory Levies (a) Royalties 103561 111574 121057 104558 85242      (a) Royalties  141,451  150,102  137,210  155,316  126,529 (b) Cess/ Excise Duty 98831 103571 108838 100160 76755      (b) Cess  102,535  99,734  99,971  57,831  56,963 (c) Natural Calamity Contingent Duty - Crude Oil 1062 1081 1127 1149 1080      (c) Motor Spirit Cess  -    3 (d) Sales T ax 3734 7823 2947 6009 10299      (d) Excise Duty  52,669  37,432  34,732  37,427  51,544 (e) Education Cess* 1719 1784 1861 1303 0      (e) Natural Calamity Contingent Duty - Crude Oil  1,123  1,097  1,101  1,097  1,114 (f) Octroi & Port T rust Charges 4484 4130 4195 3232 2447      (f) Sales T ax  2,586  3,123  3,834  3,339  3,112 (g) VAT 816 800 685 1063 927      (g) Service T ax  298  439  353  8,337  2,018 Sub-total (a to f) 213391 229963 240025 216411 175823      (h) Education Cess  91  2,348  3,111  1,871  1,828 Pipeline Operations (Excluding Depreciation) 11967 10725 10343 9122 7732      (i) Octroi & Port T rust Charges  6,083  4,896  4,057  4,184  4,523 Other Operating Costs 395726 419425 363729 298380 247526  Sub-Total (a to i)  306,836  299,174  284,369  269,402  247,631 Exchange Loss/(Gain) (10671) 11716 1018 (2675) (463) (Accretion) / Decretion  in stock  17,229  (5,285)  (11,205)  (4,641)  (8,917) Recouped Costs Production, T ransportation, Selling and Distribution Expenditure  790,530  898,504  813,428  632,912  487,776 (a) Depletion 62242 55883 49259 46439 34318  Provisions and Writ-offs  10,876  10,315  22,243  11,599  9,635 (b) Depreciation 20767 21822 27874 29060 28556  Exchange Loss  (465)  (650)  4,206  11,925  42 (c) Amortisation 104815 81110 62837 46925 41001  Adjustments relating to Prior Period (Net)  3,135  (2,423)  (1)  (241)  112 (d) Impairment (433) (3110) (437) 1730 (326) Exploration Costs Written off Sub-Total (a to d) 187391 155705 139533 124154 103549     -Survey Costs  20,835  17,471  18,078  14,947  19,542 Total Cost & Expenses 797804 827534 754648 645392 534167     -Exploratory Well Costs  88,679  67,410  92,379  90,189  73,078 Operating Income Before Interest &Tax 287983 278087 281835 253480 221687  Profit Before Depreciation, Interest &Tax  482,658  566,435  489,892  532,845  461,154 Interest Depreciation, Depletion, Amortisation and Impairment  180,330  166,057  117,633  131,866  113,644 -Payments 5564 2386 1135 1906 1597  Total Cost & Expenses  1,417,985  1,450,573  1,341,130  1,157,958  942,543 -Receipts 21995 35336 28510 21147 13312  Operating Income Before Interest &Tax  302,328  400,377  372,259  400,979  347,510 -Net (16431) (32950) (27375) (19241) (11715) Interest Payment  28,624  6,243  4,838  4,349  4,377 Profit before Tax and Extraordinary Items 304414 311037 309210 272721 233402  Profit before Tax and Extraordinary Items  273,704  394,134  367,421  396,630  343,133 Extraordinary Items- Excess of Insurance Claims over Book Value 0 658 0 4751 6405  Exceptional item  -    -    31,405  -   Profit before Tax 304414 311695 309210 277472 239807  Profit before Tax   273,704  394,134  367,421  428,035  343,133 Corporate T ax ( Net) 107138 110094 106999 98454 84932  Corporate T ax (Net)  96,975  127,604  127,519  143,746  114,883 Profit after Tax 197276 201601 202211 179018 154875  Profit after Tax  176,729  266,530  239,902  284,289  228,250 Share in Associates for the year 78 99 21 102 107  Share in Associates for the year  303  118  38  (11)  30 Profit relating to minority 3319 3747 3509 1424 1006  Profit relating to minority  (6,303)  1,583  (2,256)  2,842  3,720 Group Profit after Tax 194035 197953 198723 177696 153976  Group Profit after Tax  183,335  265,065  242,196  281,436  224,560 Profit & Loss Account Balance b/f 93335 58990 28795 8848 1  Profit & Loss Account Balance brought forward  233,115  205,773  179,959  144,332  116,377 Adjustments (21) -107 0 0 0  Adjustments  due to change in share holding /other adjustment  1 46  59  44  (137) Dividend 70583 68444 68444 66305 64167  T ransfer to Capital Redemption Reserve  -    -    46  46  -   T ax on Dividend 11992 12017 12014 10383 9172  Dividend  81,277  81,277  81,277  83,416  74,859 Retained Earnings For The Year 204774 176375 147060 109856 80638  T ax on Dividend  16,317  13,842  13,053  13,611  12,528  T ransfer to Self Insurance Reserves  4  -    -    -    -    T ransfer to general Reserve  80,755  132,250  117,757  144,461  104,773  T ransfer to Debenture Redemption Reserve  24,003  10,400  4,308  4,319  4,308  Retained Earnings For The Year  214,095  233,115  205,773  179,959  144,332  Statement of Income and  Retained Earnings of ONGC Group  (` in million) 2013-14 2012-13 2011-12 2010-112014-15 In  view of the Notification no.
S.O 447(E) dated 28.02.2011, issued by Ministry of Corportae Affairs, the Balance sheet of the Company is mandatorily  required to be prepared in Revised Schedule VI  w.e.f 1  April, 2011 onwrads  Accordingly, the figures of FY 2014-15, FY 2013-14, FY  2012-13, FY 2011-12 and FY 2010-11 are given as per the requirement of Revised  Schedule VI and earlier years figures are as per Old Schedule VI.
st st (Schedule III after implementation of Companies Act, 2013 w.e.f.
1  April,  2014).
Statement of Income and Retained Earnings of ONGC Group 269 REVENUES REVENUES Sales Sales Crude Oil  663,998  654,029  621,576  640,041  558,993 Crude Oil 527,312 491,127 543,631 475,295 382,311  Natural Gas  203,153  194,594  174,558  151,320  135,329 Natural Gas 81,405 82,835 78,560 80,117 73,383  LPG  34,380  30,145  31,484  23,711  18,368 LPG 21,924 22,752 20,169 14,867 16,279  Naptha  50,835  75,743  76,805  72,167  56,342 Naptha/Aromatic Rich Naptha 47,137 48,406 43,848 37,907 35,679  Ethane/Propane  10,064  14,837  13,440  12,741  8,796 Ethane/Propane 10,249 9,890 9,291 9,095 7,401  Superior Kerosene Oil  2,770  2,779  3,686  1,520  679 Superior Kerosene Oil 3,255 16,701 10,775 15,754 10,605  HSD  312  522  170  103  134 HSD 156 61,910 48,621 42,037 23,403  Motor Spirit  -    -    -    30  -   Motor Spirit 27 11,062 9,159 4,530 3,797  Others  676,896  796,713  727,355  599,982  447,972 Others 370,250 349,257 254,297 1,83,064 188,892  Price Revision Arrears  -    -    -   Price Revision Arrears - - - 11 156  Sub- Total  1,642,408  1,769,362  1,649,074  1,501,615  1,226,613 Sub- Total 1,061,715 1,093,940 1,018,351 862,677 741,906  T raded Products  60  44  43  34  172 Write Back of Excess Liability - - Other Operating Revenue  18,201  12,645  9,365  9,354  26,088 Pipeline Revenue 3,126 5,267 4,644 3,351 3,214  Total Revenue from Operations  1,660,669  1,782,051  1,658,482  1,511,003  1,252,873 Other Receipts 17,217 9,858 12,387 23,029 11,279  Other Non-operating Income  59,644  68,899  54,907  47,934  37,180 Accretion / (Decretion)  in stock 3,729 (3,444) 1,101 9,815 (545) Total Revenues  1,720,313  1,850,950  1,713,389  1,558,937  1,290,053 Total Revenues 1,085,787 1,105,621 1,036,483 898,872 755,854  COST & EXPENSES COST & EXPENSES Operating, Selling & General Operating, Selling & General Statutory Levies    (a) Royalties 103,561 111,574 121,057 104,558 85,242  (a) Royalties  141,451  150,102  137,210  155,316  126,529    (b) Cess/ Excise Duty 98,831 103,571 108,838 100,160 76,755  (b) Cess  102,535  99,734  99,971  57,831  56,963    (c) Natural Calamity Contingent Duty - Crude Oil 1,062 1,081 1,127 1,149 1,080  (c) Motor Spirit Cess  -    3    (d) Sales T ax 3,734 7,823 2,947 6,009 10,299  (d) Excise Duty  52,669  37,432  34,732  37,427  51,544    (e) Education Cess* 1,719 1,784 1,861 1,303 - (e) Natural Calamity Contingent Duty - Crude Oil  1,123  1,097  1,101  1,097  1,114    (f) Octroi & Port T rust Charges 4,484 4,130 4,195 3,232 2,447  (f) Sales T ax  2,586  3,123  3,834  3,339  3,112    (g) VAT 816 800 685 1,063 927  (g) Service T ax  298  439  353  8,337  2,018 Sub-Total (a to f) 213,391 229,963 240,025 216,411 175,823  (h) Education Cess  91  2,348  3,111  1,871  1,828 Pipeline Operations (Excluding Depreciation) 11,967 10,725 10,343 9,122 7,732  (i) Octroi & Port T rust Charges  6,083  4,896  4,057  4,184  4,523 Other Operating Costs 395,726 419,425 363,729 298,380 247,526  Sub-total (a to i)  306,836  299,174  284,369  269,402  247,631 Exchange Loss/(Gain) (10,671) 11,716 1,018 (2,675) (463) (Accretion) / Decretion  in stock  17,229  (5,285)  (11,205)  (4,641)  (8,917) Recouped Costs Production, T ransportation, Selling and Distribution Expenditure  790,530  898,504  813,428  632,912  487,776    (a) Depletion 62,242 55,883 49,259 46,439 34,318  Provisions and Writ-offs  10,876  10,315  22,243  11,599  9,635    (b) Depreciation 20,767 21,822 27,874 29,060 28,556  Exchange Loss  (465)  (650)  4,206  11,925  42    (c) Amortisation 104,815 81,110 62,837 46,925 41,001  Adjustments relating to Prior Period (Net)  3,135  (2,423)  (1)  (241)  112    (d) Impairment (433) (3,110) (4,37) 1,730 (326) Exploration Costs Written off Sub-Total (a to d) 187,391 155,705 139,533 124,154 103,549     -Survey Costs  20,835  17,471  18,078  14,947  19,542 Total Cost & Expenses 797,804 827,534 754,648 645,392 534,167     -Exploratory Well Costs  88,679  67,410  92,379  90,189  73,078 Operating Income Before Interest &Tax 287,983 278,087 281,835 253,480 221,687  Profit Before Depreciation, Interest &Tax  482,658  566,435  489,892  532,845  461,154 Interest Depreciation, Depletion, Amortisation and Impairment  180,330  166,057  117,633  131,866  113,644 -Payments 5,564 2,386 1,135 1,906 1,597  Total Cost & Expenses  1,417,985  1,450,573  1,341,130  1,157,958  942,543 -Receipts 21,995 35,336 28,510 21,147 13,312  Operating Income Before Interest &Tax  302,328  400,377  372,259  400,979  347,510 -Net Interest (16,431) (32,950) (27,375) (19,241) (11,715) Interest Payment  28,624  6,243  4,838  4,349  4,377 Profit before Tax and Extraordinary Items 304,414 311,037 309,210 272,721 233,402  Profit before Tax and Extraordinary Items  273,704  394,134  367,421  396,630  343,133 Extraordinary Items- Excess of Insurance Claims over Book Value - 658 - 4,751 6,405  Exceptional item  -    -    31,405  -   Profit before Tax 304,414 311,695 309,210 277,472 239,807  Profit before Tax   273,704  394,134  367,421  428,035  343,133 Corporate T ax (Net) 107,138 110,094 106,999 98,454 84,932  Corporate T ax ( Net)  96,975  127,604  127,519  143,746  114,883 Profit after Tax 197,276 201,601 202,211 179,018 154,875  Profit after Tax  176,729  266,530  239,902  284,289  228,250 Share in Associates for the year 78 99 21 102 107  Share in Associates for the year  303  118  38  (11)  30 Profit relating to minority 3,319 3,747 3,509 1,424 1,006  Profit relating to minority  (6,303)  1,583  (2,256)  2,842  3,720 Group Profit after Tax 194,035 197,953 198,723 177,696 153,976  Group Profit after Tax  183,335  265,065  242,196  281,436  224,560 Profit & Loss Account Balance brought forward 93,335 58,990 28,795 8,848 1  Profit & Loss Account Balance b/f  233,115  205,773  179,959  144,332  116,377 Adjustments (21) -107 - - -  Adjustments  due to change in share holding /other adjustment  1  36  59  44  (137) Dividend 70,583 68,444 68,444 66,305 64,167  T ransfer to Capital Redemption Reserve  -    -    46  46  -   T ax on Dividend 11,992 12,017 12,014 10,383 9,172  Dividend  81,277  81,277  81,277  83,416  74,859 Retained Earnings For The Year 204,774 176,375 147,060 109,856 80,638  T ax on Dividend  16,317  13,842  13,053  13,611  12,528  T ransfer to Self Insurance Reserves  4  -    -    -    -    T ransfer to general Reserve  80,755  132,250  117,757  144,461  104,773  T ransfer to Debenture Redemption Reserve  24,003  10,400  4,308  4,319  4,308  Retained Earnings For The Year  214,095  233,105  205,773  179,959  144,332  Statement of Income and  Retained Earnings of ONGC Group  (  in million) ` 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 2006-07 2005-06 *upto 2005-06 Education Cess is included in respective heads of levies Annual Report 2014-15 Statement of Financial Position of ONGC Group 270 RESOURCES RESOURCES A.
Own A.
Own   Net Worth 1.
Net Worth (a) Equity      (a) Equity i) Share Capital  42,778  42,778  42,778  42,778  42,778         i) Share Capital 21389 21389 21535 21416 14259  ii) Reserves & Surplus  1,761,766  1,678,738  1,482,498  1,321,614  1,110,495       ii)Reserves & Surplus 992677 900846 759331 645719 553421        Sub-Total  1,804,544  1,721,516  1,525,276  1,364,392  1,153,273      Sub-Total 1014066 922235 780866 667135 567680  (b) Less: Miscelaneous Expenditure  9,802 10960  14,859  11,726  7,961      (b) Less Deffered Revenue Expenditure 8413 6506 6739 5141 3663  Net Worth  1,794,742  1,710,556  1,510,417  1,352,666  1,145,312     Net Worth 1005653 915729 774127 661994 564017  B.
Long-term Borrowings  475,827  316,809  88,428  52,086  39,771  2.
Long Term Liabilities C.   Deferred Tax Liability (Net)  181,759  178,635  142,251  121,846  111,526     Net Deferred Tax Liability 102912 92231 87376 81119 71633  D.  Minority Interest  24,731  29,120  19,466  22,240  19,891    Total Own Funds ( 1 + 2 ) 1108565 1007960 861503 743113 635650  TOTAL RESOURCES ( A+B+C+D )  2,477,059  2,235,120  1,760,562  1,548,838  1,316,500 B.
Minority Interest 16432 14113 11448 8321 7230  DISPOSITION OF RESOURCES C.  Outside A.  Non-current assets   1.
Unsecured Loans 1.
Fixed Assets(Net)         a) Indian Loans 34550 6015 2079 1881 1745      i).
T angible assets  686,712  462,254  406,745  306,080  266,924         b) Foreign Loans 10260 1492 1458 4526 13181     ii) Producing Properties  910,049  912,681  705,395  608,004  571,896      T otal Unsecured Loans 44810 7507 3537 6407 14926      iii) Intangible assets  1,169  754  1,041  1,364  1,735   2.
Secured Loans 6959 5584 5890 6557 7416  Total Block Capital  1,597,930  1,375,689  1,113,181  915,448  840,555       Total Outside Resources 51769 13091 9427 12964 22342  2.
Goodwill on consolidation  201,399  183,545  83,255  77,976  89,928 TOTAL RESOURCES ( A+ B+C ) 1176766 1035164 882378 764398 665222  3.
Long-term Loans and Advances(Excluding Capital Advance)  93,620  83,077  67,002  51,029  58,250  4.
Deposit with Bank Under Site Restoration Fund Scheme   136,424  120,830  106,349  94,753  81,262 DISPOSITION OF RESOURCES 5.
Other non-current Assets (Excluding DRE)  71,662  53,474  19,642  20,302  5,619 A.
Goodwill on consolidation 95385 114039 25777 30616 17103  6.
Sub Total (1+2+3+4+5)  2,101,035  1,816,615  1,389,429  1,159,508  1,075,614 B.
Block Capital 7.
Less:  Non-current Liabilities 1.
Fixed Assets 243762 184956 193961 185355 138806  a.
Other Long T erm Liabilities  18,294  18,467  17,163  10,758  9,731  2  Producing Properties (Gross) 511665 452980 362714 351741 312639  b.
Liability for Abandonment Cost  298,198  274,266  207,255  203,982  198,469 Less: Libility for Abandonment Cost 174590 171451 129325 151857 128675  c. Long T erm Provisions  29,598  31,034  45,707  37,758  33,384      T otal Block Capital 580837 466485 427350 385239 322770  Sub total (7)  346,090  323,767  270,125  252,498  241,584 C.    Working Capital Net Non Current Asset (A)=(6)-(7)  1,754,945  1,492,848  1,119,304  907,010  834,030  a)   Current Assets B.
Net Working Capital          i)  Inventories 82400 65424 72985 58744 49432  1.
Current Assets         ii)  Debtors (Net of Provision) 71424 71814 70469 48167 44271  i) Inventories  106,062  148,015  127,726  131,680  85,676         iii)  Cash & Bank Balances 149704 156331 186525 150653 45721  ii) T rade Receivables  187,970  160,290  153,956  117,181  99,730         iv) Deposit with Bank Under Site Restoration Fund Scheme# 74138 69624 64034 56103 45336  iii) Cash & Cash equivalents  160,969  244,801  196,190  278,914  208,158         v)   Loans & Advances and Others 127998 143953 81332 74738 120683  iv) Short-term Loans & Advances  100,330  66,317  59,766  52,210  40,124       Sub-Total 505664 507146 475345 388405 305443  v) Others Current Assets (Excluding DRE)  9,658  8,135  9,082  19,643  5,955          Less Sub-Total  564,989  627,558  546,720  599,628  439,643  (b)  Current Liabilities and Provisions Less:          and Short T erm Loans 312877 334889 235143 185997 132279  2.
Current Liabilities        Working Capital 192787 172257 240202 202408 173164   i) Short-term borrowings  42,886  139,073  115,271  100,538  20,843 D.    CAPITAL EMPLOYED 869009 752781 693329 618263 513037   ii)  T rade payables  303,873  306,803  186,148  176,036  155,863 E.     INVESTMENTS 51593 34803 44821 35832 35579   iii)  Other current liabilities  168,669  217,039  170,869  202,917  176,615 F .
CAPITAL WORKS IN PROGRESS 176039 165222 86351 64055 76292   iv)  Short-term provisions  22,592  9,500  10,533  23,924  11,085 G.    EXPLORATORY/DEVELOPMENT WELLS IN PROGRESS 80125 82358 57877 46248 40314  Sub-Total  538,020  672,415  482,821  503,415  364,406  Net Working Capital  26,969  (44,857)  63,899  96,213  75,237        TOTAL DISPOSITION 1176766 1035164 882378 764398 665222  C. Capital Employed  1,781,914  1,447,991  1,183,203  1,003,223  909,267 #  Excluded for  Current Ratio.
D. Investments i)  Non-current Investments  47,470  47,205  20,453  20,412  28,920  ii)  Current Investments  21  254  829  8,795  2,080  E.  Capital Works in Progress (Including Capital Advance)  435,687  557,603  419,676  399,855  273,854  F .
Exploratory/Development Wells in Progress  211,967  182,067  136,401  116,553  102,379         TOTAL DISPOSITION (C+D+E+F)  2,477,059  2,235,120  1,760,562  1,548,838  1,316,500  Statement of Financial Position of ONGC Group  (` in million) 2013-14 2012-13 2011-12 2010-112014-15 In  view of the Notification no.
S.O 447(E) dated 28.02.2011, issued by Ministry of Corportae Affairs, the Balance sheet of the Company is  mandatorily required to be prepared in Revised Schedule VI  w.e.f 1  April, 2011 onwrads   Accordingly, the figures of FY 2014-15, FY 2013-14, FY  2012-13, FY 2011-12 and FY 2010-11 are given as per the  requirement of Revised Schedule VI and earlier years figures are as per Old Schedule VI.
st (Schedule III after implementation of Companies Act.,  st 2013 w.e.f.
1  April, 2014).
Statement of Financial Position of ONGC Group 271 RESOURCES RESOURCES A.
Own A.
Own 1.
Net Worth 1.
Net Worth (a) Equity      (a) Equity i) Share Capital  42,778  42,778  42,778  42,778  42,778         i) Share Capital 21,389 21,389 21,535 21,416 14,259  ii) Reserves & Surplus  1,761,766  1,678,738  1,482,498  1,321,614  1,110,495       ii)Reserves & Surplus 992,677 900,846 759,331 645,719 553,421        Sub-Total  1,804,544  1,721,516  1,525,276  1,364,392  1,153,273      Sub-Total 1,014,066 922,235 780,866 667,135 567,680  (b) Less Miscelaneous Expenditure  9,802 10960  14,859  11,726  7,961      (b) Less: Deffered Revenue Expenditure 8,413 6,506 6,739 5,141 3,663  Net Worth  1,794,742  1,710,556  1,510,417  1,352,666  1,145,312 Net Worth 1,005,653 915,729 774,127 661,994 564,017  B.
Long-term Borrowings  475,827  316,809  88,428  52,086  39,771 2.
Long T erm Liabilities C.   Deferred Tax Liability (Net)  181,759  178,635  142,251  121,846  111,526     Net Deferred T ax Liability 102,912 92,231 87,376 81,119 71,633  D.  Minority Interest  24,731  29,120  19,466  22,240  19,891 Total Own Funds ( 1 + 2 ) 1,108,565 1,007,960 861,503 743,113 635,650          TOTAL RESOURCES ( A+B+C+D )  2,477,059  2,235,120  1,760,562  1,548,838  1,316,500 B.
Minority Interest 16,432 14,113 11,448 8,321 7,230  DISPOSITION OF RESOURCES C.  Outside A.  Non-current assets   1.
Unsecured Loans 1.
Fixed Assets( Net)         a) Indian Loans 34,550 6,015 2,079 1,881 1,745      i).
T angible assets  686,712  462,254  406,745  306,080  266,924         b) Foreign Loans 10,260 1,492 1,458 4,526 13,181      ii)  Producing Properties  910,049  912,681  705,395  608,004  571,896      T otal Unsecured Loans 44,810 7,507 3,537 6,407 14,926      iii)  Intangible assets  1,169  754  1,041  1,364  1,735   2.
Secured Loans 6,959 5,584 5,890 6,557 7,416       Total Block Capital  1,597,930  1,375,689  1,113,181  915,448  840,555 Total Outside Resources 51,769 13,091 9,427 12,964 22,342  2.
Goodwill on consolidation  201,399  183,545  83,255  77,976  89,928 TOTAL RESOURCES ( A+ B+C ) 1,176,766 1,035,164 882,378 764,398 665,222  3.
Long-term Loans and Advances(Excluding Capital Advance)  93,620  83,077  67,002  51,029  58,250  4.
Deposit with Bank Under Site Restoration Fund Scheme   136,424  120,830  106,349  94,753  81,262 DISPOSITION OF RESOURCES 5.
Other non-current Assets (Excluding DRE)  71,662  53,474  19,642  20,302  5,619 A.
Goodwill on consolidation 95,385 114,039 25,777 30,616 17,103  Subtotal (6)= (1+2+3+4+5)  2,101,035  1,816,615  1,389,429  1,159,508  1,075,614 B.
Block Capital 7.
Less  Non-current Liabilities 1.
Fixed Assets 243,762 184,956 193,961 185,355 138,806  a.
Other Long T erm Liabilities  18,294  18,467  17,163  10,758  9,731 2 Producing Properties (Gross) 511,665 452,980 362,714 351,741 312,639  b. Libility for Abandonment Cost  298,198  274,266  207,255  203,982  198,469 Less: Liability for Abandonment Cost 174,590 171,451 129,325 151,857 128,675  c. Long T erm Provisions  29,598  31,034  45,707  37,758  33,384 Total Block Capital 580,837 466,485 427,350 385,239 322,770  Sub total (7)  346,090  323,767  270,125  252,498  241,584 C.    Working Capital Net Non Current Asset (A)=(6)-(7)  1,754,945  1,492,848  1,119,304  907,010  834,030  a)   Current Assets B.
Net Working Capital         i)  Inventories 82,400 65,424 72,985 58,744 49,432   1.
Current Assets         ii)  Debtors (Net of Provision) 71,424 71,814 70,469 48,167 44,271  i) Inventories  106,062  148,015  127,726  131,680  85,676         iii)  Cash & Bank Balances 149,704 156,331 186,525 150,653 45,721  ii)  T rade Receivables  187,970  160,290  153,956  117,181  99,730         iv) Deposit with Bank Under Site Restoration Fund Scheme# 74,138 69,624 64,034 56,103 45,336  iii)  Cash & Cash equivalents  160,969  244,801  196,190  278,914  208,158         v)   Loans & Advances and Others 127,998 143,953 81,332 74,738 120,683  iv)  Short-term Loans & Advances  100,330  66,317  59,766  52,210  40,124       Sub-Total 505,664 507,146 475,345 388,405 305,443  v) Others Current Assets (Excluding DRE)  9,658  8,135  9,082  19,643  5,955          Less: Sub-Total  564,989  627,558  546,720  599,628  439,643  (b)  Current Liabilities and Provisions Less          and Short T erm Loans 312,877 334,889 235,143 185,997 132,279   2.
Current Liabilities        Working Capital 192,787 172,257 240,202 202,408 173,164     i)  Short-term borrowings  42,886  139,073  115,271  100,538  20,843 D.    CAPITAL EMPLOYED 869,009 752,781 693,329 618,263 513,037     ii)  T rade payables  303,873  306,803  186,148  176,036  155,863 E.     INVESTMENTS 51,593 34,803 44,821 35,832 35,579     iii)  Other current liabilities  168,669  217,039  170,869  202,917  176,615 F .
CAPITAL WORKS IN PROGRESS 176,039 165,222 86,351 64,055 76,292    iv)  Short-term provisions  22,592  9,500  10,533  23,924  11,085 G.    EXPLORATORY/DEVELOPMENT WELLS IN PROGRESS 80,125 82,358 57,877 46,248 40,314         Sub-T otal  538,020  672,415  482,821  503,415  364,406  Net Working Capital  26,969  (44,857)  63,899  96,213  75,237        TOTAL DISPOSITION 1,176,766 1,035,164 882,378 764,398 665,222  D.   Capital Employed  1,781,914  1,447,991  1,183,203  1,003,223  909,267  E Investments     i)  Non-current Investments  47,470  47,205  20,453  20,412  28,920   ii)  Current Investments  21  254  829  8,795  2,080  3.
Capital Works in Progress (Including Capital Advance)  435,687  557,603  419,676  399,855  273,854  4.
Exploratory/Development Wells in Progress  211,967  182,067  136,401  116,553  102,379         TOTAL DISPOSITION (A+B)  2,477,059  2,235,120  1,760,562  1,548,838  1,316,500  Statement of Financial Position of ONGC Group  (  in million) ` 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 2006-07 2005-06 #  Excluded for  Current Ratio.
Annual Report 2014-15 272 Independent Auditors’ Report on Consolidated Financial Statements Auditors’ Report on Consolidated Financial Statements To  The Members of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited 1.
Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated  financial statements of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation  Limited (“hereinafter referred to as “the Holding  Company ”) and its subsidiaries (the Holding Company  and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”),  its associate and jointly control entities, comprising of  the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2015,  the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss, the  Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then  ended and a summary of the significant accounting  policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter  referred to as “the consolidated financial statements”).
2.
Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated  Financial Statements The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is  responsible for the preparation of these consolidated  financial statements in terms of the requirements of the  Companies Act 2013 (“hereinafter referred to as “the  Act”) that give a true and fair view of the consolidated  financial position, consolidated financial performance  and consolidated cash flows of the Group including its  Associate and Jointly Controlled entities in  accordance with the accounting principles generally  accepted in India, including the Accounting Standards  specified under Section 133 of the Act, read with Rule  7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
The  respective Board of Directors of the companies  included in the Group and of its Associate and Jointly  Controlled Entities are responsible for maintenance of  adequate accounting records in accordance with the  provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the  Group and for preventing and detecting frauds and  other irregularities; the selection and application of  appropriate accounting policies; making judgments  and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the  design, implementation and maintenance of adequate  internal financial controls, that were operating  effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness  of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation  and presentation of the financial statements that give a  true and fair view and are free from material  misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have  been used for the purpose of preparation of the  consolidated financial statements by the Directors of the  Holding Company, as aforesaid.
3.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these  consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
While conducting the audit, we have taken into  account the provisions of the Act, the accounting and  auditing standards and matters which are required to  be included in the audit report under the provisions of  the Act and the Rules made thereunder.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the  Standards on Auditing specified under Section  143(10) of the Act.
Those Standards require that we  comply with ethical requirements and plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance  about whether the consolidated financial statements  are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain  audit evidence about the amounts and the disclosures  in the consolidated financial statements.
The  procedures selected depend on the auditor’s  judgement, including the assessment of the risks of  material misstatement of the consolidated financial  statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making  those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal  financial control relevant to the Holding Company’s  preparation of the consolidated financial statements  that give a true and fair view in order to design audit  procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances  but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on  whether the Holding company has an adequate  internal financial controls system over financial  reporting in place and the operating effectiveness of  such controls.
An audit also includes evaluating the  appropriateness of the accounting policies used and  the reasonableness of the accounting estimates made  by the Holding company’s Board of Directors, as well  as evaluating the overall presentation of the  consolidated financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us and  the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in  terms of their reports referred to in sub-paragraph 6(iii) of the Other Matters paragraph below, is  sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our  audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
4.
Opinion In our opinion and to the best of our information and  according to the explanations given to us, the  aforesaid  consolidated financial statements give the information  required by the Act in the manner so required and give a  true and fair view in conformity with the accounting  principle generally accepted in India, of the  consolidated state of affairs of the Group, its associate  and jointly controlled entities as at March 31, 2015, and  their consolidated profit and their consolidated cash  flows for the year ended on that date.
5.
Emphasis of Matters  i.
We draw attention to Note no.
46.2.5 to the  consolidated financial statements with regard to the  dispute between the Holding company and the  Government of Gujarat in respect of payment of  Royalty on the crude oil produced in the State.
The  accrual of the additional liability of `117,242.00 million,  (reduced to the extent `16,440.00 million paid to  Gujarat Government- refer Note no.
32.4 to the  consolidated financial Statements), against which an  amount of `21,067.60 million has been paid with effect  from February 1, 2014 and considered as deposit,  would depend on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme  Court of India.
The amount of `117,242.00 million has  been disclosed as contingent liability.
ii.
Based on the report of the auditors on the financial  statements of one of the subsidiary, ONGC Videsh Limited: a.
We draw attention to Note No.
44.9 of the  consolidated financial statements relating to  Impairment T esting of CGU, Imperial Energy,  Auditors’ Report on Consolidated Financial Statements 273 Russia as conducted by the management, where   the auditors have stated that they have relied  upon the results of the Impairment T esting  wherein no additional Impairment provision is  required.
b.
The company has outsourced its internal audit of  the corporate office, overseas subsidiaries and  overseas project offices during the year.
In respect  of which the Auditors have stated that the system of  internal audit needs to be strengthened  particularly with reference to timely execution of  internal audit as defined in the scope and  submission of its final reports to Audit Committee.
iii.
Based on the report of the auditors on the financial  statements on one of the Jointly Controlled Entity,  Mangalore SEZ Limited, “Dues from” and “Dues to”  related parties are based on the books of account of  the company and the confirmation of the balances  have not been obtained.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of these matters.
6.
Other Matters i.
The consolidated financial statements include the  Holding Company’s share in the total value of assets,  liabilities, expenditure and income of 134 blocks under  New Exploration Licensing Policy (NELPs) / Joint  Venture (JVs) accounts for exploration and production  out of which 6 NELPs / JVs accounts have been  certified by other Chartered Accountants and 17 NELP  / JVs have been certified by the management in  respect of NELPs / JVs operated by other operators.
Our opinion is based solely on the certificate of the  other Chartered Accountants and management  certified accounts.
ii.
We have placed reliance on technical/commercial  evaluation by the management in respect of  categorization by the Holding Company of wells as  exploratory, development, producing and dry well,  allocation of cost incurred on them, proved developed  hydrocarbon reserves and depletion thereof on  producing properties, impairment, liability for  abandonment costs, liability for NELP and nominated  blocks for under performance against agreed Minimum  Work Programme and allocation of depreciation on  process platforms to transportation and facilities.
iii.We did not audit the financial statements of three  subsidiaries and six Jointly Controlled Entities whose  financial statements reflect total assets as at March 31,  2015 total revenues and net cash inflow/(outflow) for  the year ended on that date considered as under in the  consolidated financial statements: Subsidiaries  Jointly Controlled Entities Name of the Subsidiary Total Assets  as at March 31, 2015# ONGC Videsh Limited (OVL) 986,025.26 191,488.86 1,476.58 Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) $ 412,026.76 579,169.14 (38,091.79) Total Revenue for the year Net Cash st ended 31  March, 2015# Inflow/(Outflow)# Name of the Jointly Group Effective share Group Effective share Group Effective share Controlled Entities in Total Assets as at in Total Revenue for in Net Cash Inflow/ 31st March, 2015 the year ended (Outflow) 31st March, 2015 Petronet LNG Limited $ 13,898.35 49,569.66 (1,087.05) Petronet MHB Limited $ 1,679.00 417.83 (268.58) ONGC T eri Biotech Limited $ 248.98 96.85 4.15 Mangalore SEZ Limited # 3,838.44 198.94 (129.09) ONGC T ripura Power Company Limited # 25,167.76 3,850.36 2,836.86 ONGC Petro Additions Limited $ 108,862.70 - (2,965.48) (` in million) (` in million) # As per the Consolidated financial statements of OVL/MRPL.
$ Consolidated financial statements of MRPL includes its subsidiary, ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited, which  is an indirect Subsidiary of the Holding Company.
# As per the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Jointly Controlled Entities.
$ As per the Standalone Financial Statements of the Jointly Controlled Entities.
These financial statements have been audited by other  auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by the  Management and our opinion on the consolidated financial  statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and  disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries and  jointly controlled entities, and our report in terms of sub- sections (3) and (11) of section 143 of the Act, in so far as it  relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries and jointly controlled  entities, is based solely on the reports of the other auditors.
Annual Report 2014-15 Auditors’ Report on Consolidated Financial Statements 274 iv.
We did not audit the financial statements of one Jointly  Controlled Entity whose financial statements reflect  total assets as at March 31, 2015 total revenues and net  cash inflow/(outflow) for the year ended on that date  considered as under in the consolidated financial  statements: repor ts of the Holding company, subsidiary  companies and jointly controlled companies  incorporated in India, we give in the Annexure a  statement on the matters specified in the paragraphs 3  and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
2.
Based on the comments in the auditors’ reports of the  Holding company and the subsidiary companies  /jointly controlled companies incorporated in India as  referred to in para 6(iii) above, we report that a  paragraph on the directions issued by the Comptroller  and Auditors General of India in terms of section 143 (5)  of the Act has been included in respect of the auditors’  report of Holding Company and MRPL, a subsidiary.
Accordingly, we give below a report on the directions  issued by the Comptroller and Auditors General of  India in terms of section 143 (5) of the Act:  a.
The Holding company and MRPL have not been  selected for disinvestment.
b.
According to information and explanations given to us, the cases of waiver/write of f of  debts/loans/interest wherever applicable during  the year along with the reasons and amounts  involved are stated in Annexure 2. c. The Holding company and MRPL have  maintained adequate records in respect of  inventories lying with third parties and assets  received as a gift from Government or other  authorities, wherever so received.
d. In case of Holding company, we have carried out  a review of age wise analysis of significant  pending legal/arbitration cases based on the  information and explanations made available to  us and report that the reasons for the pendency  are mainly on account of adjournment and other  matters related to legal procedures.
We also  report that the holding company has in place a  monitoring mechanism for expenditure incurred  on such cases.
In case of MRPL, a subsidiary, a  report on age wise analysis of pending  legal/arbitration cases including the reasons for  pendency and existence/ef fectiveness of a  This financial statements are unaudited and have been  furnished to us by the management and our opinion on  the consolidated financial statements in so far as its  relates to the amounts and disclosures included in  respect of this jointly controlled entity, and our report  in terms of sub-sections (3) and (11) of section 143 of  the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid jointly  controlled entity, is based solely on such unaudited  financial statements.
In our opinion and according to  information and explanations given to us by the  Management, these financial statements are not  material to the Group.
v. The consolidated financial statements also include the  group share of net profit of `303.10 million for the year ended March 31, 2015 as considered in the  consolidated financial statements, in respect of Pawan  Hans Limited, an associate whose financial information  has not been audited by us.
This financial information  is unaudited and have been furnished to us by the  management and our opinion on the consolidated  financial statements in so far as its relates to the  amounts and disclosures included in respect of this  associate, and our report in terms of sub-sections (3)  and (11) of section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates  to the aforesaid associate, is based solely on  unaudited financial information.
In our opinion and  according to information and explanations given to us  by the Management, this financial information is not  material to the Group.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements,  and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory  Requirements below, is not modified in respect of the  above matters with respect to our reliance on the work  done and the reports of the other auditors and the  financial statements certified by the Management.
7.
Repor t on Other Legal and Regulator y  Requirements 1.
As required by the Companies (Auditors Report)  Order, 2015 (“the Order”), issued by the Central  Government of India in terms of the section 143(11) of  the Act, based on the comments in the auditors’  Jointly Controlled Entity Name of the Jointly Group Effective share Group Effective share Group Effective share Controlled Entity in Total Assets as at in Total Revenue for in Net Cash Inflow/ st 31  March, 2015 the year ended (Outflow) st 31  March, 2015 Dahej SEZ Limited $ 4,756.58 287.53 148.09 (` in million) $ As per the Standalone Financial Statements of the Jointly Controlled Entity.
Auditors’ Report on Consolidated Financial Statements 275 subsidiaries and jointly controlled companies  incorporated in India, none of the directors of the  Group companies, and  joint controlled  companies incorporated in India is disqualified as  on March 31, 2015 from being appointed as a  directors in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act.
f. The matter described under “Emphasis of  Matters” para above in the event of being decided  unfavorably, in our opinion, may have an adverse  impact on the functioning of the Holding  Company.
g. With respect to the other matters to be included in  Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the  Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules 2014, in  our opinion and to the best of our information and  according to the explanations given to us: i.
The consolidated financial statements has  disclosed the impact of the pending litigations  on its financial position of the Group and the  Jointly Controlled Entities.– Refer Note 46.2.1  to the consolidated financial statements;  ii.
According to information and explanations  given to us, the group has made provision for  material foreseeable losses in respect of long  term contracts including derivative contracts:  Refer Note 32.9 to the consolidated financial  statements;   iii.
There has been no delay in transferring  amounts, required to be transferred, to the  Investor Education and Protections Fund by  the group and its jointly controlled entities  incorporated in India.
monitoring mechanism for expenditure incurred  on such cases is as stated in Annexure 3.
3.
As required by section 143(3) of the Act, we report, to  the extent applicable, that: a.
We have sought and obtained all the information  and explanations which to the best of our  knowledge and belief were necessary for the  purposes of our audit of the aforesaid  consolidated financial statements.
b.
In our opinion, proper books of account as  required by law relating to preparation of the  aforesaid consolidated financial statements have  been kept so far as it appears from our  examination of those books and the reports of the  other auditors.
c. The Consolidated Balance She et, the  Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss, and  the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement dealt with  by this Report are in agreement with the relevant  books of account maintained for the purpose of  preparation of the consolidated financial  statements.
d. In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated  financial statements comply with the Accounting  Standards specified under Section 133 of the Act,  read with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts)  Rules, 2014.  e. On the basis of the written representations  received from the directors of the Holding  company as on March 31, 2015 taken on record  by the Board of Directors of the holding company  and the reports of the statutory auditors of its  For M/s Mehra Goel & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg No.
000517N Partner (Mem.
No.
017532) Place : New Delhi Date  : May 28, 2015 (R. K. Mehra) Partner (Mem.
No.
006102) For M/s G. D. Apte & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg No.
100515W (C. M. Dixit) For Khandelwal Jain & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg No.
105049W (Narendra Jain) Partner (M.No.
048725) For M/s Varma & Varma Chartered Accountants  Firm Reg No.
004532S (P .
R. Prasanna Varma) Partner (M.No.
025854) For Lodha & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No: 301051E (R. P .
Singh) Partner (M.No.
052438) Annual Report 2014-15 Auditors’ Report on Consolidated Financial Statements 276 According to the information and explanations  given by the management and in our opinion, other   than as stated above the discrepancies noticed on  physical verification between the physical stock  and book records were not material having regard  to the size of the holding company and nature of its  business.
In case where discrepancies noticed on  physical verification have been identified with  inventory records, necessary adjustments have  been carried out in the books of account.
In respect  of cases where the reconciliation is not complete,  the management has stated that the effect of the  same on the accounts would be adjusted on  completion of reconciliation.
iii.
(a) & (b)        The Subsidiaries and the jointly controlled entities  have not granted loans to parties covered in the  register maintained under section 189 of the Act,  except in case of ONGC Videsh Limited, a  subsidiary, where long term loans having  outstanding balance of 13,193.23 million as at  March 31, 2015, have been granted to its  subsidiaries and no amount was due for recovery  during the year.
The Holding company has granted  secured loans to five parties covered in the register  maintained under section 189 of the Act.
According  to the information and explanations given to us and  the based on our verification of books of account,  the receipt of principal amount and interest are  regular and there was no overdue amount in  respect of on such loans granted.
iv.
In our opinion, the internal control procedures in  respect of the Group and its Jointly Controlled  Entities are generally adequate and commensurate  with the size and the nature of its business with  regard to purchases of inventory and fixed assets  and for the sale of goods and services.
During the  course of our audit, we have not observed any  continuing failure to correct major weaknesses in  internal controls.
However, in case of ONGC Videsh  Limited, a subsidiary, all purchases of fixed assets  and inventory in respect of the non-operated/  operated joint ventures are made outside India by  the respective operators in case of a subsidiary  OVL.
It is not practically feasible or appropriate to  check the internal control system being prevalent at  respective overseas projects size for non-operated/  operated joint ventures.
v. In our opinion, the Group and its Jointly Controlled  Entities have not accepted any deposits as per the  provision of the Act.
However, in case of one of the  subsidiaries, viz.
MRPL, though the company has  complied with the provisions of section 73 to 76 of  ` i. a.
The Group and its jointly controlled entities have  generally maintained proper records showing full  particulars including quantitative details and  situation of fixed assets.
However, in case of the  non-operated Joint Ventures outside India of ONGC  Videsh Limited, a subsidiary, the locations of fixed  assets should be updated regularly.
b.
The fixed assets of the group and its jointly controlled  entities (other than those underground/ submerged/  under joint venture operations/assets in case of the  Holding company), have been physically verified  during the year at reasonable intervals having regard  to the size and nature of the business and the  discrepancies on such verification were not material.
In case of the Holding company the reconciliation of  physically verified assets with the book records is in  progress.
Discrepancies noticed on physical  verification and consequential adjustments are  carried out on completion of reconciliation.
In respect  of ONGC Videsh Limited, a subsidiary, since the  Physical verification of Fixed assets situated at  headquarters amounting to ` 58.27 million (net book  value)  is still in Progress, we are unable to comment  on material discrepancies, if any.
ii.
a.
The inventories of the group and its jointly controlled  entities have been physically verified during the  year by the management.
In case of the Holding  company, the verification has been conducted in a  phased manner excluding inventory lying with third  party, at some of the site-locations, inventory with  joint venture operations/assets and intra site  material in transit.
In our opinion, the frequency of  verification is reasonable.
b.
The procedure of physical verification of inventory in  case of the subsidiaries and the jointly controlled  entities followed by the management were  reasonable and adequate in relation to the size of  the companies and nature of their business.
In case  of Holding company, the procedure of physical  verification of inventor y followed by the  management needs to be strengthened further.
c. The Subsidiaries and the jointly controlled entities  have generally maintained proper records of  inventory and the discrepancies noticed on  physical verification between the physical stock  and book records, which were not material have  been properly dealt with in the financial statements.
The Holding Company has generally maintained  proper records of inventory.
During the year, the  management of the Holding company has identified  certain discrepancies in the physical stock of crude  oil which has been written off as stated on Note No.
49 to the consolidated financial Statements.
Annexure 1 to Consolidated Auditors' Report (Referred to in paragraph 1 under 'Report on Other Legal and Regulatory  Requirements' section of our report of even date) Auditors’ Report on Consolidated Financial Statements 277 statutory dues including Provident Fund, Investor  Education and Protection Fund, Employees’ State  Insurance, Income T ax, Sales T ax, Service T ax,  Wealth T ax, Duty of Customs, Duty of Excise, Value  Added T ax, Cess and other statutory dues with the  appropriate authorities.
According to the  information and explanations given to us, no  undisputed amounts payable in respect of the  aforesaid dues were outstanding as at March 31,  2015 for a period more than six months from the  date of becoming payable.
b.
There were no dues in respect of Income T ax, Duty  of Excise, Duty of Customs, Cess, Sales T ax,  Service T ax, Value Added T ax and Wealth T ax which  have not been deposited on account of any dispute  except as detailed under where in case of the Jointly  Controlled Entities, amounts have been reported to  the extent of the effective share: the Act and the rules framed thereunder with regard  to filing the statutory returns, there has been delay  in filing of the said Return.
vi.
We have broadly reviewed the costs records  maintained by the Holding company and based on  the Auditors report of the subsidiaries and the  Jointly Controlled Entities, we are of the opinion that  prima facie the prescribed accounts and records  pursuant to the Companies (Cost Records and  Audit) Rules, 2014, as amended and prescribed by  the Central Government under sub section (1) of  section 148 of the Act, have been made and  maintained wherever applicable.
However, we have  not made a detailed examination of the cost records  with the view to determine whether they are  accurate or complete.
vii.
a.
The Group and its Jointly Controlled entities have  generally been regular in depositing undisputed  The Holding Company Name of the statue Nature of  Dues Forum where dispute is pending Period to which the  amount relates (financial) year) Gross Amount Involved Amount Paid under Protest Amount  Unpaid (` in million) Central Excise Excise, Custom and Service Tax 2002-2007  109.20  108.54  0.66  Act, 1944 /Penalty Custom, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal 2001-2013  4,116.17  109.37  4,006.80  Hon.
High Court 1996-2015  351.33  -    351.33  Hon.
Supreme Court 1980-2005  1,283.30  -    1,283.30  Total (A) 5,860.00  217.91  5,642.09 Oil Industries Cess/ Interest Custom, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal 2004-2009  6.57  -    6.57  Total (B)  6.57  -    6.57  A.P.
Mineral Bearing Ordinance (infrastructure) Cess Rules, 2005   Total (C)  2,371.75  -    2,371.75  The Custom Act, 1962 Income T ax Act, 1961 Penalty/ Interest   Total (E)  80,000.44 45,400.86 34,599.58 Central excise Commissioner (Appeals) of Central duty / Interest  (Development) Act, 1974 Cess/ Interest Hon.
High Court 2005-2014  2,371.75  -    2,371.75 Custom duty / Custom, Excise and Service T ax Penalty / Appellate T ribunal 2007-08  5.00  1.00  4.00  Interest Total (D)  5.00  1.00  4.00  Income T ax/ Commissioner (Appeals) 2006-2012  74,701.19  44,819.55  29,881.64 Hon.
High Court 2003-2010  1,002.78  14.86  987.92  Hon.
Supreme Court 1983-1986  740.22  -    740.22  Income T ax Appellate T ribunal 1995-2011  3,556.25  566.45  2,989.80  Annual Report 2014-15 Auditors’ Report on Consolidated Financial Statements 278 The Holding Company ONGC Videsh Limited (OVL) Name of the statue Nature of  Dues Forum where dispute is pending Period to which the  amount relates (financial) year) Gross Amount Involved Amount Paid under Protest Amount  Unpaid (` in million) Central Sales Sales Tax / Appeallate Tribunal 1993 - 2000  146.95  20.92  126.03  Tax Act, 1956 Turnover  Tax/ Hon.
High Court 1978-2013  24,439.03  655.16 23,783.87 and Penalty / Joint Commissioner / Commissioner 2000-2010  3,227.65  39.38 3,188.27   respective Interest CT-Appeals States Sales Tax Act Total (F)  27,813.63  715.46 27,098.17 Finance Act, Service Tax / Commissioner /Joint / Deputy 1994 Interest Commissioner of Central Excise, Penalties Custom and Service Tax 2004-2015  2.09  1.98  0.11  Custom, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal 2005-2012  93.46  93.42  0.04  Directorate General of Central Excise, Custom and Service Tax 2006-2008  637.40  -    637.40  Hon.
High Court 2004-2007  32.48  -    32.48  Total (G) 765.43  95.40  670.03  Grand Total (A+B+C+D+E+F+G) 116,822.82  46,430.63  70,392.19 Name of  Statute Income-T ax Act 1961 Disputed Income-tax demand Service T ax-Finance Act, 1994 Total 64,594.17  Nature of Dues Amount Period to which Forum where ( in ` Million) amount relates dispute is pending 6,702.88 AY 06-07 to AY 11-12 CIT(A) Demand cum show  57,891.29 FY 10-11 to Commissioner- cause under Service FY 13-14 Service T ax T ax Auditors’ Report on Consolidated Financial Statements 279 Manglore Refineries & Petrochemicals Limited Name of the statute Karnataka Appellate T ribunal Value Added T ax - Interest The Karnataka Value Added T ax - Sales T ax Act Interest 1957/Cental Value Added T ax - Sales T ax Act Interest 1956 Value Added T ax - Penalty Value Added T ax - Interest Income T ax /Interest / Penalty AY 2003-04  10.93  10.93  AY 2006-07  233.58  111.10  AY 2007-08  129.39  129.39  Income T ax Act, AY 2008-09  362.49  362.49  1961 AY 2009-10  1,014.82  1,014.82  Commisioner of AY 2008-09  126.72  -    Income T ax (Appeals) AY 2010-11  754.77  698.02  Mumbai AY 2011-12  594.02  297.01  Disallowance u/s 14A  Commisioner of Income T ax (Appeals) AY 2011-12  10.05  -    Custom Duty/ Interest /Penalty Central Excise  to 2012-13  248.18  23.07  Act - 1944 Joint Secretary - MOF 2002-03 to 2012-13  1.24  0.72  Comissioner  - Mangalore 1999-2000 to 2012-13  54.59  -    Total  4,627.31  2,959.43  Nature of Dues Forum Where Period to which  Gross Amount Amount  dispute the amount Involved Paid is pending relates under Financial Year Protest Central Sales tax Karnataka Appellate 2009-10  4.53  -    - penalty T ribunal Central Sales tax- 2009-10  18.33  12.10  Interest Appellate authority 2006-07  0.43  0.21  mangalore Karnataka Appellate 2009-10  0.13  0.13 T ribunal   Karnataka Appellate 2010-11  0.66  0.66  T ribunal Appellate authority 2011-12  3.48  -    mangalore Appellate authority 2011-12  4.80  2.48 mangalore Mumbai High court AY 1993-03  296.30  296.30  Income T ax Appealate T ribunal - Mumbai The Customs Supreme court of india 1996-2006  101.53  -  Act - 1962 CESTAT - Bangalore 1997-2008  645.97  -     Comissioner 2011-12 to  10.37  -    (Appeals)  Mangalore 2013-14 1996-1997 Central Excise Duty / CESTAT - Bangalore Service T ax / Interest / penalty (` in million) Petronet LNG Limited Name of the Nature of Dues Amounts Period to which Fourm where dispute in statute (` in million) the amount pending relates  0.81 2003-04 to 2007-08 CESTAT - Delhi Service Service T ax and  4.71 2006-07 to 2010-11 Commissioner Adjudication Delhi T ax Interest  0.39 2011-12 CESTAT - Delhi  0.02 2012-13 Additional commissioner Delhi  0.05 2013-14 Additional commissioner Delhi Customs Act Custom Duty  11.02 2013-14 and 2014-15 Commissioner of customs appeals 1962 Income T ax Income tax and  15.55 2007-08 Order received on 20.03.2015, Act 1961 Interest appeal pending to be filed with CIT (Appeals) Annual Report 2014-15 Auditors’ Report on Consolidated Financial Statements 280 ONGC Petro-additions Limited ONGC T ripura Power Company Ltd. Name of  Statute Stamp Duty Demand for Stamp 0.99 2009 Deputy duty Commissioner of revenue and stamp Nature of Dues Amount Period to which Forum where (` in Million) amount relates dispute is pending Name of  Statute Income T ax Act 1961 Demand for AY 12-13 4.94 FY 2011-12 Commissioner u/s 143(3) (Appeals) Customs Act 1962 Demand u/s 18 (2) 94.81 Nature of Dues Amount Period to which Forum where (` in Million) amount relates dispute is pending FY 2011-12 Commissioner (Appeals) interest of the Group and its jointly controlled entities.
xi.
The term loans availed by the Group and Jointly  controlled Entities have been applied for the purpose  for which the loans were obtained except in case of a  subsidiary, MRPL where `11,704.73 million were  invested in deposits with banks.
xii.
No fraud on or by the Group and its Jointly Controlled  Entities has been noticed or reported during the year  except for over reporting of crude oil production and  inventory in case of the Holding Company as stated in  Note No.
49 to the consolidated financial statements.
An irregularity was also noticed in the log books for  hiring of the taxi service in case of ONGC Videsh  Limited, a subsidiary, involving an amount of 12.80  million.
As informed further, the said cases are under  investigation.
` c.There has been no delay in transferring amounts,  required to be transferred, to the Investor Education  and protections Fund by the Group and its Jointly  Controlled Entities in accordance with the relevant  provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) and  rules made thereunder.
viii.
As per the consolidated financial statements, there are  no accumulated losses at the end of the current financial  year and no cash losses were incurred during the year or  during the immediately preceding financial year.
ix.
The Group and its jointly controlled entities have not  defaulted in repayment of dues to financial institutions,  banks or debentures holders.
x.
In our opinion, the terms and conditions on which the  Group and its jointly controlled entities have given  guarantees for loans taken by others from banks or  financial institutions are not prima facie prejudicial to the  For M/s Mehra Goel & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg No.
000517N Partner (Mem.
No.
017532) Date  : May 28, 2015 Place : New Delhi (R. K. Mehra) Partner (Mem.
No.
006102) For M/s G. D. Apte & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg No.
100515W (C. M. Dixit) For Khandelwal Jain & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg No.
105049W (Narendra Jain) Partner (M.No.
048725) For M/s Varma & Varma Chartered Accountants  Firm Reg No.
004532S (P .
R. Prasanna Varma) Partner (M.No.
025854) For Lodha & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No: 301051E (R. P .
Singh) Partner (M.No.
052438) Auditors’ Report on Consolidated Financial Statements 281 Holding Company: The cases of waiver/write offs of debts/loans/interest, wherever applicable during the year along with the reasons and  amount involved are as under: Annexure 2 to Consolidated Auditors’ Report (Referred to in paragraph 2 (b) under ‘Report on Other Legal and  Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date) Case of waiver/write off of debts/loans/Interest    `  in million Reasons 26.40 Settlement of Arbitration award  0.01 Details of deposit not available   0.01 Forfeiture of Deposit  1.40 Disallowance of insurance claim  0.26 Long outstanding balance 28.08   Particulars  in million Reasons Central Sales T ax on sales to PSU Oil Marketing Companies ` 1,930.80 These have been expenses to the Statement to Profit and Loss on account of prevailing industry practice.
Subsidiary : Mangalore refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) Annual Report 2014-15 Auditors’ Report on Consolidated Financial Statements 282 Annexure 3 to Consolidated Auditors’ Report (Referred to in paragraph 2 (d) under ‘Report on Other Legal and  Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date) Subsidiary: Manglore Refinery & Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) Age-wise analysis of pending legal/arbitration cases 1 0 – 3 years Nil Nil Nil NA 2 4 – 6 years Nil Nil Nil NA 3 7 – 10 years 6 224.77 11.33 The delay is attributable to adjournments in  court / legal matters / other court related matters 4 Above 10 years 1 154.19 2.49 Awaiting listing for final hearing at High Court  The legal expenses are approved by the Board of Directors along with other expenses in revenue budget.
Further whenever  payments are made the appropriate approvals are obtained as per the delegation of Authority in place.
Engagement of  Advocate and all payments above ` 25,000/- (  twenty five thousand only) are to be approved by D(F) and Functional Director.` Sr. No.
Ageing of pending cases No.
of cases Amount involved  (` in million) Legal Expenses (` in million) Reasons for pendency / Present Position Exploratory data acquisition in progress; ONGC is the largest exploration acreage and mining lease holder in India.
Consolidated Financial Statement 283 Consolidated Balance Sheet  st as at 31  March, 2015 I.
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1 Shareholders’ funds (a)  Owner's Fund (i) Share capital 4  42,777.60  42,777.60  (ii) Reserves and surplus 5  1,761,766.43  1,678,737.70  (b ) Minority Interest  24,731.33  29,119.98 2 Non-current liabilities (a) Long-term borrowings 6  475,827.54  316,808.58  (b) Deferred tax liabilities 7  187,613.14  178,757.38  (c) Other Long term liabilities 8  18,294.44  18,467.17  (d) Long-term provisions 9  327,796.11  305,299.55  3 Current liabilities (a) Short-term borrowings 10  42,885.71  139,072.72  (b) T rade payables 11  303,873.06  306,803.41  (c) Other current liabilities 12  168,669.28  217,038.79  (d) Short-term provisions 13  22,592.14  9,500.29  TOTAL  3,376,826.78  3,242,383.17  II.
ASSETS 1 Non-current assets (a) Fixed assets (i) T angible assets 14  686,712.14  462,253.51  (ii) Producing Properties 15  910,049.33  912,681.47  (iii) Intangible assets 16  1,169.25  754.36  (iv) Capital work-in-progress 17  422,114.72  538,269.86  (v) Exploratory/Development Wells in Progress 18  211,967.25  182,066.98  (b) Goodwill on consolidation 19  201,398.86  183,544.90  (c) Non-current investments 20  47,469.93  47,204.63  (d) Deferred tax Asset 7  5,854.11  122.28  (e) Long-term loans and advances 21  107,191.98  102,409.69  (f) Deposit under  Site Restoration Fund Scheme 26.5  136,423.99  120,829.56  (g) Other non-current assets 22  77,248.28  60,859.15  2 Current assets (a) Current investments 23  21.46  254.37  (b) Inventories 24  106,062.23  148,014.59  (c) T rade receivables 25  187,970.09  160,289.96  (d) Cash and Cash Equivalents 26  160,969.17  244,801.26  (e) Short-term loans and advances 27  100,330.38  66,317.22  (f) Other current assets 28  13,873.61  11,709.38  TOTAL 3,376,826.78  3,242,383.17  Accompanying Notes are an integral of this Financial Statements.
1 to 50 Particulars Note No.
As at st 31  March, 2015 As at st 31  March, 2014 (` in million) (A K Srinivasan) Chief Financial Officer (D.K.Sarraf) Chairman & Managing Director For and on behalf of the Board (N. K. Sinha) Company Secretary For  Mehra Goel & Co.    Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
000517N (R K Mehra)         Partner (M. No.
006102)   For Lodha & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
3010151E (R P Singh) Partner (M. No.
052438) New Delhi th May 28 , 2015 For Varma & Varma Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
004532S (P .
R. Prasanna Varma) Partner (M. No.
025854) For Khandelwal Jain & Co    Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
105049W (Narendra Jain)                                   Partner (M. No.
048725) For G D Apte & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
100515W (C. M. Dixit) Partner (M. No.
017532 ) In terms of our report of even date attached Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 284 Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss st for the year ended 31  March, 2015 I REVENUE Revenue from Operations (Gross) 29  1,660,668.64  1,782,051.84  Less Excise Duty  51,771.15  37,281.28  Revenue from Operations (Net)  1,608,897.49  1,744,770.56  Other Income 30  59,644.43  68,899.00  TOTAL REVENUE  1,668,541.92  1,813,669.56  II EXPENSES            (Increase)/ Decrease in Inventories 31  17,229.16  (5,285.36) Purchases of stock-in-trade -  0.32  Production, T ransportation, Selling and Distribution Expenditure 32  1,045,130.60  1,159,747.17  Exploration Costs written off   -Survey costs  20,834.87  17,471.47    -Exploratory well costs  88,679.32  67,409.85  Depreciation, Depletion, Amortisation and Impairment 33  180,329.65  166,057.47  Finance Costs 34  28,623.76  6,243.34  Provisions and Write-offs 35  10,875.98  10,314.61  Adjustments relating to Prior Period (Net) 36  3,134.93  (2,423.37) TOTAL  EXPENSES  1,394,838.27  1,419,535.50  Profit before Exceptional, Extraordinary items and Tax  273,703.65  394,134.06  Exceptional items  -    -    Profit before Extraordinary items and Tax  273,703.65  394,134.06  Extraordinary items  -    -    PROFIT BEFORE TAX  273,703.65  394,134.06  Tax Expenses    - Current T ax  100,649.26  90,449.09   - Earlier years  (5,895.19)  2,449.89   - MAT Credit  (422.78)  (2,872.04)  - Deferred T ax  2,642.81  37,576.92  PROFIT AFTER TAX  176,729.55  266,530.20  Add: Share of Profit/(Loss) in Associate 20.4  303.10  118.15  GROUP PROFIT AFTER TAX  177,032.65  266,648.35  Attributable to:    Equity holders of Parent (ONGC)  183,335.20  265,065.33     Minority Interest  (6,302.55)  1,583.02  177,032.65  266,648.35  Net Group Profit atributable to ONGC Equity holders  183,335.20  265,065.33  Earning per Equity Share-Basic and Diluted (`) 37  21.43  30.98  (Face Value `5/- per Share) Accompanying Notes are an integral of this Financial Statements.
1 to 50 Particulars Note No.
2014-15 2013-14 (` in million) (A K Srinivasan) Chief Financial Officer (D.K.Sarraf) Chairman & Managing Director For and on behalf of the Board (N. K. Sinha) Company Secretary For  Mehra Goel & Co.    Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
000517N (R K Mehra)         Partner (M. No.
006102)   For Lodha & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
3010151E (R P Singh) Partner (M. No.
052438) New Delhi th May 28 , 2015 For Varma & Varma Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
004532S (P .
R. Prasanna Varma) Partner (M. No.
025854) For Khandelwal Jain & Co    Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
105049W (Narendra Jain)                                   Partner (M. No.
048725) For G D Apte & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
100515W (C. M. Dixit) Partner (M. No.
017532 ) In terms of our report of even date attached Consolidated Financial Statement 285 A.
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Profit before tax and extraordinary items 273,703.65 394,134.06  Adjustments For: - Prior Period Items  3,134.93  (2,423.37) - Depreciation, Depletion  and Amortisation & Impairment  180,329.65 165,809.04  - Exploration Well Costs Written off  88,679.32 67,409.85  - Interest on Borrowings  28,623.77  6,243.35  - Foreign Exchange Loss/T ranslation Adjustment  1,529.83 21,188.73  - Provision for Employee Benefits  4,836.30 (14,509.31) - Provision for Abandonment  283.48 243.56  - Profit/Loss on sale of fixed assets  (1.49) 15.55  - Other Provision and Write offs  10,875.98 10,563.05  - Excess Provision/Liability written Back  (7,379.91) (19,216.85) - Interest Income  (34,477.24) (32,434.34) - Deffered Government Grant  (14.17) (2.87) - Dividend Received  (4,679.25) (3,550.25) - Provision for Mark to Market loss on Derivative contracts  (18.95) 2,244.85  - Profit on sale of investment  (75.74) 271,646.51 (14.50) 201,566.49 Operating Profit before Working Capital Changes 545,350.16  595,700.55  Adjustments for:- - Receivables  (60,395.74)  5,713.05  - Loans and Advances  (30,071.31) (1,371.97) - Other Current Assets  (30,202.12) (148,012.35) - Inventories  44,624.37  (22,016.16) - T rade Payable and Other Liabilities  (39,722.85) (115,767.65)  207,718.63 42,031.20  Cash generated from Operations 429,582.51  637,731.75  Direct T axes Paid (Net of tax refund) (90,292.34)  (105,666.61) Cash Flow before prior period and Extra ordinary Items  339,290.17  532,065.14  Prior period items 795.56  638.65  NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 'A'  340,085.73  532,703.79  B.
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchase of Fixed Assets  (169,059.75)  (149,385.04) Sale of Fixed Assets  86.51  29.04  Acquisition, Exploration and Development Cost (185,278.12)  (466,269.90) Sale of Investments-Net 310.77  651.49  Loans and Advance to Subsidiary  -    (0.01) Advance/Investment in Joint Controlled Entities/Associates  (757.39)  (4,664.61) Loans to Public Sector Undertakings and Other Bodies Corporate  -    (26,707.48) Gain on Foreign Exchange Forward exchange Contract  126.41  797.15  Deposit in Site Restoration Fund  (15,594.43)  (14,480.37) Project Development/ Preoperative expenditure (net of advances) (15,396.59)  (11,297.24) Dividend Received  4,679.25  3,551.30  Interest Received  30,682.70  31,450.08  T ax paid on Interest Income  (756.56)  -    NET CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES 'B'  (350,957.20)  (636,325.59) Year Ended st  31 March, 2015 Year Ended st  31 March, 2014 (` in million) Consolidated Cash Flow Statement st for  the  year  ended  31  March, 2015 Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 286 C. CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Share Issue Expense  (22.55)  - Advance Against Equity  -   1,781.72  Proceeds from Borrowings 170,779.95  331,987.96  Repayment of Borrowings  (151,136.67) (84,764.56) Foreign Exchange Fluctuation Related to Borrowing Cost (18,040.26) 161.76  Dividend Paid  (79,203.67)  (83,453.45) T ax on Dividend (15,748.94) (14,170.69) Interest Paid  (11,991.38) (7,251.97) Change in Minority Interest (1,044.24) 7,955.45  NET CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 'C' (106,407.76) 152,246.22  NET INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (A+B+C)  (117,279.23)  48,624.42  Cash and Cash Equivalents as at 1st April, 2014 (Opening Balance) Note 26 244,632.41 196,007.99  Add: Other Adjustments to Cash and Cash Equivalent # 2,613.30  -    247,245.71 196,007.99  Cash and Cash Equivalents as at 31st March,2015* (Closing Balance) Note 26 129,966.48 244,632.41   (117,279.23) 48,624.42 #Adjustment on account of increase in shareholding in ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Ltd. Notes: 1.
The above Cash Flow Statement has been prepared under the 'Indirect Method' as set out in the Accounting Standard-3 on Cash Flow Statement.
2.
Cash and Cash equivalent excludes `31,002.69 million (Previous year `168.85 million) in current  account/deposit account of interest  warrant/refund accounts, under lien, pledge with banks/Govt.
authorities in respect of  MRPL.
3.
* Includes T erm deposits of  `17,340 million (Previous year Nil)  pledged to Banks against Short term loan taken from Banks.
Also  includes restricted amount of  `379.75 million (Previous year  `389.69 million) earmarked for payment of  unclaimed dividend/unpaid  interest on debenture.
4.
Cash Balance includes `6,885.17 million share of jointly controlled entity.
(Previous year `7,769.03 million) 5.
In case of ONGC Videsh Ltd, the Adjustment have not been made to purchase of fixed assets etc.
(investing activities), on account of  increase / decrease in Capital Creditors.
The impact of the above is not readily ascertainable.
6.
Bracket indicates cash outflow.
7.
Previous years figures have been regrouped wherever necessary to conform to current year's classification.
Year Ended st  31 March, 2015 Year Ended st  31 March, 2014 (` in million) Note Consolidated Cash Flow Statement st for  the  year  ended  31  March, 2015 (A K Srinivasan) Chief Financial Officer (D.K.Sarraf) Chairman & Managing Director For and on behalf of the Board (N. K. Sinha) Company Secretary For  Mehra Goel & Co.    Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
000517N (R K Mehra)         Partner (M. No.
006102)   For Lodha & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
3010151E (R P Singh) Partner (M. No.
052438) New Delhi th May 28 , 2015 For Varma & Varma Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
004532S (P .
R. Prasanna Varma) Partner (M. No.
025854) For Khandelwal Jain & Co    Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
105049W (Narendra Jain)                                   Partner (M. No.
048725) For G D Apte & Co. Chartered Accountants Firm Reg.
No.
100515W (C. M. Dixit) Partner (M. No.
017532 ) In terms of our report of even date attached Consolidated Financial Statement 287 1.
Group information Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (‘ONGC’ or  ‘the Company’) is a public limited company domiciled  and incorporated in India.
The Company’s shares are  listed and traded on Stock exchanges in India.
The  Consolidated Financial Statements relate to the  Company, its Subsidiaries, Joint Venture Entities and  Associate.
The Group (comprising of Company and its  subsidiaries), Joint Venture Entities and Associate are  mainly engaged in Exploration & Production (E&P) of  Oil & Gas in India and abroad including Refinery,  Power Generation, Petrochemicals, LNG supply,  Pipeline T ransportation, SEZ development and  Helicopter services.
2.
Significant Group Accounting Policies 2.1 Principles of Consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements have  been prepared on the following basis: - i) The financial statements of the Company  and its subsidiary companies are  combined on a line-by-line basis by  adding together the book values of like  items of assets, liabilities, income and  expenses after eliminating intra-group  balances and intra-group transactions  resulting in unrealized profits or losses in  accordance with Accounting Standard  (AS) 21 – “Consolidated Financial  Statements”.
ii) The financial statements of Joint Venture  entities are combined by applying  proportionate consolidation method on a  line by line basis on like items of assets,  liabilities, income and expenses after  eliminating propor tionate share of  unrealized profits or losses in accordance  with Accounting Standard (AS) 27 -  “Financial Reporting of Interests in Joint  Ventures”.
iii) Investments in Associates are accounted  for using equity method in accordance  with Accounting Standard (AS) 23 –  “Accounting for Investments in Associates  in Consolidated Financial Statements”.
iv) The consolidated financial statements are  prepared using uniform accounting  policies for like transactions and other  events in similar circumstances and are  presented to the extent possible, in the  same manner as the Company’s  separate Financial Statements except as  otherwise stated.
v) The difference between the cost of  investment in the subsidiaries/associates  /Joint ventures, and the net assets at the  time of acquisition of shares in the  subsidiaries/associates/joint ventures is  recognized in the Consolidated Financial  Statements as Goodwill or Capital  Reserve, as the case may be.
vi) Profit or loss attributable to minority  interest and to owners of the parent in the  statement of profit and loss has been  presented as allocation for the period.
vii) Minorities’ share of Net Assets of  subsidiaries is identified and presented  in the Consolidated Balance Sheet within  equity, separately from the equity of the  parent Company’s shareholders.
viii) In case of foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, foreign currency  transactions are translated as per the  provisions of Accounting Standard (AS)  11 – “Accounting for Effects of changes  in Foreign Exchange Rates” in the  Consolidated Financial Statements.
ix) The difference between the proceeds  from disposal of investments in a  subsidiary and the carrying amount of its net assets as on the date of disposal is recognized in the Consolidated  Statement of Profit and Loss.
2.2 Other significant Accounting Policies a.
Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared under  the historical cost convention on accrual basis  in accordance with Generally Accepted  Accounting Principles (GAAP), applying the  Successful Efforts Method as per theGuidance  Note on Accounting for Oil and Gas Producing  Activities (Revised) issued by the Institute of  Char tered Accountants of India and  Accounting Standards as prescribed under the  Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and  provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
As the operating cycle cannot be identified in  normal course due to the specific nature of  industry, the same has been assumed to have  duration of 12 months.
Accordingly, all assets  and liabilities have been classified as current or  non-current as per the operating cycle and  other criteria set out in the Schedule III to the  Companies Act, 2013.
The financial statements are presented in  st Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31  March, 2015 Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 288 Indian Rupees and all values are rounded to the  nearest million except otherwise stated.
b.
Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements  requires estimates and assumptions, which  affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities,  revenues and expenses for the reporting  period.
The difference between the actual  results and estimates are recognized in the  period in which the results are known or  materialized.
c. Government Grant Government Grant related to acquisition of  Fixed Assets is treated as ‘Deferred  Government Grant’ and amount equal to  proportionate depreciation of such assets is  credited to Statement of profit and loss d. Fixed Assets d.1 Tangible Assets d.1.1 Fixed assets are stated at historical cost less  accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Fixed assets received as donations/gifts are  capitalised at assessed values with  corresponding credit taken to Capital Reserve.
d.1.2 All costs, net of applicable tax credits, relating  to acquisition of fixed assets till the time of  bringing the assets to working condition for  intended use are capitalised.
d.2 Intangible Assets Intangible assets are stated at cost of  acquisition, net of applicable tax credits, less  accumulated amortization and impairment.
e. Exploration, Development and Production  Costs  e.1 Pre-acquisition cost Expenditure incurred before obtaining the  right(s) to explore, develop and produce oil and  gas are expensed as and when incurred.
e.2 Acquisition Cost Acquisition costs of an oil and gas property are  the costs related to right to acquire mineral  interest and  are accounted/ treated as follows:- Exploration and Development stage:   Acquisition cost relating to projects under  exploration or developments are initially  accounted as capital work in progress.
Such  costs are capitalized by transferring to  Producing Property when a well is ready to  commence commercial production.
In case of  abandonment/ relinquishment, such costs are  written off.
Production stage: Acquisition costs of a  producing oil and gas property are capitalized  as proved property acquisition cost under  producing properties and amortized over the  production profile of the underlying asset using  the unit of production method over proved  reserves.
e.3 Survey Cost Cost of Survey and prospecting activities  conducted in the search of oil and gas are  expensed as exploration cost in the year in  which these are incurred.
e.4 Explorator y/ Development Wells in  Progress   e.4.1 All exploration costs incurred in drilling and  equipping exploratory and appraisal wells,  cost of drilling exploratory type stratigraphic  test wells are initially capitalized as Exploratory  Wells in Progress till the time these are either  transferred to Producing Properties on  completion as per Note no.
2.2.f.1 or expensed  as exploration cost (including allocated  depreciation) as and when determined to be  dry or of no further use, as the case may be.
e.4.2 Costs of exploratory wells are not carried  unless there are indications of sufficient  quantity of reserves; sufficient progress is  made in assessing the reserves and the  economic & operating viability of the project.
All such carried costs are subject to review for  impairment as per Note no.
2.2.n.4.
e.4.3 All costs relating to Development Wells are  initially capitalized as ‘Development Wells in  Progress’ and transferred to ‘Producing  Properties’ on completion as per Note no  2.2.f.1 and 2.2.f.2.
f. Producing Properties  f.1 Producing Properties are created in respect of  an area/field having proved developed oil and  gas reserves when the well in the area/field is  ready to commence commercial production.
f.2 Cost of temporary occupation of land,  successful exploratory wells, all development  wells, depreciation on related equipment,  facilities and estimated future abandonment  costs are capitalised and reflected as  Producing Properties.
g. Production Costs  Production costs include pre-well head and  post-well head expenses including  depreciation and applicable operating costs of  support equipment and facilities.
Consolidated Financial Statement of ONGC Group 289 h. Side tracking h.1 In case of an exploratory well, Cost of Side- tracking is treated in the same manner as the  cost incurred on a new exploratory well.The  cost of abandoned portion of side tracked  exploratory wells is expensed as ‘Exploratory  Well Cost written off.
h.2 In case of development wells, the entire cost of  abandoned portion and side tracking are  capitalised.
h.3 In case of Producing wells,if it results in  additional proved developed oil & gas reserves  or increases the future economic benefits  therefrom beyond previously assessed  standard of performance, the cost incurred on  side tracking is capitalised, whereas the cost of  abandoned portion of the wellis depleted in the  normal way.
Otherwise, the cost of side tracking  is expensed as ‘Work over Expenditure’.
i. Abandonment Cost i.1 The full eventual estimated liability towards  costs relating to dismantling, abandoning and  restoring well sites and allied facilities are  recognized in respective assets when the well is  completed/facilities are installed.
The  abandonment cost on dry well is expensed as  exploratory well cost.
i.2 Provision for abandonment cost is updated  based on the technical assessment at current  costs.
The effects of changes resulting from  revisions to estimated liability are adjusted to  the carrying amount of the related Asset and  considered for depletion on a prospective  basis.
j.
Jointly Controlled Assets j.1 Unincorporated Joint Ventures in the nature of  Production Sharing Contracts (PSC) have been  entered with the Government of India/other  countries and various bodies corporate for  exploration, development and production and  other activities.
These unincorporated joint  ventures have been classified as Jointly  controlled Asset.
j.2 The share in the assets and liabilities along with  attributable income, and expenditure, of the  Jointly Controlled Assets is  merged on line by  line basis with the similar items in the  Consolidated Financial Statements and  adjusted for depreciation, depletion, survey,  dry wells, abandonment, impairment and  sidetracking in accordance with the accounting  policies.
j.3 Disposal of Interest   Gain or loss on sale of interest in a cost centre,  is recognized in the statement of profit and  loss, except that no gain is recognized at the  time of such sale if substantial uncertainty  exists about the recovery of the costs  applicable to the retained interest or if the  company has substantial obligation for future  performance.
The gain in such situation is  treated as recovery of cost related to that cost  centre.
j.4 The hydrocarbon reserves in such areas are  taken in proportion to the participating  interest.
k. Investments Long-term investments are valued at  cost.Provision is made for any diminution,  other than temporary, in the value of such  investments.
Current Investments are valued at lower of cost  and fair value.
l. Inventories l.1 Finished goods (other than Sulphur) and stock  in pipelines/tanks and carbon credits are  valued at Cost or net realizable value  whichever is lower.
Cost of Finished goods is  determined on absorption costing method.
Sulphur is valued at net realizable value.
The  value of inventories includes excise duty,  royalty (wherever applicable) but excludes  Cess l.2 Crude oil in unfinished condition in flow lines up  to Group Gathering Stations/platform and  Natural Gas in Pipelines is not valued.
l.3 Inventory of stores and spare parts is valued at  Weighted Average Cost or net realizable value,  whichever is lower.
Provisions are made for  obsolete and non-moving inventories.
l.4 Raw material and Stock in Process is valued at  lower of cost or net realizable value.
Raw  material is valued based on First in First Out  (FIFO) basis.
Cost of Stock in Process  comprises of raw material cost and  proportionate Conversion cost.
l.5 Unser viceable and scrap items, when  determined, are valued at estimated net  realizable value.
m. Revenue Recognition m.1 Revenue from sale of products is recognized  on transfer of custody to customers.
m.2 Any difference as of the reporting date  Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 290 between the entitlement quantity minus the  quantities sold in respect of crude oil (including  condensate), if positive (i.e.
under lift quantity)  the proportionate production expenditure is  treated as prepaid expenses and, if negative  (i.e.
over lift quantity), a liability for the best  estimate of the group’s proportionate share of  production expenses as per the Joint Operating  Agreement / Production Sharing Agreement is  created in respect of the quantity of crude oil to  be foregone in future period towards  settlement of the over-lift quantity of crude oil  with corresponding charge to statement  of  Profit & Loss.
m.3 Any payment received in respect of short lifted  gas quantity for which an obligation exists to  supply such gas in subsequent periods is  recognized as Deferred Revenue in the year of  receipt.
The same is recognized as revenue in  the year in which such gas is actually supplied  for the quantity supplied or in the year in which  the obligation to supply such gas ceases,  whichever is earlier.
m.4 Sale of crude oil and gas (net of levies)  produced from Wells in Progress is deducted  from expenditure on such wells.
m.5 Sales are inclusive of all statutory levies except  Value Added T ax (VAT).
Any retrospective  revision in prices is accounted for in the year of  such revision.
m.6 Revenue in respect of fixed price contracts is  recognized for the quantum of work done on  the basis of percentage of completion method.
The quantum of work done is measured in  proportion of cost incurred to date to the  estimated total cost of the contract or based on  reports of physical work done.
m.7 Finance income in respect of assets given on  finance lease is recognized based on a pattern  reflecting a constant periodic rate of return on  the net investment outstanding in respect of the  finance lease.
m.8 Dividend income is recognized when right to  receive is established.
Interest income is  recognized on time proportion basis taking into  account the amount outstanding and rate  applicable.
m.9 Lease Premium from the lease of land is  recognized over primary lease period as per  the agreement.
Lease rental income is  accounted for on the time proportion basis as  per the terms agreed with lessees.
m.10 Revenue in respect of the following is  recognized when there is reasonable certainty  regarding ultimate collection: a.
Gas pipeline transportation charges b. Reimbursable subsidies and grants c. Surplus from Gas Pool Account d. Interest on delayed realization from customers e. Liquidated damages from contractors/ suppliers n. Depreciation, Depletion, Amortisation and  Impairment n.1 Depreciation, n.1.1 Depreciation on fixed assets is provided for  under the written down value method over the  useful life of Asset specified in Schedule II to  the Companies Act, 2013 except in case of  certain items of fixed assets where the useful  life has been considered based on technical  assessment which is less than useful life  prescribed under Schedule II to the  Companies Act, 2013. n.1.2 Depreciation on additions/deletions during the  year is provided on pro rata basis with  reference to the date of additions/deletions  except low value items not exceeding ` 5,000/-  which are fully depreciated at the time of  addition n.1.3 Depreciation on subsequent expenditure on  fixed assets arising on account of capital  improvement or other factors is provided for  prospectively over the remaining useful life.
Depreciation on refurbished/revamped assets  which are capitalized separately is provided for  over the reassessed useful life, which is not  more than the life specified in Schedule II to the  Companies Act, 2013. n.1.4 Depreciation on fixed assets (including  support equipment, facilities and those taken  on lease) used for exploratory/ development  drilling and on production facilitiesis initially  capitalised as part of drilling cost or producing  properties and expensed/depleted as stated in  note no 2.2.f & 2.2.n.2.
Depreciation on  equipment/ assets deployed for survey activities  is charged to Statement of Profit and Loss.
n.2 Depletion  n.2.1 Producing Properties are depleted using the  “Unit of Production Method”.
The rate of  depletion is computed with reference to an  area covered by individual lease/license/asset/  Consolidated Financial Statement 291 amortization base by considering the proved  developed reserves and related capital costs  incurr ed including estimated futur e  abandonment costs net of salvage value.
In  case of acquisition cost, Producing Properties  is depleted by considering the proved  reserves.
These reserves are estimated  annually by the Reserve Estimates Committee  of the Company, which follows the International  Reservoir Engineering Procedures.
n.3 Amortisation n.3.1 Leasehold land is amortized over the lease  period except perpetual leases.
n.3.2 Right of way/ Right of use of land are amortized  on Straight Line Method (SLM) over the  estimated life of associated Asset.
n.3.3 Other Intangible Assets ( software, copy right,  patents etc.)
are amortized on Straight Line  Method (SLM) over the useful life not exceeding  ten years from the date of capitalization n.4 Impairment n.4.1 Producing Properties, Development Wells in  Progress (DWIP) and Fixed Assets (including  Capital Works in Progress) of a “Cash  Generating Unit” (CGU) are reviewed for  impairment at each Balance Sheet date.
In  case, events and circumstances indicate any  impairment, recoverable amount of these  assets is determined.
An impairment loss is  recognized, whenever the carrying amount of  such assets exceeds the recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is higher of its ‘value in  use’ or ‘net selling price’ (if determinable).
In  assessing value in use, the estimated future  cash flows from the use of assets and from its  disposal at the end of its useful life are discounted  to their present value at appropriate rate.
An impairment loss is reversed if there is  increase in the recoverable amount and such  loss either no longer exists or has decreased.
Impairment loss / reversal thereof is adjusted to  the carrying value of the respective assets,  which in case of CGU, is allocated to its assets  on a pro-rata basis.
Subsequent to impairment,  depreciation is provided on the revised  carrying value of the assets over the remaining  useful life.
n.4.2 Impairment testing during exploratory phase is  carried out at area level when further  exploration activities are not planned in near  future or when sufficient data exists to indicate  that although a development in the specific  area is likely to proceed, the carrying amount of  the exploration asset is unlikely to be  recovered in full from successful development  or by sale.
Impairment is reversed  subsequently, to the extent that conditions for  impairment are no longer present.
o.
Foreign Exchange T ransactions o.1 Foreign currency transactions on initial  recognition in the reporting currency are  accounted for at the exchange rates prevailing  on the date of transaction.
o.2 At each Balance Sheet date, foreign currency  monetary items are translated using the mean  exchange rates prevailing on the balance  sheet date and non-monetary items are  translated using the exchange rate prevailing  on the date of transaction or on the date when  the fair value of such item was determined.
o.3 The loss or gain thereon and also the exchange  differences on settlement of the foreign  currency transactions during the year are  recognized as income or expense and  adjusted to the  statement of profit & loss.
o.4 In respect of integral foreign operations: o.4.1 The foreign currency transactions on initial  recognition in the reporting currency are  recorded following the note no 2.2.o.1.
For  practical reasons, the average exchange rate  of the relevant month is taken for the  transactions of the month in respect of joint  venture operations, where actual date of  transaction is not available.
o.4.2 At each Balance Sheet date, monetary and  non-monetary items are translated following  the policy stated in note no.
2.2.o.2.
o.4.3 All exchange differences are treated following  the policy stated in  note no.2.2.o.3.
o.5 The financial statements of the non-integral  foreign operations are incorporated in the  financial statements using the following  principles: o.5.1 The assets and liabilities, both monetary and  non-monetary, of the non-integral foreign  operation are translated at the average of the  exchange rate prevailing on the date of the  balance sheet; o.5.2 Income and expense items of the non-integral  foreign operation are translated at the average  exchange rates for the period to which the  financial statements relate; o.5.3 The resulting exchange dif ferences are  accumulated in a foreign currency translation  reserve until the disposal of the net investment  in the non-integral foreign operation.
Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 292 o.5.4 Exchange differences arising on net investment in  a non-integral foreign operation are accumulated  in a foreign currency translation reserve until the  disposal of such investment, at which time they are  recognized as income or as expenses.
o.6 In the case of forward exchange contracts, the  premium or discount arising at the inception of  such contracts, is amortized as income or expense  over the life of the contract as well as exchange  difference on such contracts, i.e.
difference  between the exchange rate at the reporting /  settlement date and the exchange rate on the date  of inception / the last reporting date, is recognized  as income / expense for the period.
p. Employee Benefits p.1 All shor t term employee benefits are  recognized at their un discounted amount in the  accounting period in which they are incurred.
p.2 Employee Benefit under defined contribution  plans comprising provident fund etc.
is  recognized based on the un discounted  amount of obligations of the group to contribute  to the plan.
The same is paid to a fund  administered through a separate trust.
p.3 Employee benefits under defined benefit plans  comprising of gratuity, leave encashment,  compensated absences, post-retirement  medical benefits and other terminal benefits are  recognized based on the present value of  defined benefit obligation, which is computed  on the basis of actuarial valuation using the  Projected Unit Credit Method.
Actuarial Liability  in excess of respective plan assets is  recognized during the year.
Actuarial gains and  losses in respect of post-employment and other  long-term benefits are recognized in the  statement of profit & loss.
The Company  contributes all ascertained liabilities with  respect to Gratuity and leave/compensated  absences to the ONGC’s Gratuity Fund T rust  (OGFT) and Life Insurance Corporation of India  (LICI) respectively.
Other defined benefit  schemes are unfunded.
q.
Voluntary Retirement Scheme  Expenditure on Voluntary Retirement Scheme  (VRS) is charged to statement of profit & loss  when incurred.
r. General Administrative Expenses  General administrative expenses which are  directly or specifically attributable are allocated  to activities and the balance is charged to  Statement of Profit & Loss.
s. Insurance claims The  insurance claims are accounted for as  under :- s.1 In case of total loss of asset, by transferring  either the carrying cost of the relevant asset or  insurance value (subject to deductibles),  whichever is lower under the head “Claims  Recoverable-Insurance” on intimation to  Insurer.
In case insurance claim is less than  carrying cost, the difference is charged to  statement of profit & loss.
s.2 In case of partial or other losses, expenditure  incurred/payments made to put such assets  back into use, to meet third party or other  liabilities (less policy deductibles) if any, are  accounted for as “Claims Recoverable- Insurance”.
Insurance Policy deductibles are  expensed in the year the corresponding  expenditure is incurred.
s.3 As and when claims are finally received from  insurer, the difference, if any, between Claims  Recoverable-Insurance and claims received is  adjusted to statement of profit & loss.
t. Research Expenditure Expenditure of capital nature are capitalised  and expenses of Revenue nature are charged  to the Statement of Profit and Loss, as and  when incurred.
u.
Taxes on Income Provision for current tax is made as per the  provisions of the Income T ax Act, 1961/other  applicable tax laws.
Deferred T ax Liability /  Asset resulting from ‘timing dif ference’  between book profit and taxable profit is  accounted for considering the tax rate and  laws that have been enacted or substantively  enacted as on the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred T ax Asset is recognized and carried  forward only to the extent that there is  reasonable certainty that the asset will be  realized in future.
v. Borrowing Costs  Borrowing Cost specifically identified to the  acquisition or construction of qualif ying  assets is capitalized as par t of such assets.
A qualif ying asset is one that necessarily  takes substantial period of time to get  ready for intended use.
All other borrowing  costs are charged to statement of profit &  loss.
w. Rig Days Costs Rig movement costs are booked to the next  Consolidated Financial Statement 293 location drilled/planned for drilling.
Abnormal  Rig days’ costs are considered as un-allocable  and charged to statement of profit & loss.
x. Unamortized Expenditure x.1 Dry docking charges of Rigs/ Multipurpose  Supply Vessels (MSVs), Geo T echnical Vessels  (GTVs), Well Stimulation Vessels, Offshore  Supply Vessels (OSVs), Rig/equipment  mobilization expenses and other related  expenditure are amortized over the period of  use not exceeding five years and balance is  carried under head “Unamortized Expenditure"  in the  balance sheet.
y. T ransportation Costs  T ransportation Costs in respect of the quantity  of gas short transported, for which the right  exists to transport such gas in subsequent  periods at no charge, is treated as Deferred  Expenditure in the year of payment.
The same  is treated as cost in the year in which the gas is  actually transpor ted for the quantit y  transported or in the year in which the right to  transport such gas ceases, whichever is earlier.
z.
Lease z.1 Assets given on Lease: z.1.1 Assets given on finance lease are accounted for  as per Accounting Standard (AS) 19 “Leases”.
Such assets are included as a receivable at an  amount equal to the net investment in the lease.
z.1.2 Initial direct costs incurred in respect of finance  leases are recognized in the statement of profit and  loss in the year in which such costs are incurred.
z.2 Assets taken on Lease z.2.1 Assets taken on finance lease are capitalized  and recognized at the lower of the fair value of  the asset and the discounted value of the  minimum lease installments.
The lease  payments are bifurcated into repayment and  interest components, based on a fixed interest  rate and installment as derived from the  underlying agreement.
The lease commitments  are carried under liabilities exclusive of interest.
The interest component is recognized in the   statement of profit & loss in accordance with the  lease installments.
z.2.2 Assets acquired on lease where a significant  portion of the risks and rewards of ownership  are retained by the lessor are classified as  operating leases.
Lease rentals are charged to  the statement of profit & loss on accrual basis.
aa.
Claims Claims / Surrenders on/to Petroleum Planning  and Analysis Cell, Government of India are  booked on ‘in principle acceptance’  thereof  on the basis of available instructions/  clarifications subject to final adjustments, as  stipulated.
All other claims and provisions are  booked on the merits of each case.
ab.
Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and  Contingent Assets Provisions involving substantial degree of  estimation in measurement are recognized  when there is a present obligation as a result of  past events and it is probable that there will be  an outflow of resources embodying economic  benefits.
Contingent Assets are neither  recognized nor disclosed in the financial  statements.
Contingent liabilities are disclosed  by way of notes to accounts.
ac.
Accounting for derivatives Accounting for Derivatives, other than those  covered under Accounting Standard (AS) 11,  is done on mark to market basis and the losses  are charged to statement of Profit & Loss.
Unrealized gains are ignored.
ad.
Amortization of Goodwill Goodwill arising on Consolidation of  Companies having Hydrocarbon reserves are  amortized based on “Unit of Production  Method” considering the related Proved  Reserves.
Other goodwill on consolidation is  not amortized ae.
Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share are computed by  dividing the net profit after tax by the weighted  average number of equity shares outstanding  during the period.
Diluted earnings per share is  computed by dividing the profit after tax by the  weighted average number of equity shares  considered for deriving basic earnings per  share and also the weighted average number  of equity shares that could have been issued  upon conversion of all dilutive potential equity  shares.
af.
Cash Flow Statement Cash flows are reported using the indirect  method, where by profit before tax is adjusted  for the effects of transactions of a non-cash  nature, any deferrals or accruals of past or  future operating cash receipts or payments  and item of income or expenses associated  with investing or financing cash flows.
The cash  flows from operating, investing and financing  activities of the Company are segregated Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 294 3.
The consolidated financial statements represent consolidation of accounts of "Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited", its subsidiaries, Joint ventures entities and associate as detailed below:- A               Subsidiaries 1 ONGC Videsh Limited (OVL) India 100% 100% Audited 1.1 ONGC Nile Ganga B.V. (ONGBV) The Netherlands Class A and Class A and Class B 100% Class B 100% Audited 1.1 (i) ONGC Campos Ltda.
Brazil 100% 100% Audited 1.1 (ii) ONGC Nile Ganga (Cyprus) Ltd. Cyprus 100% 100% Audited 1.1 (iii) ONGC Nile Ganga (San Cristobal) B.V.
The Netherlands 100% 100% Audited 1.1 (iv) ONGC Satpayev E&P B.V.
The Netherlands 100% 100% Audited 1.1 (v) ONGC Caspian E&P B.V.
The Netherlands 100% 100% Audited 1.2 ONGC Nile Ganga B.V. (ONGBV) The Netherlands Class C 55%  direct Class C 55%  direct  (balance  45% (balance  45%  held by OMEL) held by OMEL) Audited 1.3 ONGC Narmada Limited (ONL) Nigeria 100% 100% Unaudited 1.4 ONGC Amazon Alaknanda Limited (OAAL) Bermuda 100% 100% Audited 1.5 Imperial Energy Limited Cyprus 100% 100% Audited 1.5 (i) Imperial Energy Tomsk Limited Cyprus 100% 100% Audited 1.5 (ii) Imperial Energy (Cyprus) Limited Cyprus 100% 100% Audited 1.5 (iii) Imperial Energy Nord Limited Cyprus 100% 100% Audited 1.5 (iv) Biancus Holdings Limited Cyprus 100% 100% Audited 1.5 (v) Redcliffe Holdings Limited Cyprus 100% 100% Audited 1.5 (vi) Imperial Frac Services (Cyprus) Limited Cyprus 100% 100% Audited 1.5 (vii) San Agio Investments Limited Cyprus 100% 100% Audited 1 1.5 (viii) LLC Sibinterneft Russia 55.90% 55.90% Audited 1.5 (ix) LLC Allianceneftegaz Russia 100% 100% Audited 1.5 (x) LLC Nord Imperial Russia 100% 100% Audited 1.5 (xi) LLC Rus Imperial Group Russia 100% 100% Audited 1.5 (xii) LLC Imperial Frac Services Russia 50% 50% Audited 1.6 Carabobo One AB Sweden 100% 100% Audited 1.6 (i) Petro Carabobo Ganga B.V.
The Netherlands 100% 100% Audited 1.7 ONGC (BTC) Limited Cayman Islands 100% 100% Unaudited 1.8 Beas Rovuma Energy Mozambique Ltd. British Virgin Islands 60% 60% Audited 1.9 ONGC Videsh Rovuma Ltd. (OVRL) Mauritius 100% - Audited 1.10 ONGC Videsh Atlantic Inc. (OVAI) Texas 100% - Unaudited 2 1.11 ONGC Hydrocarbons Ltd. Mauritius - 100% - 2 1.12 Krishna Rovuma Energy Mozambique Ltd. Mauritius - 100% - 2.
Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL) India 71.63% 71.63% Audited 2.1 ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Ltd. (OMPL) (note 3.1) India 85.53% 48.15% Audited B              Joint Venture Entities 1.
Petronet LNG Limited (PLL) India 12.50% 12.50% Audited 2.
Petronet MHB Ltd (PMHBL) India 28.77% 28.77% Audited 3.
Mangalore SEZ Ltd (MSEZ) (note 3.2) India 26.82% 26.46% Audited 4.
ONGC Petro Additions Ltd. (OPaL) India 49.36% 49.36% Audited 5.
ONGC Tripura Power Company Ltd.             ( OTPC) India 49.52% 49.52% Audited 6.
ONGC Teri Biotech Ltd. (OTBL) India 49.98% 49.98% Audited 7.
Dahej SEZ Limited (DSEZ) India 50.00 % 50.00 % Unaudited 8.
ONGC Mit tal Energy Limited  (OMEL) (through OVL) Cyprus 49.98% 49.98% Unaudited 9.
Shell MRPL Aviation Fuels & Services Limited India 50.00% 50.00% (SMASL) (through MRPL) Audited 10.
Mangalam Retail Services Ltd (through MRPL) India 49.98% - Audited 11.
Nor th East Transmission Company Ltd.   (NETC) (through OTPC) India 12.88% 12.88% Unaudited 12.
Mangalore STP Limited (through MSEZ) India 18.78% 18.52% Audited 13.
MSEZ Power Ltd (through MSEZ) India 26.82% - Audited C                  Associates 1.
Pawan Hans Ltd. (PHL) India 49.00 % 49.00 % Unaudited Name of the Subsidiaries/  Joint Venture and Associates Country of  Incorporation Proportion Ownership Interest As on Status of Audit  As on 31.03.2015 31.03.2015 Sl No.
31.03.2014 Consolidated Financial Statement 295 1  Although the subsidiary company OVL has 47.52  per cent effective ownership interest, it has 55.9 per  cent of voting rights in LLC Sibinterneft.
LLC  Sibinternef t is therefore a subsidiary of the  Company, in accordance with the Companies Act,  2013 of India and included in consolidation of  accounts accordingly.
2   these companies have been liquidated w.e.f.
11th  June, 2014 3.1 During current year, OMPL has become subsidiary  (previous year Joint venture) of ONGC Group on  account of direct holding of 48.99% ( previous year  46%) by ONGC and indirect holding of 51.00%  (previous year 3%) stake through subsidiary  company MRPL with effect from 28th February, 2015.
3.2 Includes holding of 0.96% by OMPL.
3.3 In view of different sets of environments/prevalent  laws in respect of respective countries in which the  subsidiaries/JVs are operating, the accounting  policies followed (for treatment of depreciation of  T angible Assets, sales revenue and royalty etc.)
by  the subsidiaries/JVs are dif ferent from the  accounting policies of the Company.
For  consolidation of financial statement, the  transactions reported which have been arrived  using such different accounting policies by the  group companies have been considered and  disclosed at Note no.
9.2, 13.2, 14.2,14.3,14.5,  14.6,14.7, 14.8, 14.9,15.2, 16.2, 17.1(c),17.1(d),  17.1(e), 17.1(f), 24.3, 24.4, 24.5, 28.2, 29.6, 29.7,  32.3, 32.5 &45.2.4.
3.4 Pursuant to the enactment of the Companies Act,  2013 the Group has, effective from 1st April, 2014,  revised the estimated useful life of its fixed assets  generally in accordance with Schedule-II to the  Companies Act, 2013.
Accordingly, an amount of  ₹2,582.22million (net of deferred tax of ₹1192.03  million) has been adjusted in the opening balance of  retained earnings in respect of assets whose useful  life has exhausted as at April 1, 2014.
Further,  consequent to the adoption of revised estimate of  useful life of assets depreciation charged to  Consolidated statement of profit & loss is lower by  `4,137.14 million except in case of parent company  ONGC, wherein the impact of the same is not  ascertainable.
As at st 31  March, 2014 (` in million)4.
Share Capital 4.2 Terms/rights attached to equity shares The company has only one class of equity shares  having a par value of `5 per share.
Each holder of  equity shares is entitled to one vote per share.
The  dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is  subject to the approval of the shareholders in the  ensuing Annual General Meeting.
In the event of liquidation of the company, the  holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive  remaining assets of the company, after distribution  of all preferential amounts.
The distribution will be in  proportion to the number of equity shares held by  the shareholders.
4.1 Reconciliation of the equity shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the reporting period Outstanding at the beginning of the year 8,555.49 42,777.45 8,555.49 42,777.45 Changes during year - - - - Outstanding at the end of the year 8,555.49 42,777.45 8,555.49 42,777.45 st  As at 31 March, 2015 As at 31  March, 2014 st  No.
in  million No.
in  million ` in  million ` in  million Particulars Particulars Authorised: 30,000,000,000 Equity Shares of ` 5 each 150,000.00 150,000.00 (Previous Year 30,000,000,000 Equity Shares of  5 each) Issued and Subscribed: 8,555,528,064 Equity Shares of  5 each 42,777.64 42,777.64 (Previous Year 8,555,528,064 Equity Shares of  5 each) Paid up : 8,555,490,120 Equity Shares of  5 each 42,777.45 42,777.45 (Previous Year 8,555,490,120 Equity Shares of  5 each) Add: Shares forfeited 0.15 TOTAL  42,777.60  42,777.60  ` ` ` ` ` 0.15 As at st 31  March, 2015 Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 296 4.5 Shares reserved for issue under option : Nil (previous year Nil) 5 Reserves and Surplus 4.3 Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the company are as under:- Capital Reserve ( Note 5.1) a) As per last Balance Sheet  1,234.97 1154.05 b) Addition/(deletion)  38.77  1,273.74 80.92  1,234.97 Capital Redemption Reserve (Note 5.3) a) As per Last Balance Sheet  91.97 91.95 b) Addition/(deletion)  0.01  91.98 0.02  91.97 Securities Premium Account  a) As per last Balance Sheet  144.33 144.33 b) Less:  Share issue expense  16.15  128.18  -   144.33 Debenture Redemption Reserve (Note no.
5.4) a) As per Last Balance Sheet  24,488.86 14088.91 b) Add: T ransferred from Surplus Account  24,002.99 10399.95 c) Less: T ransfer to General Reserve  19,700.00  28,791.85 -  24,488.86  Deferred Government Grant ( Note 2.2.c) a) As per last Balance Sheet  41.73 27.53 b) Addition during the year  -   17.07 c) Less: Deduction during the year (Note no.
5.5)  14.17  27.56 2.87  41.73  Self Insurance Reserves (Note 5.8) a)  As per Last Balance Sheet  -    -    b) Addition/(deletion) 4.35  4.35  -    -    Foreign Exchange T ranslation Reserve (Note 5.6) a) As per Last Balance Sheet  70,763.79 37554.33 b) Addition/(deletion)  4,384.84 33209.48 c) Less: T ransfer to Capital Redemption Reserve  0.01  75,148.62 0.02  70,763.79  Foreign Currency Monetary Item Difference Account (Note no.
5.7) a) As per Last Balance Sheet  (3,925.56) - b) Addition/(deletion)  (4,513.13)  (8,438.69)  (3,925.56) (3,925.56) Hedging Reserve ( Note 32.7) a) As per Last Balance Sheet 11.12 - b) Addition/(deletion)  (11.53)  (0.41) 11.12 11.12 General Reserve a) As per Last Balance Sheet  1,352,771.69  1,223,664.23  b) Add: Adj.
with opening reserve (Note no.
3.4)  (2,582.22)  (3,143.02) c) Add:transfer from Debenture Redemption Reserve  19,700.00  d) Add: T ransferred from Surplus Accounts 80,754.55 14,50,644.02 132250.48 1,352,771.69  Surplus a) As per last Balance Sheet  233,114.80  205,772.78  b) Add: T ransferred from Profit and Loss Account of owners share 183,335.20  265,065.33  c) Add: Adjusment due to change in holding/other adjustment  1.08  45.90  d) Less: Proposed Dividend 4,277.75  2,138.87  e) Less: Interim Dividend  76,999.44  79,138.31  f) Less: T ax on Dividend  16,316.77  13,841.60  g) Less: T ransfer to self Insurance Reserve  4.35  h) Less: T ransfer to Debenture redumption reserve  24,002.99  10,399.95  i) Less: T ransferred to General Reserve  80,754.55  214,095.23  132,250.48  233,114.80 TOTAL  17,61,766.43  1,678,737.70  President of India 5897.76 68.94 5897.76 68.94 Life Insurance Corporation of India 677.18 7.92 666.70 7.79 Indian Oil Corporation Limited 657.92 7.69 657.92 7.69 As at  st 31  March, 2015 st As at 31  March, 2015 As at  st 31  March, 2014 As at 31  March, 2014 st No.
in  million No.
in  million %holding %holding Name of the share holder Particulars 4.4 Pursuant to the approval of the members dated  28.01.2011, during the financial year 2010-11, one  equity share having face value of `10/- each had  been sub-divided into two equity shares of `5/-  each and bonus shares in proportion of one new  equity bonus share of `5/- each for every one fully  (` in million) paid up equity share of `5/- each held on  09.02.2011 (record date) had been allotted.
The  company has issued total 4277.75 million equity  shares of face value of `5 each issued as fully paid  up by way of bonus shares during the period of five  years immediately preceding the reporting date.
Consolidated Financial Statement 297 :5.1 Includes `159.44 million (Previous year `159.44  million)  being assessed value of assets received  as gift and ` 940.22 million (Previous year ` 901.45  million) being Capital Reserve on Consolidation.
5.2 The Board of Directors has recommended a final  dividend of `0.5 per share (previous year ` 0.25per  share) which is subject to the approval of the  5.5 Represents the amount equivalent to depreciation  transferred to Statement of Profit and Loss.
5.6  Foreign Exchange T ranslation Reserve:  The subsidiary, ONGC Videsh Limited has  followed the Accounting Standard (AS) 11 - Effects  of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates (revised  2003) for incorporating in the consolidated  shareholders in the ensuing Annual General  Meeting over and above the interim dividend of  ` 9 pershare (Previous year `9.25 pershare).
5.3 Includes `91.86 Million Capital Redemption  Reserve created on redemption of Preference  share capital during 2011-12 and 2012-13 in  respect of subsidiary, MRPL.
financial statements following the principles for  translation of the financial statements of Non- integral Foreign Operations.
Accordingly, the  foreign exchange difference of `4,384.84 Million  (Previous year `33,209.48 Million) has been  accounted as foreign exchange translation  reserve.
(` in million) 8.40 % 5 Years Unsecured Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds in the nature of Debentures- Series I( redeemed on 23rd Dec-2014) 16,830.22 2,869.78 19,700.00 - 8.54 % 10 Years Unsecured Non- Convertible Redeemable Bonds in the nature of Debentures- Series II 1,566.33 369.79 - 1936.12 Total (A) 18,396.55 3,239.57 19,700.00 1,936.12 Unsecured 3.75%  10 years USD Bonds-USD 500 millions 3,312.85 2,638.98 - 5,951.83 Unsecured 2.50%  5 years USD Bonds-USD 300 Million 2,760.71 4,381.48 - 7,142.19 Total (B) 6,073.56 7,020.46 13,094.02 Unsecured 3.25%  5 year USD Bonds - USD 750 Millions due 2019                   -   6,689.38    -       6,689.38 Unsecured 4.625%  10 year USD Bonds - USD 750 Millions due 2024                   -   3,343.76                   -       3,343.76 Unsecured 2.75%  7 year EUR Bonds - EUR 525 Millions due 2021                   - 3,611.89                   -       3,611.89 Total (C) - 13,645.03                -     13,645.03 TOTAL (A+B+C) 24,470.11 23,905.06 19,700.00 28,675.17  Particulars Balance as on st 31  March,  2014 Addition during year T ransfer during the year Balance as on st  31 March,  2015 5.8 In respect of Joint venture company, OTPC, Self- insurance reserve @0.1% p.a.
on Gross Block of  Fixed Assets (except assets covered under mega  insurance policy) is created as at the end of the year  by appropriating current year profit towards future  losses which may arise from un-insured risks and  (` in million) Particulars As at  st 31  March,  2015 As at  st 31  March,  2014 Opening Balance (3,925.56)                   -    Additions during the year         (5,768.99)      (4,616.00) Amortized during the year 1,255.86           690.44 Closing Balance       (8,438.69) (3,925.56) the same is shown as ''self-insurance reserve'' under  'Reserve & Surplus'.
5.9 Above Reserve and Surplus includes `(-) 7,052.34  million share of jointly controlled entities (Previous  year `(-)3,575.69 Million).
5.4 Debenture Redemption Reserve: - Debenture Redemption Reserve includes `28,675.17 million (previous Year `24,470.11 million) in respect of  subsidiary company OVL, as follows: 5.7 Foreign Currency Monetary Item Exchange Account: In case of subsidiary, ONGC Videsh Limited,the details of the exchange differences on long term monetary items are  as under:- Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 298 6.1 Above include, Secured long term borrowings of `99,142.71 million share of jointly controlled  entities (Previous year `112,385.66 million) and  Unsecured long term borrowings of `9,073.39  million share of jointly controlled entities (Previous  year  `7,256.69 million).
6.2 Secured Loan 6.2.1 Zero coupon bond (ZCB): The Joint Venture,  PMHBL has issued Zero Coupon Bonds to  Lenders as per Corporate Debt Restructuring  (CDR) Approved Scheme, repayable in 36  quarterly installments commencing from Sept  2006 and ending on June 2015.
The ZCBs are  secured by first mortgage on Immovable  Properties- present & future, first charge on  movable properties - present & future and charge  on all receivables from the project on pari passu  basis.
Balance outstanding as on 31st March 2015  is nil  (Previous year `12.65 million) out of which  Group’s share is nil (Previous year `3.64 million).
6.2.2 The Subsidiary, MRPL has external commercial  borrowing (ECB) of `40,628.25 million (Previous  year `38,948.00 million), secured by first pari  passu charge over immovable and movable fixed  assets both present and future.
The interest rate  for ECB are based on 6 month LIBOR plus spread.
The effective interest rate are 3.2247%, 3.7019%,  2.7957%, 2.4157% and 2.8641% on `6,250.50  million, `9,375.75 million, `18,751.50 million, `3,125.25 million and `3,125.25 million respectively  to be repaid annually by 2020-21.
6.2.3 The Joint Venture, PLL has availed loan from  Banks, secured by first ranking mortgage and first  charge on pari passu basis on all movable and  immovable properties, both present and future  including current assets except on trade  receivables on which second charge is created on  pari passu basis at an average interest rate of  10.02% p.a.
Balance outstanding as on 31st  March, 2015 is Nil (Previous year `9,706.30   million) out of which group’s share is Nil (Previous  year  `1,213.29 million)  6.2.4 The Subsidiary, OMPL has external commercial  borrowings (ECB) arrangement from a  consor tium of banks for USD 331.32  million(previous year USD 310 million), secured  by first charge on all fixed asset and second  charge of the project asset & all current assets.
The rate of interest for ECB are LIBOR+3.13%  to  LIBOR+3.15%.
ECB’s are repayable in 14 equal  half yearly installments commencing from 1st  April, 2015 and 31st October, 2015 respectively.
Balance outstanding as on 31st March 2015 is  `18,208.95 million (Previous year `18,618.60  million) out of which group’s share is `18,208.95  million (Previous year `8,964.65 million) 6.2.5 The Subsidiary  OMPL has borrowed  Rupee T erm  Loan from a Consortium of Banks at an interest  rate of “SBI base rate+1.25%” secured by first  charge on all fixed assets and second charge on  the current assets.
The Rupee T erm Loan is  repayable in 36 equal quarterly installments  beginning from 31st December, 2015.
Balance  outstanding as on 31st March 2015 is `18,636.49  million (Previous year `17,293.90  million) out of  which group’s share is `18,636.49 million  (Previous year  `8,326.82  million).
6.2.6 The joint venture, OPaL has borrowed Secured  (` in million)6 Long-Term Borrowings A.
Secured (a) Zero Coupon Bond  (Note no.
6.2.1)  -    3.64  (b) T erm Loan  (Note 6.2.2  to 6.2.9) - From Banks  103,102.16  100,654.50  - From Others  63,529.70  166,631.86  42,450.65  143,108.79  B.
Unsecured (a) Non Convertible Redeemable Bonds (Note 6.3.2)  181,218.50  48,423.00  (b) Non Convertible Redeemable Debentures (Note 6.3.1)  3,700.00  3,700.00  (c) T erm Loan  - From Banks ( Note 6.3.5 & 6.3.7)  113,186.00  106,606.50  - From Others ( note 6.3.3)  5,250.00  8,000.00  (d) Non-current maturities of finance lease obligations (Note 6.3.4)  4,237.84 4,811.12  (e) Sales T ax Deferment Loan (Note 6.3.6)  1,603.34 309,195.68  2,159.17 173,699.79 TOTAL (A+B)  475,827.54 316,808.58  As at  st 31  March, 2015 As at  st 31  March, 2014 Particulars Consolidated Financial Statement 299 term loan from a Consortium of Banks and has also availed External Commercial Borrowings (ECB), which are  secured by first ranking pari passu mortgage / charge on immovable and movable properties and assets both  present and future and second ranking pari passu charge on the current assets with working capital lender on  reciprocal basis.
The details of interest rates, terms of repayment & outstanding amounts are as below:- 6.2.7 The Joint Venture, MSEZ has term loan from a  Consortium of Banks at the interest rate “base  rate+agreed spread (i.e.
at 11.25%) ” secured by  mortgage and hypothecation of immovable and  movable assets  repayable in 36 unequal quarterly  installment commencing after moratorium period  of 6 month from commercial operation date which  was extended from 1st April, 2014 to 1s April, 2015.
Balance outstanding as on 31st March, 2015 is  `5,447.85 million (Previous year `5,546.62 million)  out of which group’s share `1,461.14 million  (Previous year  `1,467.76 million).
6.2.8 The Joint Venture, OTPC has taken Rupees T erm  loan from State Bank of India(SBI), secured by first  rank pari-passu charge on all immoveable  properties - present and future, relating to the  project and first charge by way of hypothecation on  all moveable properties - present and future,  relating to project and first charge on all the  receivables, Letter of credit and Escrow Account.
Interest on the RTL is at SBI base rate (floating)+  0.50% (spread) and is repayable in 60 equal  quarterly installments commencing from the 31st  March, 2014.
Balance outstanding for the same on  31st March, 2015 is `26,944.84 million (Previous  year `23,131.10 million)  out of which group’s  share is `13,344.22 million (Previous year  `11,455.49 million).
Further, the Joint venture  company NETC of OTPC (NETC), has availed loan  from PFC by creating a first charge on its  immovable properties acquired for the project  along with the revenue and receivables from the  project - present and future against which Group’s  share is `2,185.57 million (previous year  `1,886.38 million) as on 31st March, 2015.
6.2.9 The Joint Venture, PLL has external commercial  borrowings from International Finance  Corporation Washington D.C., USA, Proparco,  (` in million) Bank Loan- Medium T erm loan  Bank Loan - Long T erm Loan Sub Debt* Base rate of respective bank +spread 0.75% (10.90% - External commercial borrowings USD 50 Million External 6 month USD commercial LIBOR +range borrowings 347 to  352 basis USD 250 Million points Sub Total 168,440.79 161,445.77 83,142.37 79,689.63 Less : Current Maturity  of long term Debt 22,093.52 21,399.74 10,905.36 10,562.91 Total 146,347.27 140,046.03 72,237.01 69,126.72 10.50% By 31.12.2015 21,399.86 21,399.74 10,562.97 10,562.91 11.75% 41 equal quarterly 113,168.42 110,303.61 55,859.93 54,445.86 instalments starting from Q4 FY2016-17 to Q4FY2025-26 Repayable after 3 19,999.31 16,434.62 9,871.66 8,112.13 year from date of disbursement 11.00% (i.e.
Dec, 2016).
effectively on 31.03.15) 6 month USD 9 half yearly 3,153.00 3,024.50 1,556.32 1,492.89 LIBOR +324 instalment starting basis points from March, 2016  to March, 2020 15 half yearly 10,720.20 10,283.30 5,291.49 5,075.84 instalments starting from March, 2016 to March, 2023 Type of loan Effective Rate Terms of Repayment Outstanding Amount as on 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Group’s share in  outstanding on *secured by way of hypothecation in favor of the lender of movable fixed assets and other immovable fixed asset  , both present and future located at SEZ Dahej.
Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 300 France & Asian Development Bank at an average  cost of 8.87% p.a.
(inclusive of hedge cost) and  loan from Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company Ltd  (Indian lender) has been repaid during the year.
In  respect of external commercial borrowings from  International Finance Corporation Washington  D.C., USA, and Proparco, France,  PLL, has  entered into derivative contracts to hedge the loan  including interest.
Balance outstanding as on 31st  March, 2015, is  `10,738.10 million (Previous year  `13,771.10  million)   out of which group’s share is  `1,342.26 million (Previous year `1,721.39  million).
6.3 Unsecured Loan 6.3.1 Non-conver tible redeemable debenture  (Rupee Bonds): During the financial year 2009-10, the subsidiary,  OVL, had raised funds from the financial markets  by issuance of non-convertible redeemable  debenture (Rupee Bonds) in the nature of  debentures as per following:- 8.54 % 10 Years Unsecured Non-Convertible Redeemable 3,700.00 6-Jan-2010 6-Jan-2020 Bonds in the nature of Debentures- Series II of face value of `1 million each Particulars Particulars Amount  Amount  (` in million) (` in million) Date of issue Date of issue Due date of redemption Due Date of Redemption Coupon The above securities have been listed in National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE).
Subsidiary Company, OVL is  required to maintain 100% asset cover as per SEBI guidelines.
There is no put / call option on these bonds.
The  bonds are repayable in full (bullet repayment) on maturity date.
6.3.2 Foreign Currency Bonds the subsidiary, OVL, had raised funds from the international financial markets by issuance of non-convertible  redeemable Reg-S foreign currency bonds as per following: The above US$ 500 million 3.75 per cent Notes due 99.598% and US$ 750 million Reg S notes 2024  2023, the US$ 300 million 2.5 per cent Notes due were issued at price of 99.454%.
The bonds have  2018, the US$ 750 million 3.25 per cent Notes due been issued in denomination of US$ 200,000 and  2019 and US$ 750 million 4.625 per cent Notes due integral multiples of US$ 1,000 in excess thereof.
2024 have been listed on Singapore Exchange The € 525 million notes 2021 were issued at price of  (SGX).
The € 525 million 2.75 percent Notes due 99.623%.
Euro note denomination is € 100,000 and  2021 have been listed in the Frankfurt Stock multiples of €1,000 thereafter.
There is no periodical  Exchange.
The US$ 300 million Reg S bonds were put/call option.
The bonds are repayable in full  issued at price of 99.655% and US$ 500 million Reg (bullet repayment) on maturity date.
The foreign  S bonds were issued at price of 99.950% .
The US$ exchange difference in respect of the foreign  750 million Reg S notes 2019 were issued at price of currency bonds* till 31 March, 2015 amounting to USD 500 million unsecured non-convertible payable semi annually in arrears USD 300 million unsecured non-convertible 16,287.00 07-May-13 07-May-18 2.50%, payable semi annually in arrears USD 750 million unsecured non-convertible 45,127.50 15 July, 2014 15 July, 2019 3.25%, payable semi- annually in arrears USD 750 million unsecured non-convertible Reg S Bonds EUR 525 million unsecured Euro Bonds* 43,044.75 15 July, 2014 15 July, 2021 2.75%, payable annually in arrears Foreign Exchange difference ** 2,861.75     Total 1,79,593.50     27,145.00 07-May-13 07-May-23 3.75%,  Reg S Bonds Reg S Bonds Reg S Bonds 45,127.50 15 July, 2014 15 July, 2024 4.625%, payable semi-annually in arrears Consolidated Financial Statement 301 `2,861.75 Million (previous year `4,616.00 Million)  has been generated, which is amortized over the  outstanding tenure of the loan as per the provision  of Para 46A of AS 11.
*Except the Euro designated  bonds which are capitalised to the respective  assets of block Area 1, Mozambique Offshore.
** The foreign exchange difference on the foreign  currency bonds till 31.03.2015 amounting to `2,861.75 million (Previous year 4,616.00 Million)  has been amortized over the outstanding tenure of  the loan as per the provision of paragraph 46A of  AS 11.
6.3.3 The Subsidiary, MRPL has availed unsecured term  loan from Oil Industry Development Board (OIDB)  of 5,250.00 million (previous year 8,000.00   million).
The interest rates on the same are 8.89 %,  9.04%, 8.73% ,8.98%, 8.94%, 9.27%, 9.06% and  9.15% on 1,825.00 million, 175.00 million, 937.50 million, 2,062.50 million, 87.90 million, 2,230.00 million, 399.60 million, and 282.50  million respectively, which are repayable by 2018-19.
` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` 6.3.4 The subsidiary, OVL has unsecured of finance  lease obligation of 5,515.42 million (Previous  year 6,028.84 million).
6.3.5 The subsidiary, OVL has availed a term loan for 5 year from Bank amounting to 111,186.00  million (USD1,775 million){Previous year 106,606.50 million (USD1,775 million)} for the  purpose of acquisition of block in Mozambique.
6.3.6 The Subsidiary, MRPL, has deferred payment  liability representing ‘SalesT ax deferment’ of 1,603.34 million (Previous year 2,159.17 million) with nil interest rate, to be repaid by 2019-20.
6.3.7 The Subsidiary OMPL has availed a term loan   from bank  amounting to 2,000.00 million  (Previous year Nil)  repayable in 2 equal  instalments, with first repayment beginning from  August 2016.
The rate of interest is Axis base  rate+0.50% payable on monthly basis.
6.3.8 The Joint Venture, PLL has raised the fund by  issuing Non-conver tible Bonds which are  unsecured, The details of rate, repayable period &  outstanding amount are as below:- ` ` ` ` ` ` ` 7.
Deferred Tax Liabilities  The Deferred T ax Liability/Asset of the company, its subsidiaries and joint ventures as at 31st March, 2015  comprises of the major components of Deferred T ax Liabilities and Deferred T ax Assets under Accounting  Standard-22 on ‘ Accounting for T axes on Income’ the details of the same given here under:  (` in million) Particulars As at st 31  March,  2015 As at st 31  March,  2014 (i)  Liabilities    Depletion of Producing Properties 2,28,520.78 2,18,766.58 Depreciation Allocated to Wells in Progress & expenses relating to NELP 21,984.40 23,002.57 Deferred Revenue Expenditure written off 3,385.09 5,432.45 Development wells-in Progress 12,724.71 10,052.58 Depreciation 29,968.56 18,419.17 Others 12,511.65 7,300.79 Deferred tax liability - Subsidiaries of OVL 7,037.69 7,347.56 Total 3,16,132.88 2,90,321.70 (ii) Assets    Depreciation (refer  Note no.
7.1) 32,348.62 22,690.58 Unabsorbed losses and allowances 469.03 132.90 Dry wells written off 29,079.78 18,340.46 Provision for Non-Moving Inventories 1,762.13 1,876.75 Provision for Doubtful Debts/ Claims /Advances/ Interest 4,858.02 4,270.17 Provision for Abandonment 34,364.43 38,633.84 Provision toward Additional Profit Petroleum  &  interest 3,638.61 3,426.45 Statutory duties unpaid u/s 43B 1754.05 780.47 Others 14,365.29 14,649.08 Deferred tax asset - Subsidiaries of OVL 11,733.89 6,885.90 TOTAL 1,34,373.85 1,11,686.60 (` in million) Type of Bonds Repayment Frequency Repayable period Outstanding as on Group's share in  outstanding on Bonds-8.35% debenture Bullet 2018 3,000.00 3,000.00 375.00 375.00 Bonds-9.00% debenture Bullet 2017 4,000.00 - 500.00 - Bonds-9.05% debenture Bullet 2019 6,000.00 - 750.00 - 13,000.00 3,000.00 1,625.00 375.00 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 31.03.201431.03.2015 Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 302 7.1 Includes an amount of `1,192.03 million on  account of T ransitional provision of Companies Act  2013.
(refer Note no.
3.4) 7.2 The above includes Net Deferred T ax Asset of 5,854.11 million (Previous year 122.28million)  and Net Deferred T ax Liability of 187,613.15  million (Previous Year 178,757.38 million) in respect of various components/entities  consolidated as below.
` ` ` ` (` in million) (` in million) Particulars As at st 31  March,  2015 As at st 31  March,  2015 As at st 31  March,  2014 As at st 31  March,  2014 Net Deferred T ax Liability of ONGC 1,77,331.54 1,65,786.79 Net Deferred T ax Liability of OVL 8,066.79 6,921.94 Net Deferred T ax Liability of ONGBV - 201.62 Net Deferred T ax Liability of OAAL 703.12 328.23 Net Deferred T ax Liability of Carabobo One AB 382.70 54.02 Net Deferred T ax Liability of MRPL 1.12 4,703.24 Net Deferred T ax Liability of PLL 908.75 691.25 Net Deferred T ax Liability of OTPC 190.55 70.29 Net Deferred T ax Liability of MSEZ 28.57 - Consolidated Net Deferred Tax Liability 1,87,613.14 1,78,757.38 Net Deferred T ax Asset of ONGBV 5,782.00 - Net Deferred T ax Asset of PMHBL 71.99 122.24 Net Deferred T ax Asset of OTBL 0.11 0.04 Consolidated Net Deferred Tax Asset 5,854.11 122.28 T rade payables  - Outstanding dues to Micro & Small Enterprises  -   -     - Outstanding dues to other than Micro & Small Enterprises  741.91 1,020.45  Others - Advance from customers  4,128.70 3,624.65  - Deposits from Suppliers and Contractors  252.34 31.23  - Liability for Capital Goods  445.57 1,773.16  - Liabilities for  Liquidated Damages  9,538.19 9,904.05  - Other Liabilities  3,187.73 2,113.63  TOTAL  18,294.44 18,467.17  8.
Other Long Term Liabilities 8.1 Above other long term liabilities includes 6,643.12 million share of jointly controlled entities (Previous year `7,274.89 million).
` Particulars (` in million) As at st 31  March,  2015 As at st 31  March,  2014 Provision for Employee benefits ( Note no.
38)  - Unavailed Leave  316.54  386.24  \  - Gratuity  81.72  74.61   - Post Retirement Medical & T erminal Benefits  27,152.60  28,778.25  Provision for Abandonment (Note no.
45)  298,197.94  274,266.03  Other Provisions (Note no.
45)  2,047.31 1,794.42  TOTAL  327,796.11  305,299.55  9.
Long Term Provisions Particulars Consolidated Financial Statement 303 (` in million) As at st 31  March,  2015 As at st 31  March,  2014 Secured (Note 10.1) Short T erm Loans from Banks  17,206.74  810.75  Unsecured  Loans Repayable on demand from Bank  9,604.79 3,868.75  Other Short T erm Loans : From Banks  12,223.85  133,633.50  From Others  3,850.33  759.72  TOTAL  42,885.71  139,072.72  10.
Short Term Borrowings 9.1 Above long term provisions includes `17.65 million  share of jointly controlled entities (Previous year `15.74 million).
9.2 The overseas subsidiaries and the Joint Venture  Companies of OVL provide for the retirement  Above Secured short term borrowing includes Nil(Previous year `810.75 million) shares of jointly  controlled entities and unsecured short term  borrowing includes `10,124.79 million (Previous  year `3,868.75 million) shares of jointly controlled  entities.
10.1 Short Term  Loan - Secured 10.1.1 The company has  availed short term borrowing of  `13,930 million (Previous year  Nil) as against of  `17,340 million (Previous year Nil) of principal  amount of T erm deposit receipt with bank.
10.1.2 The subsidiary OMPL has outstanding secured  short term Loan from Bank  of `3168.01 million  (Previous year Nil), secured by way of  hypothecation of OMPL ’s stock of raw materials,  finished goods, stock-in-process, stores, spares,  components, book debts, outstanding monies  receivable, claim, bills, contracts, engagements,  securities, both present and future and further  secured by second ranking pari passu charge  against company’s immovable and movable fixed  Asset both present and future.
10.1.3 The subsidiary, MRPL has outstanding secured  short term Loan of  `108.73 million (Previous year  `471.51 million) from Bank secured by way of  hypothecation of MRPL ’s stock of raw materials,  finished goods, stock-in-process, stores, spares,  components, book debts, outstanding moneys  receivable, claim, bills, contracts, engagements,  securities, both present and future and further  secured by second ranking pari passu charge  against said company’s immovable and movable  fixed Asset both present and future.
This includes nil (Previous year `471.51 million) in respect of joint  venture company of MRPL,  Shell MRPL Aviation  Fuels & Services Pvt Ltd. benefits in accordance with the laws of their  respective jurisdictions.
The net impact on  account of this difference in accounting policy is  not ascertainable.
10.1.4 The Joint venture company, OTPC has borrowed  short term loan from bank repayable within one  year from date of first disbursement, that is by 30th  September, 2014 and accordingly the same has be  repaid during year.
The short term loan was  secured by first rank paripassu charge on all  immovable properties, present and future relating  to project and first charge on all the receivable,  letter of credit and Escrow Account at interest rate  SBI base rate (floating)+.75% (spread).
The  balance outstanding as on 31.03.2015 is of Nil(Previous year `685.00  million) out of which  group’s share is Nil(Previous year `339.24 million).
10.2 Short term Loan-Unsecured 10.2.1 The Joint venture, OPaL has borrowed short term  loans from bank of `19,460.00 million (Previous  year Nil) repayable on quarterly basis by  31.03.2016 out of which group’s share is `9,605.46 million (Previous year Nil).
10.2.2 The Subsidiary, OMPL has borrowed short term  loan from bank repayable on demand of `12,199.09 million (Previous year `7,389.26  million) out of which group’s share is `12,199.09  million (Previous year `3,557.85   million).
10.2.3 The Joint venture, PLL has borrowed short term  buyers credit from bank repayable on demand of   Nil(Previous year `2,487.20 million) out of which  group’s share is Nil(Previous year `310.90 million).
10.2.4 The subsidiary OVL has availed bridge/short term  loan from bank of Nil (Previous year `133,633.50  million) for the purpose of acquisition of  par ticipating interest in Area 1 of fshore,  Mozambique.
10.2.5 The Joint venture company, OTPC has borrowed  short term loan from TFCSL is repayable within six  Particulars Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 304 month from the date of first disbursement of loan at  rate of 10.60% p.a payable monthly, The balance  outstanding as on 31.03.2015 is of `1,000.00  million (Previous year nil) out of which group’s  share is `495.20 million (Previous year Nil).
10.2.6 The Joint venture company, OTPC has borrowed  short term loan from Axis Bank is repayable within  six month from the date of first disbursement of  loan at rate of base rate +0.50% p.a payable  monthly, The balance outstanding as on  31.03.2015 is of `50.00 million (Previous year nil)  out of which group’s share is `24.76 million  (Previous year Nil).
Particulars (` in million) As at st 31  March,  2015 As at st 31  March,  2014 Current Maturity of Long T erm debt (Note  6.2 & 6.3)  19,453.84  34,028.47  Current Maturity of Finance Lease Obligations (Note 6.3.4)  1,277.58  1,217.72  Interest Accrued but not due on Borrowings  3,060.17  2,098.79  Interest Accrued and due on Borrowings  148.67  135.13  Interest Accrued and due on mature debenture (Note 12.3)  0.19  0.19  Non- Recourse Deferred Credit( Note 12.4) 1,088.19  1,043.37  Less: Set off against Provision for non receipt of instalments 728.97  359.22 698.95  344.42  Advance from Customers  1,271.88  27,087.13  Unclaimed Dividend (Note 12.2)  255.07  248.59  Liability for Capital Goods  33,744.93  28,044.22  Liability for Statutory Payments  32,958.61  30,295.08  Liability for Gratuity  24.98  18.22  Deposits from Suppliers and Contractors  3,202.48  9,948.28  Amount payble to operator  6,217.40  21,371.81  Cash Call payable to JV Partners  18,527.83  9,927.26  Liability for Employees  5,981.07  9,641.61  Liability for Superannuation Benefits                         1,125.95  1,142.43  Liabilities for Liquidated Damages 8,110.86  10,666.22  Other Liabilities  32,948.55  30,823.22  TOTAL  168,669.28  217,038.79  12.
Other Current Liabilities (` in million) As at st 31  March,  2015 As at st 31  March,  2014 - Outstanding dues to Micro & Small Enterprises  83.45 82.20  - Outstanding dues to other than Micro & Small Enterprises (Note 11.3)  303,752.98  306,459.33   - Deferred Credit  on Gas Sale (Note 11.2)  36.63  261.88  TOTAL  303,873.06  306,803.41  11.
T rade Payables 11.1 Above trade payable includes `1,170.43 million  share of jointly controlled entities (Previous year 3,618.23million).
11.2 Deferred credit on gas sales represents amounts  received from gas customers against "T ake or Pay"  obligations under relevant gas sales agreements.
The  amounts are to be utilized to supply gas in subsequent  year(s) free of charge to such customers.
` 11.3 In case of subsidiary MRPL, trade payables   include 147,854.73 million (previous year 79,141.99 million) being overdue amount payable  to National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) pending  settlement due to non-finalization of remittance  channel arising out of UN/US/EU backed  sanctions .
` ` Particulars Consolidated Financial Statement 305 12.1 Above other current liabilities includes `18,672.45  million share of jointly controlled entities (Previous  year `18,792.07million).
12.2 No amount is due for payment to Investor  Education and Protection Fund.
12.3 Liabilities for interest towards disputed claimin  respect of subsidiary company, MRPL.
12.4 In respect of subsidiary company, OVL Non- recourse deferred credit of `1,088.19 Million  (Previous year `1,043.37 Million) represents the  non-recourse deferred credit from contractors of  pipeline project executed by the Company in  Sudan.
The Non-recourse deferred credit is  repayable from the instalments of pipeline lease  rentals from Ministry of Energy and Mining (MEM),  Sudan.
(` in million) As at st  31 March,  2015 As at st  31 March,  2014 Provision for Employees  Benefits ( Note no.
38) Unavailed Leave  4,227.88  2,701.15  Gratuity  6.41  4.53  Post Retirement Medical & T erminal Benefits  1,632.19  2,142.42 Provision for Abandonment (note  45)  411.60  424.39 Provision for Others Proposed Dividend 4,277.75   2,138.87  T ax on Proposed Dividend  910.15  397.92  Provision for wealth T ax  115.16  126.00  Less: Paid  65.16  50.00  58.82 67.18   Provision for taxation (Net of Advance tax & TDS)  8,675.22  56.98  MAT Payable  96.29  72.32  Other Provisions (note no.
13.2 & 45)  2,304.65  1,494.53 TOTAL  22,592.14  9,500.29  13.
Short Term Provisions 13.1 Above short term provisions includes 442.28  million share of jointly controlled entities (Previous  year  351.03 million).
13.2 Other provisions The subsidiary, MRPL, had recognized liability  ` `  Particulars based on substantial degree of estimation for excise  duty payable on clearance of goods lying in stock as  on 31st March, 2015 for 2,057.60 Million (Previous  year 1,155.18 million).
` ` Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 306 14.
Tangible Assets Land Freehold  4,320.20  463.02  46.41  4,736.81  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    4,736.81  4,320.20  Land Leasehold  17,948.51  2,962.49  1,233.77  19,677.23  1,517.65  417.76  (112.26)  2,047.67  -    -    -    -    17,629.56  16,430.86  Building & Bunk Houses  39,667.52  5,514.64  308.33  44,873.83  13,092.13  4,058.31  (1,007.87)  18,158.31  125.84  1.27  -    127.11  26,588.41  26,449.55  Plant & Equipment  1,307,857.26  294,238.42  2,930.11  1,599,165.57  902,743.26  67,810.73  92.82  970,461.17  1,927.18  17.68  1.01  1,943.85  626,760.55  403,186.82  Furnitures & Fix tures  16,356.88  1,555.25  264.72  17,647.41  11,541.45  2,684.28  (176.38)  14,402.11  11.87  1.54  0.05  13.36  3,231.94  4,803.56 Office Equipment  7,995.77  1,701.51  444.64  9,252.64  4,575.04  2,005.90  (89.30)  6,670.24  21.81  2.41  2.34  21.88  2,560.52  3,398.92  Vehicles includes Survey Ships, Crew Boats and Helicopters (note14.1(k))  9,526.28  3,017.89  798.21  11,745.96  5,852.43  1,353.62  674.69  6,531.36 10.25  -    -  10.25  5,204.35  3,663.60  Total  1,403,672.42  309,453.22  6,026.19  1,707,099.45  939,321.96  78,330.60  (618.30) 1,018,270.86  2,096.95  22.90  -    3.40  2,116.45  686,712.14  462,253.51  Previous Year  1,235,984.90  170,978.92  3,291.40  1,403,672.42  827,192.31  115,612.15  3,482.50  939,321.96  2,048.00  78.43  40.05  (10.57)  2,096.95  462,253.51  The above includes thecompany's share in Joint Venture Assets  273,306.67  25,795.19  169,064.05  130,037.81  155,802.36  5,906.86  99,125.76  62,583.46  821.73  -    -    -    821.73  66,632.62  116,682.58  Previous Year  222,828.42  52,196.92  1,718.67  273,306.67  131,477.52  23,384.34  (940.50)  155,802.36  797.53 24.20   821.73  116,682.58  Description st At 1    April, 2014 st At 1   April, 2014 st At 1 April, 2014 For the year For the year Written back Re classificationAdditions Gross Block Accumulated Depreclation Accumulated Impairment Net Block Deletion/ Adjustment Deletion/ Adjustment st At 31    March, 2015 st At 31    March, 2015 st At 31   March, 2015 st As 31   March, 2015 st At 31    March, 2014 14.1 Above includes:- (a) Additions to Tangible Fixed Assets are net of ` 4,353.08 million on account of foreign  currency translation adjustment during the year (Previous year  2,195.48 million).
(b) Land includes land in respect of cer tain projects for which execution of  lease/conveyance deeds are in process.
(c) Registration of title deeds in respect of cer tain Buildings is pending execution.
(d) In respect of subsidiary MRPL, land lease hold of  249.96 million (Previous year  249.96 million) has not been amor tized in view of the fact that eventually the  ownership will get transferred to the company on expiry of the lease period.
(e) Plant & Equipment includes an amount of  782.98 million (Previous year  782.98  million)being MRPL's share of an asset jointly owned with another company.
Net Block  39.15 million (Previous year  39.15million).
(f) In respect of subsidiary MRPL land lease hold of 28.82 million (previous year 36.56   million) is in possession of the company towards which formal lease deeds are yet to be  executed.
Net block 28.82 million (previous year 36.56  million).
(g) Net Tangible Assets include 39,489.11 millionshare of jointly controlled entities  (Previous year  30,606.58 million).
(h) Depreciation for the year includes  19.32 million per taining to   prior period (Previous  year  (-)85.79 million)  ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` (` in million) (i) Plant & Equipment includes Jet ty & Trestle having Gross block of 12,873.80 million  (Previous year  8,368.90 million) (Dahej) and 3843.10 million (Previous year  3825.20 million) (Kochi) in the books of Joint Venture Company, Petronet LNG Ltd,  out of which Group share is  1,609.23 million (Previous year  1046.11  million) ( Dahej) and 480.39 million (Previous year  478.15 million)( Kochi).
As per the  agreement, ownership of Jet ty & Trestle (Dahej)  would be transferred to the Gujarat  Maritime Board in the year 2035 and ownership of Jet ty & Trestle (Kochi)  would be  transferred to the Cochin Por t Trust in the year 2039.
(j) Building includes cost of undivided interest in land.
(k) Vehicles include Survey Ships, Crew Boats and Helicopters.
Vehicles also include cost  of 20 (Previous year 10) Immediate suppor t vessels (ISV) amounting to 2,595.16  million (Previous year 1,079.50 million) handed over for operation by Indian Navy for   security of the offshore installation.
(l)  In respect of parent company, ONGC, in case of cer tain items of plant and equipment  where useful life ranging from 3 to 25 years has been considered based on technical  assessment by the management  which is lower than  the useful life prescribed under  schedule II to the Companies Act 2013(refer Accounting policy no.
2.2.n.1.1 and note  no.
3.4).
` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` `  `  Consolidated Financial Statement 307 (` in million) 14.2 The accounting policies for treatment of depreciation of fixed assets by the subsidiaries/ Joint Venture/Associate Entities are different from the accounting policies of the Group.
Such different  policy of depreciation of Fixed Assets have been adopted in respect of the following:- 14.3 Title to Fixed Assets under Production Sharing  Agreements OVL, its Subsidiaries and Joint Venture  Companies,in consortium with other partners  (Consortium) carries on its business in respect of  exploration, development and production of  hydrocarbons under agreements with the host  governments.
Several of these agreements,  governing OVL ’s activities in the fields / projects,  provide that the title to the fixed assets and other  ancillar y installations shall pass to host  Government or its nominated entities either upon  acquisition/first use of such assets or upon 100%  recovery of such costs through allocation of "Cost  Oil" and "Cost Gas" or upon relinquishment of the  relevant contract areas or termination of the  relevant agreement.
However, as per the terms of  the agreements, the Consortium and/or Operator  has the custody of all such assets and is entitled to  use, free of charge all such assets for Petroleum  Operations throughout the term of the respective  agreements.
The Consortium also has the custody  and maintenance of such assets and bears all risks  of accidental loss and damage and all costs  necessary to maintain such assets and to replace  or repair such damage or loss.
Under the  circumstances, such assets are kept in the records  of the said company during the currency of the  respective agreements.
14.4 Apart from the above assets, the joint venture  company, Petronet MHB Limited (PMHBL) has  taken lease land from HPCL for its stations at  Mangalore, Hassan and Devangonthi on a long  term lease basis for the period of 30 years on  annual rental basis.
Also, there are six pieces of  land acquired by PMHBL through KIADB for  sectionalized valve stations for which absolute sale  deeds are yet to be registered in the name of the  PMHBL and the amount paid `0.28 Million  (Previous year `0.28 million) is shown as capital  advance  under note 21.
14.5 The Subsidiary of OVL “OAAL ” and joint venture  company of OVL “OMEL ” provide depreciation on  fixed assets using the straight line method.
The  amount involved is `1,460.63 Million (Previous  year `1,132.80 million) shown as depreciation  under Note 33.
14.6 Due to different nature of their operation, PHL, an  Associate of the Company, follows different  accounting policies in respect to depreciation.
Depreciation is charged by PHL on straight line  method whereas the company provides Written  Down Value Method of depreciation.
It is not  MRPL 5,225.19 7044.75 2,10,362.75 59,929.42 Petronet LNG Ltd. 390.12 381.97 8,665.01 7,826.58 Petronet MHB  Ltd. 41.95 144.37 276.1 306.25 Mangalore SEZ Ltd.* 34.28 0.54 2,057.41 927.61 OMPL (refer Note no.
3.1)           -   30.78                -   1,230.69 OPaL 388.78 202.77 4,668.77 5,008.17 OTPC** 534.16 206.57 20,231.87 11,578.79 Total 6,614.48 8,011.75 2,46,261.91 86,807.51 *Depreciation on certain Assets whose useful life has been taken on the basis of the technical assessments  (refer Accounting policy no.
2.2.n.1.1):- ** Depreciation has been provided on the basis of CERC T ariff Regulations 2014, as notified by Central Electricity  Regulatory Commission.
Written  Down Value Method at the rates specified in Schedule  II.
Straight Line Method Name of  Subsidiaries / JV/ Associate Accounting Policies 2014-15 2013-14 2013-14Company Subsidiaries/ JV 2014-15 Proportionate Depreciation Proportionate Net block Asset Useful life used for depreciation Electrical Installations & Equipment 15 Hydrolic works, pipelines & sluices 30 Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 308 Particulars 15 Producing Properties As at  st  31 March, 2015 As at  st  31 March, 2014 (` in million) Gross Cost Opening Balance 1,823,490.87 1,486,412.69  Expenditure during year 13,697.42 56,865.77  T ransfer from Exploratory Wells-in-Progress 11,571.40 12,159.44  T ransfer from Development Wells-in-Progress 87,305.45 124,450.52  Depreciation on Facilities 33,475.86 64,756.79  Increase/(Decrease) in estimated Abandonment costs 20,765.91 68,078.85  Foreign Currency T ranslation Adjustments (Note 15.2)  (39,045.50 ) 10,825.86  Other Adjustments (Note 15.5)  (6,031.50) 1,945,229.91 (59.05) 1,823,490.87  Less: Depletion & Impairment Depletion Opening Balance 906,970.01 777,720.44  Depletion for the year 142,587.83 121,130.77  Foreign Currency T ranslation Adjustments (15,659.48) 8,118.80  Other Adjustments (refer Note no.
15.5 )  (5,456.49) 1,028,441.87 -  906,970.01  Impairment Opening Balance 3,839.39 3,296.81  Impairment provided for the period ( Note 43.5.3)  3,089.37  658.92  Write back of Impairment (190.05)  6,738.71 (116.34)  3,839.39 910,049.33 912,681.47   NET PRODUCING PROPERTIES practicable for the Company to make adjustment  for the purposes of applying the equity method.
14.7 During the year, the Joint Venture Company OPaL,  has provided depreciation on mobile phones  considering estimated useful life of 3 years & 4  months.
The group’s share of gross value of  Mobile Phones is `1.06Million (Previous year ` 0.49 million) and net book value of `0.73 Million  (Previous year ` 0.34 million) (refer Accounting  policy no.
2.2.n.1.1).
14.8 During the year The Joint Venture Company NETC  has charged depreciation on the assets at rates  and methodology provided under CERC T ariff  Regulations 2014 except on mobiles and software  at the rate 33.33%.
Self-insurance reserve @0.1%  p.a.
on Gross Block of Fixed Assets (except assets  covered under mega insurance policy) is created  as at the end of the year by appropriating current  year profit towards future losses which may arise  from un-insured risks and the same is shown as  ''self-insurance reserve'' under 'Reserve & Surplus'  (refer note no.
5.9).
14.9 During the year, subsidiary company MRPL, has  depreciated certain Assets whose life is other than  life specified in Schedule II of the Companies Act,  2013, based on the company policy.
This resulted  in lower deprecation for the period by ` 7.94 Million  with consequential impact on Fixed Assets (refer  Accounting policy no.
2.2.n.1.1).
Type of Assets Life Considered Plant and Equipment (Employee scheme Computer) 7 Years Furniture and Fixtures  (Employee Scheme Furniture) 7 Years Vehicles (Employee Scheme Vehicles) 5 Years 14.10 In respect of Subsidiary company,  OVL, as per  settlement agreement dated 22nd December  2010, 30% ownership held by GNPOC (ONGC  Videsh Share 11.25%) partners in Sudan Crude Oil  Transpor tation System (SCOTS) has been  transferred to Government of Sudan (GoS) on 1st  September 2014, and GoS has become 100%  owner of SCOTS from the date.
The net book value  of fixed assets (ONGC Videsh Share) amounting to  USD 1.61 million has been charged off during the  year.
Consolidated Financial Statement 309 15.1 Above includes nil share of jointly controlled entities (previous year nil) 15.2 In respect of  subsidiary OVL, above includes Foreign currency translation differences in respect of Sakhlian-1, in  pursuance to para 46A of Accounting standard 11 (change in foreign exchange rate) as follows:- (` in million) Particulars Year ended st  31 March, 2015 Year ended st  31 March, 2014 Exchange loss arising on reporting of long-term foreign currency monetary items relating to depreciable assets:    Amount remaining to be amortized at the beginning of the year       3,066.13          1,120.37 Exchange loss/(gain) arising during the year 1,054.42 2,231.12 Less: Depletion charged to statement of profit and loss for the year            359.44 285.36 Amount remaining to be amortized at the end of the year 3,761.11 3,066.13 15.3 During the previous year 2013-14, PMT JV had  downgraded reserves for the Mid and South T apti  fields due to geological surprises.
As a result, the  production profile is envisaged only up to 2015-16  and the sale realization (net of operating expenses  and statutory levies) is being transferred to Site  Restoration Fund pursuant to the Production  Sharing Contract.
Under these circumstances, the  field has been fully depleted and depletion  aggregating to `184.69 million (Previous year `9,090.44 million) has been charged to the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
Similarly, as at March  31, 2015, the provision for impairment of `263.62  million (Previous year `441.87 million)  representing the net asset value and Capital Work  in Progress in T apti field has been carried in the  financial statements.
15.4 In respect of Ratna R series field, a producing field  of the company, MOPNG had during 1995-96,  issued an award of the contract for development of  the field to a consortium of Essar Oil Limited and  Premier Oil limited consequent to which the  company stopped production.
Pending the  execution of the Production Sharing Contract, the  company continues to include `2,313.96 million in  gross producing property (including provision for  abandonment of `891.74 million.)
The said field  has been fully impaired and the net carrying  amount as at March 31, 2015 is Nil.
15.5 Other adjustment includes an amount of `4,196.00  million which Government of India (GoI) vide letter  dated 1st January, 2015, has reimbursed as  compensation for past costs incurred by ONGC in  the discovered Panna, Mukta, T apti and Ravva  fields awarded to Joint Ventures/Private  Companies.
Accordingly an amount of `257.17  million has been adjusted against the Net Carrying  Amount of assets (Gross cost less accumulated  depletion) of those fields and balance amount of  `3,938.83 million has been accounted for as other  income during the year Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 310 16.
Intangible Assets Computer Software  6,902.38  889.04  94.87  7,696.55  6,261.97  473.94  53.73  6,682.18  22.27  0.03 -  22.30  992.07  618.14  Copyrights & Patents  56.50  -    -    56.50  56.50  -    -    56.50  -    -    -    -    Goodwill (Note 16.3)  20.13  -    -    20.13  14.08  2.01 -  16.09  -    -    4.04 6.05 Right of way  146.54  64.48  11.85  199.17  16.37  9.70  0.04  26.03  -    -    173.14  130.17  Total  7,125.55  953.52  106.72  7,972.35  6,348.92  485.65  53.77  6,780.80  22.27  0.03  -    -  22.30  1,169.25  754.36  Previous Year  6,957.81  198.58  18.94  7,125.55  5,894.29  526.30  71.67  6,348.92  22.27  -    -    -    22.27  754.36  The above includes the  683.07  156.46  423.78  415.75  402.36  38.12  317.17  123.31  -    -    -    -    -    292.44  280.71 Company's share in Joint Venture Assets Previous Year  508.96 181.64  7.53 683.07  299.63  151.44  48.71  402.36  -   -  280.71  Description st At 1 April, 2014 st At 1    April, 2014 st At 1    April, 2014 For the year For the year Written back Re classificationAdditions Gross Block Accumulated Depreclation Accumulated Impairment Net Block Deletion/ Adjustment Deletion/ Adjustment st At 31    March, 2015 st At 31    March, 2015 st At 31    March, 2015 st At 31   March, 2015 st At 31    March, 2014 16.1 Above includes:- 16.2 The Associate, Pawan Hans Ltd, is charging cost of sof tware purchased/developed  (a) Addition to Intangible Asset are net of `3.31 million on account of foreign currency in-house up to 0.50 million each to statement of profit & loss in the year of purchase.
translation adjustment during the year(previous year  (-) 24.28 million) 16.3 Represents consideration for purchase of business (Nitrogen Plant) in excess of book  (b) Net Intangible asset include 260.29 million shares of jointly controlled value of net assets acquired by subsidiary MRPL.
entities(previous year  91.21million).
` ` ` ` (` in million) Consolidated Financial Statement 311 17 Capital Works in Progress A Tangible Assets In Progress Buildings  8,097.47  6,934.03  Plant and Equipment  253,670.46  368,702.96  Others  3,532.52  5,116.34  Capital Stores (including in transit)  3,953.76  7,686.30  Less: Provision for Non-Moving Items  495.90 268,758.31  77.51 388,362.12    B Less: Impairment Opening Balance  2,401.23  2,331.14  Provided for the year  164.52  686.78  Write back of Impairment  (354.09)  (594.56) Other adjustments  (11.83)  2,199.83  (22.13)  2,401.23  C Intangible Assets In Progress Acquisition Costs-E&P Asset (Note no.
17.1.g)  151,673.90  149,005.00  Intangible Asset under Development  3,882.34 155,556.24  3,303.97  152,308.97    NET CAPITAL WORKS-IN-PROGRESS (A-B+C)  422,114.72  538,269.86  As at  st 31  March, 2015 As at  st 31  March, 2014 17.1 Above includes:- (a) Plant and Equipment includes an amount of ` 8,448.52 million (Previous Year `8,436.64 million)  in respect of Capital Works in Progress (CWIP) for  C2-C3 plant (including C3 C4 blending and  recycling facilities) which is mechanically complete  and will be capitalized on completion of test run.
(b) CWIP of `95,280.44 million share of jointly  controlled entities (Previous year `106,279.69  million).
(c) In respect of subsidiary company, MRPL, an  amount of `1,680.25 million (previous year `1,710.35 million)  has been capitalized under  CWIP on account of exchange difference arising  on reporting of long term foreign  currency  monetary items pursuant to Notification no GSR  (914)E dated 29th December 2011 issued by MCA,   from the financial year ending 31st March 2012, to  adjust exchange difference arising on reporting of  long term foreign currency monetary items, in so  far as , they relate to the acquisition of depreciable  assets, against the cost of such assets and  depreciate the said adjustment, over the balance  life of the assets.
(d) In respect of Joint Venture Company, OPaL, an  amount of (-) `118.83 million (Previous year   `10.28 million) has been capitalized under CWIP  on account of exchange difference arising on  reporting of long term foreign  currency monetary  items instead of charging to Statement of profit &  loss.
(e) In respect of  subsidiary company, OMPL, an  amount of  ` 267.19 million (Previous year ` 825.05  million) has been capitalized under CWIP on  account of exchange dif ference arising on  reporting of long term foreign  currency monetary  items,  pursuant to notification no.
GSR(914)E  dated 29th December, 2011 issued by Ministry of  Corporate Affairs, Govt.
of India.
(f) In respect of Joint Venture Company, OTPC, an  amount of `39.51 million (Previous year `73.69 million) has been capitalized under CWIP  on account of exchange difference arising on  reporting of long term foreign  currency monetary  items instead of charging to Statement of profit &  loss, pursuant to notification no.
GSR(914) E dated  29th December, 2011 issued by Ministry of  Corporate Affairs, Govt.
of India.
(g) Acquisition cost relates to the cost for acquiring  property or mineral right of proved or unproved oil  and gas properties, by OVL which are currently  under exploration/Development stage.
Such costs  will be transferred to producing property on  commercial production from the project or written  of f in case of relinquishment of project.
Accordingly, acquisition cost of `2,668.90 million  (Previous year `137,058.94 million) has been  capitalized during the year under CWIP .
(h) In respect of Joint Venture Company, MSEZ, has  an obligation vide Government order no.
RD  309REH dated 20.06.2007 to provide various  compensation to the Project Displaced Families  (PDFs) including one job per family and site for  construction.
The PDFs can opt for cash in lieu of  site and cash in lieu of job.
The estimated provision  in respect of various compensations is included in  (` in million)(` in million) Particulars Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 312 capital work in progress of `34.47 million   (previous year `59.50 million) as group share.
Capital work in progress includes of `205.43  million  (previous year `168.34 million) as group  share on account of mandatory and unavoidable  expenditure incurred on creation of infrastructure  at R&R colony, pursuant to Government of  Karnataka Order no.
KE309REH, 2006, Bangalore  dated 20.06.2007.
The expenditure will be  transferred to the cost of land in the year in which  the obligation is completed.
18 Exploratory/Development Wells In Progress A)  EXPLORATORY WELLS-IN-PROGRESS Gross Cost Opening Balance  164,509.06  99,601.32  Acqusition Cost  -    -    Expenditure during the year  119,971.45  131,660.13  Less : Sale proceeds of Oil and Gas (Net of levies)  547.85 119,423.60  470.54  131,189.59  Depreciation during the year  3,284.46  2,506.44   287,217.12  233,297.35  Less :        T ransfer to Producing Properties  11,571.41  12,159.44         Wells written off during the year  90,738.53  67,473.61         Foreign Currency T ranslation Adjustments  (588.47)  (10,828.10)        Other adjustments  2,704.66  104,426.13  (16.66)  68,788.29   182,790.99  164,509.06  Less : Provision/Impairment (Note 18.1 (a), (b) & (c ) Opening Balance  27,935.56  20,579.92  Provision for year  1,186.10  7,355.64  Write back during year  (1,203.23)  27,918.43  -    27,935.56  EXPLORATORY WELLS-IN-PROGRESS    (A)  154,872.56  136,573.50  B) DEVELOPMENT WELLS-IN-PROGRESS Opening Balance  46,189.74  57,845.32  Expenditure during the year  98,411.72  109,654.08  Depreciation during the year  3,297.72  1,871.16  Foreign Currency T ranslation Adjustments  (2,239.75)  1,269.70  Less: T ransfer to Producing Properties  87,305.45  12,164.24  124,450.52  (11,655.58) 58,353.98  46,189.74 Less: Impairment Opening Balance  696.26  465.79  Provision for the year  563.03  264.47  Write back during the year  -   1,259.29  (34.00) 696.26  DEVELOPMENT WELLS-IN-PROGRESS       (B)  57,094.69  45,493.48  EXPLORATORY/DEVELOPMENT WELLS-IN-PROGRESS (A+B)  211,967.25  182,066.98  As at  st 31  March, 2015 As at  st 31  March, 2014 (` in million) Particulars Consolidated Financial Statement 313 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Gross Goodwill 269,075.41   244,982.36  Less : Accumulated Amortization 48,142.86 41,903.77  Less : Provision for Impairment     19,533.69     19,533.69  TOTAL 201,398.86 183,544.90  (` in million) 19.1 Above includes additional go odwill on  consolidation of `6,124.36 million resulting on  OMPL becoming subsidiary with effect from 28th  Feb, 2015.
(refer Note 3.1).
19.
Goodwill on Consolidation: Particulars 18.1 Above includes:- (a) During the Financial year 2004-05, the company  had acquired 90% Participating Interest in  Exploration Block KG-DWN-98/2 from M/s Cairn  Energy India Ltd. for a lump sum consideration of `3,711.22 million which, together with subsequent  exploratory drilling costs of wells had been  capitalised under exploratory wells in progress.
During the financial year 2012-13, the company  had acquired the remaining 10% participating  interest in the block from M/s Cairn Energy India  Ltd. on actual past cost basis for a consideration of  `2,124.44 million.
Initial in-place reserves have  been established in this block and adhering to  original PSC time lines, a Declaration of  Commerciality (DoC) with a conceptual cluster  development plan was submitted on 21.12.2009 for  Southern Discovery Area and on 15.07.2010 for  Northern Discovery Area.
Thereafter, in the revised  DoC submitted in December, 2013, Cluster wise  development of the Block had been envisaged by  division of entire development area into three  clusters.
The DoC in respect of Cluster II has been  reviewed by the Management Committee (MC) of  the block on 25.09.2014 and preparation of Field  Development Plan (FDP) in progress.
The review of  DOC in respect of Cluster I and Cluster III by the MC  is pending as on 31st March, 2015.
The exploration period of this block had been  restructured by Government upto 29.12.2013 in  accordance with the Rig Holiday Policy and further  extended to 25.1.2014.
Under the New Policy  guidelines in this regard, the Government has  permitted the contractor to undertake appraisal  drilling, seismic API and related activities till  submission of FDP which is currently underway  and drilling of two appraisal wells is in progress.
Pending approval of FDP by the MC in respect of  Cluster II and review of DoC by the MC in respect of  Cluster I and III, as a matter of abundant caution,  the company has retained the provision of   `17,216.18 million (Previous Year of `17,210.82   million) towards acquisition costs and cost of  exploratory wells.
(b) In respect of Farsi Block, Iran, the Subsidiary  company, OVL in consortium with other partners  entered into an Exploration Service Contract (ESC)  with National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) on 25th December 2002.
After exploratory drilling, FB  area of the block proved to be a gas discovery and  was later rechristened as Farzad-B.
NIOC  announced the Date of Commerciality for Farzad-B  as 18th August 2008.
However, the Development  Service Contract is pending.
Provision has been  made in respect of the OVL ’s investment in  exploration in the Farsi Block amounting to `1,511.17 million till 31.03.2015 (previous year  `1,502.56 million).
(c) The Subsidiary company OVL, has 60% PI in Block  XXIV, Syria where the development is currently  suspended.
In view of deteriorating law and order  situation in Syria, operations of the project are  temporarily suspended since 29th April 2012.
In  view of the same, provision has been made in  respect of cost of development wells in progress  amounting to `83.74 million (Previous year: `83.74 Million) and successful exploratory wells  amounting to `1,914.29 million (Previous year: `1,914.29 Million)  in respect of the project.
18.2 Above Exploratory well in progress/Development  well in progress includes nil share of jointly  controlled entities (previous year nil).
Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 314 20   Non-Current Investment A  TRADE INVESTMENTS Investment in Equity Instruments (i) Investment in Associate (a)  Pawan Hans  Limited- (Unquoted)  120,350  10,000.00  2,454.69  2,189.39  Extent of holding 49% (previous year 49%)  (Net of Capital reserve of 285.32 million) (Note 20.3) (ii) Investment in Others (a) Indian Oil Corporation Limited- (Quoted)  334,303,814  10.00  40,427.97  40,427.97  (b) GAIL (India) Limited (Quoted)  61,259,323  10.00  2,451.06  2,451.06 (c) Oil Spill Response Ltd. (Unquoted)  100  (Note 20.1)  0.01  0.01  (d) Adani Petronet (Dahej) Port Pvt.
Ltd. (Unquoted) (Note 20.5)  11,250,000  10.00  112.50  112.50  (e) Bharuch Dahej Railway Company  5,000,000  10.00  50.00  50.00  Limited (BDRCL)-(Unquoted) B NON-TRADE INVESTMENTS  Investment in Government or T rust Securities (Unquoted) (i) 8.40% Oil Co. GOI Spl.
Bonds 2025 197,370  10,000.00  1,973.70  1,973.70  (ii) Other Central Govt Securities  -    -    Total Non-current Investment  47,469.93  47,204.63  T otal Quoted Investments  42,879.03  42,879.03  T otal Unquoted Investments  4,590.90  4,325.60  TOTAL 47,469.93  47,204.63 Total Market value of Quoted Investments  146,997.47  117,193.24  ` No.
of Shares/ Bonds/Units Face Value per Share/ Bond/Unit (in `) As at st 31  March, 2015 As at st 31  March, 2014 (` in million) 20.1 Shares of Oil Spill response limited valued at GBP  one each at the time of issuance.
T otal value in INR at  the time of issuance of shares was 6,885/-   20.2  Above includes:- (a)  Figures in parenthesis relate to previous year.
(b)  Long term investment includes `303.48 million share of jointly controlled entities (previous year 299.99 million).
(c) Long-term investments are valued at cost.
Provision is made for any diminution, other than temporary, in the value of such  investments     20.3 In the financial year 2010-11, Company had  acquired an additional number of 95,850 equity  shares of 10,000/- each in its Associate Pawan  Hans Ltd. (PHL) for 958.50 million resulting in  increase in the holding to 49.00% from 21.54%.
The  above acquisition has resulted in Capital Reserve of  285.32 million, computed in accordance with  Accounting Standard (AS) 23 on ‘ Accounting for  Investments in Associates in Consolidated Financial  Statements’.
` ` ` ` ` 20.4 In respect of PHL (Associate), the Audited Accounts  for the Financial year 2014-15, have not been  received.
For the purpose of consolidation of PHL,  the audited Annual Accounts for the year 2013-14  and unaudited accounts for the year 2014-15 have  been considered.
The dif ference in share of profit  amounting to 90.40 million between audited Profit  After T ax (PAT) and unaudited PAT for the year 2013-14 has been considered as share of profit in  Associate.
The share of profit (unaudited) for the  year 2014-15 amounting to 212.70 million has also  been considered as share of profit in Associate.
During the year, dividend of 37.80million has been  received from Associate and same has been  adjusted against carrying value of investment.
20.5 The joint venture company PLL has investment in its  joint venture company “Adani Petronet (Dahej) Port  Pvt.
Ltd.
This investment is under lock in for a period  of 5 years from the date of commercial operation  (i.e.
01.09.2010) of the investee as per the Dahej  LNG Port T erminal Concession Agreement dated  20th December, 2005 with Gujarat Maritime Board.
` ` ` Particulars Consolidated Financial Statement 315 21 Long - Term Loans And Advances Secured and Considered good Loans & Advances to Associates  33.20  367.84  Loans and Advances to Employees  7,739.54  7,612.28  Capital Advances  658.40  788.65  Loans and advances to Others  138.59 8,569.73  119.17  8,887.94  Unsecured (Considered Good unless otherwise stated)  Capital Advances 12,913.53  18,544.04  Public Sector Undertakings Considered Good  -    -    Considered Doubtful  240.50  240.50  Less : Provision for doubtful Advances  240.50 -  240.50  -  Advances against Equity pending allotment (Note 41.3.1)  6,017.62  9,953.78  Loans and Advances to Employees Considered Good  756.49  739.17  Considered Doubtful  7.48  1.73  Less : Provision for Doubtful Loan/Advances  7.48  756.49  1.73  739.17  Adv Recoverable in Cash or in kind Considered Good ( Note 21.3) 7,119.70  7,488.78  Considered Doubtful (Note 21.2 )  14,931.69  13,141.40  Less : Provision for Doubtful Claims/Advances  14,931.69 7,119.70  13,141.40  7,488.78  Loans & Advances to Others Considered Good  1,512.47  960.52  Considered Doubtful  (Note 21.
4)  2,506.22  1,690.70  Less : Provision for Doubtful Loan/Advances  2,506.22  1,512.47  1,690.70  960.52  Cash Call Receivable from Jv partners Considered Good  339.52  340.27  Considered Doubtful  6,451.35  6,245.07  Less : Provision for Doubtful cash call  6,451.35  339.52  6,245.07  340.27  MAT Credit Entitlement  402.58  2,909.32  Advance payment of T ax  258,806.53  329,690.97  Less : Provision for T axation  193,700.08  65,106.45  281,031.74 48,659.23 Deposits  With Customs/Port T rusts etc.
54.04  37.89  Security Deposits  125.72  157.81  Other Deposit Considered Good  4,274.13  3,730.94  Considered Doubtful  1,010.69  629.88  Less: Provision for Doubtful Deposits  1,010.69  4,453.89  629.88  3,926.64  TOTAL   107,191.98  102,409.69   As at  st 31  March, 2015 As at  st 31  March, 2014 (` in million) Particulars Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 316 21.1 Above long term loan & advances includes ` 5,879.86 million share of jointly controlled entities  (Previous Year  `10,099.72 million).
21.2 In Ravva Joint Venture, the demand towards  additional profit petroleum raised by Government  of India (GoI), due to differences in interpretation  of the provisions of the Production Sharing  Contract (PSC) in respect of computation of Post  T ax Rate of Return (PTRR), based on the decision  of the Malaysian High Court setting aside an earlier  arbitral tribunal award in favour of operator, was  disputed by the operator M/s Cairn India Ltd.
The  company is not a party to the dispute but has  agreed to abide by the decision applicable to the  operator.
The company had made a provision  towards the claim made by the GoI in earlier years  and the amount of provision outstanding as on  31th March, 2015 is `10,513.79 million (equivalent  to USD 167.84 million) after adjustments for  interest and exchange rate fluctuations.
The GoI  had recovered the above amount [including  interest thereon USD 54.88 million (`3,437.68  million )] from the company in earlier years which  has been carried as recoverable under Long T erm  Loans and advances in the Balance Sheet as at  31st March, 2015.
In subsequent legal proceedings, the Appellate  Authority of the Honourable Malaysian High Court  of Kuala Lumpur had set aside the decision of the  Malaysian High Court and the earlier decision of  arbitral tribunal in favour of operator was restored,  against which the GoI has preferred an appeal  before the Federal Court of Malaysia.
The Federal  Court of Malaysia, vide its order dated 11th  October, 2011, has dismissed the said appeal of  the GoI.
The company has taken up the matter regarding  refund of the recoveries made in view of the  favorable judgment of the Federal Court of  Malaysia with MoPandNG.
However, according to  a communication dated 13th January 2012  received, MoP&NG expressed the view that  ONGC’s proposal would be examined when the  issue of ONGC carry under Ravva PSC is decided  in its entirety by the Government along with other  partners.
In view of the perceived uncertainties in obtaining  the refund at this stage, the provision made in the  books as above has been retained and netted off  against the amount recoverable as above in the  financial statements for the year ending 31st March, 2015."
21.3 During the financial year 2010-11, the Oil Marketing  Companies, nominees of the GoI recovered USD  32.07 million (`2,009.02 million) ONGC’s share as  per directives of GoI in respect of Jointly Controlled  Assets-Panna Mukta and T apti.
The recovery is  towards certain observations raised by auditors  appointed by the Director General of  Hydrocarbons (DGH) under Production Sharing  Contract (PSC) for the period 2002-03 to 2005-06  in respect of cost and profit petroleum share  payable to GoI.
BGEPIL along with RIL  (“Claimants”) have served a notice of arbitration  on the GoI in respect of dispute, differences and  claims arisen in connection with the term of Panna,  Mukta and T apti PSC’s.
Since the company is not a  party to the arbitration proceedings, it had  requested MoP&NG that in case of an arbitral  award the same be made applicable to ONGC  also, as a constituent of contractor for both the  PSC’s.
Subsequently, vide letter dated July 4,  2011 MoPNG has advised ONGC not to participate  in the arbitration initiated by RIL and BGEPIL under  Panna Mukta and Tapti PSC’s.
MoP&NG has also  stated that in case of an arbitral award, the same  will be applicable to ONGC also as a constituent of  the contractor for both the PSC's.
Pending final  arbitral award, the same has been shown as  Receivable from GoI under ‘ Advance Recoverable  in Cash or Kind or Value to be Received’ under  Long T erm Loans and Advances.
(Figures in INR is  reinstated).
21.4 The Company has participating interest (PI) in the  exploration Blocks Satpayev Area Kazakhstan,  SS-04 Bangladesh, SS-09 Bangladesh, EP-3  Myanmar and B-2 Myanmar.
As per the carry  agreements, ONGC V idesh is financing  expenditure in these exploration blocks during the  exploratory period (carry loan).
The amount of  carry loan will be refunded in the event of  commercial discovery and production from the  projects.
The share of expenditure financed by  ONGC Videsh in these Blocks has been  accounted for as loan to JV partners.
Provision has  been made towards the amount of carry loan of `2,502.82 Million as on 31st March, 2015 (Previous  year: `1,687.30 Million) in view of the blocks being  under exploration as there is no certainty of  commercial discovery.
Accordingly, provision has  been made towards the amount of carry loan of  `2,502.82 Million as on 31st March, 2015 (Previous  year ` 1,687.30 Million) to KMG in view of the block  being under exploration as there is no certainty of  commercial discovery.
(Refer Note 35.2) Consolidated Financial Statement 317 22 Other Non - Current Assets A Secured and Considered good   Interest accrued on loan & advances  - Employees  3,180.78  3,180.78  3,029.45  3,029.45  B Unsecured, Considered Good  unless otherwise stated  (i)  T rade Receivables  - Considered Good  53,734.46  38,287.59  - Considered doubtful  18,630.08  6,476.81  Less : Provision for doubtful receivables  18,630.08  53,734.46  6,476.81  38,287.59  (ii)  Other Receivables  - Considered Good (Note no.
22.2)   14,605.59  12,029.85  - Considered Doubtful  5,155.62  4,932.46  Less : Provision for doubtful receivables  5,155.62  14,605.59  4,932.46  12,029.85 (iii) Interest Accrued  - On Deposits  22.76  26.40  - On Loans & Advances - Considered Good  118.73  100.32  - Considered doubtful  22.87  41.89  Less : Provision for interest Accrued  22.87  141.49  41.89  126.72  (iv) Unamortised Expenditure - Dry Docking Charges  4,426.69  6,621.33  - Mobilisation charges  1,159.27  5,585.96  764.21  7,385.54  TOTAL  77,248.28  60,859.15  As at  st 31  March, 2015 As at  st 31  March, 2014 (` in million) 23 Current Investments  Other Investments Investments in Govt.
Securities (unquoted)  -    62.35  Other Investments (unquoted)  21.46  192.02  TOTAL  21.46  254.37  Total Quoted Investments  -    -    Total Unquoted Investments  21.46  254.37  As at  st 31  March, 2015 As at  st 31  March, 2014 (` in million) 22.1 Above other non-current Asset includes 252.08 million share of jointly controlled entities (previous year 29.92  million) 22.2 Above includes in respect of subsidiary company, MRPL, an amount of `2,579.25 million (previous year 2,661.58  million) in respect of Income tax paid under dispute.
` ` ` 23.1 Above Current investment includes `21.46 million share of jointly controlled entities (previous year `254.37  million).
Particulars Particulars Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 318 (Unsecured, Considered Good unless otherwise stated)  T rade Receivables - Outstanding for a period exceeding six months : - Considered Good  19,059.03  10,057.04  - Considered Doubtful  914.28  759.35  Less Provision for Doubtful debts  914.28 19,059.03  759.35  10,057.04  Other: - Considered Good  168,911.06  150,232.92  - Considered Doubtful  242.66  126.56  Less Provision for Doubtful debts  242.66  168,911.06  126.56  150,232.92 TOTAL  187,970.09  160,289.96  As at  st 31  March, 2015 As at  st 31  March, 2014 (` in million) Raw Material   8,183.09  26,856.29  Raw Material  in transit  4,691.13  12,874.22  13,515.24 40,371.53 Stock in Process  4,046.02  4,661.66  Finished Goods (Note 24.2)  27,943.34  42,575.23  Less: Provision for Stock loss  5.91  27,937.43  5.91  42,569.32  T raded Goods 1.48  0.61 Stores and spare parts - on hand  65,119.42  62,498.54  - in transit  3,268.63  5,276.40  68,388.05 67,774.94  Less: Provision for non-moving  7,344.49  61,043.56  7,490.28  60,284.66  Unserviceable Items  159.52  126.81  TOTAL  106,062.23  148,014.59  As at  st 31  March, 2015 As at  st 31  March, 2014 (` in million)24 Inventories (Valuation as per policy no.
2.2.1) 25 T rade Receivables 24.1 Above inventories includes 1,222.12 million the stock of crude oil till such delivery point is not  share of jointly controlled entities (Previous year recognized.
`1,930.74 million).
24.4 Finished goods of subsidiary company MRPL,  24.2 This includes an amount of 7.68 million (previous includes Sulphur amounting to 49.45 million  year 3.66 million) in respect of Carbon Credits.
(previous year 19.99 million) which is valued  lower of cost or net realizable value.
24.3 In respect of joint venture arrangements of OVL, where the property in crude oil produced 24.5 The subsidiary company, MRPL does not quantify  does not pass on up-to a specific delivery point, or value the scrap and unserviceable items.
` ` ` ` ` 25.1 Above trade receivable includes `2,841.80 million share of jointly controlled entities (Previous year `3,942.17 million).
Particulars Particulars Consolidated Financial Statement 319 (Secured, Considered Good) Loan & Advances to Associate  334.64  350.45  Loans and Advances to Employees  2,077.32 2,411.96  2,085.35 2,435.80  (Unsecured, Considered Good unless otherwise stated)  Loan to Public Sector Undertakings  -    -    Loan & advances to Employees Considered Good  453.37  517.97  Considered Doubtful  0.81  0.81  Less : Provision for doubtful  0.81 453.37  0.81  517.97  Balance with T ax Authorities  23.21  96.62  Cash Call Receivable from JV Partners  7,809.49  23,308.68  Adv Recoverable in Cash or in kind Considered Good  45,320.92  24,212.16  Considered Doubtful  2,853.17  3,030.84  Less : Provision for doubtful  2,853.17 45,320.92  3,030.84 24,212.16  Advance payment of T ax  21,227.91  20,413.73  Less : Provision for T axation  15,548.64  5,679.27  12,800.83  7,612.90  MAT Credit  137.40  28.21  Deposits  With Customs/Port T rusts etc.
5,235.06  3,295.19  Other Deposits (Note no.
27.2)  33,266.57  4,817.21  Less: Provision for doubtful  6.87 38,494.76  7.52  8,104.88     TOTAL  100,330.38  66,317.22  As at  st 31  March, 2015 As at  st 31  March, 2014 (` in million)27 Short Term Loans And Advances Particulars 26 Cash and Cash Equivalents Balance with Bank  in Current Accounts  14,499.96  13,052.16  Cash on hand  10.32  11.52  Short T erm Investment in Mutual Funds  394.85  12,372.59  Bank Deposit (Note no.
10.1.1 )  114,232.55  218,908.79  Deposit  towards margin money against guarantees issued    31,451.74  66.51  Unpaid Interest on debentures Account  0.19  0.19  Unclaimed Dividend Account (Note no.
26.2 )  379.56  389.50  TOTAL  160,969.17  244,801.26  As at  st 31  March, 2015 As at  st 31  March, 2014 (` in million) 26.1 Amount deposited in unclaimed dividend account and can be withdrawn only for the purposes  is earmarked for payment of dividend and cannot specified in the Scheme i.e.
towards removal of  be used for any other purpose.
equipment’s and installations in a manner agreed  26.2 Unclaimed dividend Accounts includes 124.49 with Central Government pursuant to an  million (previous year `140.91 million) pertaining abandonment plan to prevent hazards to life,  to minority shares in subsidiary company MRPL.
property, environment etc.
26.3 Above Cash and Bank balance include 6,885.17 (b) In respect of subsidiary company OVL, investment  million share of jointly controlled entities (Previous with bank for site restoration amounting to year 7,769.03 million).
10,980.19 million (previous year 7,727.97  26.4 The deposits maintained by the company with million)made in accordance with agreement for  banks comprise time deposit, which can be Abandonment with respective countries under  withdrawn by the company at any point without operation.
prior notice or penalty on the principal.
These amounts aggregating to 136,423.99  26.5 Above ‘Cash &Cash Equivalent’ does not include :- million (previous year 120,829.56 million) are  (a) In respect of company deposit under Site considered as restricted cash and hence not  Restoration Fund Scheme of amounting to treated as ‘cash and cash equivalents’ and  125,443.80 million (previous year 113,101.59 disclosed separately as  non-current asset on the  million) which have been deposited with banks face of Balance Sheet under the head “Deposit  under section 33ABA of the Income T ax Act, 1961 under Site Restoration Fund Scheme”.
` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` Particulars Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 320 Secured and Considered good Interest Accrued on Loans & Advances - Employee  296.61  246.15  - Others  11.07 307.68  - 246.15  (Unsecured, Considered Good unless otherwise stated)  Interest Accrued - On Investments  1.38  1.38 - On Deposits  3,095.75 2,215.02  - On Loans & Advances  457.69 3,554.82  793.02 3,009.42  Other Current Assets  (Note 28.3 & 28.4)  5,652.48 4,738.61  Fixed Assets held for sale (Note 28.5)  77.96 77.96  Cost of Ongoing Project (Note 28.2) 64.18 62.87 Unamortised Expenditure - Dry Docking Charges  3,581.16 2933.68 - Mobilisation charges 635.33 4,216.49 640.69  3,574.37  TOTAL  13,873.61  11,709.38  As at  st 31  March, 2015 As at  st 31  March, 2014 (` in million)28 Other Current Assets Particulars 27.1 Above, short term loans And advances includes being deposited by the company from 1st  `551.47 million share of jointly controlled entities February, 2014 as per the interim order of the  (Previous year 182.14 million).
Hon'ble Supreme Court of India.
(also refer Note  27.2 Includes 21,067.60 million (previous year no.
46.2.5)  2,092.23 million) towards differential royalty  ` ` ` 28.1 Above other current assets includes `616.86 28.4 Includes receivable of 532.02 million (Previous  million share of jointly controlled entities (Previous Year 442.80 million) from Gratuity T rust as funded  year 346.45 million) status is more than obligation in respect of the  parent company ONGC.28.2 In respect of Joint venture Company OTBL,  revenue from projects based on execution and 28.5 Includes in respect of subsidiary company MRPL,  costs attributable and allocable thereto are Fixed Assets of 77.96 million (previous year recognized on substantial completion.
Till the time 77.96 million) related to Plant and Machinery and  of completion of project same are being carried as Other depreciable Assets which have been fully  costs of ongoing project.
depreciated and freehold land at cost which are held for sale.
Fixed Assets held for sale are 28.3 The subsidiary company, OVL has lease  valued at lower of cost or estimated realizable investment in Khartoum-Port Sudan Pipeline  value.Project.
(refer Note 42.1) ` ` ` ` ` Consolidated Financial Statement 321 29.2 For Crude Oil produced in Assam, sales revenue is  based on the pricing formula provided by  MoP&NG.
Revenue from rest of nominated crude  is accounted in terms of Crude Oil Sales  Agreements (COSAs) already signed and made  effective from 1st April, 2010.
29.3 During the previous year, Based on the directives  issued by MoP&NG and Petroleum Planning and  Analysis Cell (PPAC) vide letters dated 31st May,  2012 and 1st June, 2012 respectively, w.e.f.
1st  April, 2012, refineries started making deductions  from ONGC payments towards Octroi/ VAT/ CST  on discounts allowed by ONGC to refineries on  supplies of crude oil.
T otal deduction made by  refineries on this account from 1st April, 2012 to  30th September, 2013 amounting to `25,032.60  million (includes `15,846.70 million for the year  2012-13) was provided for.
During the year, the  company has decided to revise the sales revenue  and corresponding statutory levies w.e.f.
1st April  2012 onwards, considering deductions made by  refineries based on MoP&NG directives.
Aforesaid  provision made by the Company till 30th  September, 2013 has also been written back.
29.4 Recognition of revenue on account of Short Lifted  Gas amounting to `1,774.13 million (Previous Year  `1,253.74 million) has been postponed.
This will  be recognized when there is reasonable certainty  regarding ultimate collection as per the policy of  the company.
29.5 Sales revenue of Natural Gas is based on gas price  fixed by GoI from time to time.
Till October’14,  sales revenue is based on MoP&NG order dated  31st May’10 wherein effective from 1st June’10,  the price of APM gas produced by NOCs was fixed  at US$ 4.2/mmbtu less royalty (on NCV basis).On  Particulars A.
Sale of Products Own Product  1,675,852.82  1,808,411.76  Less :  T ransfer to Exploratory Wells in Progress  597.04  522.58  Government of India's (GoI's) share in  Profit Petroleum  32,847.82  33,444.86  38,526.99  39,049.57   1,642,407.96  1,769,362.19  T raded Products Revenue  60.08  44.42  B.
Other Operating Revenue Pipeline T ransportation Receipts 6,589.14  4,170.92  Contractual Short Lifted Gas Receipts  224.15  80.21  Surplus from Gas pool Account (Note 29.8)  3,267.04  3,720.47  North-East Gas Subsidy (Note 29.7)  2,702.83  2,366.91  SEZ Lease Income  158.70  234.77  Other Operation Income  4,703.74  1,600.63  Processing Charges  445.98  414.03  Production Bonus  109.02 18,200.60  57.29  12,645.23  TOTAL  1,660,668.64  1,782,051.84  2014-15 2013-14 (` in million)29 Revenue From Operations 29.1 In terms of the decision of Government of India  (GOI), the company has shared `3,62,996.20  million (Previous Year 5,63,842.85 million)  towards under-recoveries of Oil Marketing  Companies (OMCs) on price sensitive products  viz.
Diesel (till 18th  October’14), Domestic LPG  and PDS Kerosene for the year 2014-15 (Nil in 4th  ` quarter of FY 2014-15 as per GoI directives) by  extending the discount in the prices of Crude Oil,  Domestic LPG and PDS Kerosene based on the  rates of discount communicated by Petroleum  Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) and Ministry of  Petroleum and Natural Gas (MoP&NG).
The  impact of discount is as under:    Gross Revenue 3,62,996.20 5,63,842.85 Less: Value Added T ax (VAT) 10,025.10 17,841.84 Sales Revenue 3,52,971.10 5,46,001.01 Less: Statutory Levies 43,374.95 68,440.26 Profit Before Tax 3,09,596.15 4,77,560.75 2014-15Decrease in 2013-14 (` in million) Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 322 25th October’14, GoI notified “New Domestic  Natural Gas Pricing Guidelines, 2014” applicable  from 1st November’14.
Under said guidelines,  price of domestic gas produced in India during 1st November’14 to 31st March’15 has been fixed  as US$ 5.05/mmbtu (on GCV basis).
For gas  consumers in North-East, consumer price is 60%  of the producer price and the difference between  producer price and consumer price is paid to the  company through GoI Budget and shown as  ‘North-East Gas Subsidy’.
29.6 In respect of Joint venture company PLL, revenue  from services of `510.15 million (previous year ` 253.83 million) are net of service tax.
29.7 OVL ’s Subsidiary -ONGBV follows the entitlement  method for revenue recognition associated with  sale of crude oil and liquids for its share of  petroleum production as specified in the  Exploration Production Sharing Agreement  (EPSA) and Crude Oil Pipeline Agreement  (COPA).
The amount reported using such method  is  `23,762.33 Million (previous year `39,747.98  million).
29.8 The company is supplying majority of Natural gas  to Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) which also  purchases gas from other sources and sells to  APM and non-APM consumers.
Based on the  Government directives, excess in Gas Pool  Account at the end of financial year is transferred to  ONGC/ OIL in accordance with their contribution.
Based on the details received from GAIL, an  amount of `2,292.30 million (Previous year `3,508.10 million) for Gas Pool Receipts for the  current year and `974.74million (Previous year `212.37 million) on account of interest on Gas Pool  Account has been considered as ‘Surplus from  Gas Pool Account’.
29.9 Above revenue from operation includes `61,921.15 million share of jointly controlled  entities (previous year `50,232.74 million).
29.10 In case of the Joint venture company OTPC, CERC  vide provisional  order dated 20.12.2013 has  allowed billing  upto 90 % of the tariff sanctioned.
The revenue from operations  for  the period Jan  2014 to March, 2015 includes unbilled revenue in  which group share is `346.11million (Previous  year `77.06 million).
Particulars Interest Income  Long T erm  Investments  166.42  169.59  Deposits with Banks/PSUs  18,567.58  18,388.08  Loans and Advances to Associate  64.52  493.81  Loans and Advances to Employees  504.68  100.92  Income T ax Refund  3,371.10  2,395.65  Site Restoration Fund Deposit  10,031.11  9,432.74  Delayed Payment from Customers and Others  405.96 33,111.37  523.58  31,504.37 Dividend Income  Long T erm Investments  3,453.65  1,938.74  Short T erm -Debt Mutual Funds  2,620.66  6,074.31  2,444.30 4,383.04  Other Non Operating Income Excess Provisions written back (Note no.
29.3 & 38.1.5.b))  6,498.74  16,343.62  Liabilities no longer required written back  923.01  2,873.23  Contractual Receipts  543.00  1,055.10  Miscellaneous Receipts  (Note 15.5 & 30.2)  12,494.00 20,458.75  12,739.64 33,011.59 TOTAL     59,644.43  68,899.00 2014-15 2013-14 (` in million)30 Other Income 30.1 Above other income includes 571.30 million share of jointly controlled entities (previous year 228.20 million).
30.2 Includes compensation of ` 821.90 million towards loss of oil & gas, received from Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India (DFCCIL).
` ` Consolidated Financial Statement 323 Particulars Closing Stock - Stock in Process  4,046.02  4,661.66  - Finished Goods and Stock in trade  27,944.82 31,990.84  42,575.84  47,237.50 Opening Stock - Stock in Process  4,661.66  2,351.30  - Finished Goods and Stock in trade  42,575.84  39,625.72  Add/(less) Adjustment  1,982.50 49,220.00  (24.88)  41,952.14    NET (INCREASE)/DECREASE IN INVENTORIES  17,229.16  (5,285.36) (Note no.
31.2) 2014-15 2013-14 (` in million)31 (Increase)/Decrease Inventories 31.1 Above includes 362.14 million share of jointly controlled entities (previous year ` (-) 26.59 million) 31.2 In respect of parent company, ONGC, above includes decrease in value of crude oil stock of 623.00 million on account of Prior Period Adjustments.
` ` Royalty (Note 32.3 & 32.4)  141,451.06  150,101.83  Cess  102,535.02  99,733.91  Motor Spirit Cess  -    2.83  Natural Calamity Contingent Duty  1,123.42  1,097.40  Excise Duty on stock (Net) (Note 32.5)  898.28  150.76  Sales T ax  2,585.82  3,122.96  Service T ax  297.86  438.76  Education cess  90.85  2,348.31  Octroi and Port T rust Charges  6,083.06  4,896.60  Staff Expenditure  24,042.89  25,308.78  Workover Operations  21,738.49  20,944.08  Water Injection, Desalting and Demulsification  12,791.13  11,794.01  Consumption of Raw Materials, Stores and Spares  576,377.23  680,855.45  Pollution Control  6,573.59  6,133.59  T ransport Expenses  9,857.13  9,419.99  Insurance  2,400.91  2,516.25  Power and Fuel  5,907.56  2,865.97  Repairs and Maintenance  12,285.44  10,800.47  Contractual payments including Hire charges etc.
16,718.21  14,407.07  Other Production Expenditure  31,809.12  35,583.73  T ransportation and Freight of Products  11,908.72  11,559.67  Research and Development  5,445.29  6,014.37  Expenditure incurred on CSR  2,208.44  1,806.29  General Administrative Expenses  32,887.78  38,251.76  Exchange Loss (Net) (572.20)  (2,894.69)  Provision for mark to market loss on derivative contracts (Note-32.7& 32.8)  107.46  2,244.85  Adjustments for overlift/(underlift)  (552.96)  503.46  Loss on sale of investment (net) (75.74) (38.09) Loss on sale of Asset  6.07  16.40  Other Expenditure ( Note 32.6)  18,200.67  19,760.40  TOTAL  1,045,130.60  1,159,747.17  2014-15 2013-14 (` in million)32 Production, T ransportation, Selling and Distribution Expenditure Particulars 32.1 Above production, transportation, selling and distribution expenditure includes 56,653.32 million, share of jointly controlled entities (previous year `43,919.03 million).
` Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 324 Manpower Cost    (a)  Salaries, Wages, Ex-gratia etc.
73,821.95 69445.52     (b)  Contribution to Provident and other funds  9,960.65 9439.23     (c)   Provision for gratuity  433.87  (404.88)     (d)   Provision for leave  4,430.01 5492.8 (e)   Provision for Post Retirement Medical &  T erminal Benefits    3,262.08 2736.92      (f)    Staff welfare expenses  1,704.86 23680.23 Sub T otal:  93,613.42  110,389.82  Consumption of Raw materials, Stores and Spares  619,126.39  726,528.20  Cess  102,550.46  99,737.56  National Calamity Contingent Duty  1,123.45  1,097.39  Excise Duty  52,669.43  38,378.68  Royalty  141,477.15  156,927.24  Sales T ax  2,592.96  3,122.99  Octroi and Port T rust Charges  6,083.50  4,896.64  Service T ax  297.86  438.76  Education cess  90.85  2,349.09  Rent  5,129.53  4,144.97  Rates and taxes  5,481.38  893.77  Hire charges of equipments and vehicles  133,095.88  142,787.19  Power, fuel and water charges  8,763.00  43,667.14  Contractual drilling, logging, workover etc.
62,989.38  58,274.68  Contractual security  4,798.82  4,030.52  Repairs to building  1,052.89  1,842.23  Repairs to plant and equipment  8,172.72  5,767.87  Other repairs  3,806.90  2,947.19  Insurance  4,074.92  4,599.02  Expenditure on T our / T ravel  8,604.56  4,011.31  CSR Expenditure  2,156.01  1,805.31  Exchange Loss (Net)  (352.45)  2,356.80  Adjustment for overlift/(underlift)  (552.96)  503.46  other operating expenditure  31,668.04  31,993.48  Miscellaneous expenditure  17,505.91  21,987.06  1,316,020.00  1,475,478.37 Less: Allocated to exploration, development drilling, capital jobs, recoverables etc.
219,118.25  278,449.92  Excise duty adjusted against sales revenue  51,771.15  37,281.28  Production, T ransportation, Selling and Distribution Expenditure  1,045,130.60  1,159,747.17  2014-15 2013-14 (` in million) 32.2 Details of Nature wise Expenditure 32.3 The Subsidiary of OVL- ONGBV conducts its  operations in Sudan jointly with Sudapet the  national oil company of Sudan among others.
All  government stakes other than income taxes are  considered to be royalty interest.
Royalties on  production represent the entitlement of the  government of Sudan to a portion of ONGBV’s  share of crude oil and liquid production and are  recorded using the rates in effect under the terms  of the contract at the time of production.
Royalties /  taxes in Syrian concession are accounted  similarly by ONGBV .
The amount of royalty  reported in respect of Sudan and Syrian  concession is `8,161.81 Million under Royalty  above (previous year `15,863.65 million).
Consolidated Financial Statement 325 Differential royalty payable to State Governments: Gujarat 1,6440.00 Andhra Pradesh 1,260.00 T amil Nadu 220.00 Differential royalty recoverable from State/ Central Govt.
: Assam 980.00 Central Govt.
9,310.00 Net differential royalty paid by ONGC 7,630.00 Particulars FY 14-15 FY 13-14 Audit Fee 22.27 17.26 Certification Fee 12.73 14.75 Out-off pocket 20.69 22.69 Total 55.69 54.70 (` in million) (` in million) 32.4 During the year, Government has directed the company (ONGC) to make following payments/ adjustments  towards differential royalty at uniform rate of discount for the period 2008-09 to 2013-14 to the State and Central  Government: The same has been accounted for as expenditure on royalty on crude oil.
In the absence of any further directive,  no provision is considered necessary for the current year 32.5 Excise duty on sale of product has been deducted from Sales revenue and Excise duty shown above represents the difference between excise duty on opening and closing stock of finished goods.
32.6 Above Other Expenditure includes Auditor’s Remuneration :- 32.7 Derivative Contracts accounting as per the Accounting Standard(AS) 30 "Financial instruments: Recognition and The Joint venture company (SMASL) [through Measurement" in respect of those derivative subsidiary company MRPL] has hedged the transactions which are not covered by the existing financial risks mainly relating to changes in the Accounting Standard(AS) 11 .This treatment has exchange rates by using forward contracts, in line resulted in net gain of `15.53 million (group share) with its risk management policy.
(previous year nil) arising out of fair valuation of  The Joint venture company (SMASL) [through outstanding derivative contracts which has subsidiary company MRPL] has adopted, during been recognized in "Hedging Reserve" under  the year under review, the principles of hedge "Reserve and Surplus" .
Forward contracts for receivables including firm commitments 164.07 389.45 and highly probable forecasted transactions  Receivables, including firm commitments and highly 49.39 3.24 probable forecasted transactions Category of derivative Instruments Particulars Group share as on st  31 March, 2014 Group share as on st  31 March, 2014 Group share as on st  31 March, 2015 Group share as on st  31 March, 2015 (` in million) (` in million)Un-hedged foreign currency exposures of group share as at 31st March, 2015 are as under ( refer Note 48):- Particulars of derivative contracts entered into for hedging foreign currency exchange risks, which are  st outstanding as at 31  March,  2015 are as under:- Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 326 32.8 Derivative instruments and un-hedged foreign banks whereby it has swapped the principal currency exposure:  and interest amounts payable towards Bonds  issued in domestic markets into USD liability as The subsidiary company, OVL has entered into  follows:cross currency swap transactions with various  Underlying Notional Principal  Amount (` in Million) Amount ( USD in Million)  Date 8.54% 10 Years Unsecured Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds in the nature of th  Debentures- Series II 3,700.00 73.93 6 Jan., 2020 Total Notional Principal Termination 3,700.00 73.93  The swaps of 15,000.00 million Crore in respect of The above swap position outstanding on 31 March  8.40% Bonds, 2014 were fully settled during the year.
2015 has been revalued on that date based on Mark- The net swap settlement amount payable to counter to-market positions reported by counter-party banks.
banks worked out to 3,244.30 million.
The business of  The Mark-to-market (MTM) position as on March, 2015  the subsidiary company, OVL is carried out entirely amounted to 1,213.38 million (Previous period outside India.
The revenues of the OVL are received 4,350.18 million).
This is after adjusting for the net  entirely in foreign currency and substantially all the swap settlement amount of 3,244.26 million in  expenses are incurred in foreign currency.
December, 2014.
During the year 31st March,2015  Accordingly, the Company has swapped the  Bonds Mark to market loss amounting to 107.46 million  issued in Indian Rupees into USD so as to  align the (Previous period ` 2,244.85 million) has been charged  currency of its liabilities and assets, thereby hedging to statement of profit & loss Account.
the resulting  exposure.
` ` ` ` ` ` Depletion  142,659.63  121,160.69  Amortisation of Goodwill  4,415.75  4,544.99  Depreciation  67,955.95  115,896.62  Less : Allocated to :            Exploratory Drilling  3,284.45  2,506.43             Development Drilling  3,297.72  1,871.16             Depreciation on Facilities  33,475.86  64,756.79             Others  297.50  27,600.42  9,845.15  36,917.09  Impairment Loss (Note  44) During the year  7,058.97  4,241.78  Less: Reversal during the period  1,405.12  5,653.85  807.08  3,434.70  TOTAL 180,329.65   166,057.47  2014-15 2013-14 (` in million)33 Depreciation, Depletion, Amortization And Impairment 33.1 Above depreciation, depletion, amortization and impairment, includes `1,684.00 million share of jointly controlled entities (previous year `832.44 million).
32.9 The group has made provision for material foreseeable losses in respect of long term contract including derivative contracts (refer Note 32.7 & 32.8).
Particulars Consolidated Financial Statement 327 35.1 Above provisions and write offs includes `1.91 million shares of jointly controlled entities (previous year  26.68 million).
35.2 Above include in respect of subsidiary company OVL, provision for doubtful debts/claims on account of  carry loan  of 815.52 Million (previous year  665.20 million) to KMG in view of the fact that block is under exploration and since  there is un-certainty of commercial discovery and consequent recovery of the loan (refer Note 21.4).
` ` ` i)     Interest expenses  8,630.75  4,776.06  ii)    Other borrowing costs 1,397.43 392.66  iii)    Lease Finance Charges  527.55  411.55  iv) Foreign Exchange Fluctuation considered as Borrowing Cost  18,068.03  663.07  TOTAL  28,623.76  6,243.34  2014-15 2013-14 (` in million) PROVISIONS  For Doubtful Debts (Note-35.2)  5,246.07  3,305.11  For Doubtful Advances  1,176.49  4,483.48  For Non-Moving Inventory  370.87  1,780.50  For Others   3,691.99  (145.56) Sub-Total  10,485.42  9,423.53  WRITE-OFFS Disposal/Condemnation of Fixed Assets (Net)  242.39  157.79  Claims/Advances 28.08  677.98  Less: Provisions  19.01  9.07  -    677.98  Inventory  139.10  55.31  Bad debts  -    129.96  Less: Provisions  -    -    129.96  -    Sub-Total  390.56  891.08  TOTAL  10,875.98  10,314.61  2014-15 2013-14 (` in million)35 Provisions And Write Offs 34 Finance Costs 34.1 Above finance costs includes `2,716.40 million share of jointly controlled entities (previous year `765.03 Million).
Particulars Particulars A.
EXPENDITURE Statutory levies  (41.45)  -    Other production, selling & distribution expenditure  671.40  (188.93) Excess Abandonment Provision written back  -    (2,353.23) Interest -Others  608.30  343.82  Exchange Fluctuation  -    -    Survey  (1,200.17)  (6.30) Dry Wells  3,443.99  82.55  Depletion  (71.80)  164.56  Depreciation ( Note  14.1.h)  19.32  (85.79) Sub-Total  3,429.59  (2,043.32) B.
INCOME Sales  51.21  (104.88) Interest -Others  43.13  0.23  Other Income  200.32  484.70  Sub-Total  294.66  380.05  TOTAL (NET)  3,134.93  (2,423.37) 2014-15 2013-14 (` in million)36 Adjustments Relating to Prior Period (Net) :  Particulars Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 328 36.1 Above adjustments relating to prior period include `(-) 106.72 million shares of jointly controlled entities (Previous year `64.28 million).
Net Group Profit after tax atributable to ONGC Equity holders (` in million)  183,335.20  265,065.33  Weighted Average Number of Shares  (Nos.
in million)  8,555.49  8,555.49  Basic & Diluted earnings per equity share ( ` )  21.43  30.98  Face Value per equity Share ( ` )  5.00  5.00  2014-15 2013-14 37 Earnings Per Equity Share Particulars 38 Disclosure under the Revised Accounting  Standard-15 on “Employee Benefits” of  Group(Considered for the company and its  subsidiaries OVL & MRPL on standalone basis  to the extent available):- 38.1 Brief Description: A general description of the  type of Employee Benefits Plans of Group  Companies is as follows:  38.1.1 Earned Leave (EL) Benefit   Accrual – 30 days per year Encashment while in service – 75% of Earned  Leave balance subject to a maximum of 90 days  per calendar year Encashment on retirement – maximum 300 days  38.1.2 Good Health Reward (Half pay leave)  Accrual - 20 days per year Encashment while in service - Nil Encashment on retirement - 50% of Half Pay Leave  balance.
38.1.3 Gratuity 15 days salary for each completed year of service.
Vesting period is 5 years and the payment is  restricted to `1.00 million.
38.1.4 Post-Retirement Medical Benefits Upon payment of one time prescribed contribution  by the employees, full medical benefits on  superannuation and on voluntary retirement  subject to the completion of minimum 20 years of  service and 50 years of age.
38.1.5 Terminal Benefits a.
At the time of superannuation, employees are entitled to settle at a place of their choice and they are eligible for T ransfer T ravelling Allowance.
b.
Employees are gifted gold coins on retirement up to 31.01.2015, depending upon their level and years of service.
This scheme has been discontinued w.e.f.
27.02.2015.
Accordingly `5,854.33 million provided in earlier years has been written back.
38.1.6 In terms of DPE Guidelines, the Company has  formulated a Post-Retirement Benefit Scheme  (PRBS) as a defined contribution scheme.
38.2 The amounts recognized in the financial  statements for defined contribution plans are as  under:  (` in million) Defined Contribution Plans Amount recognized  during the period Contributory Provident Fund(CPF) 3,728.66 (3,667.71)              Employee Pension Scheme-95(EPF) 352.75 (208.54)                            Composite Social Security Scheme (CSSS) 625.48 (633.09)                            (0.14) Post Retirement Benefit Scheme (PRBS) 4,876.99 (20,747.66)                              Employer’s contribution to Superannuation Fund 84.03 (71.40) Contribution for Key Management Personnel           2.13 (1.90)   0.05 (0.02)   0.15 2.15 (1.59) 0.92 (0.79) Consolidated Financial Statement 329 38.3 The amounts recognized in the balance sheet for post-employment benefit plans are as under : 38.4 The amounts included in the fair value of plan assets of gratuity fund in respect of Group own financial instruments and any property occupied by, or other assets used by the reporting enterprise are Nil (Previous Year Nil)  38.5 Reconciliation showing the movements during the period in the net liability recognized in the balance sheet:     (` in million) (` in million) Sl Particulars Gratuity Leave Post-Retirement Medical Benefits  Benefits 1 Present Value of Funded Obligation 21,220.86 (21,339.12) 2 Present Value of Unfunded Obligation - -       27,617.69 (24,363.88) 3 Fair Value of Plan Assets 21,721.19       - -         (21,762.24) 4.
Unrecognized Past Service Cost - - - - 5 Net Obligation -500.33 (-423.12) 6 Liability for Retired employees - - - - 7 Total  Provision -500.33 4,122.20 27,617.69 494.01      (-423.12) (2,566.68) (24.363.88) (6,319.04) Terminal No.
20,099.65 - - (21,867.14) 494.01 (6,319.04) 15,977.45 (19,300.46) 4,122.20  27,617.69 494.01 (2,566.68)   (24,363.88) (6,319.04) Sl Particulars Gratuity Leave Post-Retirement Medical Benefits  Benefits 1 Opening defined benefit obligation 21,339.13 (21,392.35) 2 Current Service Cost 875.45 (887.20) 3 Past Service Cost - - - - 4.
Interest Cost 1,867.18 (1,817.35) 5.
Actuarial losses/(-) gains -1,053.40 (-1,434.97) 6.
Liability T ransfer In 0.07 - - - 7.
Benefits paid -1,807.57 (-1,322.80) 8A Current Obligation 20,712.01 (20,890.48) 8B Non-Current Obligation - 17,862.87 (19,672.08) Total (8A+8B) 20,712.01 (20,890.48) Terminal No.
21,867.14 24,363.88 464.71 (20,030.97) (21,562.59) (6,285.91) 872.88 368.66 20.54 (1,076.57) (395.96) (401.55) 1,913.38 2,131.83 40.67 (1,752.71) (1,886.47) (534.29) 3,158.71 2,174.17 -11.22 (2,946.96) (1,726.19) (-885.05) -7,712.46 -1,420.85 -20.69 (-3,940.06) (-1,207.33) (-17.65) 2,236.78 1,579.86 50.41 (2,195.06) (1,403.44) (689.11) 25,986.77 434.23 (22,915.59) (5,621.41) 20,099.65 27,617.69 494.01 (21,867.14) (24,368.88) (6,319.04) Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 330 38.6 The total amount recognized in the financial statements before allocation is as follows: 38.7 Statement of Reconciliation of balance of Fair Value of Plans Assets in respect of Gratuity : -  38.8 Statement of Reconciliation of balance of Fair Value of Plans Assets in respect of Leave:- (` in million) (` in million) (` in million) Sl Particulars Gratuity Leave Post-Retirement Medical Benefits  Benefits 1 Current Service Cost 875.45 (887.20) 2 Interest on Obligation 1,867.18 (1,817.35) 3 Expected returna on plan assets -1,892.43 (-1,852.70) 4.
Net actuarial  Losses/ (-) Gains recognized in period 5 Past Service Cost - - - - 6 Losses (Gains) on curtailments and - - - - settlement  7 T otal included in ‘employee benefit expense’.
8.
Actual return on plan assets 1,751.71 (1,711.28) Terminal No.
872.88 368.66 20.54 (1,076.57) (395.96) (401.55) 1,913.38 2,131.84 40.67 (1,752.71) (1,886.47) (534.29) -1,688.11 - - (-1,752.71) -912.68 3,017.60 2,174.17 -11.21 (-1,442.91) (4,231.68) (1,726.19) (-885.05) -62.48 4,115.75 4,674.67 50.00 (-441.71) (5,308.25) (4,008.62) (50.79) 1,811.85 NA NA (467.99) Particulars For Year ended on 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Fair Value of Plan Asset at Beginning        21,762.24        21,387.20  Adjustment in opening corpus consequent to audit              27.13            (89.17) Expected Return on Plan Assets          1,873.33          1,922.41  Contribution by Employer - - T ransfer from other Company                0.07                   -    Benefits Paid        (1,800.86)        (1,316.78) Actuarial gain/loss on Plan Assets           (140.72)           (141.42) Fair Value of Plan Asset at the end of the period (Unaudited)        21,721.19        21,762.24  For Year ended on  Particulars For Year ended on 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Fair Value of Plan Asset at Beginning      19,300.46      20,030.97  Adjustment in opening corpus consequent to audit             (7.75)                   -    Expected Return on Plan Assets        1,688.11        1,752.71  Contribution by employer        2,567.98                   -    Benefits Paid      (7,712.46)      (1,198.50) Actuarial gain/loss on Plan Assets           141.11      (1,284.72) Fair Value of Plan Asset at the end of the period (Unaudited)      15,977.45      19,300.46  For Year ended on  Consolidated Financial Statement 331 38.9 Other disclosures: (` in million) (` in million) (` in million) The Group has recognized a gratuity liability of ` 78.72 million as on 31.03.2015 (Previous year 75.28) as per  actuarial valuation for 558 Contingent Employees engaged in different work centres.
`  Gratuity As at 31-03-2015 Present Value of Funded obligation as at the end of the period21,220.86 21,339.12 21,470.17 20,828.86 19,928.73  Fair Value of plan assets as at the end of the period21,721.19 21,762.24  21,387.20  20,376.51 18,354.26  Surplus/(Deficit)  500.33 423.12  (82.97)   (452.35) (1,574.47) Experience Adjustment on plan Liabilities (loss)/gain1,364.87  1,129.49 1,063.09 550.41 (838.47) Experience Adjustment on plan Assets (loss)/gain (142.86) (162.38) (163.24) (213.77) (118.11) As at As at As at As at 31-03-2014 31-03-2013 31-03-2012 31-03-2011 Leave Encashment As at 31-03-2015 Present Value of Funded obligation as at the end of the period (Note no.35.1.1 and 35.1.2)20,099.65     21,867.14 - - - Fair Value of plan assets as at the end of the period15,977.45 19,300.46     Surplus/(Deficit) (4,122.20)     (2,566.68)     Experience Adjustment on plan Liabilities  (loss)/gain (2,878.21)     (2,946.96) - - - Experience Adjustment on plan Assets (loss)/gain141.11     (1,284.72) As at As at As at As at 31-03-2014 31-03-2013 31-03-2012 31-03-2011 Leave Encashment As at 31-03-2015 Present Value of unfunded obligation as at the end of the period (Note no.35.1.1 and 35.1.2)-   -  19,840.16      17,841.28    16,180.23  Experience Adjustment on plan Liabilities  (loss)/gain -   -     (2,943.61)     (2,062.27)    (2,917.77) As at As at As at As at 31-03-2014 31-03-2013 31-03-2012 31-03-2011 (` in million) Post-Retirement Medical Benefits As at 31-03-2015 Present Value of Unfunded obligation as at the end of the period Experience Adjustment on plan Liabilities (loss)/gain As at As at As at As at 31-03-2014 31-03-2013 31-03-2012 31-03-2011 27,617.69 24,363.88  21,606.37 19,238.93 16,512.40   (1,744.08) (1,729.25) (1,713.33) (2,071.54) (2,010.95) Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 332 (` in million) Sensitivity Analysis ( In respect of Post-Retirement Medical Benefits) As at 31-03-2015 1.00 % (+) 1.00 % (-) Effect on service and interest cost 308.16 (299.06) Effect on PBO (Closing) 3,536.26 (2,477.65) (` in million) 38.10 Investments of Gratuity T rust Particulars % of Investment For Year ended on 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Central Govt.
Securities 28.65 28.98 State Govt.
Securities 15.24 15.15 PSU Bonds 27.40 28.81 T reasury Bills 0.03 0.10 Insurance Investment 27.51 26.01 Equity Mutual Fund 0.23 0.22 Others 0.95 0.73 Total 100.00 100.00 For Year ended on  Terminal Benefits As at 31-03-2015 Present Value of Unfunded obligation as at the end of the period            Experience Adjustment on plan Liabilities (loss)/gain            As at As at As at As at 31-03-2014 31-03-2013 31-03-2012 31-03-2011 494.01        6,319.04        6,311.19        1,158.72      1,064.71   17.80           883.56     (4,694.35)          (22.77)       (355.59) Consolidated Financial Statement 333 The discount rate is based upon the market yield available on Government bonds at the Accounting date with a term that matches.
The salary growth rate takes account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant factor on long term basis.
Expected rate of return on plan assets is based on market expectation, at the beginning of the year, for return over the entire life of the related obligation.
39 Disclosure under Accounting Standard-16 on “Borrowing Costs” Borrowing cost capitalized during the period is  `16,589.29  million (previous year  `13,659.16  million).
38.11 Principal actuarial assumption at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages):- Sl Particulars Gratuity Leave Post-Retirement Medical Benefits  Benefits1 1 Discount rate 8.50% (8.75%) 2 Expected return on plan assets 8.50-8.70% (8.70-8.71%) 3.
Annual increase in costs NA NA 0.00-6.00% (0.00-6.00%) 4.
Annual Increase in Salary 6.00% (6.00%) Terminal No.
8.50% 8.50% 8.50% (8.75%) (8.75%) (8.75%) 8.75% NA NA (9.50%) 0.00-6.00% (0.00-6.00%) 6.00% NA NA (6.00%) Drilling operation in onshore; ONGC accounts for 69% of crude oil and 70% of natural gas production of India.
Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 334 Consolidated Financial Statement 335 40.1 Notes :  40.1.1 The annexed matrix presentation depicts the  geographical segments based on assets as  primary segments and business segments as  secondary segments.
40.1.2 Segments have been identified and reported  taking into account the differing risks and returns,  the organization structure and the internal  reporting systems.
These have been organized  into the following main geographical and business  segments: Geographical Segments a) In India -  Offshore   -  Onshore  b) Outside India.
Business Segments a) Exploration & Production b) Refining 40.1.3 Segment Revenue, Results, Assets and Liabilities  include the respective amounts identifiable to each of the segments and amount allocated on reasonable basis.
Un-allocated includes  common expenditure incurred for all the  segments and expenses incurred at the corporate  level.
40.1.4 Inter Segment Sales have been priced at  prevailing market rates.
40.1.5 Segment Assets includes `1,169.26 million of  Intangible Assets (Previous year  `754.36 million) Revenue from operation (Gross) 29 1,660,668.64 1,782,051.84 Prior period Sales 36 51.21 (104.88) Total 1,660,719.85 1,781,946.96 Segment Revenue as per Note no.
40.1 1,660,719.85 1,781,946.96 2014-15Particulars Note 2013-14 (` in million) 41 Disclosure under Accounting Standard -18 on "Related Party Disclosure : 41.1 Name of related parties and description of relationship : 41.1.1 Joint Ventures/Jointly Controlled Entities : "  Sl No.
Name i Petronet MHB Ltd (PMHBL) ii ONGC Petro-additions Limited (OPaL) iii Petronet LNG Limited (PLL) iv ONGC T ripura Power Co. Limited (OTPC) v ONGC T eri Biotech Limited (OTBL) vi Dahej SEZ Limited\ vii Mangalore SEZ Limited (MSEZ) viii Adani Petronet (Dahej) Port Pvt.
Ltd (through PLL) ix Mangalore STP Limited (through MSEZ) x Shell MRPL Aviation Fuels & Services Pvt.
Limited (through MRPL) xi Mangalam Retail Services Limited (through MRPL) xiii ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Ltd ( refer note no.
3.1) (through MSEZ) xii ONGC Mittal Energy Limited, Cyprus (OVL) xiv MSEZ Power Ltd 40.1.6   Reconciliation of the Segment Revenue with the Revenue as per note 29 & 36 is given below: Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 336 41.2      Key Management Personnel:   A.  KMPs of Parent Company i) Mr. D. K. Sarraf, Chairman and Managing Director.
ii) Mr. A. K. Banerjee, Director (Finance) iii) Mr. T .
K. Sengupta, Director (Offshore)  iv) Mr. Ashok Varma, Director (Onshore) from 19.06.2014 v) Mr. D. D. Misra, Director( HR) from 01.08.2014 vi) Mr. A. K. Dwivedi, Director (Exploration) from 16.03.2015 vii) Mr. Shashi Shanker, Director( T& FS)   viii) Mr. N. K. Verma Director (Exploration) up to 26.08.2014 ix) Mr. K. S. Jamestin, Director (HR) up to 31.07.2014 x) Mr.  N K Sinha, Company Secretary , ONGC B. KMPs of Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures Entities i) Mr.  Narendra K Verma, Managing Director, OVL Videsh, (from 27.08.2014) ii) Mr. S. P .
Garg, Director (Finance) also Managing Director (upto 27.08.14), OVL iii) Mr. S. Bhattacharya, Director (Operations) OVL, (upto 31.10.2014) iv) Mr. Anil Bhandari, Director (Exploration) , OVL v) Mr. P .
K. Rao, Director (Operations) (from 01.11.2014) vi) Mr. H. Kumar, Managing Director, MRPL from 14.08.2014. vii) Mr. Vishnu Agarwal, Director (Finance) MRPL viii) Mr. V .
G. Joshi,  Director (Refinery), MRPL  ix) Mr. P .
Upadhya, Managing Director, MRPL, upto July 2014 x) Mr. Dinesh Mishra, Company Secretary, MRPL xi) Mr. A. R. Baron Mackay Holding B.V ., Director, ONGC Nile Ganga B.V .
xii) Mr. Costas Christoforou, Director, Imperial Energy Limited xiii) Ms. Arlene Nahikian, Director, Imperial Energy Limited xiv) Ms. K. Antoniadou, Director, Imperial Energy Limited xv) Ms. E. Chrysanthou, Director, Imperial Energy Limited xvi) Mr. A. Loizou, Director, Imperial Energy Limited xvii) Mr. Roland Göransson, Director, Carabobo One AB xviii) Mr. Richard Chindt, Director, Carabobo One AB xix)  S B Singh, Company Secretary, OVL xx) Rajarshi Gupta, Director, ONGC Videsh Atlantic Inc. xxi) Sookraj Seechurn, Director, ONGC Videsh Rovuma Limited xxii) Mr. Poonam Keenoo-Seegoolam, Director , ONGC Videsh Rovuma Limited xxiii) Dr. A. K. Balyan (Managing Director & CEO)  PLL xxiv) R. K. Garg Director – Finance, PLL xxv)  Rajendra Singh Director(T echnical), PLL xxvi)  Rajiv Banga, Managing Director & CEO, MSEZ (up to 31.03.2015) xxvii)  Gouranga Charan Swain, CFO, MSEZ xxviii)  Ashish Kulkarni, Company Secretary, MSEZ xxix)  Anil Khurana, Managing Director, PMHBL xxx)  Chandan Kumar Das, CFO, PMHBL xxxi)  Sachin Jayaswal, Company Secretary, PMHBL xxxii)  Sudhindra Kumar Dube Managing Director, OTPC(up to 30.11.2014) xxxiii)  Satyajit Ganguly, Managing Director, OTPC ( from 4.11..2014) xxxiv)  Umesh Chandra, Managing Director, NETC xxxv)  M. Krishna, Director, NETC xxxvi)  Satyanarayana, CEO, OPaL (from 8th May, 2014) xxxvii) Dr. P .
S. V .
Rao, CEO, OPaL (up to 29th April, 2014) xxxviii)  S P Bandopadhyay,CFO,  OPaL(up to 31.01.2015) xxxix) Rajendra Parakh, CFO OPaL( from 01.02.2015) xl)  Subodh Prasad Pankaj, Company Secretary, OPaL xli)  S. Ramachandran, CEO, OMPL xlii)  Susil K Shenoy, CFO, OMPL xliii)  Hitesh Jain, Company secretary, OMPL (up to 11.05.2014) xliv)  Shyam kumar, company Secretary, OMPL (from 13.08.2014) xlv)  V N Diwakar, CEO, SMAFS (from20.02.2015) xlvi)  S Chockalingam, CFO and Company Secretary, SMAFS xlvii) Dr. Banwari Lal, CEO, OTBL Mr. Mr.  Mr.  Mr.  Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr.  Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Consolidated Financial Statement 337 Sale of Products to a) Shell MRPL Aviation Fuels & Services Pvt.
Limited 5,792.34 5,877.10 b) ONGC T ripura Power Co. limited 3,247.91 1,236.49 Services Received from : a) ONGC T eri Biotech Ltd 244.72 112.42 b) Dahej SEZ Ltd. 19.04 9.12 c) Petronet MHB Ltd 19.95 62.57 d) Mangalore SEZ Ltd. 31.18 13.68 e) ONGC T ripura Power Co.  Ltd 0.17 - Services Provided to : a) ONGC Petro-additions Ltd. 125.94 117.63 b) ONGC T eri Biotech Limited 0.15 0.12 c) Mangalore SEZ Ltd. 700.26 - d) ONGC T ripura Power Co.  Ltd. 125.82 235.96 e) ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited( up to 28.02.15) 3.49 7.16 f) Petronet MHB Ltd 28.72 29.18 g) Petronet LNG Ltd 0.05 - h) Shell MRPL Aviation Fuels & Services Pvt.
Limited 11.22 0.33 Dividend Income a) Petronet LNG Limited 187.50 234.38 b) Shell MRPL Aviation Fuels & Services Pvt.
Limited 15.00 12.00 Details As on 31.03.2015 As on 31.03.2014 Amount Receivable :  a) ONGC Petro-additions Limited 67.17 54.69 b) ONGC T ripura Power Co.  Ltd 345.08 373.80 c) Mangalam Retail Services Limited 0.05 - d) Mangalore SEZ Ltd. 982.16 119.37 e) ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited (as on 31.03.15) 3.46 685.32 f) Shell MRPL Aviation Fuels & Services Pvt.
Limited 289.10 622.96 g)  Petronet MHB Ltd 0.20 6.59 h) Petronet LNG Ltd 0.10 - Amount Payable :  a) ONGC T eri Biotech Ltd 148.33 51.55 b) Dahej SEZ Ltd. 7.54 7.54 c) ONGC T ripura Power Co. Ltd - 02 d) Mangalore SEZ Ltd 0.17 0.09 Advance against Equity outstanding : a) ONGC Petro-addition Limited 7,505.52 6,709.24 b) ONGC T ripura Power Co. Ltd 4,645.36 2,925.10 c) ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Ltd( as on 28.02.15) - 9,799.76 d) Mangalam Retail Services Ltd - 0.50 2014-15 2013-14 (` in million) (` in million) 41.3 Details of Group Related Party T ransactions (before elimination):- 41.3.1 Jointly Controlled Entities : Details 41.3.2 Key Management Personnel Particulars 2014-15 2013-14 Remuneration to Key Management Personnel 103.88 69.08 Amount Receivable 1.04 1.39 Amount Payable 9.49 10.32 Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 338 42 Disclosure under Accounting Standard - 19 on  'Leases'  42.1 Khartoum - Port Sudan Pipeline Project: The subsidiary company , OVL  had completed the  12”X741 Kms multi-product pipeline from  Khartoum refinery to Port Sudan for the Ministry of  Energy and Mining of the Government of Sudan  (GOS) on Build, Own, Lease and T ransfer (BOL T)  basis and handed over the same to GOS during the  financial year 2005-06.
The project was  implemented in consortium with Oil India Limited,  Company’s share being 90%.
The payment under the contract with GOS were  scheduled to be received over a period of 10 years  including a moratorium of one year from the date of  the contract (30 Sept, 2004) in 18 equal semi- annual instalments along with lease rental.
The  lease period commenced from the date of handing  over of the pipeline system and will continue till all  payments by GOS are completed.
All titles in the  works and the transportation system shall vest in  the Company and the title shall pass to GOS in  proportion to the payments made by GOS against  total payments due to Company under the  contract.
Further, subject to regular payments on  due dates by GOS to the Company, GOS shall have  the exclusive right to use and operate the pipeline  system and the Company shall not assign, transfer,  sub-let, sub-contract, mortgage or create any rights  to any third party or encumbrances or make any  disposition to any third party.
Accordingly, the  amount of net investment in the lease (i.e.
aggregate  of Minimum Lease Payments minus unearned  Finance Income) is recognized and recorded as  receivables under the lease.
The finance income  thereon has been recognized based upon the pattern reflecting the constant periodic rate of  return on the outstanding net investment in the lease.
The first 11 instalments  under the contract due till  30th December 2010 have been received.
Amount  towards the 12th,13th, 14th, 15th, 16th, 17th and  18th instalments of `6,195.72 Million, USD 98.91  Million (Company's share `5,576.15 Million, USD  89.02 Million) due on 30th June, 2011, 30th  December, 2011, 30th June 2012, 30th December,  2012, 30th June, 2013, 30th December, 2013 and  30th June, 2014 respectively have not yet been  received.
a) Reconciliation between the total gross investment in the lease and the present value of minimum lease payments as at year end - Not later than one year 758.36 746.41 1,516.48 1,504.53  - Later than one year and not later than five   years - -     - - - Later than five years - - - - Total b) Unearned Finance Income 11.95 95.62 c) Unguaranteed residual value accruing to OVL's benefit Nil Nil d) Accumulated provision for uncollectible minimum lease payments receivable Nil Nil e) Contingent rents recognised in the statement of profit and loss for the period Nil Nil f) General description of the significant leasing arrangement As described in para above  g) Accounting Policy followed in respect of initial direct costs  no.
2.2.z.1.2 758.36 746.41 1,516.48 1,504.53 As described in para above  As per Note As per Note  no.
2.2.z.1.2 st 31  March, 2015 Gross GrossNet Net st  31 March, 2014 The disclosure in accordance with the Accounting Standard (AS) 19 viz.
Leases is as under: (` in million) Particulars The EPC contractor which executed the project  claimed additional costs aggregating to `2,327.08 Million (Previous year `2,231.23 Million)  (USD 37.15 Million), said Company’s 90% share  being `2,094.37 Million (Previous year `2,008.11  Million) (USD 33.44 Million), which have not been  accepted by the said Company.
The said  company, in turn has filed a claim as per the  contract with GOS for their approval of an  aggregate amount of `2,892.72 Million (Previous  Consolidated Financial Statement 339 year `2,773.57 Million) (USD 46.18 Million), said  company’s share being `2,603.44 Million   (Previous year `2,496.21 Million) (USD 41.56  Million).
No revenue in respect of the claim on  GOS has been recognized since the claim has not  been accepted by  GOS.
OVL has served a pre- arbitral notice on GOS which is a requirement prior  to initiating any legal proceedings in Sudan.
The  EPC contractor has initiated arbitration with a  claim for `1,596.69 Million (Previous year  `1,530.93 Million) (USD 25.49 Million) plus interest  against the Company.
Pending settlement with the  EPC contractor, an amount of `1,437.02 Million  (Previous year `1,377.84 Million) (USD 22.94  Million) being the Company’s 90% share out of  total claim of `1,596.69 Million  (Previous year `1,530.93 Million) (USD 25.49 Million) has been  accounted as liability in the relevant year of claim.
The arbitration award has been pronounced on 27th March, 2014.
The award provides for the  payment of `207.53 Million (USD 3.31 Million) and  interest `15.99 Million (USD 0.26 Million).
The  parties have filed petitions in the high court  reiterating respective averments and seeking  revision/ modifications of the arbitral award.
Since  the said company has already accounted for the  claim amount as expenditure for `1,437.02 Million  (Previous year `1,377.84 Million) (USD 22.94  Million), the differential of the amount accounted  for and award will be adjusted subject to  directions/decision of the honorable court.
The  interest amount would be treated on clarity of the  issue based on directions/decision of the  honorable court in this regard.
Meanwhile the said  company has paid `19.26 million (USD 0.31  million) against the arbitration award, [said  Company share `17.33 million (USD 0.28 million)]  and `8.54 million (USD 0.14 million), [said Company share ` 7.69 million (USD 0.13  million)] against interest @4.5% on 31.10.2014 to  Dodsal to avoid excess interest burden on the  awarded amount.
42.2  Financial Lease for BC-10 Project ONGBV owns 15% equity shares in T amba B.V .
The  Netherlands; with the balance held by Shell E & P  Of fshore Ser vices B.V., The Netherlands  (“SEPBV”), and Petrobras Netherlands B.V .
The  Netherlands (“PNBV”).
T amba B.V .
has been  established to facilitate the development and  production of hydrocarbons in the BC-10  concession, Campos Basin area in Brazil.
T amba B.V .
has a third party lease for a  major oil field equipment  (FPSO) and constructed other sub-sea assets for  onwards lease to BC-10 Project.
Both financial leases  commenced on 31st December 2008.
T amba B.V .
leases part of its assets from a third  party, Brazilian Deepwater and re-leased these to  BC-10 joint venture operated by Shell Brasil Ltd.
The risks and rewards incidental to ownership are  largely transferred to the lessee.
These assets are  capitalised and recognised in the balance sheet of  BC-10 as from the date the lease contract is  concluded, at the lower of the fair value of the asset  and the discounted value of the minimum lease  instalments.
The lease instalments payable are  broken down into repayment and interest  components, based on a fixed interest rate and  instalments as derived from the underlying  agreement.
The lease commitments are carried  under long-term liabilities exclusive of interest.
The  interest component is recognised in the statement  of  profit and loss account in accordance with the  lease instalments.
Revenue of finance lease contracts represents the  transfer of economic ownership from T amba B.V .
(lessor) to the lessee of the asset, being an  affiliate.
Cost of sales represents the costs  associated with the finance lease contracts.
The  said Company’s share of the lease liability (at USD  1= `62.64) are tabulated below:- Lease liability Opening balance as at 01.04.2014 6,139.25  Interest 527.53  Lease Payments 1,281.69  Foreign Currency T ranslation Adjustment 130.31  Closing balance as at 31.03.2015 5,515.41  The Company's 27% share of future estimated minimum lease expenses in the year and their present  values are scheduled to be as follows: < 1 Year   1-5 Years   >5 Years   Total Future minimum lease payments: 1,284.35 4,059.92 1,602.71 6,946.97  Present value of minimum lease payments 1,247.39 3,260.47 877.25 5,385.10 (` in million) (` in million) Particulars Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 340 T amba B.V ., JV company of ONGBV (27%) has  entered into a 15-year lease contract for the supply  of the FPSO with a third party.
The lease contract  contains priced termination options for each of the  15 years and priced extension options for the 4 years following the initial 15-year term.
The  Company can exercise a priced purchase option  during the term of the lease.
The interest rate  implicit in the lease is 9.5% (Previous year 9.5%).
42.3 The company has certain office/ residential  premises on Operating Lease which are  cancellable by giving appropriate notice as per the  respective agreements.
During the year  `998.07  million (Previous year `1,020.78 Million) had been  paid towards cancellable Operating Lease.
42.4 The Joint venture company, OTPC, has certain  office premises under operating lease non- cancellable agreements.
The lease rental expense  recognized in the Statement of Capital Work-in- Progress for the period ended March 31, 2015 is `9.24 million (previous year `9.24 million) as group  share.
Liability amounting to `3.72 million  (previous year `3.73 million) as group share has  been provided for rent equalization reserve till  March 31st , 2014.
Particulars As at 31.03.2015 As at 31.03.2014 Not later than one year                                9.24 11.55 Later than one year and not later than five years          34.66 43.91 Later than five years                               - - Total                                             43.9 55.46 (` in million) 43.
Disclosure under Accounting Standard - 27 on Financial Reporting of Interest in Joint Ventures: 43.1 Jointly Controlled Assets in India In respect of certain blocks, the Company's Joint Ventures (JV) with certain body corporates have entered  into Production Sharing Contracts (PSCs) with GoI.
Details of these blocks and JVs as on 31.03.2015 are as  under: Sl.
No.
Blocks Company's PI * Others Partners and their PI in the  JV/Operatorship*** A Jointly Operated JVs 1 Panna,  Mukta and T apti 40% (40%) BGEPIL 30%,  RIL  30% 2 AN-DWN-2009/3 60% (60%) OIL 40% B ONGC Operated JVs 3 CB-OS/1  Development Phase** 55.26% (55.26%) TPL  6.7%, HOEC  38.04% 4 MN-DWN-98/3** 100% (100%) 5 MN-OSN-2000/2 40% (40%) GAIL  20%, IOC    20%, OIL    20% 6 AA-ONN-2001/2 80% (80%) IOC  20% 7 CY-ONN-2002/2 60% (60%) BPRL  40% 8 KG-ONN-2003/1 51% (51%) Cairn India-49% 9 CB-ONN-2004/1** 60% (60%) GSPC 40%,  10 CB-ONN-2004/2 55% (55% ) GSPC 45%  11 CB-ONN-2004/3 65% (65%) GSPC 35%  12 CY-ONN-2004/2 80% (80%) BPRL 20% 13 MB-OSN-2005-1 80% (80%) GSPC  20% 14 Raniganj 74% (74%) CIL  26% 15 Jharia 74% (90%) CIL  26% (10%) 16 NK-CBM-2001/1 80% (80%) IOC 20% The group share in future minimum lease payments and payment profile under the non-cancelable operating leases are as follows: Consolidated Financial Statement 341 Sl.
No.
Blocks Company's PI * Others Partners and their PI in the  JV/Operatorship*** 17 BK-CBM-2001/1 80% (80%) IOC  20% 18 CB-ONN-2005/4 51% (51%) GSPC 49% 19 CB-ONN-2005/10** 100% (51%) (GSPC 49%) 20 WB-ONN-2005/4 75% (75%) OIL  25% 21 AN-DWN-2009/2 60% (60%) OIL 40% 22 AN-DWN-2009/1 70% (70%) OIL 30%  23 AN-DWN-2009/5** 100% (100%) 24 GK-OSN-2009/1 40% (40%) AWEL  20%, GSPC 20%, IOC 20% 25 GK-OSN-2009/2 40%(40%) AWEL 30%, IOC 30% 26 KG-OSN-2009/1 80% (80%) APGIC 10%, NTPC 10% 27 KG-OSN-2009/2 90% (90%) APGIC 10% 28 KG-OSN-2009/4 50% (50%) APGIC 10%, OIL 30%, NTPC 10% 29 AA-ONN-2009/3 50% (50%) OIL 50% 30 CB-ONN-2009/4 50% (50%) GSPC 50% 31 GK-OSN-2010/1 60% (60%) OIL-30%, GAIL-10% 32 GK-OSN-2010/2 90% (90%) GAIL- 10% 33 CB-ONN-2010/6 80% (80%) IOC- 20% C. Operated by JV Partners  34 Ravva 40% (40%) Cairn India (Operator) 22.5% ,  VIL   25%, ROPL 12.5% 35 CY-OS-90/1 (PY3) 40% (40%) HEPI (operator)  18%, HOEC 21%                                                                                           TPL 21% 36 RJ-ON-90/1 30% (30%) Cairn India (Operator) 35%, CEHL 35% 37 CB-OS/2 –Development Phase 50% (50%) Cairn India (operator) 40% ,                                                                  TPL 10% 38 CB-ON/7 –Development Phase 30% (30%) HOEC (Operator) 35%,  GSPC 35% 39 CB-ON/3 – Development Phase 30% (30%) EOL (Operator)70% 40 AA-ONN-2002/3 70% (70%) OIL (Operator) 30%                                                                              41 AN-DWN-2003/2 45%(45%) ENI (Operator) 40% GAIL 15% 42 PR-OSN-2004/1 35% (35%) Cairn India (Operator) 35%, TPL 30% 43 CB-ON/2- Development phase 30% (30%) GSPC (Operator) 56%,   Geo-Global Resources  14% 44 RJ-ONN-2005/3 40% (40%) GSPC (Operator) 60% 45 AA-ONN-2009/4 50% (50%) OIL(Operator) 50% 46 CY-OSN-2009/2 50% (50%) OIL  50% (Operator) 47 AA-ONN-2010/2 30% (30%) OIL -40%, GAIL-20%, EWP-10% 48 AA-ONN-2010/3 40%(40%) OIL-40%, BPRL-20% Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 342 * PI - Participating Interest ** Approval towards assignment of PI is awaited from GoI *** There is no change in previous year details unless otherwise stated.
Abbreviations:- APGIC- AP Gas Infrastructure Hardy Exploration and Production India Ltd, andand,  Corporation Ltd, AWEL- Adani Wels pun Exploration HOEC- Hindustan Oil Exploration Company Ltd, , IOC-  Ltd, BGEPIL- British Gas Exploration and Production Indian Oil Corporation Ltd, , NTPC- National Thermal  India Ltd, BPRL- Bharat Petro Resources Ltd, , CEHL- Power Corporation Ltd, OIL- Oil India Ltd, , VIL-  Cairn Energy Hydrocarbons Ltd,  CIL- Coal India Ltd, Videocon Industries Ltd, RIL- Reliance Industries Ltd,  ENI- Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi, Ensearch- Enserach, ROPL- Ravva Oil (Singapore) Private Ltd, , TPL- T ata  EOL- Essar Oil Ltd., GAIL- Gas Authority of India Ltd, , Petrodyne Ltd. GSPC- Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Ltd, HEPI-  Sl.
No.
Joint Ventures / PSCs Company's PI * 1.
NEC-DWN-2002/2 100% (100%) 2.
KK-DWN-2002/2 80% (80%) 3.
CY-ONN-2004/1 80% (80%) 4.
PR-ONN-2005/1 80% (80%) 5.
GV-ONN-2005/3 80% (80% ) 6.
KG-OSN-2005/1 60% (60%) 7.
KG-OSN-2005/2 80% (80%)  8.
KG-DWN-2005/1 70%  (70%) 9.
PA-ONN-2005/1 100% (100%) 10.
MB-OSN-2005-5 70%  (70% ) 11.
MB-OSN-2005-6 80% (80% ) 12.
KK-DWN-2005/2 90% (90%) 13.
AN-DWN-2009/18 60%(60%) 14.
KG-DWN-2009/1 45%(45%) 15.
CY-DWN-2004/3 70% (70%) 16.
AA-ONN-2001/3 85% (85%) 17.
AA-ONN-2005/1 60% (60%) 18.
AA-ONN-2001/4 100% (100%) 19.
AA-ONN-2002/4 90% (90%) 20.
CY-PR-DWN-2004/1 70% (70%) 21.
AN-DWN-2009/13 80% (80%) 22.
RJ-ON/6 – Development phase    (refer Note 41.3.5) 30% (30%)   * PI - Participating Interest 43.2      List of the blocks surrendered during the year are given below: Consolidated Financial Statement 343 43.3.
The Financial position of the JV/NELP blocks are as under : (` in million) (` in million) No.
of Jvs/ Assets Liabilities Income ExpenditureNELP Blocks before tax NELP Block-100% PI* Blocks with other partners   Surrendered 70 4,680.45 (49) (-2,044.86) Total 134     (135) (182,559.74) Profit / (-) Loss 16 30,348.05 233.14 0.17 24,557.43 -24,557.26 (19) (37,773.90) (341.84) (96.45) (20,154.93) (-20,058.48) 48   93,976.40 46,927.57 1,46,952.80 1,08,133.48 38,819.32 (67) (103,668.42) (44,450.57) (182,462.92) (142,405.71) (40,057.21) 12,369.44 276.54 12,024.63 -11,748.09 (5,209.85) (9,565.83) (0.37) (2,045.23) 1,29,004.90 59,530.15 1,47,229.51 1,44,715.54 2,513.97 (146,652.16) (54,358.24) (164,605.87) (17,953.87) No.
of JVs/ NELP Blocks before tax Profit / (-) LossAssets Liabilities Income Expenditure Audited 117 1,21,162.67 48,412.46 1,34,036.87 1,32,756.44 1,280.43 (124) (145,807.09) (51,823.77) (182,255.94) (163,656.37) (18,599.58) Unaudited 17 7,842.23 11,117.69 13,192.64 11,959.10 1,233.54 (11) (845.07) (2,534.46) (303.79) (949.50) (-645.71) Total 134 1,29,004.90 59,530.15 1,47,229.51 1,44,715.54 2,513.97 (135) (146,652.16) (54,358.23) (182,559.73) (164,605.87) (17,953.87) 43.3.1 The financial statements of 117 (previous year 124)  out of 134 (previous year 135) JVs/NELP have  been incorporated in the accounts to the extent of  Company’s participating interest in assets,  liabilities, income, expenditure and profit / (loss)  before tax on the basis of statements certified in  accordance with production sharing contract and in  respect of balance 17 (previous year 11) JVs/NELP,  the figures have been incorporated on the basis of  uncertified statements prepared under the  production sharing contracts.
Both the figures have  been adjusted for changes as per Note No.
2.2.j  43.3.2 In respect of 3 NELP blocks (previous year 12)  which have expired as on 31st March, 2015, the  Company’s share of Unfinished Minimum Work  Programme (MWP) amounting to `820.40 million  (previous year to 18,014.12 million) has not been  provided for since the company has already  applied for further extension of period in these  blocks as ‘excusable delay’/ special dispensations  citing technical complexities, within the extension  policy of NELP Blocks, which are under active  consideration of GoI.
The delays have occurred  generally on account of pending statutory  clearances from various Govt.
authorities like  Ministry of Defense, Ministry of Commerce,  environmental clearances, State Govt.
permissions  etc.
The above MWP amount of 820.40 million  (previous year 18,014.12 million) is included in  MWP commitment under note no.
46.1.2.
43.3.3 As per the Production Sharing Contracts signed  ` ` ` by the Company with the GoI, the Company is  required to complete Minimum Work Programme  (MWP) within stipulated time.
In case of delay in  completion of the MWP, Liquidated Damages (LD) is  payable for extension of time to complete MWP .
Further, in case the Company does not complete  MWP or surrender the block without completing the  MWP, the estimated cost of completing balance  work programme is required to be paid to the GoI.
During the year LD amounting to (net of reversal) 24.08 million (Previous year 245.65 million) and  cost of unfinished MWP (net of reversal) 1,420.64  million (Previous year (net of reversal) (-) 59.14  million), paid/payable to the GoI is included in  survey and wells written off expenditure.
43.3.4 The company had acquired Participating Interest (PI)  of British Gas Exploration & Production India Ltd  (BGEPIL) in the following blocks, effective from the  following dates as approved by the board of directors.
` ` ` `  The financial positions of JV/NELP are as under: Particulars Name of the Block PI Date of T ransfer of PI KG OSN 2004/1 45% 25.11.2011 KG DWN 98/4 30% 18.05.2011 MN DWN 2002/2 25% 01.12.2011   * PI - Participating Interest Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 344 43.4 Company's share in Joint Ventures (Outside India) through Subsidiary - OVL Sl.
No.
participating  share (%) 1 Block 06.1 Vietnam,  Offshore 45% TNK Vietnam   production 2 Block  2a, 2b & 4, GNPOC.
Sudan, (Through ONGC Nile Ganga B.V.) Sudapet  - 5% 3 Block 1a, 1b, & 4, GPOC South Sudan, (Through ONGC Nile Ganga B.V.) Nilepet  - 5%  Currently under temporary shutdown due to security situation.
4 Block 5A South Sudan, Onshore Nilepet - 8% (SPOC) exploration, development and production.
Currently under temporary shutdown due to security situation.
5 Sakhalin -1 Project, Russia, Offshore SMNG - 11.5% R N Astra – 8.5% 6 AFPC Project Syria, Onshore  (Through ONGC Nile 1 Ganga B.V.) 7 MECL  Colombia, Onshore  (Through ONGC Amazon Alaknanda Limited) and  8 Block BC-10 Brazil, Offshore  (Through ONGC Nile Ganga B.V.) 9 OOO Imperial Frac Service  (Through Imperial Energy Ltd) Aleksandrovich Borisov – 50% 10 San Cristobal Project Venezuela, Onshore (Through ONGC Nile Ganga B.V.) Name of the Project and Company's Other Operator Status  Country of Operation Consortium Members TNK Vietnam B.V.
The project is under  B.V. -35%, development and Petrovietnam - 20%  25% CNPC - 40% Joint  Operatorship The project is under  Petronas - 30%  (GNPOC) production.
25% CNPC - 40% Joint  Operatorship The project is under  Petronas - 30% (GPOC) production.
24.125% Petronas - 67.875% Joint  Operatorship The project is under 20% ENL - 30% ENL The project is under SODECO - 30% development and production 38.75% Fulin – 50% SSPD The project is under Mit tals – 11.25% production.
Currently under temporary shutdown due to security situation.
50% Sinopec – 50% Joint  Operatorship The project is under exploration, development production 27% Shell – 73% Shell The project is under development and production 2 50% Mr. Vladimir ONGC Videsh The company provides Fraccing Services 40% CVP- 60% Joint  Operatorship The project is under development and production British Gas has agreed to pay a lump sum amount Focus Energy Ltd (Operator), on condition that of USD 50 Million, towards full and final settlement Focus Energy Ltd (Operator) to pay towards 100% of carry costs/cash calls due in all the above past royalty obligation, PEL/ML fees, other blocks, subject to government approval for statutory levies and waive off of development/ transfer of PI in all the above blocks.
Since the Production costs payable by ONGC in SGL Field government approval in respect of MN DWN of the block as well as take all future 100% royalty 2002/2 is pending, no adjustment is made in the obligation of ONGC as licensee and also not accounts towards the lump sum amount due as exercise its option of acquiring 30% PI in two gas above.
discoveries namely SSG-1 and SSF-2 in Block.
43.3.5 The company has relinquished 30% Participating Pending farm out agreement/government Interest (PI) in SGL Field with future interest in approval, no adjustment is made in the accounts block RJ-ON/6 Jaisalmer Basin Rajasthan to in respect of relinquishment of RJ-ON/6.
Consolidated Financial Statement 345 Sl.
No.
participating  share (%) Name of the Project and Company's Other Operator Status  Country of Operation Consortium Members 11 Block A-1 Myanmar, Offshore 17% Daewoo – 51% Daewoo The project is under MOGE- 15% production.
KOGAS – 8.5% GAIL – 8.5% 12 Block A-3 Myanmar, Offshore 17% Daewoo – 51% Daewoo The project is under KOGAS – 8.5% production.
GAIL – 8.5% MOGE- 15% 13 Farsi Block Project Iran, Offshore 40% IOC – 40% ONGC Videsh The project ’s exploration OIL – 20% period  ended on 24 Sept 2009.
Agreement on MDP and Development service contract is pending.
14 Block X XIV Syria, Onshore 60% IPRMEL - 25% IPR MEL IPRMEL the Operator Triocean-15% declared Force Majeure effective 29 April 2012 15 Khar toum–Por t Sudan Pipeline 90% OIL – 10% ONGC Videsh The pipeline has been Project  Sudan, Onshore completed and is under lease.
16 Block RC-8 Colombia, Offshore 40% Ecopetrol - 40% ONGC Videsh The project is under Petrobras – 20% exploration 17 Block RC-9 Colombia, Offshore 50% Ecopetrol - 50% Ecopetrol The project is under exploration 18 Block RC-10 Colombia, Offshore 50% Ecopetrol - 50% ONGC Videsh The project is under exploration 19 Block BM-SEAL-4, Brazil, Offshore 25% Petrobras- 75% Petrobras The project is under (Through ONGC Nile Ganga B.V) exploration 20 Block LLA - 69, Colombia, 50% Sinopec – 50% Joint The project is under Onshore  (Through MECL) Operatorship exploration 21 Block SSJN-7 Colombia, Onshore 50% Pacific -  50% Pacific The project is under exploration 22 Block CPO-5 Colombia, Onshore 70% Petro Dorado – 30% ONGC Videsh The project is under exploration 23 SHWE Offshore Pipeline Project, 17% Daewoo – 51% Daewoo Pipeline is completed and Myanmar, Offshore KOGAS – 8.5% is under use for GAIL – 8.5% transpor tation of gas from MOGE – 15% Blocks A1/A3, Myanmar  24 Onshore Gas Pipeline Project 8.35% CNPC-SEAP– 50.90% CNPC-SEAP The project is under (SEAGPCL), Myanmar, Onshore Daewoo – 25.04% operation.
(Through ONGC Nile Ganga B.V.) KOGAS– 4.17% GAIL – 4.17%  MOGE – 7.37% 25 Carabobo Project, Venezuela 11% CVP - 71% Joint The project is under Onshore (Through Carabobo Repsol Exp-11% operatorship development and One AB) INDOIL-7% production.
26 Satpayev Contract Area 3575, 25% KMG – 75% SOLLP The project is under Kazakhstan, Offshore Exploration 27 Azeri, Chirag, Guneshli fields 2.72% BP - 35.79% BP The project is under Azerbaijan, Offshore SOCAR - 11.65% development and Chevron - 11.27% production Inpex - 10.96% Statoil - 8.56% Ex xon-Mobil - 8.00% TPAO - 6.75% Itochu - 4.30% Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 346 Sl.
No.
participating  share (%) Name of the Project and Company's Other Operator Status  Country of Operation Consortium Members 28 BTC Pipeline Azerbaijan, Onshore 2.36% BP - 30.1% BP The project is under (Through ONGC (BTC)) SOCAR - 25% operation Chevron - 8.9% Statoil - 8.71% TPAO - 6.53% Eni - 5% Total - 5% Itochu - 3.40% Inpex - 2.5% Conoco Philips - 2.5% 29 Block Area 1, Mozambique 16.00% Anadarko- 26.5% Anadarko The project is under 3 Offshore Mitsui-20% development Cove Energy-8.5% BPRL-10% OIL-4% ENH-15% 30 Block SS 04, Bangladesh, 45.00% OIL-45% ONGC Videsh The project is under Offshore BAPEX-10% exploration 31 Block SS 09, Bangladesh, 45.00% OIL-45% ONGC Videsh The project is under Offshore BAPEX-10% exploration 32 Block B2, Myanmar, Onshore 97.00% Machinery and Solutions ONGC Videsh The project is under Company Ltd. - 3% exploration 33 Block EP3, Myanmar, Onshore 97.00% Machinery and Solutions ONGC Videsh The project is under Company Ltd. - 3% exploration Abbreviations used: CNPC – China National Petroleum Development Company Limited; SOLLP – Satpayev  Corporation; CNPC-SEAP-CNPC South-East Asia Operating Company LLP (100% subsidiary of KMG);  Pipeline Co Ltd; CVP – Corporacion Venezolana Del SSPD: Syria Shell Petroleum Development B.V .
; Sudapet  Petroleo S.A.; Daewoo – Daewoo International – Sudapet Limited;  T riocean: T ri-Ocean Mediterranean;   Corporation; ENL – Exxon Neftegas Limited; Fulin – Fulin SOCAR: State Oil Company of Azerbaijan Republic;  Investments Sarl; GAIL – GAIL (India) Limited; GNPOC - TPAO - T urkish Petroleum Corporation; BREML - Beas  Greater Nile Petroleum operating Company; GPOC - Rovuma Energy Mozambique Ltd; ENH - Empresa  Greater Pioneer Operating Company; SPOC - Sudd Nacional De Hidrocarbonates, E.P;  BAPEX -  Petroleum Operating Company;IOC – Indian Oil Bangladesh Petroleum Exploration & Production  Corporation Limited; INDOIL- Indoil Netherlands B.V .
; Company Limited 1.
IPRMEL – IPR Mediterranean Exploration Limited; KMG  ONGC Videsh has effectively 38.75% interest in  KazMunayGas; KOGAS – Korea Gas Corporation; B.V; Himalaya Energy Syria B.V .
(HESBV) with Mittals and  Mittals – Mittal Investments Sarl; MOGE- Myanmar Oil Fulin effectively holding 11.25% and 50% interest  and Gas Enterprise; Nilepet - Nilepet Limited, South respectively.
HESBV, through its subsidiaries, holds  Sudan; OCL – ONGC Campos Ltda.. OIL – Oil India 33.33%, 37.5% and 36% interest in Ash Sham (including  Limited; Pacific - Pacific Stratus Energy, Colombia;  deep and lateral) concession, Deir-Ez-Zor and Annexure- Petrobras – Petroleo Brasileiro S.A.; Petro-Dorado - IV (including deep and lateral) concessions and a gas  Petro-Dorado South America S.A.; Petronas – Petronas utilization agreement in Syria; the balance interest in the  Carigali Overseas Sdn Bhd; Petronas Ve: PC Venezuela concessions being held by SSPD- the Operator.
2.
Ltd; Petrovietnam – Vietnam Oil and Gas Group; Repsol –  In case of Block BC-10 Brazil, Offshore additional 12%  Repsol YPF Cuba SA; Repsol Exp- Repsol Exploracion stake was acquired on 30th December 2013.
3.
S.A.;  SEAGPCL – South East Asia Gas Pipeline  In case of Area 1 offshore Block, Mozambique, 10% is  Company Ltd.; Shell – Shell Brazil Ltda; Sinopec – directly held by ONGC Videsh Ltd. and 6% through  Sinopec Overseas Oil and Gas Limited; SMNG – subsidiary BREML.
Oil India Limited holds 4% PI through  Sakhalinmorneftegas Shelf; SODECO – Sakhalin Oil BREML.
Consolidated Financial Statement 347 43.5 Company's share in Joint Ventures through subsidiary OVL The Company, its Subsidiaries’ and the Joint Venture Company’s share of assets, liabilities, income and expenses  in the Joint Ventures as furnished by the Operator has been incorporated in the financial statements as given  below:   (` in million) Project Asset Liabilities Income Expenditure* (Including Loss depreciation) st A.
Audited as of 31  March, 2015   Block 06.1, Vietnam 6,821.46 2,072.54 8,006.48 6,469.14 1,537.34  Farsi Block, Iran 0.37 (7.87) -  9.33 (9.33) MECL, Colombia 27,165.45 5,459.29 16,403.28 10,829.59 5,573.69  LLC Imperial Frac Service-Jarpeno 173.16 7.06 298.99 276.61 22.38  BREML, Mozambique 22,082.06 38,475.29 -  861.47 (861.47) Petro Carabobo, Venezuela** 15,069.89 2,049.48 1,403.13 (1,041.80) 2,444.93  Block 2a, 2b & 4, Sudan 27,494.55 7,117.59 23,841.52 10,904.56 12,936.96  Block 1a, 1b, & 4, South Sudan 7,048.42 49.97 644.61 -  644.61  Block BC-10 & Exploratory Blocks, Brazil 52,816.52 33,331.50 26,633.59 14,151.49 12,482.10  PIVSA (San Cristobal), Venezuela 26,331.77 58,291.54 19,005.19 13,000.97 6,004.22  Pipeco 1 onshore Project, Myanmar(SEAGP) 5,863.16 611.45 1,968.96 1,383.67 585.29  T amba B.V .
28,500.32 7,171.50 3,269.50 13.44 3,256.06  AFPC, Syria 60.46 2.70 0.38 3,744.80 (3,744.42) Block SS-04, Bangladesh 13.07 4.62 -  40.40 (40.40) Block SS-09, Bangladesh 12.71 4.62 -  31.49 (31.49) Sudan Pipeline,  OVL's Share (90%) 3.47 2,147.95 11.95 118.07 (106.12) B.
Audited as of 31 December, 2014  Sakhalin 1 Russia 1,98,723.54 73,382.12 63,959.95 39,744.86 24,215.09  Block RC-8, Colombia 0.54 10.51 0.01 (481.30) 481.31  Block RC-10,  Colombia 0.33 -  0.03 (570.51) 570.54  Block RC-9, Colombia 0.24 (0.04) 0.15 93.92 (93.77) CPO 5 Block, Colombia 1,691.78 -  0.37 (563.85) 564.22  C. Unaudited Block A-1, Myanmar 15,166.97 2,712.11 6,510.03 2,666.58 3,843.45  Block A-3, Myanmar 4,072.13 159.41 2,032.41 1,062.48 969.93  SHWE Offshore Pipeline Myanmar 1,811.01 25.01 1,591.81 478.95 1,112.86  Block XXIV, Syria 181.05 528.47 -  19.74 (19.74) Block SSJN-7, Colombia -  15.49 0.31 109.27 (108.96) Block Area 1, Mozambique 1,64,272.22 581.49 -  790.20 (790.20) Block 5A, South Sudan 10,103.68 263.08 -  583.48 (583.48) Satpayev Block, Kazakhstan 4,893.74 65.18 -  903.55 (903.55) ACG, Azerbaijan 52,701.79 6,245.16 10,257.08 11,538.43 (1,281.35) Grand Total 6,73,075.86 2,40,777.21 1,85,839.73 1,17,169.03 68,670.71  Profit/(-) before Tax Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 348 *Represents expenditure as per joint venture  statement.
In the accounts of the Company, the  amount is reflected after netting off as per the  Accounting Standard (AS) 27 viz.
Financial  Reporting of interests in Joint Ventures.
** Excludes signature bonus paid by Subsidiary  and classified under capital work-in-progress 43.5.1 The OVL ’s share of The Company’s share of  assets, liabilities, income and expenses has been  converted into the reporting currency at the  average exchange rate over the period for which  the details are provided by the Operators.
Generally the details are provided by the operators  on monthly basis except in respect of Sakhalin-1,  Russia, where the details are provided by the  Operator on quarterly basis.
43.5.2 Block 5A,  Blocks 1,2 &4  in Republic of South Sudan ONGC Videsh has 24.125% participating interest  in Block 5A, South Sudan.
The project is jointly  operated by the partners Petronas Carigali Nile  Ltd, ONGC Videsh Limited and Nilepet, the  national oil company of South Sudan.
In view of security situation due to internal conflict  in the country all petroleum operation in Block 5A  is temporarily shut down from 22nd December  2013.
However, recently ceasefire agreement has  been signed by the warring parties and the  negotiations are in progress under the mediation  of African Union and Inter Government Authorities  on Development (IGAD).
All actions are taken by  the partners to resume production swiftly on  security clearance by the host government.
43.5.3 AFPC, Syria ONGC Nile Ganga BV (ONGBV) and Fulin  Investments Sarl, a subsidiary of China National  Petroleum Company International (CNPCI), hold  50% shareholding each in the Dutch joint venture  company, Himalaya Energy Syria B.V .
(HESBV).
HESBV in turn through three German entities viz.
HES Ash Sham GmbH, HES Deir Ez Zor GmbH  and HES Gas Syria GmbH holds 33.33% to 37.5%  Participating Interest (PI) in four Production  Sharing Contracts (PSCs) in Syria.
The Syria  business for the above PSC of ONGBV is structured  as separate class of business (Class C).
Effective 1st December 2011, Al Furat Petroleum  Company (AFPC) an Operating Company jointly  held by the Syria Shell Petroleum Development B.V .
(SSPD) a company acting as an operator for the  Contractor and HESBV (collectively the Contractor)  and General Petroleum Company (GPC), Syria,  which represents Government of Syria in the  Operating Company, were included in the list of  sanctioned enterprises by the European Union  (EU) as part of the strengthening of the sanctions  on Syria.
Due to the sanctions, HESBV, as an EU  company, has been forbidden to directly or  indirectly make funds or resources available to or  for the benefit of AFPC and GPC.
On the 16th May 2012, the Syrian court (the 1st  degree cour t) ruled in favour of “single  management”, provided that Contractor will be kept  informed of all transactions.
In addition the court  considered that Contractor’s share of profits should  be set aside in a separate bank account.
AFPC  Chairman  appealed for three motives (i) to  challenge the above t wo court-determined  measures  that allows  Contractor to monitor the   Chairman's powers; (ii) to exercise all powers  required for running AFPC and solely  operate the  bank accounts;  and (iii) to challenge the  requirement to set aside profits.
On 28th of  November, 2012, the Court of appeal in Syrian Court  rejected the appeal of the Chairman.
As a result, the  first degree court judgment became final.
An impairment provision of `3,741.69 million has  been made in respect of AFPC, Syria in view of the  prevailing geo-political situation in the country and  uncertainty about resumption of production.
43.6  Jointly Controlled Entities: 43.6.1 Group ownership interests in Jointly Controlled  Entities are as mentioned in Note 3.B.
43.6.2 The Group’s share in assets, liabilities, income,  expenses, contingent liabilities and capital  commitments of Jointly Controlled Entities: Particulars As at 31.03.2015 As at 31.03.2014 i) Assets   Fixed Assets 135,029.84 136,977.47 Other Non Current Asset 12,915.11 19,929.43 Deferred T ax Assets 548.63 256.91  Current Asset 12,507.61 15,196.41 ii) Liabilities   Long T erm Borrowings 100,767.71 112,760.66 Other Non Current liabilities and provisions 7,007.21   7,431.17 Deferred T ax Liability 1,605.53 896.72  Current liabilities and provisions 30,966.17 28,271.87  iii) Income 64,299.22 52,520.52 iv)  Expenses 66,169.29 50,824.14 v) Contingent liabilities 13,217.04 8,868.61  vi) Capital commitments 12,156.07 18,372.56  (` in million) Consolidated Financial Statement 349 44 Disclosure under Accounting Standard – 28  and Guidance note on Accounting for Oil and  gas producing Activities (Revised) on  “Impairment of Assets”  44.1 The Company is engaged mainly in the business  of oil and gas exploration and production in On- shore and Offshore.
In case of onshore assets, the  fields ar e using common pr oduction/  transportation facilities and are suf ficiently  economically interdependent to constitute a  single cash generating unit (CGU).
Accordingly,  impairment test of all onshore fields are performed  in aggregate of all those fields at the Asset Level.
In  case of Offshore Assets, a field is generally  considered as CGU except for fields which are  developed as a Cluster, for which common  facilities are used, in which case the impairment  testing is performed in aggregate for all the fields  included in the cluster.
44.2 The Value in Use of producing/developing CGUs  is determined under a multi-stage approach,  wherein future cash flows are initially estimated  based on Proved Developed Reserves.
Under  circumstances where the further development of  the fields in the CGUs is under progress and where  the carrying value of the CGUs is not likely to be  recovered through exploitation of proved  developed reserves alone, the Proved and  probable reserves (2P) of the CGUs are also taken  for the purpose of estimating future cash flows.
In  such cases, full estimate of the expected cost of  evaluation/development is also considered while  determining the value in use.
44.3 In assessing value in use, the estimated future  cash flows from the continuing use of the assets  and from its disposal at the end of its useful life are  discounted to their present value.
The present  values of cash flows are determined by applying  discount rates of 19.71% (previous year 19.10 %)  for Rupee transactions and 13.89% (previous year  13.00 %) for crude oil and value added products  revenue, which are measured in USD.
Future cash  inflows from sale of crude oil and value added  products are computed using the future prices, on  the basis of market-based average prices of the  Dated Brent crude oil as per assessment by  ‘Platt’s Crude Oil Market wire’ and its co-relations  with benchmark crudes and other petroleum  products.
Future cash flows from sale of natural  gas is also computed based on the expected  future prices on the basis of the notification issued  by the Government of India and discounted  applying the rate applicable to the cash flows  measured in USD in view of the new pricing  guidelines issued by GoI.
44.4 During the year `2,136.53 million (Previous Year `1,025.48 million) is provided as impairment loss.
Out of this, an amount of `380.89 million (Previous  Year `355.97million)has been provided as  additional impairment in respect of onshore CGUs  – Jodhpur and Silchar.
`146.40 million(Previous  Year ` 69.05 million) has been provided for  already impaired offshore CGU- Ratna.
For B 121  an amount of `49.73 million (Previous Year `20.09 million) has been provided as additional  impairment.
In addition, `367.91 million (Previous  Year ` 30.42 million) pertaining to block CY-OS- 90/1 (PY-3) has been provided as presently the  field does not have any potential to produce.
An  amount of `1,025.81 million (Previous Year `79.40  million) mainly represents additional impairment  charge in respect of certain onshore Pre- NELP  joint venture blocks (RJ ON 6, CB ON 2 and CB ON  3) due to adjustment of cost recovery from  revenue and sharing of 100% royalty.
Balance  amount of `73.38 million, `91.14 million (previous  year `15.90 million) and `1.27 million has been  provided for Ankleswar, Hazira Plant and Retail  T rading respectively.
44.5 Further, ` 201.88 million (Previous Year `806.08  million impairment losses has been reversed  because of decrease in Abandonment cost  estimation in respect  Offshore CGU D-18 and T apti.
44.6 Impairment testing of assets under exploratory  phase (Exploratory Wells in Progress) has been  carried out as on 31.03.2015, and an amount of `1,172.15 million (Previous year `2,546.46 million)  has been provided during the year 2014-15 as  impairment loss.
Further, `1,203.24 million  (Previous Year Nil) impairment loss has been  reversed in the Statement of Profit and Loss as  exploratory phase assets have been transferred  to producing properties.
44.7 The following 2P reserves for the respective CGU  considered as a basis for the impairment  assessment:- Name of the CGU Quantity of Reserves used for  Impairment Assessment (in MMT) G1-GS 15 4.12 Jodhpur Onshore Asset 2.09 Silchar Onshore Asset 1.20 RJ-ON-06 (Pre NELP PSC Block) 1.05 CB-ON-02 (Pre NELP PSC Block) 0.09 Cluster B-193 9.12 Cluster B-22 5.42 Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 350 44.8 The subsidiary Company, OVL has assessed  indicators for impairment and carried out  impairment test in respect of Cash Generating  Units (CGUs) based on value in use method as on  31st March, 2015 where indicators were observed.
However, no impairment in any of the CGU, except  AFPC, Syria, was required since the value in use of  the CGU’s is higher than their respective carrying  value.
In respect of the projects Imperial Energy  Russia, GPOC South Sudan, Block 5A South  Sudan, BC-10 Brazil, San Cristobal Venezuela,  MECL Colombia, GNPOC Sudan, Carabobo  Venezuela, ACG Azerbaijan and Sakhalin Russia,  operations are carried out with common  production and transportation facilities, catering  the various fields in the project which are  suf ficiently economically interdependent and  hence constitute a single cash generating unit for  the purposes of Accounting Standard 28 (AS-28) - Impairment of Assets and impairment test is  performed in aggregate for all the fields in the  respective project.
Due to the ongoing political turmoil in Syria, the  Company has made a provision for impairment of  the net carrying value amounting to USD 61.18 Mn  (` 3,741.69 Mn) in respect of the project AFPC,  Syria.
There is no impairment in any other CGUs  based on impairment test carried out by the said  Company.
The following 2P reserves for the respective CGU  considered as a basis for the impairment  assessment:- Projects (CGU) Proved and  Probable Reserves (MMT)   BC -10, Brazil 9.988 San Cristobal, Venezuela 9.808 MECL, Colombia 4.429 Block 5A, South Sudan 6.308 GNPOC, Sudan 9.726 GPOC, South Sudan 6.366 Carabobo, Venezuela 7.620 Sakhalin-I, Russia 106.647 ACG, Azerbaijan 16.770 Imperial Energy, Russia 103.457 44.9 The subsidiary Company, OVL acquired Imperial Energy during 2008-09.
A provision for impairment of ` 19,786.86  million was made in financial year 2011-12 on the basis of Impairment test.
The Carrying value of the CGU Imperial  Energy, Russia as on 31st March 2015 is   71,297.72 million.
The Company carries out impairment test on annual  basis based on the latest information available in respect of production profile, capex etc.Imperial Energy has  undertaken to test new technology with a view to augment the recovery of oil and gas reserves, the preliminary  results of which are encouraging.The Company has carried out impairment test during the year based upon the  existing technology.
As per the impairment test conducted by the Company, Value in Use exceeded Carrying Value  of assets indicating no impairment for the year.
` Particulars 45 Disclosure under Accounting Standard - 29 on "Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets": Movement in Provisions - Abandonment liability & others.
For Court cases, arbitration and others, where the timing of expected outflows is upon settlement of the  proceedings and in case of provision for abandonment expected out flow after end of : (` in million) Provision for Abandonment Others 2014-15 2013-14 2014-15 2013-14 Opening Balance 274,690.42   207,692.12 3,288.95 1828.77 Add: Provision made during the year 27,999.86 69,351.54 1,184.59 1,490.43 Less: Provision written back/reclassified/ reduction during the year 4,080.74 2,353.23 121.58 30.25 Closing Balance 298,609.54   274,690.42 4,351.96 3,288.95 Consolidated Financial Statement 351 46 Disclosures under Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013: 46.1 Capital Commitment not provided for:- 46.1.1 Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account:-  i.
In respect of Company - `266,494.43 million (Previous year 260,496.14 million).
ii    In respect of Joint Ventures - 3842.99 million (Previous year 27,708.70 million).
46.1.2 Estimated amount of Minimum Work Programme (MWP) committed under various ‘Production Sharing  Contracts’:- i) In respect Nominated Blocks Nil (Previous year 441.59  million).
ii) In respect of NELP blocks in which the Company has 100% participating interest – 3,000.14 million (Previous year 9,600.47 million).
iii) In respect of NELP blocks in Joint Ventures, company’s share - 32,705.26 million (Previous year 62,247.39 million).
` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` Sl.
Particulars As at As at st st No.
31 March, 2015  31  March, 2014 I) in respect of Group & Joint Venture Entities:    i.
Income tax matters 92,708.08 63,951.09 ii.
Excise Duty matters 8,888.13 9,702.14 iii.
Custom Duty matters 1,044.01 2,319.33 vi.
Royalty 117,738.83 117,301.90 v. Cess 6.57 6.57 vi.
Sales T ax 24,809.39 46,118.72 vii.
Octroi 205.52 68.54 viii.
AP Mineral Bearing Land (Infrastructure) Cess 2,371.76 2,211.27 ix Specified Land T ax (Assam) 3,863.05 3,528.89 x.
Claims of contractors in Arbitration/Court.
74,424.80 55,814.99 xi.
In respect of other matters 83,109.13 73,906.78 xii.
Service T ax 59,289.55 53,768.09 xiii.
EPF 66.35 66.35 Sub Total (I) 468,525.17 428,764.66 II)    in respect of unincorporated Joint Ventures :  i.
Income tax matters  8.91 8.91 ii.
Excise Duty matters 4.17 4.17 iii.
Custom Duty matters 1,473.86 3,798.73 iv.
Cess - - v. Sales T ax 2,649.82 2,649.81 vi.
Claim of GoI for additional profit petroleum 4,935.93 4,732.63 vii.
Claims of contractors in Arbitration/Court 420.97 363.31 viii.
Service T ax 230.02 230.02 ix.
in respect of other matters 888.99 854.74 Sub Total (II) 10,612.67 12,642.32 Total (I+II) 479,137.48 441,406.98 (` in million) 46.2     Contingent Liabilities: Claims against the Company/ disputed demands not acknowledged as debt:- Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 352 46.2.1 The Group’s pending litigations comprise of claims  against the  and proceedings pending with  T ax/Statutory/Government Authorities.
The   has reviewed all its pending litigations and  proceedings and has made adequate provisions,  wherever required and disclosed the contingent  liabilities, wherever applicable, in its financial  statements.
The does not expect the  outcome of these proceedings to have a material  impact on its financial position.
Future cash  outflows in respect of the above are determinable  only on receipt of judgments/decisions pending  with various forums/authorities.
46.2.2 Apart from above Group share of contingent  liabilities in respect of Associates company PHL is  of `198.30 million (previous year 185.16 million) .
46.2.3 In addition, in respect of the subsidiary company,  OVL, liability for payment to contractual workers  for regularization of their services is pending with  labor court under civil suit.
The amount of liability is  not ascertainable.
46.2.4 In respect of subsidiary company OVL, all known  contingent liabilities have been indicated.
The  contingent liabilities, if any, in respect of joint  ventures, where the Company is the non-operator  are not ascertainable except Sakhalin-1 where the  Operator has intimated that the status of  contingent liability is Nil.
46.2.5 In terms of the statutory provisions of Oilfields  (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948 (ORDA),  Petroleum & Natural Gas (PNG) Rules 1959 and  Notifications issued thereunder; the Company is  liable to pay royalty to Central Government (GoI)  and State Governments, on production of Crude  Oil and Natural Gas from offshore fields and  onshore fields, respectively.
Since 2008-09, the  Company has been paying royalty on crude oil at  realized price which is net of under-recovery of the  OMCs shared by the Company as per GoI  directives.
On an application filed by the  State of  Gujarat, the Hon’ble High Court of Gujarat in its  order dated 30.11.2013 has directed the Company  to pay the shortfall of royalty on crude oil  produced from the onshore fields in the State of  Gujarat on pre-discount prices from 01.04.2008  onwards.
Based on the Special Leave Petition filed  by the Company against the said order of the  Hon’ble High Court of Gujarat, pending further  orders, Hon’ble Supreme Court vide order dated  13.02.2014 stayed the operation of the impugned  judgment subject to the condition that the  company pays royalty to the State of Gujarat on  pre-discounted price of crude oil w.e.f.
01.02.2014  onwards.
Accordingly, dif ferential amount of 117,242 million (reduced to the extent 16,440  million which is paid to Gujarat Govt.- refer Note No.
32.4) on this account for the period from April, 2008  to March, 2015 ( 116,326.96 million as on  Group Group Group  ` ` ` ` 31.03.2014) has been considered as Contingent  Liability.
Pending the final outcome of the SLP filed  before the Hon’ble Supreme Court, differential  royalty (royalty on pre-discount price minus royalty  on post-discount price) amounting to  21,067.60  million deposited w.e.f.
February, 2014 ( 2,092.23  million as on 31.03.2014) in terms of Hon’ble  Supreme Court order has been shown as deposit.
46.2.6 In respect of joint venture company, Petronet MHB  Limited, there are 128 cases (previous year  127 cases) regarding enhancement of land  compensation pending with Karnataka High Court  against Order of Principal Judge Bangalore Rural  District Court.
All cases filed by landowner at  various stage of proceedings and hence no  provision is envisaged.
46.2.7 In respect of joint venture company, Petronet MHB  Limited, party “Petronet India Ltd (PIL)” has  initiated Arbitration proceedings for recovery of  their Operationalization Fees of 11.30 million  (Group share 3.25 million).
The company has  contested the liability on this account.
46.2.8 In respect of joint venture company, Mangalore  SEZ Limited, is in possession of 2.47 acres of land  in exchange for equivalent quantum of forest land  from the Govt of Karnatka, Forest Department, vide  th agreement dated 7  December, 2011 on lease for  period of 20 years.
A sum of 1.14 million has been  paid towards compensatory afforestation to MoEF  as per their demand and included in development  of land.
The MoEF has revised the fair value of  afforestation already fixed by it which is being  contested by the state govt before supreme court  for its decision.
As the amount in respect of  differential value, if any which the company has  agreed to pay to KIADB is not determinable, no  provision could be made by the company.
46.2.9 Performance Guarantees executed under the  contracts: i.
The Company has given an undertaking to  State bank of India (SBI), for an additional  funding up to 2,223.50 million (previous  year 2,234.00 million) in respect of joint  venture company “ONGC T ripura Power Co.  Limited (OTPC)” for cost overrun, if any.
ii.
The Company has given a Performance  Guarantee on behalf of Petro Carabobo  Ganga B.V .
to Government of Venezuela in  respect of Carabobo 1 Project.
The total  investment commitment is estimated at USD  1,154.75 Million (Previous Year USD 1,333.00  Million).
The Company is confident that Petro  Carabobo Ganga B.V .
will be able to honor its  obligations.
The outstanding guarantee  obligation of the OVL was 72,333.54 Million  as at 31st March, 2015 (previous year 80,059.98 Million) The Company is  confident that Petro Carabobo Ganga B.V .
` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` Consolidated Financial Statement 353 will be able to honor its obligations.
iii.
ONGBV has given counter guarantee to the  State Bank of India for the issue of  performance bonds in favour of Nigerian  National Petroleum Corporation, on behalf of  ONGC Mit tal Energy Limited, with a  ma ximum of 51% of the guaranteed  amounts.
The outstanding guarantee  obligation of the company was USD 76.50  million (Previous year USD 76.50 million).
The outstanding guarantee obligation of the  company was 4,791.96 Million (USD 76.50  million) (previous year 4,594.59 Million  (USD 76.50 million) as at 31.03.2015. iv.
The subsidiary Company, OVL has issued  Performance Guarantee in respect of  ` ` concessionary contract for Block BC-10,  Brazil and Blocks BM-S-73 and BM-ES-42 on  behalf of ONGC Campos Ltda (OCL).
The  Company is confident that OCL will be able to  honor its obligations.
v. The subsidiary Company, OVL has given  per formance guarantee to ANP, the  regulatory authority in Brazil, favoring  ONGC Campos Ltda (OCL) for BC-10 Project  where OCL has a 27% participating interest  (previous year 15% PI) and Shell Brazil is the  operator.
46.3 Additional disclosure on Consolidated Financial  Statements under schedule-III of Companies Act,  2013 An onshore drilling rig in Karaikal; ONGC has produced 1,743 million metric tonnes of oil equivalent so far; drilled 4738  oil wells and 607 gas wells in Onshore;  Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 354 46.3  Additional disclosure on Consolidated Financial Statements under Schedule-III  of Companies Act, 2013.
A Parent :- A.1 ONGC Limited India  70.81  1,298,954.27  101.48  179,647.38  69.21  1,211,604.71  80.60  214,931.67 B SubsidiariesB.1 IndianB.1.1 ONGC Videsh Limited India  14.49  265,891.89  12.77  22,601.28  14.24  249,305.00  13.37  35,657.60 B.1.2 Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL) India  2.46  45,099.36  (7.31)  (12,934.61)  4.05  70,897.92  1.63  4,342.21 B.1.3 ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Ltd. (OMPL) India  0.37  6,851.33  (0.29)  (516.00)  -    -    -    - B.2 ForeignB.2.1 ONGC Nile Ganga B.V. (A & B Class) The Netherlands  3.46  63,475.28  (3.58)  (6,332.47)  3.15  55,104.13  2.48  6,625.28 B.2.2 ONGC Campos Ltda.
Brazil  0.10  1,851.25  2.22  3,927.72  0.71  12,447.11  0.02  60.50 B.2.3 ONGC Nile Ganga (Cyprus) Limited Cyprus  0.51  9,428.82  0.03  59.88  0.51  8,981.64  0.09  239.28  B.2.4 ONGC Nile Ganga (San Cristobal) B.V.
The Netherlands  1.67  30,544.63  (2.71)  (4,789.43)  1.67  29,265.19  (0.78)  (2,081.76) B.2.5 ONGC Satpayev E&P B.V.
The Netherlands -  0.01  -  (0.25) -  0.25  -  (0.25) B.2.6 ONGC Caspian E&P B.V.
The Netherlands  0.45  8,204.87  0.50  877.44  0.44  7,618.84  (0.70)  (1,858.80) B.2.7 ONGC Nile Ganga B.V.  C Class The Netherlands  (0.11)  (1,948.33)  (2.07)  (3,661.25)  0.09  1,513.72  (0.13)  (358.79) B.2.8 ONGC Narmada Limited Nigeria  0.01  94.57  -    -    0.01  90.68  -  (1.59) B.2.9 ONGC Amazon Alaknanda Limited Bermuda  1.41  25,825.66  (0.33)  (578.87)  1.44  25,213.81  1.03  2,736.57  B.2.10 Imperial Energy Limited Cyprus  (3.03)  (55,587.95)  (0.45)  (788.02)  (2.91)  (50,904.38)  (0.50)  (1,326.07) B.2.11 Imperial Energy Tomsk Limited Cyprus  0.01  184.73  -  (0.52)  0.01  202.83 -  (1.86) B.2.12 Imperial Energy (Cyprus) Limited Cyprus  0.23  4,147.60 -  (0.62)  0.26  4,550.40 -  (1.66) B.2.13 Imperial Energy Nord Limited Cyprus  0.94  17,218.48 -  (0.29)  1.08  18,889.92 -  1.28  B.2.14 RK Imperial Energy (Kostanai) Limited Cyprus  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    B.2.15 Freshspring Investments Limited Cyprus  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    B.2.16 Nefsilius Holdings Limited Cyprus  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    B.2.17 Biancus Holdings Limited Cyprus  0.02  281.52  (0.01)  (20.55)  0.02  315.08  (0.01)  (27.41) B.2.18 Redcliffe Holdings Limited Cyprus  0.06  1,018.33  -  (0.81)  0.06  1,117.43 -  (1.53) B.2.19 Imperial Energy Gas Limited Cyprus  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    B.2.20 Imperial Frac Services (Cyprus) Limited Cyprus  -  2.17  -  (4.12) -  3.64  0.01  23.10  B.2.21 San Agio Investments Limited Cyprus -  10.42  (0.03)  (56.46)  -  28.50  (0.01)  (15.43) B.2.22 LLC Sibinterneft Russia  (0.02)  (386.82)  (0.03)  (55.72)  (0.02)  (416.71)  (0.05)  (123.54) B.2.23  LLC Allianceneftegaz Russia  (0.08)  (1,550.66)  (0.57)  (1,017.04)  (0.05)  (890.11)  (0.79)  (2,101.25) B.2.24 LLC Nord Imperial Russia  0.19  3,555.76  (0.48)  (853.01)  0.38  6,568.17  (0.19)  (501.86) B.2.25 LLC Imperial Trans service Russia  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    B.2.26 LLC Rus Imperial Group Russia  -  (61.17)  (0.05)  (86.42)  0.01  146.02  (0.19)  (513.14) B.2.27 LLC Stratum Russia  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    As % of Consolidated Net Assets As % of Consolidated Net Assets As % of Consolidated profit or loss As % of Consolidated profit or loss AmountAmount Amount Amount Net Asset (i.e.
Total Asset minus Total Liabilities) as on 31st March, 2015 Net Asset (i.e.
Total Asset minus Total Liabilities) as on 31st March, 2014 Share in Profit of loss Account for the financial year ended 31st March, 2015 Share in Profit of loss Account for the financial year ended 31st March, 2014 S No.
Name of the entity Country of incorporation (` in million) Consolidated Financial Statement 355 B.2.28 LLC Imperial Frac Services Russia -  51.32  0.01  13.55  0.01  91.63  0.05  141.50  B.2.29 Carabobo One AB Sweden  (0.58)  (10,721.97) -  (0.92)  (0.52)  (9,184.03) -  10.08  B.2.30 Petro Carabobo Ganga B.V.
The Netherlands  0.60  11,076.45  (0.06)  (105.01)  0.55  9,708.01  (0.03)  (74.51) B.2.31 ONGC BTC Ltd Cayman Islands  0.07  1,357.74  0.29  512.23  0.05  823.74  0.20  541.03  B.2.32 Beas Rovuma Energy Mozambique Limited British Virgin island  1.07  19,703.95  (0.49)  (861.47)  0.47  8,230.62  (0.01)  (29.00) B.2.33 ONGC Videsh Rovuma Ltd. Republic of Mauritius -  0.09 -  (0.34)  -    -    -  -    B.2.34 ONGC Videsh Atlantic Inc. Texas  -  0.71 -  (0.72)  -    -    -    -    C Minority Interest in all subsidiaries  1.35  24,731.33  (3.56)  (6,302.55)  1.66  29,119.98  0.59  1,583.02  D Associates D.1 Indian D.1.1 Pawan Hans Ltd. (PHL) India  0.13  2,454.69  0.17  303.10  0.13  2,189.39  0.04  118.15  E Joint ventures EntitiesE.1 IndianE.1.1 Petronet LNG Limited (PLL) India  0.39  7,110.80  0.62  1,103.15  0.36  6,232.65  0.33  889.90  E.1.2 Petronet MHB Ltd (PMHBL) India  0.08  1,489.77  0.06  98.06  0.08  1,391.72  0.04  110.44  E.1.3 Mangalore SEZ Ltd (MSEZ) (note 3.1) India  0.01  208.85  -  (4.84)  0.01  210.82  0.02  43.13  E.1.4 ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Ltd. (OMPL) (note 3.2) ndia  -    -    (2.21)  (3,915.10)  -  36.37  -  (2.26) E.1.5 ONGC Petro Additions Ltd. (OPaL) India  0.54  9,972.90 -  (3.82)  0.57  9,976.72 -  (1.79) E.1.6 ONGC Tripura Power Company Ltd. ( OTPC) India  0.17  3,144.25  0.21  364.04  0.16  2,801.39  0.02  48.88  E.1.7 ONGC Teri Biotech Ltd. (OTBL) India  0.01  103.77  0.01  22.56 -  81.25  0.01  22.44  E.1.8 Dahej SEZ Limited (DSEZ) India  0.04  676.79  0.05  90.38  0.03  604.17  0.04  109.38  E.1.9 Shell MRPL Aviation Fuels & Services Pvt  Limited (SMASL)(through MRPL) India  0.02  356.33  0.02  38.69  -    -    -    -    E.1.10 Mangalam Retail Services Limited (MRSL (through MRPL) India -  0.57  -    -    -    -    -    -    E.1.11 Nor th East Transmission Company Ltd. (NETC) (through OTPC) India  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    E.1.12 Mangalore STP Limited (through MSEZ) India  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    E.2 Foreign E.2.1 ONGC Mit tal Energy Limited Cyprus  (0.47)  (8,553.56)  (0.02)  (41.15)   (0.47)  (8,160.84)  (0.06)  (161.78) E.2.2 Petro Carabobo S.A. Venezuela  0.13  2,311.18  1.24  2,191.28  0.00  64.06  0.02  59.69  E.2.3 Carabobo Ingeniería y Construcciones, S.A. Venezuela -  0.30 -  0.02 -  0.27 -  0.02  E.2.4 Petrolera Indovenezolana S.A. Venezuela  1.13  20,748.07  3.04  5,375.36  1.32  23,068.92  2.27  6,049.03  E.2.5 South-East Asia Gas Pipeline Company Limited Hongkong  0.15  2,693.06  0.02  38.98  0.15  2,543.86  (0.06)  (164.42) E.2.6 Tamba B.V.
The Netherlands  1.22  22,400.55  1.53  2,699.93  1.09  19,150.80  0.62  1,652.87  Total  100.00  1,834,423.97  100.00  177,032.65  100.00  1,750,635.29  100.00  266,648.35  As % of Consolidated Net Assets As % of Consolidated Net Assets As % of Consolidated profit or loss As % of Consolidated profit or loss AmountAmount Amount Amount Net Asset (i.e.
Total Asset minus Total Liabilities) as on 31st March, 2015 Net Asset (i.e.
Total Asset minus Total Liabilities) as on 31st March, 2014 Share in Profit of loss Account for the financial year ended 31st March, 2015 Share in Profit of loss Account for the financial year ended 31st March, 2014 S No.
Name of the entity Country of incorporation (` in million) Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 356 As at 31.03.15 Opening 212.16 222.98 202.723 203.245 414.87 426.22 Addition 12.36 4.71 3.480 18.652 15.84 23.36 Production 16.39 15.54 18.321 19.174 34.71 34.71 Closing 208.13 212.15 187.882 202.723 396.00 414.87 Opening 189.31 190.81 150.595 155.897 339.90 346.71 Addition 9.18 7.94 2.365 0.020 11.55 7.96 Production 8.74 9.44 4.909 5.321 13.65 14.76 Closing 189.75 189.31 148.051 150.596 337.80 339.91 Opening 401.47 413.79 353.318 359.142 754.78 772.93 Addition 21.54 12.65 5.845 18.671 27.39 31.33 Production 25.13 24.97 23.230 24.496 48.36 49.47 Closing 397.88 401.47 335.933 353.317 733.81 754.79 As at As at As at As at As at 31.03.14 31.03.15 31.03.14 31.03.15 31.03.14 A.
In India Crude Oil (MMT)Details Gas (Billion Cubic Meter) Total Oil Equivalent (MMTOE) (Note 47.2.1) Offshore Onshore Total in India 47        Disclosure under Guidance Note on "Accounting for Oil & Gas Producing Activities"              (approved by Reserve Estimates Committee): 47.1      Company's share of Proved Reserves on the geographical basis is as under: Seismic survey in progress; 83% of established in-place reserves (out of 10.9 BT) in the country has been discovered by ONGC.
Consolidated Financial Statement 357 As at 31.03.15 Opening 9.501 9.956 -  -   9.501 9.956  Addition 0.193 0.286 -   -   0.193 0.286  Ded/Adj -                        -   -                        -   -  -   Production 0.705 0.741 -    -   0.705 0.741  Closing 8.988 9.501 -      -   8.988 9.501  Opening 6.377 6.595 -     -   6.377 6.595  Addition -  -   -     -   -  -   -  -   -  -   -  -   Production -  0.218 -  -   -  0.218  Closing 6.377 6.377 -    -   6.377 6.377  Opening 5.887 5.921 -   -   5.887 5.921  Addition -  -   -    -   -  -   -                        -   -                        -   -  -   Production -  0.034 -  -   -  0.034  Closing 5.887 5.887 -  -   5.887 5.887  Opening 36.905 32.894 73.354 70.531 110.259 103.425  Addition 1.235 5.499 0.044 3.399 1.279 8.898  -  -   -  -   -  -   Production 1.536 1.488 0.618 0.576 2.154 2.064  Closing 36.605 36.905 72.780 73.354 109.384 110.259  Opening 0.566 0.598 4.562 6.414 5.128 7.012  Addition -  -   -   -   -  -   0.001                       -   -                0.001 0.001 0.001  Production 0.030 0.032 1.774 1.851 1.804 1.883  Closing 0.535 0.566 2.789 4.562 3.324 5.128  Opening 2.581 2.581 -      -   2.581 2.581  Addition -  -   -      -   -  -   -                        -   -                        -   -  -   Production -  -   -   -   -  -   Closing 2.581 2.581 -     -   2.581 2.581  Opening 7.741 4.717 0.656 0.334 8.397 5.051  Addition 2.152 3.342 0.049 0.335 2.200 3.677  -                        -   -  -   -  -   Production 0.812 0.318 0.042 0.013 0.854 0.331  Closing 9.081 7.741 0.663 0.656 9.744 8.397  Opening 3.483 3.453 -  -   3.483 3.453  Addition 0.491 0.626 -   -   0.491 0.626  - (0.001) - - - (0.001) Production 0.618 0.597 -   -   0.618 0.597  Closing 3.355 3.483 -    -   3.355 3.483  As at As at As at As at As at 31.03.14 31.03.15 31.03.14 31.03.15 31.03.14 Ded/Adj Ded/Adj Ded/Adj Ded/Adj Ded/Adj Ded/Adj Ded/Adj B.
Outside India Crude Oil (MMT) Details Gas (Billion Cubic Meter) Total Oil Equivalent (MMTOE) (Note 47.2.1) GNOP, Sudan GPOC, South Sudan Block 5A, South Sudan AFPC, Syria BC-10, Brazil MECL, Colombia Sakhalin-1,  Russia Block 06.1,  Vietnam Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 358 As at 31.03.15 As at As at As at As at As at 31.03.14 31.03.15 31.03.14 31.03.15 31.03.14 Opening 14.583 14.970 4.685 4.721 19.268 19.691  Addition -  -   -   -   -  -   Ded/Adj -                        -   -                        -   -  -   Production 0.265 0.387 0.024 0.036 0.290 0.423  Closing 14.317 14.583 4.661 4.685 18.978 19.268  Opening 10.199 10.966 -   -   10.199 10.966  Addition -  -   -  -   -  -   Ded/Adj -                        -   -                        -   -  -   Production 0.645 0.767 -  -   0.645 0.767  Closing 9.554 10.199 -   -   9.554 10.199  Opening 3.796 0.022 -   -   3.796 0.022  Addition -  3.795 -  -   -  3.795  Ded/Adj -  -   -    -   -  -   Production 0.063 0.021 -   -   0.063 0.021  Closing 3.734 3.796 -   -   3.734 3.796  Opening 1.803 1.803 -  -   1.803 1.803  Addition -  -   -  -   -  -   Ded/Adj -                        -   -                        -   -  -   Production -  - -  -   -  -   Closing 1.803 1.803 -  -   1.803 1.803  Opening -  -   11.691             10.297 11.691 10.297  Addition -  -   -  1.595 -  1.595  Ded/Adj -                        -   -                        -   -  -   Production -  -   0.662 0.201 0.662 0.201  Closing -  -   11.029 11.691 11.029 11.691  Opening 8.763 9.646 -  -   8.763 9.646  Addition -  -   -   -   -  -   Ded/Adj -  -   -  -   -  -   Production 0.859 0.883 -  -   0.859 0.883  Closing 7.904 8.763 -   -   7.904 8.763  Opening 112.185 104.122 94.948 92.297 207.133 196.419  Addition 4.070 13.548 0.092 5.329 4.162 18.877  Ded/Adj 0.001 (0.001) -  0.001 0.001 -   Production 5.533 5.486 3.120 2.677 8.653 8.163  Closing 110.721 112.185 91.921 94.948 202.641 207.133  Crude Oil (MMT)Details Gas (Billion Cubic Meter) Total Oil Equivalent (MMTOE) (Note 47.2.1) IEC, Russia PIVSA, Venezuela Carabobo-1, Venezuela BLOCK- XXIV, Syria BLOCK-A1  & A3,  Myanmar ACG, Azerbaijan Total Outside India Consolidated Financial Statement 359 47 .2    Company's share of Proved Developed Reserves on the geographical basis is as under: As at 31.03.15 As at As at As at As at As at 31.03.14 31.03.15 31.03.14 31.03.15 31.03.14 Opening 158.99 160.62 132.710 110.254 291.70 270.87 Addition 11.88 13.90 8.304 41.630 20.18 55.54 Production 16.39 15.53 18.321 19.174 34.71 34.71 Closing 154.48 158.99 122.693 132.710 277.17 291.70 Opening 146.60 150.81 106.984 110.010 253.58 260.81 Addition 5.99 5.18 1.853 2.225 7.84 7.41 Production 8.85 9.39 5.002 5.251 13.85 14.64 Closing 143.74 146.60 103.835 106.984 247.57 253.58 Opening 305.58 311.43 239.694 220.264 545.28 531.69 Addition 17.88 19.09 10.157 43.855 28.03 62.94 Production 25.24 24.92 23.323 24.425 48.56 49.35 Closing 298.22 305.58 226.528 239.694 524.75 545.28 A.
In India B.
Outside India Crude Oil (MMT) Details Gas (Billion Cubic Meter) Total Oil Equivalent (MMTOE) (Note 47.2.1) Offshore Onshore Total in India Opening 2.456 2.784 -        -   2.456 2.784  Addition 0.546 0.413 -       -   0.546 0.413  Ded/Adj -                        -   -                        -   -  -   Production 0.705 0.741 -        -   0.705 0.741  Closing 2.297 2.456 -  -  2.297 2.456  Opening 4.312 4.530 -     -   4.312 4.530  Addition -  -   -     -   -  -   Ded/Adj -   -                        -   -  -   Production -  0.218 -      -   -  0.218  Closing 4.312 4.312 -  -  4.312 4.312  Opening 2.565 2.599 -     -   2.565 2.599  Addition -  -   -    -   -  -   Ded/Adj -                        -   -                        -   -  -   Production -  0.034 -  -   -  0.034  Closing 2.565 2.565 -  -  2.565 2.565  Opening 11.903 13.391 10.276 10.163 22.179 23.554  Addition 2.481 -   0.033 0.689 2.514 0.689  Ded/Adj -             -   -                        -   -  -   Production 1.536 1.488 0.618 0.576 2.154 2.064  Closing 12.848 11.903 9.691 10.276 22.539 22.179  GNOP,  Sudan GPOC, South Sudan Block 5A, South Sudan Sakhalin-1, Russia Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 360 As at 31.03.15 As at As at As at As at As at 31.03.14 31.03.15 31.03.14 31.03.15 31.03.14 Opening 0.566 0.598 4.563 6.414 5.129 7.012  Addition -  -   -       -   -  -   Ded/Adj -                        -   -                        -   -  -   Production 0.030 0.032 1.774 1.851 1.804 1.883  Closing 0.536 0.566 2.789 4.563 3.324 5.129  Opening 2.206 2.206 -     -   2.206 2.206  Addition -  -   -      -   -  -   Ded/Adj -                        -   -                        -   -  -   Production -  -   -     -   -  -   Closing 2.206 2.206 -  -  2.206 2.206  Opening 3.324 1.626 0.244 0.137 3.568 1.763  Addition 4.271 2.016 0.247 0.120 4.518 2.136  Ded/Adj -  -   -  -   -  -   Production 0.812 0.318 0.042 0.013 0.854 0.331  Closing 6.783 3.324 0.450 0.244 7.233 3.568  Opening 3.190 3.000 -    -   3.190 3.000  Addition 0.442 0.787 -     -   0.442 0.787  Ded/Adj -                        -   -                        -   -  -   Production 0.618 0.597 -   -   0.618 0.597  Closing 3.014 3.190 -  -  3.014 3.190  Opening 4.444 4.831 1.095 1.131 5.539 5.962  Addition -  -   -     -   -  -   Ded/Adj -                        -   -                        -   -  -   Production 0.265 0.387 0.024 0.036 0.290 0.423  Closing 4.178 4.444 1.071 1.095 5.249 5.539  Opening 2.047 1.660 -    -   2.047 1.660  Addition 0.880 1.154 -     -   0.880 1.154  Ded/Adj -                        -   -                        -   -  -   Production 0.645 0.767 -         -   0.645 0.767  Closing 2.282 2.047 -  -  2.282 2.047  Opening 0.535 0.022 -          -   0.535 0.022  Addition 0.448 0.534 -          -   0.448 0.534  Ded/Adj -                        -   -                        -   -  -   Production 0.063 0.021 -            -   0.063 0.021  Closing 0.920 0.535 -  -  0.920 0.535  Crude Oil (MMT)Details Gas (Billion Cubic Meter) Total Oil Equivalent (MMTOE) (Note 47.2.1) Block 06.1, Vietnam AFPC, Syria BC-10, Brazil MECL, Colombia IEC, Russia PIVSA, Venezuela Carabobo - 1, Venezuela Consolidated Financial Statement 361 As at 31.03.15 As at As at As at As at As at 31.03.14 31.03.15 31.03.14 31.03.15 31.03.1 Opening 0.049 0.049 -          -   0.049 0.049 Addition -  -   -          -   -  - Ded/Adj -                        -   -                        -   -  -   Production -  -   -          -   -  -   Closing 0.049 0.049 -  -  0.049 0.049  Opening -  -  2.614 -  2.614 -   Addition -  -  3.702 2.815 3.702 2.815  Ded/Adj -  -  -  -  -   Production -  -  0.662 0.201 0.662 0.201  Closing -  -  5.654 2.614 5.654 2.614  Opening 3.384 4.267 -  -  3.384 4.267  Addition 0.403 -   -  -  0.403 -  Ded/Adj -                        -   -  -  -  -   Production 0.859 0.883 -  -  0.859 0.883  Closing 2.928 3.384 -  -  2.928 3.384  Opening 40.981 41.563 18.792 17.845 59.773 59.408  Addition 9.471 4.904 3.982 3.624 13.453 8.528  Ded/Adj -  -  -  -  -  -   Production 5.533 5.486 3.120 2.677 8.653 8.163  Closing 44.918 40.981 19.654 18.792 64.573 59.773  Crude Oil (MMT) Details Gas (Billion Cubic Meter) Total Oil Equivalent (MMTOE) (Note 47.2.1) BLOCK-XXIV, Syria BLOCK-A1  & A3,  Myanmar ACG,  Azerbaijan Total  Outside India 47.2.1 MMTOE denotes “Million Metric Tone Oil  Equivalent” and for calculating Oil equivalent of  Gas, 1000 M3 of Gas has been taken to be equal to  1 MT of Crude Oil.
Variations in totals, if any, are  due to internal summation and rounding off.
47.2.2 The year-end reserves of the company and its  subsidiary, OVL have been estimated by the  Reserves Estimation Committee (REC) which  follows international reser voir engineering  procedures consistently The company and its subsidiary, OVL has adopted  deterministic approach for reserves estimation  and is following Society of Petroleum Engineers  (SPE) – 1997 guidelines which defines reserves as  “estimated volumes of crude oils, condensate,  natural gas, natural gas liquids and associated  substances anticipated to be commercially  recoverable from known accumulations from a  given date forward, under existing economic  conditions, by established operating practices,  and under current Government regulations.” Volumetric estimation is the main procedure in  estimation, which uses reservoir rock and fluid  properties to calculate hydrocarbons in-place and  then estimate that portion which will be recovered  from it.
As the field gets matured with reasonably  good production history is available then  performance method such as material balance,  simulation, decline curve analysis are applied to  get more accurate assessments of reserves.
The Company uses the services of third party  agencies for due diligence and it gets the reserves  of its assets audited by third party periodically by  internationally reputed consultants who adopt  latest industry practices for their evaluation.
The annual revision of estimates is based on the  yearly exploratory and development activities and  results thereof.
New In place Volume and Ultimate  Annual Report 2014-15 Consolidated Financial Statement 362 48 Disclosure on Foreign currency exposures at year end that have not been hedged by Company derivative  instrument or otherwise are given below (refer Note 32.7 & 32.8):- 49 In respect of parent company, ONGC, discrepancies of crude oil of 96,496 MT (valued at `395.47 million as on March 31, 2014) between physical and book records at Ankleshwar Asset have been ascertained by the management during the year and accordingly these have been written off/adjusted in inventories.
Further, 70,746 MT of pit oil lying in book of Ahmedabad Asset (valued at nil as on March 31, 2014) has also been written off during  the year.
These write offs and consequential adjustments thereto have been made on account of over reporting of  crude oil production in earlier financial years.
The discrepancies as mentioned above are under investigation by the  appropriate authorities.
50 The figures in respect of the company, Subsidiaries/Joint Venture Companies have been regrouped/ rearranged  based upon the details obtained from the management as part of consolidation process, Audited/unaudited  accounts of respective group companies.
Some balances of T rade/Other Receivables, T rade/Other Payables and  Loans & Advances are subject to confirmation/reconciliation.
Adjustments, if any, will be accounted for on  confirmation/reconciliation of the same, which will not have a material impact.
Reserves are estimated for new field discoveries or  new pool discoveries in already discovered fields.
Also, appraisal activities lead to revision in  estimates due to new subsurface data.
Similarly,  reinterpretation exercise is also carried out for old  fields due to necessity of revision in petro-physical  parameters, updating of static & dynamic models  and performance analysis leading to change in  reserves.
Intervention of new technology, change  in classifications and contractual provisions also  necessitates revision in estimation of reserves.
Import Creditors AED  0.27  4.61  0.29  4.78  AUD  1.07  51.11  0.64  35.70  CHF  0.11  6.82  -    -    EUR  12.15  821.82  14.03  1,158.49  GBP  3.58  331.68  5.86  585.30  JPY  519.05  270.48  974.24  572.86  NOK  1.28  10.01  8.61  86.31  OMR  0.04  6.33  0.04  6.07  SEK  0.03  0.22  0.03  0.28  SGD  0.38  17.51  0.44  21.07  USD  782.90  49,040.84  927.84  55,726.36  Total  50,561.44  58,197.21  Export Receivables USD  197.92  12,397.94  459.78  27,614.20  MWP  Provision USD  175.30  10,980.66  162.71  9,772.25  Cash Call Payable USD  1.18  74.13  0.89  53.71  Cash Call Receivable USD 47.78  2,992.94 81.94  4,921.32  Particulars Foreign  Currency Foreign  Currency As at 31st March 2015 As at 31st March 2014 Equivalent (`) Equivalent (`) Electronic Clearing Services 363 Electronic Clearing Services (ECS) Request Form The Company extends the ECS facility to shareholders so as to enable them to receive dividend through electronic mode to  their bank.
This facility will be available in the following centres: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Bhubaneswar, Chandigarh,  Chennai, Delhi, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Jaipur, Kanpur, Kolkata, Mumbai, Nagpur, Patna, Thiruvananthapuram, Agra,  Allahabad, Amritsar, Aurangabad, Baroda, Bhopal, Calicut, Cochin, Coimbatore, Dehradun, Erode, Gorakhpur, Gwalior,  Hubli, Indore, Jabalpur, Jalandhar, Jammu, Jamshedpur, Jodhpur, Kolhapur, Lucknow, Ludhiana, Madurai, Mangalore,  Mysore, Nasik, Panjim, Pune, Raipur, Rajkot, Salem, Shimla, Surat, T richur, T richy, Udaipur, Varanasi, Vijayawada,  Visakhapatnam.
Those who wish to avail the facility may fill up the ECS form given below and send the same to the Share  T ransfer Agent of the Company - M/s Karvy Computershare Private Limited in case of shares held in physical form and to  their respective Depository Participant in case of shares held in Electronic/Demat form.
Electronic Clearing Services (ECS) Request form (Note: If you are already receiving through ECS, please ignore this form) SHAREHOLDERS IN PHYSICAL FORM SHAREHOLDERS IN DEMAT FORM T o be sent to your Depositary participant (DP) Dear Sir, Subject  : ECS Mandate/ Bank form for Dividend Payment I the undersigned, shareholder of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC), wish to opt for ECS facility for payment  of dividend.
The following is a confirmation of my details and I hereby confirm my choice to opt for payment of dividend  payable to me by a physical dividend warrant/demand draft, on account of any circumstances beyond the control of ONGC,  that may affect payment of dividend through ECS.
1) For shares held in physical form Folio No: 2) For shares held in Electronic form  [Shareholders holding shares in electronic form should forward this form to their respective Depository Participant (DP)].
DP ID Client ID 3) Name & Address  : 4)   Bank Particulars : Bank Name Branch Name & Address Account No.
(as appearing in cheque book) Account type 9 digit MICR code as appearing on the cheque Karvy Computershare Pvt.
Ltd Karvy Selenium T ower B, Plot 31-32, Gachibowli Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad-500 032 Phone No.
040- 67162222 Fax No: 040- 23001153 Annual Report 2014-15 Electronic Clearing Services 364 Proxy form 365 Proxy form  [ P u  I/We, being the member (s) of ………….
shares of the above named company, hereby appoint   1 .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2.   of  having e-mail Id 3.
.....................…………………… ............................………………….
……………….....................................or failing him   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  nd And whose signature(s) are appended below as my/our proxy to at tend and vote (on a poll) for me/us and on my/our behalf at the 22 Annual General Meeting of the  th  company, to be held on Tuseday, 15 September, 2015 at 10.00 A.M. at NDMC Indoor Stadium, Talkatora Garden, New Delhi and at any adjournment thereof in  respect of such resolutions as are indicated below:  Affix revenue stamp of `1 Signed this…..........… day of……….............. 2015 Signature of shareholder  Signature of first Proxy holder                    Signature of second Proxy holder  Signature of third Proxy holder                   Note: This form of proxy in order to be effective should be duly completed and deposited at the Registered Office of the Company, not  less than 48 hours before the commencement of the Meeting.
Name of the member (s):  Registered address:  E-mail Id:  Folio No/ Client Id:  DP ID:   Attendance Slip OIL AND NATURAL GAS CORPORATION LIMITED  CIN: L74899DL1993GOI054155 Reg.
office: JEEVAN BHARATI, 124 INDIRA CHOWK, NEW DELHI- 110001 Website: www.ongcindia.com  email: secretariat@ongc.co.in Tel: 011-23301277/1299 Please fill in this at tendance slip and hand it over at the entrance of the meeting venue.
Client ID* D.P ID* Folio No.
No.
of share(s) held I cer tify that I am a member/proxy for the member of the Company.
nd th  I hereby record my presence at the 22  Annual General Meeting of the Oil And Natural Gas Corporation Limited held on Tuesday, 15 September, 2015 at 10.00 A.M. at NDMC Indoor Stadium, Talkatora Garden, New Delhi.
Members/proxy’s name in Block Let ters *Applicable for investor holding Share(s) in electronic form.
Signature of Member/Proxy OIL AND NATURAL GAS CORPORATION LIMITED  CIN: L74899DL1993GOI054155 Reg.
office: JEEVAN BHARATI, 124 INDIRA CHOWK, NEW DELHI- 110001 Website: www.ongcindia.com  email:secretariat@ongc.co.in Tel: 011-23301277/1299 SI No.
RESOLUTIONS ORDINARY BUSINESS SPECIAL BUSINESS 1 To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Financial Statements including consolidated Financial Statements of the st  Company as at 31 March, 2015, together with the Board's Repor t, the Repor t of Auditors' thereon and comments of the Comptroller & Auditor General of India, in terms of Section 143 (6) of the Companies Act, 2013.
2 To confirm the payment of two interim dividends and declare final dividend on equity shares for the year 2014 -15.
3 To appoint a Director in place of Shri Shashi Shanker (DIN-06447938) who retires by rotation and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
4 To authorise Board of Directors of the Company to fix the remuneration of the Joint Statutory Auditors of the Company for the Financial Year 2015-16, in terms of the provisions of section 139(5) read with section 142 of the Companies Act, 2013.
Vote (please mention no.
of shares For Against Abstain 5 To appoint Shri  U. P .
Singh (DIN-00354985) as Director of the Company.
6 To appoint Shri  A. K. Dwivedi(DIN-07048874) as Director of the Company.
7 To appoint Smt.
Atreyee Das (DIN- 07194189)  as Director of the Company.
8 To appoint Shri  V. P .
Mahawar (DIN-  07208090) as Director of the Company.
st  9 To ratify the remuneration of the Cost Auditors for the financial year ending 31 March 2016.
Annual Report 2014-15 Proxy Form 366 nd Route map of the Venue of 22  AGM of ONGC Talkatora  Stadium Talkatora  Stadium Connaught  Place Connaught  Place  ONGC, an equal opportunity employer celebrates diversity at  work place and the power that it brings along, energizes our nation.
www.ongcindia.com       /ONGCLimited       @ONGC_