Creating  a digitally  connected  world Integrated Report and Annual Accounts   Bharti Airtel Limited 2017-18  About this Report  Bharti Airtel  Limited is pleased  to present its first  Integrated Report.
With this, we begin  a journey aimed  to showcase  the value we  create for all our  stakeholders.
As we take strides to strengthen our value creation philosophy  through ‘Integrated Reporting’ in the coming years, for now  we shall continue to disclose in-depth analysis of the material  impact of our business operations on economic, social and  environmental indicators across the stakeholder fraternity  through our Sustainability Report, which shall be published  separately.
Reporting scope and period The Integrated Report covers information on business  operations of Bharti Airtel Limited, aptly disclosed through  six capitals as defined by International Integrated Reporting  Council (IIRC).
All the six capitals (except financial capital)  cover information on India operations excluding Bharti Infratel  Limited and Airtel Payments Bank Limited.
The parameters for  financial capital covered in this report are in relation to ‘Bharti  Airtel Limited’ on standalone basis.
The Integrated Report considers the primary reporting period  as April 01, 2017 to March 31, 2018.
However, some of the  sections of the report represent facts and figures of previous  years to provide a comprehensive view to the stakeholders.
Reporting framework The report follows the International <IR> Framework as  developed by IIRC (www.integratedreporting.org) and  should be read in conjunction with the financial statements  included herein and the notes thereto.
The financial and  statutory data presented is in accordance with the  requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 (including the rules  made thereunder), Indian Accounting Standards, the Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and  Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and the  applicable laws.
The information contained in this report can be  accessed through the Airtel Investor Relations app  available on the iPhone and iPad.
For the online version of the Annual Report please  log on to http://www.airtel.com Forward-looking statements Some information in this report may contain forward-looking  statements which include statements regarding Company’s  expected financial position and results of operations, business  plans and prospects etc.
and are generally identified by  forward-looking words such as “believe,” “plan,” “anticipate,”  “continue,” “estimate,” “expect,” “may,” “will” or other similar  words.
Forward-looking statements are dependent on  assumptions or basis underlying such statements.
We have  chosen these assumptions or basis in good faith, and we  believe that they are reasonable in all material respects.
However, we caution that actual results, performances or  achievements could differ materially from those expressed or  implied in such forward-looking statements.
We undertake no  obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement,  whether as a result of new information, future events, or  otherwise.
Key company information  Bharti Airtel Limited  ISIN: INE397D01024 BSE Code: 532454 NSE Code: BHARTIARTL CIN: L74899DL1995PLC070609 Assurance  T o ensure the integrity of facts and information, the Board  of Directors and management have reviewed the Integrated  Report and Ernst & Young LLP (EY) has carried out the  independent assurance on sustainability disclosures presented  in the report.
The ‘Independent Assurance Statement’ issued  by EY is available on our website www.airtel.com.
The statutory auditors, Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP , Chartered  Accountants have provided assurance on the financial  statements and the ‘Independent Auditor’s Report’ has been  duly incorporated as a part of this report.
Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Chairman  Managing Director & CEO   (India & South Asia)  Raghunath Mandava Managing Director & CEO  (Africa) Read Inside  006  About Us 008  Segment wise Performance 009 Performance Highlights 010 Looking Back at the Year 012  Message from the Chairman 014  Message from Managing Director & CEO  (India & South Asia) 015  Message from Managing Director & CEO (Africa) 016  Moving ahead on India’s Digitalization Journey 018  Redefining Digital Banking Ecosystem 020  Music to the Ears 021  The Making of a Blockbuster 022  Mobile Money - Banking the Unbanked 024  Board of Directors 026  Risk Management  028 Integrated Strategy for Value Creation 029 Materiality Assessment 030 Our Business and Value Creation Model 032 Financial Capital 033 Intellectual Capital 036 Human Capital 039 Manufactured Capital 041 Social & Relationship Capital 044 Natural Capital 046 The Crowning Moments 048 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Integrated  Report 006 056 057  Business Responsibility Report 065  Board’s Report 106  Management Discussion and Analysis 131  Report on Corporate Governance Statutory  Reports 057 159 160  Standalone Financial Statements 226  Consolidated Financial Statements 313  Statement Pursuant to Section 129   of the Companies Act, 2013 Financial  Statements 160 317 Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 002  Corporate Information Board of Directors Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal, Chairman Mr. Ben Verwaayen Ms. Chua Sock Koong  Mr. Craig Edward Ehrlich Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal Mr. Manish Kejriwal Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal Mr. Shishir Priyadarshi  Ms. T an Yong Choo Mr. V .
K. Viswanathan Mr. Gopal Vittal, Managing Director & CEO   (India & South Asia)   Managing Director & CEO (Africa) Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) B. V .
Mr. Raghunath Mandava Chief Financial Officer Mr. Nilanjan Roy Company Secretary  Mr. Pankaj T ewari Statutory Auditors Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Chartered Accountants Internal Assurance Partners   Ernst & Young LLP ANB & Co., Chartered Accountants Cost Auditors      R.J. Goel & Co.
Cost Accountants Secretarial Auditors Chandrasekaran Associates Company Secretaries Registered & Corporate Office Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road, Vasant Kunj, Phase – II, New Delhi – 110 070, India CIN: L74899DL1995PLC070609 Website http://www.airtel.com Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 003 Integrated Report Corporate Information  India has always been a mobile first market, and with  the role of a smartphone extending beyond just a  communication device has further expedited a massive  rollout of networks on the part of the providers –  including us, which led to the creation of a high speed  broadband network in India.
The penetration of affordable  handsets has increased; convergence of Payments via  smartphones and the demonetization and cashless drive  has acted as a catalyst for the growth of digital payments  in India and the convergence of telecom services like  connectivity, entertainment, education, and banking has  led to a greater level of convenience and freedom for our  customers as they are now able to run their day to day  lives from the gadget in their hand.
As per IAMAI, the number of internet users in India will  grow significantly in 2018 – the growth being visible  in both urban and rural areas.
The high-speed mobile  broadband penetration in India has been at an all  time high, and there has been a major shift in the data  consumption trends of both the individual and group  nature.
And to top it all, by 2020, India will be the world’s  youngest country with 64% of its population in the  working age group – which will be an unprecedented  edge, considering the crucial relevance of mobile  data usage in this demographic for learning, financial  transactions, healthcare, shopping and so on.
Hence, at Airtel, we are keeping pace with the rapidly  shifting landscape of telecom in modern India by  deepening our roots and extending our reach in the digital  services arena.
As always, we are committed to making  the lives of our millions of customers easier by staying  one step ahead, envisioning their present as well as future  needs and being ready to provide them with it all by creating a digitally   connected world.
Every monumental year for an  industry brings with it certain  decisive turn of priorities that change  its landscape, for good.
The same  has been true for telecommunication  this year.
FY’18 has been quite  disruptive for the industry in India for  more reasons than one – and hence  quite transformational as well.
A  highly competitive intensity reigned,  and amidst all that we chose to  keep our eyes less on the downward  spiral of obstacles and more on the  rising graph of possibilities – the  greatest of which has been venturing  beyond being purely mobile oriented  to a comprehensive digital service  provider.
About Us Bharti Airtel Limited is a leading global telecommunications company with  operations in 16 countries across Asia and Africa.
Headquartered in New  Delhi, India, the Company ranks among the top three mobile service providers  globally in terms of subscribers.
In India, the company’s product offerings include 2G, 3G and 4G wireless services, mobile commerce, fixed line services, high speed  home broadband, DTH, enterprise services including national & international long distance services to carriers.
In the rest of the  geographies, it offers 2G, 3G, 4G wireless services and mobile commerce.
Bharti Airtel had over 413 million customers across its  operations at the end of March 2018.
Diversified service portfolio World population 24%* of the total population covered * Based on UN Report dated January 1, 2013 Indian population coverage  95.3% Africa presence   14 countries  Recognized brand T alented people 20,793 Employees  17,263 India & South Asia 3,530 Africa We own and operate more than 39,523 telecom towers under  our subsidiary Bharti Infratel Limited (on a standalone basis)  with presence across all 22 telecom circles.
T ower Infrastructure  We are India’s leading and most trusted provider of ICT services  with a diverse portfolio of services to enterprises, governments,  carriers and small and medium businesses.
Airtel Business India’s first payments bank with active operations across 29  states in India.
Payments Bank We offer postpaid, prepaid, international roaming, data  connectivity and other value-added services to our customers.
Wireless Services Our Direct-T o-Home (DTH) platform offers both standard and  high definition (HD) digital TV services with 3D capabilities and  Dolby surround sound.
Digital TV Services   We offer fixed-line telephone and broadband (DSL) services  across pan-India.
Homes Services Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 006  Shareholding as on March 31, 2018 1 > 5 > 4 > 3 > 2 > Promoter and Promoter group 67.14% Mutual Funds and Units Trust of India 6.61% Financial Institutions, Banks and Foreign Institutions  18.53% Insurance Companies  5.69% Others 2.03% 4 5 12 3 How we will win Win the 4G Game  decisively > Win the primary SIM slot and wrest back share.
> Win every market and channel through brilliant micro marketing and a re-energized GTM.
> Drive upgrades through device partnerships and offers.
> Lock-in customers through postpaid, loyalty program and more products.
Win with Brilliant  Network Experience > Fix network quality through discipline, ownership, right measurement and digitization.
> Future proof the network across access, transport and core layers by investing smartly.
Build New Revenues > Rapidly grow homes through broadband and DTH expansion.
> Accelerate SME through GTM re-invention and going deeper in large accounts.
> Leverage Customer 360, training and touch points to drive the right recommendation at  the right time.
> Build the largest Music and TV service of India.
> Launch homes, office and payments platforms to drive new revenues.
> Build the largest payments bank through dramatic increase in users and financial  services use cases.
> Drive new revenue streams in the areas of IoT , Cybersecurity and DCs.
Win with War on Waste > Drive down cost through end to end process re-engineering and digitization.
Win with People > Drive passion and teamwork while building an Airtel of the future.
Vision Our vision is to enrich the lives of customers.
Our obsession is to win customers for life  through an exceptional experience.
Values  Alive, Inclusive, Respectful.
Objectives Grow market share.
Grow revenue.
Drive down cost.
Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 007 Integrated Report About Us Segment wise Performance Wireless services > Bundled plans with unlimited voice packs > First to launch 4G in India > Postpaid plans  > MyPlan - customized plans as per customer usage  > Infinity - Options with unlimited benefits > Pocket-friendly data packs > Recognized as the smartphone network Homes services Landline > Attractive plans and offers > Highly reliable services > 24/7 online support > Value-added services Internet > Introduced ‘V-Fiber’  technology > Up to 100 Mbps speed Digital TV services  > Android TV > Universal Remote > MyPlan Customized > Interactive services * on constant currency, 14 countries operations T ower Infrastructure  > One of the world’s largest  passive infrastructure  providers > Over 91,451 towers  (including proportionate  share of Indus) Airtel Business > Diverse portfolio of  services - voice, data,  video, network integration,  data centres, managed  services, enterprise  mobility applications and  digital media > Strategically located  submarine cables and  satellite network > Global network running  across 250,000 Rkms,  covering 50 countries and  5 continents 22% Mobile Services   Africa 3% Homes 4% Digital TV 13% Airtel   Business 7% T ower  Infrastructure Revenue Mix FY 2017-18 51% Mobile Services India  and South Asia 565,511227,734 Mobile India Y-o-Y Revenues -18% EBITDA -34% 462,639150,888 FY17 FY18  (J Mn) 27,518 Y-o-Y Revenues -8% EBITDA -9% 25,265 FY17 FY18 12,998 11,802  (J Mn) 34,306 Y-o-Y Revenues 10% EBITDA 16% 37,570 FY17 FY18 12,219 14,226  (J Mn) 1,09,429 Y-o-Y Revenues 3% EBITDA 25% 1,13,218 FY17 FY18 33,884 42,296  (J Mn) 60,829 Y-o-Y Revenues 9% EBITDA 12% 66,284 FY17 FY18 29,177 32,546  (J Mn) 2,894 Mobile Africa*  Y-o-Y Revenues 5% EBITDA 46% 3,036 FY17 FY18 694 1,014 (USD Mn) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 008  Performance Highlights Financial Year Ended March 31 Units IFRS Ind AS** 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Operating Highlights T otal Customer Base 000’s  2,95,948  3,24,368  3,57,428  3,72,354  4,13,822  Mobile Services 000’s  2,83,580  3,10,884  3,42,040  3,55,673  3,95,722  Homes Services* 000’s  1,654  1,679  1,949  2,129  2,172  Digital TV Services 000’s  9,012  10,073  11,725  12,815  14,168  Airtel Business* 000’s  1,702  1,732  1,714  1,736  1,760  Consolidated Financials (H Mn) T otal revenues H Mn  8,57,461  9,20,394  9,65,321  9,54,683  8,36,879  EBITDA (before exceptional items) H Mn  2,78,430  3,14,517  3,41,682  3,56,206  3,04,479  Cash Profit from Operations before  Derivative and Exchange Fluctuation  (before exceptional items) H Mn  2,41,813  2,85,280  2,89,083  2,83,668  2,27,169  Earnings Before T ax H Mn  78,643  1,07,130  1,28,463  77,233  32,669  Net Profit H Mn  27,727  51,835  60,767  37,998  10,989  Consolidated Financials (H Mn) Shareholder's Equity H Mn  5,97,560  6,19,564  6,67,693  6,74,563  6,95,322  Net Debt H Mn  6,05,416  6,68,417  8,35,106  9,13,999  9,52,285  Capital Employed H Mn  12,02,976  12,87,981  15,02,799  15,88,562  16,47,607  Key Ratios Capex Productivity % 72.91 77.40 69.89 65.34 49.88 Opex Productivity % 45.05 43.63 42.75 41.38 42.88 EBITDA Margin % 32.47 34.17 35.40 37.31 36.38 EBIT Margin % 14.22 17.23 17.22 16.42 13.25 Return on Shareholder's Equity % 5.04 8.52 9.44 5.66 1.60 Return on Capital employed % 6.65 8.05 8.32 6.45 4.64 Net Debt to EBITDA Times  2.19  2.08  2.46  2.66  3.19  Interest Coverage ratio Times  7.58  8.43  7.06  5.20  4.37  Book Value Per Equity Share H  149.49  154.99  167.03  168.77  173.96  Net Debt to Shareholders’ Equity Times  1.01  1.08  1.25  1.35  1.37  Earnings Per Share (Basic) H  7.02  12.97  15.21  9.51  2.75  *  Effective FY 2016-17, the company has realigned the reporting of its corporate fixed line voice and fixed line data business with Airtel Business and  accordingly T elemedia Services renamed to Homes Services.
Hence, the customer base of ‘Broadband and T elephone Services’ is now represented as  ‘Homes’ and ‘Airtel Business’.
** With effect from April 01, 2016, the company has applied Ind AS for the preparation of its financial statements.
The transition is carried out from  accounting principles generally accepted in India with the transition date being April 01, 2015.
All figures are based on Consolidated Financial Statements.
Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 009 Integrated Report Segment wise Performance / Performance Highlights Airtel Nigeria won the 2017   Most Outstanding Customer-centric T elecoms Brand  Award at the National Marketing Stakeholders Summit and  Brands and Advertising Excellence Awards Looking Back at the Year  Received a formal approval from   Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) for the   acquisition of T elenor India   (an enterprise of T elenor South Asia Investments Pte Limited)  Quarter 1 April – June 2017 Airtel Payments Bank launched UPI enabled digital payments  allowing secure digital payments to online/offline merchants  and instant money transfers to any bank account in India  through smartphones Announced the deployment of Massive Multiple-Input  Multiple-Output (MIMO) in partnership with Huawei  T elecommunication India as a part of Airtel’s ongoing network  transformation program  Quarter 2 July - September 2017 Won the TM Forum’s Excellence Award 2017  in the ‘Smart Service Provider - Business  of the Year’ category for accelerating digital  transformation in India Airtel launched ‘Project Next’, aiming to transform customer  experience across its services and touch points.
This included  first set of digital innovations with introduction of Next Gen  Airtel Store, New version of My Airtel App and Airtel’s  postpaid promise with ‘data rollover feature’ data Completed the acquisition of Tikona Digital  Networks making Tikona a wholly  owned subsidiary of Airtel One of the three companies from India to  be covered in the Forbes list of ‘The  World’s Most Innovative  Companies 2017’ Announced strategic partnership with SK T elecom  (Korea’s largest telecommunications company)  to leverage their expertize in improving network  experience, machine learning, big data and better  customer experience Won Aon Best Employer  India 2017 for achieving  high levels of employer  brand, employee  engagement and well  established human  resource practices Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 010  Ranked as the ‘Best Company to Work For’ within the  telecom sector and amongst the top 10 across sectors in  India by Business T oday – PeopleStrong Survey, 2017 Airtel Rwanda completed the formalities of acquisition for   Millicom International Cellular to combine their  telecommunication operations in Ghana Bharti Airtel Limited via its wholly owned subsidiary, Nettle  Infrastructure Investments Limited, divested 150 Mn shares of  subsidiary Bharti Infratel Limited through secondary share sale  in the stock market for a consideration of over  J 58,950 Mn  Quarter 4 January - March 2018  Quarter 3 October - December 2017 Entered into a definitive agreement with T ata  T eleservices Ltd. and T ata T eleservices  (Maharashtra) Ltd. for acquisition of their  Consumer Mobile Businesses (CMB)  Launched ‘Mera Pehla Smartphone’ initiative in  partnership with Karbonn Mobiles to introduce  affordable 4G Smartphone in the Indian market Announced the sale of 20% equity stake  in Bharti T elemedia Limited (its DTH arm) to an affiliate of  Warbug Pincus subject to regulatory and statutory approvals Signed an agreement with the   Department of T elecom (DoT) and the   Universal Service Obligation Fund (USOF)   for introducing provision for mobile services   in identified uncovered villages and national   highways in the North Eastern States of   Assam, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim,   Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh Tigo acquisition in Rwanda approved by the  Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Authority (RURA) Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel  International (Netherlands) B. V .
(a wholly owned subsidiary),  initiated non-binding exploratory  discussion with various banks/ intermediaries to explore the  possibility/feasibility of listing of  its shares on an internationally  recognized stock exchange Acknowledged as the fastest mobile  network in India by the global leader  in internet speed tests - Ookla for the third time  in a row Crossed the 300 Mn   mobile subscribers mark in India  during the quarter Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 011 Integrated Report Looking Back at the Year Message from the Chairman Dear Shareholders,  Aided by strong growth in most advanced  and emerging markets, global economy  stayed on course in its rebound mode during  the year.
Overall, our company experienced  favorable economic environments in both  India and Africa.
While India recovered  remarkably well from the prolonged  dissonance caused by demonetization,  which was undertaken in FY 17, and the  teething troubles of Goods and Service T ax  (GST) introduced during the current year,  African economies benefited from stability  in currencies and commodity prices, which  resulted in healthy balance of payment  situation in many countries.
Digital technologies and internet are pivotal to transformation  happening around us – social, industrial, economic.
Global  telecommunications industry, which lies at the heart of this  transformation, too is undergoing a metamorphosis of sorts;  operators are transforming from pure play telecom to being  digital services providers – integrating connectivity and  content across multiple screens.
New technologies like IOT ,  AI, Block chain and big data analytics are likely to make these  networks the primary facilitator of change in future.
Affordable  smartphones, which have become the predominant gateway  to internet for customers across age groups and geographies,  and rapidly proliferating 4G networks helped accelerate market  transformation during the year.
It was particularly evident  in India where average data consumption per user went  up by nearly six times to over 6GB per month in Q4 (FY18)  from about 1GB in Q4 (FY17).
African markets too exhibited  buoyancy where average usage on our networks expanded by  about 90%.
The telecom industry faced an extraordinarily turbulent year  in India through unprecedented disruption.
Extreme pricing  pressure accelerated market exits and industry consolidation,  which evolved towards a 3+1 structure (3 private telcos +  1 public sector telco).
Even though the transition is turning  out to be stressful entailing massive dislocation in the short  run, the new industry structure will ultimately prove beneficial  for the sector.
We have done well to capitalize on emergent  opportunities from this industry shakeup.
While we completed  the acquisitions of Tikona and T elenor, the proposed merger  with the consumer business of T ata T eleservices Maharashtra  and T ata T eleservices is under regulatory approval.
Our strategy of growing our share of high ARPU customers  and improving customer stickiness by offering new products  and content services helped us increase our revenue market  share in a rapidly consolidating market undergoing significant  Aggressive network rollout continued to be an  overriding priority for us as a record  110,000  mobile sites were rolled out during the year to  strengthen our 4G footprint “Affordable smartphones, which have  become the predominant gateway  to internet for customers across age  groups and geographies, and rapidly  proliferating 4G networks helped  accelerate market transformation  during the year.” Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 012  revenue shrinkage.
It was gratifying to see the way we held  ourselves as pressure mounted on the topline of our mobility  business.
Aggressive network rollout continued to be an  overriding priority for us as a record 110,000 mobile sites were  rolled out during the year to strengthen our 4G footprint.
This  will help us stay ahead of competition through enhanced data  capabilities and better customer service.
Acceleration in non-wireless businesses remained an  unmistakable bright spot for us during the year.
DTH and B2B  business registered healthy double digit topline growth, thus  We undertook several initiatives to raise capital to support our  business plans.
During the year, we divested around 150 million  shares in our subsidiary Bharti Infratel through secondary sale  for a consideration of over H 5,895 crores.
We also issued non- convertible debentures worth up to H 3,000 crores on a private  placement basis.
I am pleased to inform you that the board of  Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) B. V .
has authorized the  management to initiate non-binding exploratory discussions  with various intermediaries to evaluate the possibility of listing  the Africa operations on an internationally recognized stock  exchange.
Bharti Foundation, our group philanthropic arm extended  the reach of its activities significantly during the year.
Its  school education programs are today cumulatively reaching  out to nearly 250,000 students across 13 states in India.
I  am particularly delighted to inform you that during the year  Bharti Foundation embarked upon its most ambitious Higher  education initiative till date to set up Satya Bharti University,  a world class institution to offer free education to deserving  youth from economically weaker sections of society.
The  sanitation program, which is already serving over 90,000  beneficiaries, moved into its second phase under which the  Foundation is providing financial assistance to beneficiaries  to construct household toilets.
Airtel Africa’s ‘Adopt-a-School’  Program is now supporting over 32,000 underprivileged  children in 58 adopted schools in different countries.
The  Company has also scaled up its Internet for Schools initiative to  benefit over 300,000 students in Kenya and Zambia.
We plan  to scale this up significantly over the next year.
Personally, it turned out to be an exciting year for me in my  concurrent global roles - Chairman, ICC and Chairman, GSMA.
As a business entity, we have always believed in staying  ahead of the curve with regard to adopting best practices  in transparency and corporate governance.
In line with this  philosophy, we have embraced Integrated Reporting (IR) and  the present report is the first Integrated Report for us.
T elecom markets across emerging economies are in transition.
While life cycles of 2G and 3G are getting truncated, 4G is  taking rapid strides.
Market structures are getting reshaped  with fewer players to facilitate these investments.
With our  strong balance sheet and robust spectrum portfolio across  markets, we are well positioned to make the best of this  transition to come out stronger.
Sunil Bharti Mittal highlighting the inherent advantages of a diversified business  portfolio.
The Payments Bank had a good start but faced  issues in KYC authentication leading to disruption in acquiring  new customers.
The Bank with a new CEO and enhanced  preparedness is now geared to get back on track towards the  goal of driving financial inclusion in the Country.
In Africa, it turned out to be a defining year for us.
Sharply  improved EBITDA margins to 33.4% from 24% last year  enabled us to achieve full year PA T for the first time since  acquisition.
Modernized data networks - 3G networks in all 14 countries  and 4G networks in 8 countries (6 of them rolled out this year)  - facilitated a surge in data consumption in different African  markets.
Simplified voice and data bundles coupled with  robust distribution and a refined cost model helped us achieve  operational excellence in different markets.
Data revenues  expanded by over 22% during the year.
Airtel Money too  continued to be a key revenue pillar growing by 47% during  this period.
In-country consolidation with a clear intent to become No.
1 or  No.
2 operator continued to be a strategic imperative for us.
While we merged operations with Millicom in Ghana to form a  50:50 joint venture, we acquired Millicom’s business in Rwanda  to become a viable No.
2 in the market.
Sharply improved EBITDA margins in Africa to 33.4%  in FY 2017-18 from 24% last year Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 013 Integrated Report Message from the Chairman Message from Managing Director  & CEO (India & South Asia) accelerating postpaid.‘Mera  Pehla Smartphone’ program  was a major initiative where  we stitched alliances with  several handset OEMs  across all price bands to  offer cashback options to  customers purchasing a new  smartphone bundled with  Airtel.
Further, ‘Airtel Online  Store’ went live with Apple  and Samsung devices to sell  them with financing options  to customers.
The Postpaid  business was completely  revamped with innovative  propositions to offer more  value to the customers (e.g.
handset security, free music  & TV , free Amazon prime  membership etc.)
beyond  the traditional services.
As  part of the project ‘Next’  program, we introduced the  ‘data roll over’ functionality for  postpaid customers.
T o improve customer  stickiness by offering them  more products & services,  we focused on cross selling  our portfolio of telco products  and gaining adoption of our  digital services.
A dedicated  ‘Homes’ channel was set-up  to sell postpaid and DTH  connections to our existing  broadband customers.
Airtel  TV was rejuvenated with a  rich content library of live  channels, movies, premium  OTT content etc., which  enabled it to garner 25Mn+  active users.
Wynk music  became India’s #1 app in  terms of consumption.
On the  B2B side, we did a strategic  partnership with Symantec to  offer cyber security solutions  to corporate and government  organizations.
Delivering brilliant customer  experience continued  to be our key priority.
We  made heavy investments  in network, the core of our  business.
A record 110,000 mobile sites were rolled out in the  last year to expand our 4G footprint across the country.
We  created a strategic partnership with SK T elecom to leverage  its expertize in improving network experience and create a  future ready network.
T o enrich voice calling experience, we  launched VoL TE.
Re-engineering and digitization of customer  care processes were completed to offer better resolution to  customer queries.
We also launched next generation ‘digital’  stores in marquee locations to enhance customer experience in  our stores.
While the mobility business was under competitive pricing  pressure, acceleration in non-wireless businesses played a  strong role in driving the growth of the company.
Broadband  business was completely re-launched with first of its kind  propositions like data roll-over, data borrow from postpaid mobile  etc.
DTH and B2B business registered healthy double digit topline  growth with strong margins on the back of simplified pricing and  aggressive Go-to market initiatives.
We continued our emphasis on identifying and stripping  out waste from our business through process redesign and  automation.
This is demonstrated by the fact that we delivered a  decline in operating expenditures last year.
Finally, we remain committed to ensure growth & well-being of  our people, the most valuable asset of our Company.
We have  constantly striven to be amongst the preferred places to work  for the smartest in the industry.
This year, Airtel was ranked 10th  ‘Best Company to Work for’ across all companies and the best  employer in T elecom in India.
As an organization we continue to be committed to sustainable  and inclusive growth.
Our Sustainability Report spells out our  initiatives for environment sustainability.
Bharti Foundation, with  full support from our employees, has been doing remarkable  work in engaging parents and the community to spread  awareness about education and empowerment of girl child.
These initiatives have made our corporate citizenship more  meaningful.
As we look ahead, we remain excited about the massive  opportunity in India.
With three large private operators serving  1.3 Bn people, the industry is poised for sustained long term  growth.
While there will be pricing pressure in the short term, the  long term remains promising.
We believe your company is well  poised to exploit this future.
With massive investments, an iconic  brand, and a team that is obsessed about serving customers we  are confident that Airtel will remain a force to reckon with.
As we enter a new era of telecom industry in the country, I would  like to thank our customers, our people, our partners and our  shareholders for their support and faith in us.
We seek your  continued guidance in our journey.
Gopal Vittal Dear Shareholders, The FY 2017-18 was a  transformational year for the  telecom industry.
Because  of the brutal price war, there  was an unprecedented  consolidation from 8  operators to only 3 private  operators in the market.
This  price war also led to a rapid  shift in consumer behavior  from voice to entertainment  that led to explosion of data  usage and ultimately, massive  network investments.
Airtel  continued to make robust  investments despite eroding  profitability in order to stay  in the leadership position.
Even during this turbulent  period, Airtel maintained  its leadership position and  remained focused on its  vision to win customers for  life.
Our brand continued to  remain in a strong position  winning several accolades  including the ‘Buzziest Brand’  award in telecom category.
All  of this was enabled through  solid execution across all the  pillars of our GPS.
To  grow share of high ARPU  customers, we focussed  on i) grabbing increased  share of 4G devices through  alliances & simplified pricing,  ii) driving data consumption  through intense focus on  sim consolidation led by  bundled pricing plans and iii)  Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 014  Message from Managing Director  & CEO (Africa) Good progress has been  made across the key focus  areas set about at the  beginning of the year: which  were enhancing distribution  excellence to gain more  customers, winning more  with our existing customers,  delivering network  excellence, building the right  cost model and enhancing  people productivity and  performance.
Over the last year, the  Customer KYC registration  locations grew by over  50% to 180,000, enabling  a higher new customer  addition.
This led to growing  the customer base to 89 Mn  through an addition of 12.5  Mn customers during the  year (including 3 Mn through  the acquisition of TIGO  Rwanda).
In addition, over  10,000 exclusive mini shops  and kiosks were introduced  across the key operating  countries to build a robust  Airtel money infrastructure  and provide assured float  availability to customers.
Mobile data has been a big  growth driver across the  14 operating companies  and the network has been  modernized through U-900  (3G service in 900 MHZ  spectrum) in 11 Countries  and 4G launched in 6  additional countries, taking  the total countries with 4G  to 8.
With this our customers  will get a best in class data  network experience.
During the year, simplified  voice and data bundles  were introduced in most of  the operating companies  with a clear focus on ARPU  enhancement.
The Data Customer base has grown by 48%  and Airtel Money Customer base increased by 31%.
There has  also been an encouraging increase in data and voice bundle  penetration across all the operating units.
With an enhanced sales and distribution coverage, modernized  network and simplified product bundles, the data usage has  surged by 90%, data revenue has grown by 22.5% and Airtel  Money revenue increased by 47%.
On the people front, the Company invested in functional and  skill based training focusing on digitized delivery methods.
Closer and tighter co-working between the operating countries  and the Headquarters in Nairobi has helped build collaboration  through building trust and fostering joint accountability.
With the intent of being No.
1 or No.
2 in each country, the  Company merged operations with Millicom in Ghana into  a 50:50 joint venture and acquired Millicom’s business in  Rwanda to become a clear No.
2 operator.
The merger and the  acquisition respectively will enable the Company to build scale  and run a profitable enterprise that can invest for the future to  benefit customers of the two Countries.
Airtel has undertaken several initiatives to contribute towards  addressing social challenges.
The Company has focused  on T echnology and Partnerships with various organizations  to drive social change and inclusive growth of the under  privileged people in the Society.
It has scaled up its internet  for schools programs in Kenya and Zambia to benefit over  300,000 students and will continue to drive this initiative at a  larger scale.
Under the pan African educational program, ‘Adopt  a School’, the Company has adopted 58 schools, supporting  over 32,000 underprivileged children.
The Company’s Board has authorized management to initiate  non-binding exploratory discussions with various intermediaries  to evaluate the possibility of listing on an internationally  recognized stock exchange.
Airtel Africa is poised for continued subscriber and revenue  growth, building on the significant potential for mobile data  and Airtel money in the operating countries, while continually  investing in the network and distribution infrastructure.
Raghunath Mandava FY 2017-18 has  been a watershed  year for Airtel in  Africa.
Along with  decent revenue  growth quarter on  quarter, absolute  opex declined  by 9.2%, thereby  helping EBITDA  margins improve to  33.4% from 24%.
This has helped  Airtel Africa achieve  a full year positive  PA T for the first time  since acquisition.
Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 015 Integrated Report Message from Managing Director & CEO Moving ahead on India’s  Digitalization Journey payments across multiple bill cycles for different Airtel  connections within the family.
No need to remember  multiple payment dates from now on.
Airtel Home offers the  convenience of a single bill for all services.
What’s more you can  add Airtel connections from any location in the country.
> Premium Customer Support: ‘Airtel Home’ users will get  access to premium customer care.
> Discounts of up to 10% on the unified bill: Get up to 10%  discount based on number of connections bundled.
* Airtel Digital TV will be made live on the ‘Airtel Home’ proposition soon The creation of ‘Airtel Home’ allows customers to bundle their  postpaid, broadband & DTH to for app and web journeys for  existing broadband and existing/new postpaid customers  has been completed.
A comprehensive self-care for Homes is  also being integrated; at the same time, a Decision Tree (DT)  has been created to provide a superior experience for our  customers.
A pilot is underway in AP circle and a full rollout will  follow subsequently.
Hitting the Bull’s eye:   Network Deployment Process & Analytics With an objective to digitize all network processes: deployment,  planning, quality – including iWAN site & fiber deployment;  drive increased self-care and online resolution of customer  complaints; and add network experience to the customer  profile for better targeting of offers, we created the Bull’s  Eye portal for internal usage – for deployment process and  analytics.
Airtel and South Korea telecom have partnered to create a  big data analytics platform that can gather large amounts of  network telemetry data to assess the quality of the network at  a granular level in order to take smarter investment planning  decisions and optimize the network for better customer  experience.
On Track with Digital Affordability:   The Online Store (airtel.in/onlinestore) T o unlock affordability for customers, to enable them to buy  their aspirational handsets like the apple iphone, samsung and  nokia, we launched the Airtel Online Store.
This is an intricate  ecosystem of lenders, logistics companies & distributors to  offer these handsets at an affordable price at the customer’s  doorstep.
This unique proposition allows customers to purchase  aspirational mobile phones, moving away from the limited  credit card schemes or conventional paper lending.
On the  online store, we are working with multiple lenders across India  to solve the affordability issue by innovative digital lending  methodologies that allow credit to be given to people without a  credit rating through loans from banks we have tied up with.
It  is a partnership led model of 100% digital lending.
Making Lives Easier:   Airtel Home T o enhance customer experience by enabling one single billing  across postpaid, telemedia and DTH, and discounts on bundles,  we have built the Airtel Home.
One Home, One Bill: The digital platform transforms customer  experience by enabling bundling of multiple Airtel services  within the home – broadband, fixed line, postpaid mobile and  digital TV .
Customers also get one bill, premium customer  support and enjoy up to 10% discount on their total bill.
‘Airtel Home’ allows customers to bundle multiple Airtel  relationships – home broadband (and fixed line), postpaid  mobile and digital TV* as a single account with a unified  interface on My Airtel app and enjoy amazing convenience,  peace of mind and loads of other benefits.
Single Bill for all Airtel services: With ‘Airtel Home’,  customers are liberated from the hassle of making multiple  At Airtel X labs, our work fundamentally transforms the way people  communicate and businesses operate.
Since our early days in the mobile era,  we have rallied relentlessly to break down communication barriers.
T oday,  our work goes beyond telecom – we build products that entertain and inform,  connect devices to the internet, and enable businesses to securely harness  the power of their data.
Our focus, however, has remained to deliver solutions  that truly enrich the lives of our customers.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 016  Making Care Simpler:   Self-care for customers & Decision Tree My Airtel app and airtel.in as self-care channels were developed  with fully digital journeys to enable the customer to manage  Airtel products i.e.
Mobile, Homes (Broadband) and Direct-T o- Home.
The roll out an intelligent Decision Tree (DT) as a tool for  diagnosis and resolution has transformed the way our advisors  work at our contact centers.
T o deliver an enhanced care experience for our customers across  all channels, we have developed decision trees.
Decision tree  ensures that our customer care advisors & store representatives  have access to the same information about the customer, leading  to a delightful experience across all touch points.
Digital self-care has enabled our customers to actively engage  on our digital properties to manage their Airtel numbers.
Powered by diagnostic capabilities through decision tree  (DT), the self care obviates the need for customers to call the  contact centers for service related issues.
My Airtel App  My Airtel app is meant to be the all-purpose Swiss-knife for  our (potential) users.
And to get this done, the team has been  working on enabling personalization in the true sense, using  the recommendation engine which is work in progress.
And  to enable acquiring new users, so that they can see true value  the app has to offer, and to incentivize loyal users, the team  has also built a coupon engine platform which can be used to  enable closed-loop discounts/incentives (which return to our  system), thus also helping in retention.
The My Airtel app team is also working on building a generic  referral system in place, which can leverage the coupon  platform to reduce S&D cost, by having our loyal customers  acquire for us.
The digital platform is also making payments  democratized, so that new users can be acquired who prefer  other payment modes, like 3rd party wallets.
One of the core  focus for the app team is to make it super easy for the users to  maximize the usage of all the services they pay for, so that we  can then get to upselling more effectively.
The app team is also leveraging the network-side feasibility  APIs, to better target new connection acquisition.
The app will  also enable easy of discovery of features and user requests  using global search in the app.
Digital Brain  The Digital Brain (customer 360) is one of the most powerful  intelligent and predictive platforms of its kind.
It will understand  each customer personally and contextually and enable us to  engage with customers how they want, where they want and  when they want for our own services as well as with the string  of partnerships we develop.
Leveraging AI it will also allow us to  give our customers the best experience on our network in real  time and allow us to predict problems and resolve them.
It is a game changer.
Enriching Customer Experience:   Broadband digitization Our aim is to bring out a better customer experience &  significant cost savings by simplifying and digitizing the  broadband journeys of acquisition, installation, fault repair,  shifting; and to enable digital care for customers on the app  and web, as well as through advisors.
We have digitized the  journeys end to end.
We have also built predictive capabilities  to diagnose the issues of the customer & auto detecting them.
Engaging Socially:   Lighthouse The platform helps us build capability for Listening,  Engagement and Care across social and digital media,  enabling faster response & care and assisting in benchmarking  and managing brand tonality and engagement – all in the bid  to ensure better experience for our customers on social media.
We have upgraded to the new platform, Sprinklr, which is also  integrated with Airtel Business Support Systems [BSS] to  capture and provide a 360-degree view of the customer.
Marking insights Real-Time: DARTS  (Digital Analytics and Real-Time Strategy) T o enable contextually relevant marketing campaigns, insights  to business for growth initiatives as well as manage customer  experience, DARTS is a unified customer analytics platform that  aggregates data from CRMs, billing systems, network, in store  visits, DTH, T elemedia, WYNK, My Airtel etc to prepare near  real time insights for the customers.
This platform serves as  foundation for revenue assurance as well as use cases such as  Airtel Secure, data rollover, proactive experience management,  credit line for customers, recharge information on DT 2.0.
Making Business Savvy:   Global Business voice portal Airtel Business rolled out the first-of-its-kind carrier digital  platform for wholesale voice.
The innovative digital platform  offers paperless sign-up, quick voice interconnects and real- time traffic analytics for global carriers across the world, along  with allowing customers to buy voice termination services from  Airtel and also enabling them to propose sell rates for their  target markets.
With on-boarding time reduced to a few hours, the platform  also offers live rates for routes across the world enabling  faster decision making for traffic exchange.
The voice platform,  designed on the basis of extensive customer insights, will  empower global carriers with ease of business and enhanced  efficiency.
With the first successful step in place we plan to soon provision  a single window on the digital platform for product discovery,  on-boarding, billing, payment, enquiry, and support across  multiple B2B data products.
Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 017 Integrated Report Moving ahead on India’s Digitalization Journey Redefining Digital   Banking Ecosystem Launched on January 12, 2017, Airtel Payments Bank*  (hereinafter referred to as ‘bank’) is India’s first payments bank  that has brought millions into banking network.
Aligning to the  Government’s vision of building a nation that is digital, Airtel  Payments Bank reaches out to a divergent customer base,  driving digital and financial inclusion.
In our endeavor to build a digitally connected world, the bank  offers solutions reinforced by convenience.
Leveraging the  Airtel’s wide retail network of more than 536,000 customer  touch points, the bank offers a range of basic banking services  to a wider customer base.
With the use of technology, wide  distribution scale and a brand that people trust, we have been  successful in reaching out to the undeserved people in society  while expanding the formal financial banking system at the  same time.
*The Payments Bank operations in India are carried out through our  subsidiary Company, Airtel Payments Bank Limited.
Our passion to drive financial inclusion and digitize cash is driven by  solutions that are innovative and technology-led.
At Bharti Airtel, we  continue to leverage innovation in financial technology, adapting to  new age developments to facilitate a future that is digital and secure.
Attractive interest  rate on deposits In association with Master Card, we launched Online  Debit Card for our customers.
Unlike any other wallet  or payment banks, we are the first in the country to  introduce an online debit card, enabling customers to  make transactions with any merchant sites for online  payments.
Service offerings that make a difference With a promise to serve the rural households and increase  access to formal financial mechanism, the bank provides a host  of services including Savings Account, Semi-Closed Prepaid  Payment Instrument, assisted utility payments and Domestic  Remittance services, among others, to the customers.
Open account  within minutes  using e-KYC  (through Aadhaar  card) Transfer funds  within Airtel  Payments Bank  accounts and third  party accounts Airtel’s mobile  number is the  account number Free personal  accident insurance  cover worth H 1 Lac Easy withdrawal  and deposit of cash  through merchant  partners, including  grocers, kirana  stores, pharmacies  and restaurants,  among others Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 018   J23,550 Mn Payment using semi-closed  prepaid payment instruments  in FY 2017-18 from   H 14,174 Mn in FY 2016-17  56.8 % Of total accounts opened  till date in rural / unbanked  areas to ensure financial  inclusion  J66,605 Mn Domestic remittances in   FY 2017-18 from H 39,718  Mn in FY 2016-17  ~300 Mn Airtel’s customer base as  potential customer base for  the bank  24x7 Dedicated customer care in  12 regional languages ~2.3 Mn Merchant touch points  across India  536,000 Airtel’s retail customer  touch points (March’18) Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 019 Integrated Report Redefining Digital Banking Ecosystem Music to the Ears In a journey of firsts,  Airtel became the first  telco to launch an OTT  entertainment app in  September 2014- Wynk  Music.
Driven by an  imperative to create content  delivery platforms made for  the Indian market and for  the unique needs of Indian  customers, Wynk Music was  designed to operate at scale  and create a differentiated  value proposition for Airtel  customers.
Four years later,  Wynk Music is today India’s  No.
1 music streaming app  with the highest share of  category time.
The Road to No.
1 With a clear focus on  consumer needs, we have  solved for problems unique  to India- Price sensitivity,  data access, varying network  speeds and no precedence  of paid subscription for  music.
Also, in the face of  pre-established players  and a volatile market- we  ensured agility and faster  decision-making by setting  up and operating Wynk as a  start-up within Airtel.
Strong alliances with the  biggest music labels in  the music industry, unique  promotional tie-ups with  individual artists and music  publishers, and an expansive  library of songs in 14 Indian  languages have helped  us carve a niche in an  overcrowded market-leading  Wynk Music claimed the top spot among Indian OTT music streaming apps  with the highest share of category time, and crossed the 100 Mn installs  milestone in June 2018. to high engagement rates, high average stream time per  user on the app and significant impact on customer churn.
Wynk Music Revamp As we prepare for the next phase of growth on Wynk Music,  a spanking new version of the music App is being shipped  with industry-first features packaged into a highly intelligent  product that understands user music preferences and  customizes the experience for them using Machine  Learning and AI.
Key highlights for the upcoming year are: > T echnology integrations and alliances to create a  seamless, multi-platform music streaming experience  that caters to the latest trends in Music Listening > Build social communities among users and artists > Investment in original and exclusive content > Introduction of vernacular interfaces and expansion of  regional content library > A simplified version of the app to be launched to capture  the side-loading market and increase rural penetration Key Highlights   (As on March 31, 2018)  90 Mn+ T otal App Installs  1.4 Bn+ Monthly song plays  100% Growth in regional  language streams in CY ‘17   Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 020  The Making of a  Blockbuster Airtel TV became the most downloaded app on the Playstore between   Jan-Mar ’18.
Over 2000 years’ worth of watch-time per month on the app.
With over 350+ Live  Channels, 10,000+ Movies  & TV Shows and a range  of good quality content,  Airtel TV is among India’s  leading OTT entertainment  platforms.
Re-launched  with a full blast 360 degree  campaign in December  2017, it became the most  downloaded video app in  the first quarter of CY ‘18,  clocking 4x user growth.
Strategic tie-ups with leading  video content providers,  premium streaming apps  and broadcasters gives  Airtel TV users access  to the best of on-the-go  entertainment content.
Innovations that Fueled  Growth > Introduction of 350+ Live  TV channels that allowed  users to watch live content  on the go > The best of movies and TV  shows from HOOQ, Eros  Now, Sony Liv, A LT Balaji,  among others > Content in 14 languages  including Bhojpuri,  Assamese and Gujarati > Bundling of Amazon Prime  Video membership for  high-value customers > 360 degree marketing  campaign coupled with a  robust GTM strategy Airtel TV 2.0 Powered by a robust product strategy, Airtel TV has grown  from strength to strength.
Airtel TV will enter into a new phase  of growth in the FY 2018-19 with deep focus on: > Stronger partnerships with premium video content providers  to unlock further value for our customers > Live sports streaming- cricket, football world cup, among  others > Expanding the regional content library > Integrating rich and exclusive content across genres,  languages > T ech innovations for a more immersive experience Key Highlights   (As on March 31, 2018)  50 Mn+ T otal App Installs  1 Bn+ Minutes Streamed Monthly Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 021 Integrated Report Music to the Ears / The Making of a Blockbuster Mobile Money –  Banking the Unbanked All around the world, mobile phones have gone beyond just being a  communication device.
From being used for voice and data to becoming a  technology platform that allows the development of other services, cellular  technology has changed the face of Africa.
Mobile money has become very popular to both the unbanked  and banked population in Africa due to the safety of money  and convenience it provides.
It has turned out to be particularly  useful in countries where the majority of the population is  migrant in nature, where people work in cities and sending  money.
The most popular services are cash in, cash out,  transfer, utility payment and buying airtime and bundles.
11.4 Mn Uganda, T anzania, Rwanda, Malawi, DRC, Gabon, Kenya and  Madagascar represent 93% of the total active base As at March 31, 2018, Airtel Money had 11.4 Mn active  subscribers using the service every month for different services  including sending money, receiving money, buying airtime, cash  withdrawals and many more.
Distribution Network Airtel Money For Mobile Money to succeed, a strong network of agents  with adequate mobile money float and cash is required.
Airtel  Money has been able to grow its footprint of agents across the  countries where it operates.
Customers can deposit money as  well as withdraw money from their mobile money wallets.
As at  March 31, 2018, there were over 240K active agents serving  customers; a growth of 49% over the previous year.
Additionally, an aggressive plan to rollout exclusive Airtel  Money kiosks/mini-shops kicked off in early 2017 to increase  availability of float and cash to customers.
Over 10,000 kiosks  and mini-shops have been rolled out so far across 13 countries.
Utilities Bill Payment Paying for regular utilities without leaving the comfort of one’s  home has been made a reality by Airtel Money.
Customers can  pay for a wide range of utilities such as electricity, water, fixed  data and PayTv along with T elecom services of post-paid bill  payments & recharge purchases.
USD 1 Bn T otal amount used for paying different bills in FY 2017-18 Access to Loans Financial inclusion has always been one of the top priorities for  Airtel and the organization continues to traverse the path by  giving access to micro loans to all Airtel Money customers, using  the Airtel Money Wallets.
Customers simply have to dial the  Airtel Money USSD code and they will be able to instantly access  loans based on their credit rating.
Mobile money loans are  currently available in 5 countries and during the FY 2017-18,   a total of USD 14.6 Mn was disbursed to over one million  customers.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 022  Merchant Payments Still in its nascent stage, Airtel Money has enabled businesses  to receive money electronically for goods and services they  sell to their customers.
In Gabon, T anzania, Madagascar and  Malawi customers are able to purchase goods and services  using the Airtel money merchant pay service.
The payment  service provides businesses the opportunity to reduce the risk  of handling cash as well as increase reconciliation efficiency  while enhancing convenience and safety to customers.
36 Mn Transaction count in FY 2017-18 International Money Transfers Airtel customers in Zambia and Malawi can send money to  each other, thanks to the IMT product, active in both countries.
A partnership with T errapay will enable expansion of the  service to other markets, including T anzania and Congo  Brazzaville.
A total of 42K transactions were completed during  FY 2017-18, at a value USD 2.4 Mn.
Partnerships with Banks Banks play an integral part in the Mobile Money ecosystem.
In each operating country, a trust bank account is opened in  preferred banks, where the E-value in the Airtel Money system  has to be backed by actual cash.
T o enable a faster flow of  value between the Trust bank and the channel partners,  automation has been embarked on in all Airtel Money  Operations.
The automation is already enabled in 6 countries  including T anzania, Madagascar, Zambia, Malawi, Rwanda &  Kenya.
Airtel is in the process of expanding the automated  allocation of float in the above countries as well as finalize the  process in other operations, which include DRC, Gabon and  Uganda.
There are also various partnerships at a retail level with banks,  which allow smooth flow of money from the banks to the wallet  and vice versa.
Robust Airtel Money Platform Airtel has modernized its Airtel Money platform to enhance  system capacity, stability, incorporate standard APIs for third  party integration and improved reporting.
Our vision is to enrich  the lives of customers.
Our obsession is to  win customers for life  through an exceptional  experience.
023  Board of Directors Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal Chairman Mr. D. K. Mittal Independent Director Mr. Craig Edward Ehrlich Independent Director Mr. Gopal Vittal MD & CEO   (India & South Asia) Ms. Chua Sock Koong Non-Executive Director Mr. Ben Verwaayen Independent Director Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 024  Mr. Rakesh Bharti  Mittal Non-Executive Director Ms. T an Yong Choo Non-Executive Director Mr. Shishir Priyadarshi Independent Director Mr. Manish Kejriwal Independent Director Mr. V .
K. Viswanathan Independent Director Chairman Member Committees Risk Management Committee  HR & Nomination Committee Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Committee of Directors Audit Committee  Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 025 Integrated Report Board of Directors Risk Management  At Bharti Airtel, we have thrived globally by building a culture of innovation  and high performance.
We explore new markets and business models across  the world, evolve new ways of customer and stakeholder engagement, enter  into new strategic partnerships.
Also, we adopt new technologies and build  exponential efficiencies in existing systems.
While these initiatives unveil a universe of possibilities,  potential risks and uncertainties arise in a volatile business  environment.
The distress signals need to be addressed with  urgency for smooth operations Therefore, we have created  a robust risk management that caters to strategic, legal,  financial, operational and climate risks that caters to strategic,  legal, financial, operational and climate risks.
We have a sound  practice to identify key risks across the Group and prioritize  relevant action plans for mitigation.
At the Board Governance level, the Risk Management  Framework is reviewed periodically by the Company’s Risk  Management Committee.
The Board of Directors performs  an annual review.
These apex reviews include: discussing the  management submissions on risks, prioritizing key risks and  approving action plans to mitigate such risks.
The Internal  Audit function is responsible to assist the Risk Management  Committee on an independent basis with a full status of  risk assessments and management.
The Risk Management  Committee also obtains periodic updates on certain identified  risks, depending upon the nature, quantum and likely impact  on the business.
At the Management level, the respective CEOs for the  Management Boards (AMB and Africa Exco) are accountable  for managing risks across their respective businesses, viz.,  India & South Asia, and Africa.
The strategic risk registers  capture the risks identified by the operating teams (Circles or  Operating Companies) as well as the functional leadership  teams at the national level.
The AMB / Africa Exco ensure that  the environment – both external and internal – is scanned for  all possible risks.
Internal Audit reports are also considered for  identification of key risks.
At the Operating level, the Executive Committees (EC) of  Circles in India and Operating Companies in the international  operations are entrusted with responsibilities of managing the  risks at the ground level.
Every EC has local representation  from all functions, including many centrally driven functions  like Finance, SCM, Legal & Regulatory besides customer facing  functions, such as Customer Service, Sales & Distribution and  Networks.
It is the responsibility of the Circle CEO or Country  MD to pull together various functions and partners to manage  the risks.
They are also responsible for identification of risks,  and escalating it to the Centre for agreeing mitigation plans.
Operating level risk assessments have been concluded at  Function / OpCo risk assessment and mitigation plans agreed  and kicked off.
Internal Audit Plans are being drawn up to ensure scope and  coverage of these critical risks during the course of next year.
Scanning the entire  business environment -  internal and external, for  identifying potential risks Developing objective  measurement  methodology for  such risks Agreeing on detailed  action plans to  manage key risks Approving resources,  including budgets for  risk management  Reporting progress  to the Board and  Audit Committee/  Risk Management  Committee Fixing accountability of  people and positions  to implement the  mitigating action plans Listing and  prioritizing the key  risks to be addressed  and managed Classifying the  various risks in terms  of probability, impact  and nature Reviewing progress  of action plans, taking  stock of gross and net  exposures and mandating  corrective actions Reporting on   specific issues to the  Audit Committee/   Risk Management  Committee Risk identification process 0301 05 07 09 02 04 06 08 10 Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 026  Potential risks Risk definition 1 Regulatory and political  uncertainties  Uncertainties pertaining to political instability, civil unrest and other social tensions in India,   Sri Lanka and 14 African countries.
2 Economic uncertainties The volatility in economies with factors like capital controls, inflation, interest rates and  currency fluctuations may impact the earnings and operations of the Company.
3 Poor quality of networks  and information  technology including  redundancies and  disaster recoveries Risks in Network subject to technical failures, human errors and natural disasters.
Erratic  IT connectivity may affecting service delivery.
Changing of systems landscapes into newer  version.
4 Inadequate quality  of customer lifecycle  management Heightened competitive intensity on account of irrational pricing by new entrant leading to  erosion of revenue & customers.
Ever-rising customer expectations in terms of quality, variety,  features and pricing.
5 Non-compliance of  subscriber verification  norms and KYC  regulations  Stringent subscriber verification and KYC guidelines, including biometric verification and  quality of KYC documents.
6 Increase in cost  structures ahead of  revenues thereby  impacting liquidity  Increase in cost structures from volumes (new sites rollouts, capacity) and/or rate increases  (inflation, Fx impacts, wage hikes, energy etc.).
7 Adverse regulatory  or fiscal taxation  developments including  compliance risks Regulatory and tax developments in India, South Asia and Africa can pose several challenges  to the telecom sector.
8 Lack of Digitization and  Innovations around  Digital Content Rapid technology evolution may impact the functionality of existing assets and accelerate  obsolescence.
Keeping pace with changing customer expectations is a big agenda for the  telecom sector.
9 Lack of investment in  infrastructure capacity  building T elecom companies will be required to invest heavily in building data capacities and  broadband coverage expansion.
10 Gaps in internal  controls (financial and  non-financial)  Gaps in internal controls and / or process compliances not only lead to wastages, frauds and  losses, but can also adversely impact the Airtel brand.
[Read more on page 122.]
Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 027 Integrated Report Risk Management Integrated Strategy  for Value Creation  Financial Capital Manufactured Capital Human Capital Social &   Relationship Capital Natural Capital Intellectual Capital 028  Materiality Assessment Stakeholder Profiles and Mapping In FY 2017-18, Airtel  revisited the Materiality  Analysis process and  performed a detailed  stakeholder surveys to  identify material issues/  sustainability concerns with  the highest relevance and  impact.
In order to streamline  the process, identification  and categorization of its  key stakeholders (both  internal and external)  was performed.
The key  stakeholders identified  include: Customers,  Employees, Business  Partners (Suppliers and  Vendors), Community,  Investors, Government  Bodies, Industry  Associations, Non- Governmental Organizations  (NGOs) and Academic  Institutions.
Stakeholder  engagement activities  were carried out among  Airtel’s approach towards responsible and sustainable business practices  undergoes a systematic mapping through regular engagement with its  internal and external stakeholders.
This practice helps the Company to  prioritize key sustainability issues in terms of relevance to its business and  stakeholders, including society and environment.
It rigorously conducts  a detailed materiality assessment, which enables it to map stakeholders’  expectations with its business priorities, risks and opportunities.
respective categories of  stakeholders with the help of  questionnaires.
The similar  exercise was performed  with the Airtel Management  Board to delineate the  business priorities, which  when mapped with the  stakeholders’ concerns,  fetched the sustainability  issues that demanded  enhanced strategic and  operational attention.
Detailed Materiality  Analysis process and  Stakeholder Engagement  shall form a part of  Sustainability Report of  the Company at   www.airtel.in/sustainability Stakeholder  engagement &  communication Internal/external  reporting Process  improvement  activities Performance  evaluation Identification &  Monitoring  Our Engagement  Process Employees Shareholders  Community  Media Government Business  Partners Key   Stakeholders Industry  associations Customers NGOs 1 2 3 4 5 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 029 Integrated Report Materiality Assessment Source Financial Capital  Our prudent management  of finances and diligent  allocation of funds help  capitalize long-term  opportunities and ensure  sustainable economic  growth.
Intellectual Capital  Our procedures, governance,  knowledge, technologies and  highly experienced people  support our focus on new  product launches to enhance  customer experience and  drive long-term sustainability.
Human Capital We strive to provide an  energizing and rewarding  work environment for our  employees to learn, lead and  grow.
Manufactured Capital  The expansion and  enrichment of our customer  base depends on our  network building initiatives,  and hence we make  extensive investments to  meet the said objective.
Social & Relationship  Capital Being a socially responsible  company is one of our  fundamental business  objectives and we reflect that  in all our business actions  and decisions.
Natural Capital   In our pursuit towards  excellence, we remain vigilant  towards usage of natural  resources and are responsible  regarding reducing the impact  on environment.
Our Business and   Value Creation Model Inputs  165,748 Mobile Network T owers  298,014 Mobile Broadband Base  Stations  237,893 Optic Fiber Network (RKms)  ~9 Mn Home Passes deployed   7 Submarine Cable Systems  65 Global Points of Presence  J388 Mn spent on social activities   4800+ suppliers  18,000+ Pan India Distributors   16,400+ Exclusive contact centre  agents   200,000+ Shareholders   320+ Mn Customers   Deep experience in digital  innovation   Bold, audacious & honest  communication approach   Host of key strategic partnerships   15,000+ Employees on rolls   42,500+ Contractual employees   J99 Mn Spent on training   J1,028,609 Mn Equity   J649,432 Mn Long-term debt Business Model Brilliant Network We acquire the best spectrum and invest in  cutting edge network infrastructure, automation  tools and optimization techniques to provide  best network experience to our customers.
Obsession with Customers - Digital Airtel We focus on serving our customers digitally  in one touch error free manner through  extensive adoption of digital tools.
Scientific Sales & Distribution We carry out scientific micro marketing  through our pan India sales & distribution  backbone (of channels partners, retailers and  owned stores) to efficiently serve our 300+  Mn customers.
This three tiered machinery  is managed digitally to ensure uninterrupted  services to our customers.
Cost Frugality We are obsessed with stripping out waste  and driving cost efficiencies.
We are pioneers  in infrastructure sharing and have developed  a prudent cost operational model through  focus on smart procurement and process  optimization.
Driving Innovation while managing  complexities We are able to successfully run and scale  up key business activities (Mobility, DTH,  Broadband and Airtel Business) alongwith  growing new lines (Wynk, Airtel TV etc.)
despite different challenges associated.
Open T elecom Platform - New Businesses We are in the process of transforming Airtel into  an open platform of tomorrow to seamlessly  connect our customers to the best brands and  thus, create value for entire ecosystem.
3.3 Mn MWh* of electricity  consumed  314.5 Mn Litres* of diesel consumed * Figures for electricity and diesel are w.r.t.
our network infrastructure Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 030  Outputs Key Products & Customer  Segments Mobile Services  Voice & Data on 2G, 3G,  4G technology    Homes Services  Fixed-line telephone and  broadband   Airtel Business  Connectivity, MPLS, IPLC,  VoIP , wholesale voice and  data etc.
Digital TV Services  Direct to Home TV Digital Apps  Wynk Music, Airtel TV Outcomes # Rated by global leader in internet speed tests - Ookla for third time in a row.
* Figures for energy, carbon emission and diesel are w.r.t.
network infrastructure as compared to FY 2016-17.
NPS - Net Promoter Score | GJ - Gigajoules  2+ Mn Community members impacted (cumulative) through social activities of Bharti Foundation   D697,154 Mn  Paid to suppliers   41  NPS for FY 2017-18   4 Investor complaints  228,120 Man hours of training  ~G3 Mn Gross Revenue per  employee per month  77.7% Succession rate in Middle  and T op management   79.4% Employee engagement  score  ‘Best Company to Work for’ In T elecom and among top 10 employers across sectors in India   Highest Ever Scores On key brand metrics  J896,261 Mn Intangible assets and goodwill Numerous Digital  Innovations  India’s Buzziest Brand  Awarded by Afaqs in T elecom category  33.83% EBITDA margin  G206,045 Mn Paid to Exchequer  2.65%  Return on Capital Employed  G18,475 Mn  Dividend paid   (Including interim)  G792 Mn Profit After T ax  G1,594,562 Mn Market Capitalization (BSE)  ~2,900 T onnes E-waste recycled   53,745 Green energy sites  ~23 Mn* Litres Diesel saved  >128,000 GJ* Reduction in energy consumption   ~76%*  Reduction in carbon emissions per terabyte 111,176 Data Links deployed 89 Cities covered Airtel Business: Homes Services:  639 Districts covered 100% Population coverage 95.3%  Population coverage Fastest Mobile  Network# Mobile Services:  Digital TV Services: Data Traffic: 3901.8 Bn MBs (Mobile)   1340.8 Bn MBs (Homes) T otal minutes on  Network: 2225.4 Bn Mins (Gross) Customers:  304.2 Mn Mobile   2.2 Mn Homes   1.8 Mn Airtel Business   14.2 Mn Digital TV   32.5 Mn Digital Apps      Avg time spent on  digital apps per  customer per day: 48.2 Mins on Wynk Music  18.8 Mins on Airtel TV   For more details on capitals, please refer page no.
032 to 045 of the report.
Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 031 Integrated Report Our Business and Value Creation Model Financial Capital  T o create sustainable value for all stakeholders, at Airtel we manage  our financial capital in an astute, optimum and diligent manner, thereby  harnessing opportunities for long-term value creation.
Source Financial capital (includes shareholders’ equity and debt)  is a critical input in executing our business activities and in  generating, accessing and deploying other forms of capital.
Inputs Our financial strength is based on the primary sources  of financial capital such as shareholders equity, internally  generated cash flows and debt raised from capital market.
These resources serve us to maintain our network, functional  units, fund expansion and modernization & pay dividends to  our shareholders.
The components of the debt portfolio are  determined by the Company’s senior management in a manner  which enables the Company to achieve an optimum debt-mix  for its overall objectives and future market expectations.
Bharti’s three line graph -   Key enabler for driving value creation  At the core of the value creation process is Bharti’s three line  graph which measures:  Outcomes Amount in H Mn  70,000 65,000 60,000 55,000 50,000 70.0% 50.0% 30.0% 10.0% Value Creation EBITDA Margin  (%) PAT  (Amount in H Mn) Return on Capital  Employed (%) 33.83 792 2.65 38.90 -ve 99,256 -ve 4.79 Amount in G Mn  Contribution to  Stakeholders Dividend Market  Capitalization  (BSE) Contribution to  Exchequer 18,475 1,594,562 206,045 6,543 1,399,289 292,323 FY 2016-17 FY 2016-17 FY 2017-18 FY 2017-18 T otal   Revenue Absolute   turnover/ sales Opex  Productivity Operating  expenses/  revenues  Capex  Productivity Revenue/  cumulative capex 2016-17 2017-18 T otal Revenue (H Mn) LHS Opex to T otal Rev (RHS) Capex Productivity (RHS) 37.5% 41.6% 47.3% 65.2% 622,763 536,630 Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 032  The strength of brand ‘Airtel’ was further demonstrated by the  fact that Airtel was declared India’s second largest brand in  terms of brand valuation i.e.
$10.2 Bn by Kantar Milwardbrown  2017 report*.
Not only this, for our various campaigns across  different media and consumer segments, the brand received  many awards and accolades.
Recognition of our  brand initiatives Intellectual Capital  Our Intellectual Capital consists of our strong brand, highly experienced  people, world - class technology and robust processes and systems.
The intellectual capital underpins our vision to ‘win customers for life’.
We consistently strive to innovate with new offerings, technologies and  accessibility to bring brilliant customer experience in an evolving industry  landscape.
Brand Airtel: Innovative, Bold & Honest Brand ‘Airtel’ stands for its bold & audacious communication  approach and yet at the same time being honest & transparent  with its customers.
The brand has always been known for  its industry first initiatives like Open network, wherein we  opened our network information to customer’s scrutiny & in  turn established a stronger connect with them.
During the last  year, we also strengthened our innovation & category leader  credentials with initiatives like “Postpaid Promise” - wherein  we redefined the postpaid category, “Launch of Airtel TV” in  OTT space & campaigns like “Sab Kuch Try Karo, Phir Sahi   6.6% Salience - Y-o-Y increase as  per March 2018 exit scores  5.8% Consideration - Y-o-Y  increase as per March 2018  exit scores *Source:   http://www.millwardbrown.com/brandz/top-indian-brands/2017 Olive Crown  Awards: Silver in  “Out of Home”  category for Airtel  Starry Nights Ad: T ech Digixx  2018 Gold Award  for Digital Marketing  in T elecom   Category Afaqs Buzziest   Brand Winner   in T elecom   Category MOBEXX Gold Award  for Mobile Advertising  in programmatic  campaign for Airtel  Postpaid 2017 Smarties Bronze  Award for Innovation  Media plan for Airtel  Postpaid 2017 Chuno” (Try everything and choose what is right for you).
These campaigns have helped us to further fortify the ‘Airtel’  brand which is reflected with highest-ever scores# on key brand  metrics of Saliency and Consideration.
#Data collected by Market  Research agency - Ipsos  Research Private Limited Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 033 Integrated Report Financial Capital / Intellectual Capital [Read more about our operational achievements   on page 116.]
Project Leap With a total investment of H 600,000 Mn, Project Leap was  introduced in 2015 to help Airtel emerge as the most preferred  smartphone network in India.
5G At Airtel, we have always believed in pioneering  innovation for our customers.
T o empower our  customers with next generation of mobile internet connectivity,  offering faster speeds and more reliable connections on  smartphone, we have already conducted trial for India’s first 5G  network.
Digital Innovation The digital sphere is the new norm that businesses today  cannot overlook.
At Airtel, digital innovation across our  operations has been essential in helping us stay ahead of the  curve and deliver value to our customers.
Our digital innovation  team develops quality services that focus on creating better  experiences for our customers.
Project Next Airtel’s ‘Project Next’ is a digital innovation program aimed  at transforming customer experience.
A bouquet of digital  innovative services under this project is expected to enrich  Airtel’s customer experience.
Some of the services introduced  were:  Next-Gen Airtel Stores: Highly interactive customer  relationship centres with digital screen, touch screen table top  and entertainment hub.
Online Store: Launched in October 2017, Airtel’s   online store www.airtel.in/onlinestore offers a range of premium  smartphones with affordable down payment, instant credit  verification and financing and bundled monthly plans.
Airtel Secure: As a key differentiator from the market, Airtel  launched handset damage protection as an additional service  for the postpaid customers.
Airtel Postpaid Promise: A first of its kind ‘Data Rollover’  feature for postpaid customers to carry forward unused data to  next billing cycle.
My Airtel App: An updated version with exciting new  features for better customer experience was launched.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 034  create a stronger security platform amidst the evolving digital  landscape: Enhanced cyber security  T o serve the growing cyber security requirements, Airtel’s  partnership with Symantec Corp makes it an exclusive Cyber  Security Services partner for Symantec in India and aims to  leverage Airtel’s strength in India’s Business to Business (B2B)  segment by helping them address the challenges of the Cloud  Generation with Symantec’s innovative Integrated Cyber  Defense Platform.
T elecom Infra Project (TIP) Community Lab Airtel announced the launch of India’s first T elecom Infra Project  (TIP) Community Lab.
Airtel is among the early members of TIP  - a global initiative founded by Facebook, Deutsche T elekom,  Intel, Nokia and SK T elecom to create a new approach for  building and deploying telecom network infrastructure.
Massive MIMO  An industry first approach aligned to Project Leap, Massive  Multiple-Input Multiple-Output (MIMO) technology in  partnership with Huawei T elecommunications is aimed to  expand our existing network capacity and enhance user  experience.
[Read more about ‘Strategic Partnerships’ on page 115.]
Strategic Partnerships At Airtel, we have always believed in the philosophy of ‘win  customers for life.’ Anticipating future market trends, we  entered into several strategic partnerships to enrich our service  offerings.
Exclusive Online Content Digitization continues to gain traction with technology  reshaping the consumer experience.
With people increasingly  consuming more content, we have partnered with leading  online content providers to bring our customers closer to  best of content across different genres.
Our partnership  with Hotstar, Amazon and AL T Balaji are first-of-its kind  partnerships in the industry, that have helped us strengthen  our competitiveness.
Expanding Smartphone Reach Mera Pehla Smartphone  Aligning to the Government of India’s ‘Digital India’ campaign,  Airtel entered into exclusive partnership with global players  (including Google, Motorola, Samsung and Itel) to bring  smartphones within the reach of more people and enable  unconnected people to get online.
Other T echnology Partnerships T echnology continues to play a critical role in a dynamic  industry like ours.
Airtel partnered with SK T elecom, Symantec  Corp, OneWeb, Airbus, Delta and Huawei etc.
to leverage  their technical excellence and integrate the same into its  product portfolio.
Some of these partnerships have helped  [Read more about our Human Capital on page 036.]
381 Digital T alent base as on March 31, 2018 Highly Skilled and Experienced Workforce We believe in empowering our employees by building a  culture of excellence in our operating environment.
Our  business sustainability is built upon our experienced, engaged,  skilled and talented workforce.
Our in-house researchers,  technologists, engineers and innovators act as ‘think tanks’  and deliver relentlessly to help Airtel create long term value for  its stakeholders.
Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 035 Integrated Report Intellectual Capital Human Capital  At Bharti Airtel, we consider ‘Win With People’ to be one of our key business  priorities and firmly believe that Airtel’s success is a true reflection of its  culture of pride, ownership and sense of belongingness.
Our ‘People Agenda’  is linked with the organizational strategy where we partner with our employees  for building a world class environment and helping them learn, lead and grow.
A Structured HR Framework underpinned by Digital Culture We believe our employees are a differentiating factor that has contributed to our growth and  leadership in India and led us to become the third largest telecom service provider in the world  (in terms of subscriber base).
Under the overarching strategy of ‘Win With People’, the people  development philosophy during the year 2017-18 was centered around ‘Learn, Lead and Grow’.
We aim to create a ‘best in class’ and seamless employee experience by coalescing employee  journey with a digital culture, right from onboarding to acquiring functional excellence and  leadership.
Learn We curated a learning  path and curve for each  employee with a host of  digitized learning solutions,  (e-enabled, mobile-enabled  or gamified) launched  to enable employees to  become a ‘Master of  the Craft’ by achieving  higher levels of functional  proficiencies.
Some of the  learning initiatives were: iLearn: During the year,  more than 8,000 learners  completed over 2,000  courses and recorded more  than 120,000 hours on  iLearn.
The telecom industry has  seen a paradigmatic shift in  the last few months.
Pricing  simplification, bundled  offers, e-KYC activations and  many other factors have  contributed to a shift in the  way we expect employees  to operate.
With a view to re- invent mindsets, processes,  collaboration, compliance  and more, various functional  and behavioural trainings  were conducted throughout  the year to equip our people  with the required skills and  knowledge.
Functional Training:  Including induction and  functional knowledge/ skill  building viz.
sales mindset  in changing times and  customer centricity.
Behavioural Training:  Including collaborative  relationships, problem  solving, design thinking and  communication.
Learn Lead Grow  100+  Certifications  15,000+ T otal number of employees   30% Employees under the age  of 30  34 years Average age of our  employees   124 Differently-abled employees  in our Company   600+ Courses  171,655 No.
of man hours of training  20,249 No.
of man hours of training  2,404 Training interventions  289 Training interventions Pluralsight: A partnership to  provide online video training  courses in technology and  innovation.
Skills on demand with  Lynda & Coursera:   We partnered with leading  universities across the  globe to offer certifications  via mobile compatible  and self-paced exhaustive  catalogues on new age skills  to groom employees.
30+ Courses Airtel 101: Gamified  content in byte sized  modules to enhance the  functional knowhow of  the employee about the  Company and the industry.
This was supplemented by  an exciting weekly contest –  ‘Fastest Finger First’.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 036   Lead Leaders at every organization, set the pace and nurture the  right mindset.
At Bharti Airtel, we believe in grooming leaders  of tomorrow who act as role models for the entire organization  and make a difference especially in challenging times.
Under  this pillar, people managers are nurtured and expected to  demonstrate what it is to ‘Lead Right’ by role modeling all key  leadership behaviours, including ‘Leading Self’ and ‘Leading  Others and T eams’.
Some of the leadership initiatives were: Leadership Training: T o groom managers to become future  leaders.
77.7% Succession rate in Middle and T op Management in FY 2017-18   24,655 No.
of man hours of training  162 Training interventions  2,000+ Feedbacks initiated  193 Managers covered Feedback on fingertips:   A 360-degree feedback application that allows  to seek real-time feedback from all stakeholders  (within Airtel) to enable them work on their perceived areas of  improvement.
Coaching Conversations (Leaders as Coaches): A tool  available on the intranet platform that makes coaching real and  actionable for the employees.
The platform empowers each  employee to identify his/ her own coach.
Ascent: A leadership experience workshop  for ‘Manager of Managers’ to help them build  bandwidth, credibility and capability to transform  as ‘Leader as a Coach’ for their teams.
The workshop was  centered on educating about different leadership styles,  creating self-awareness, identifying different roles as leaders  and developing a coaching framework.
Embark: A workshop to equip first time managers  with practical skills needed to succeed in the ‘People  Leadership’ role.
The objective of the workshop was  to help the employees strengthen their emotional intelligence  and performance management abilities.
Airtel Leadership Series: Airtel Leadership Series in 2017-18  saw a galaxy of speakers comprising of internal leaders and  external experts from different industries such as healthcare,  startup, consulting etc.
sharing their valuable learning and  experiences with our team.
They shared insights on important  topics spanning across technology, digital future, business  partnering, brand value and transformation among others.
The  employees got a chance to interact with experts on several  topics giving them a perspective of different organizations and  experiences.
Grow  Career Fair The year 2017-18 witnessed Career Fair 2.0  in May, which centered on the importance of  “Owning My Development” along with building  a career.
With a host of distinguished speakers  across industry, the idea around the Career Fair 2.0 was to  narrate career journeys as examples, stress the need to take  ownership of one’s own career and have meaningful career  conversations by being able to answer the following questions:  1.
“I know what skills I need to do my current job well” 2.
“What are the possible roles I can aspire for and what  skills are needed to succeed in these?” 3.
“How can I build these skills?”   44 Managers covered Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 037 Integrated Report Human Capital  24 Impact stories shared under  ‘She For Change’ Campus Programs: Under two key programs viz.
Young Leader  Program (YL) and Young T echnical Leader Program (YTL),  Airtel hires the best minds from the country’s top management  schools and engineering campuses and grooms them for future  leadership and world class technical leaders’ roles.
Career App: We launched the updated version of the  MyCareer App, enabling skill based mapping of all roles within  the organization for the employees.
Gender Diversity and Equal Opportunity  At Bharti Airtel, we consider ‘Diversity’ to be a key enabler  for business and continuously put in efforts to build a team  which represents the society at large.
Our flagship diversity  program, “WE- Women Empowered”, under its umbrella,  focuses on empowering its women employees to curate their  career journeys at Airtel via focused interventions including  WE Mentorship, WE Chit Chat, WE Achieve and WE Lead.
All  these efforts have also culminated into the launch of ‘She  For Change’ - our compendium featuring narratives of Airtel  women employees on personal or professional impact brought  in their ecosystem.
Fostering an Engaging Work Environment  Employee connect has always been an integral part of our  culture at Airtel.
We foster an engaging work environment by  leveraging various channels of communication.
Some of the  initiatives undertaken were:  > Workplace by Facebook: T o enable digital collaboration and  communication among all employees and foster greater  Leader-People connect.
> HIVE: An information sharing platform empowered with easy- to-use tools to deliver insight across the entire employee  lifecycle.
> Mood-o-Meter: A mobile based app enabling employees  to share their views and feedback for a better working  environment.
Provide Safe and Healthy Work Conditions We are committed to ensure a secure work environment.
We have in place stringent workplace health and safety  policies including Workplace Safety Policy, Health Safety and  Environment Policy, Domestic Travel Safety and Security Policy  and Policy for Safety of Women amongst others.
T o ensure  occupational health and safety throughout our operations, a  dedicated safety team, led by a Safety Officer, is in place to  monitor and maintain safe, healthy and injury-free working  conditions.
Awards and Recognitions We believe in recognizing and rewarding our employees for  their sustained efforts towards organizational growth.
With  the ‘Kudos’ program, we have been able to build a culture of  recognition to celebrate the success of our team members  by awarding them with various category of awards including  Instant Awards, Planned Awards in the nature of Silver, Gold  and Diamond Awards and Long Service Awards etc.
14,000+ Employees underwent safety trainings in FY 2017-18  79.4% Employee engagement score  146 Recruits from YL and YTL  Programs in FY 2017-18  30+  Campuses visited  8,000+   Unique accesses initiated  2,764 Long Service Awards  2,693 Planned Awards (Silver, Gold and Diamond)  8,306 Instant Awards Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 038  Manufactured Capital In telecom industry the infrastructure assets define the quality of service  provided to the customers.
A superior quality quotient is a result of sustained  investments in building a strong infrastructure base.
Our ability to serve customers rests on the foundation of a strong network infrastructure that delivers brilliant network experience.
The industry table has declined over the year and moved towards an effective 3+1 market structure.
Given the changes in the  telecom landscape which have necessitated unprecedented network rollouts with emerging opportunities, at Airtel, our strategy is  to sustain market leadership by setting up an integrated network infrastructure and enhancing the value for our customers.
Sustained Capital Investments Aligning to the Government of India’s vision of a  ‘Digital India’, at Airtel we are making sustained  investments to strengthen our network infrastructure.
Our tower infrastructure, spectrums and other related  assets form a strong manufactured capital base for  the Company.
The surging data traffic has made it  imperative for us to have a stronger presence across  the different spectrum bandwidth to widen our  customer base.
We have invested significantly till date in increasing  our presence in spectrum portfolio bandwidth.
A  growing customer base in key areas across our  multiple product segments is adequately supported  by our strong spectrum bandwidth.
We realize that the  investments we make today will have a lasting impact  on the near future.
232.80 MHz Spectrum in 900 MHz Band  449.30 MHz Spectrum in 1800 MHz Band Service Area (Unpaired) 900, 1800, 2100, 2300 MHz Band 900, 1800, 2300 MHz Band 1800, 2100, 2300 MHz Band  570.00 MHz Spectrum in 2300 MHz Band  250.00 MHz Spectrum in 2100 MHz Band India is divided into  “22 licensed service areas” Airtel’s Spectrum  Snapshot Airtel is a leading global telecommunications company with  a portfolio of services that includes voice and data solutions  over fixed, wireless and internet platform, DTH and enterprise  solutions.
We are the only telecom company in the Country to  offer an array of services that enhance lives of our customers.
Our sustained investments in expanding our asset base have  empowered millions of customers with accessibility to our  innovative services.
Investments Resulting in a Growing Customer Base  14.2 Mn Digital TV Services  1.8 Mn Airtel Business  304.2 Mn Wireless Services  2.2 Mn Homes Services Customers The above spectrums does not include spectrum acquisition of T elenor.
Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 039 Integrated Report Human Capital / Manufactured Capital Our Infrastructure Presence Airtel Business Airtel’s international infrastructure includes the ownership of i2i  submarine cable system, connecting Chennai to Singapore and  consortium ownership of submarine cable systems like South  East Asia - Middle East - Western Europe - 4 (SWM4), Asia  America Gateway (AAG), India - Middle East - Western Europe  (IMEWE), Unity, Europe India Gateway (EIG) and East Africa  Submarine System (EASSy).
Along with these seven owned  subsea cables; Airtel Business has a capacity of 22 other  cables across various geographies.
Homes Services Digital TV Services  89 Cities covered  639 Districts covered  100% Population Coverage  7 Submarine cable systems  1,340.8 Bn MBs Data Traffic Enabling Connectivity With almost all the towns  at a height of 3000  meters that extend from  The Great Himalayas  to the Kulum with the  temperature ranging  from - 30o Celsius in  Leh and Kargil to - 50o  Celsius in Drass in winters,  Ladakh is the one of the  toughest geographies in  India and in the World.
For  most part of the winters, all  these towns are cut-off from  rest of the country/state  leading to a serious crunch  in basic amenities including  communication.
The data  service was far from reality as  there was huge dependency  on high quality fiber and the  terrain, weather and passes  made it impossible to lay  fibre.
Airtel J&K team took  this challenge on themselves to make this possible - the entire  project of laying around 1000 kms fibre to connect Srinagar  to Manali via the rooftop of world (Ladakh) was divided in 2  phases: > Phase 1 - Leh & Kargil connectivity to Srinagar > Phase 2 - Leh to Manali Airtel becomes the first operator to launch 3G/4G in Ladakh  region in spite of toughest weather & unfavorable terrains.
Ladakh was put on to the Digital Superhighway with launch of  66 new sites in Leh & Kargil districts with 4G technology.
It is testimony of sheer grit & commitment from ‘T eam Airtel’  bringing the smiles on faces of people & brave hearts of  Indian Army!
Its global network runs  across 250,000 RKms with  over 1,200 customers,  covering 50 countries  and five continents and  65 Global PoPs (Point of  Presence).
7,899 Census T owns  786,043 Non-Census T owns and  Villages  95.3% Population Coverage  298,014 T otal Mobile Broadband  Base Stations  165,748 Mobile Network T owers  3,901.8 Bn MBs Data Traffic   237,893 RKms Optic Fibre Network  1,946.3 Bn Minutes on Network  India’s Fastest Mobile Network Rated by global leader in internet speed tests - Ookla for third  time in a row Mobile Services Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 040  Social & Relationship Capital At Airtel, we believe being a responsible corporate entails us to creating a  shared economic and social value for our stakeholders.
As we prepare to step  up our business for next level growth, value creation for key stakeholders  remains our priority.
Engage Effectively  Inclusive governance and engagement approach is a part of  our value-creation philosophy at Airtel.
We continuously strive  towards strengthening the relationship quotient with our  stakeholders.
Our leadership team takes active participation  in maintaining a robust communication system with all our  stakeholders.
Customers  Everything that we do is geared towards improving our service  for an enhanced customer experience.
Our actions are driven  by our strategy to ‘win customers for life’, as we lead the  change in an evolving digital landscape.
During the year, we  made unflagging efforts to keep our customers delighted.
Some of the initiatives were:  Stepping Up Engagement through Digital Platforms  Decision Tree: We strengthened ‘care’ quotient for our  customers and relationship advisors with launch of Decision  Tree functionality.
The ‘Decision Tree’ enabled the advisors to  derive accurate resolution across our business verticals with  maximum ‘3 clicks’.
On the other hand, the ‘Help & Support’  section at My Airtel app gave the customers holistic self-care  solutions for their concerns.
Enhanced Retail Store Experience: We launched more than 20  Next-Gen Stores across the country with several new digital  experience zones.
The ‘Create’ touchscreen table, ‘Share’ and  ‘Network’ wall were set-up that brought customers closer to  brand ‘Airtel’ and its knowhow.
Everest: An advanced digital managed services tool for our  corporate customers, giving them advanced network related  capabilities (like comprehensive visibility, real time monitoring  and auto-ticketing).
Happy Code: A digital network complaint resolution for our  Homes customers (fixed-line telephone and broadband) to  close their complaints, wherein they share a code (a specific  SMS code) with the engineer.
Konnect App: A dedicated app for our on-field force to serve  our multiple businesses enabling them to serve customer  queries efficiently.
~96% Prepaid activations in wireless business through Aadhaar Online Experience: Created one-stop solution across web  and app platform for our customers across different service  offerings.
e-KYC: We successfully increased the wireless activations  through Aadhaar for Prepaid and Postpaid customers.
In  FY 2017-18, we also launched the Broadband customer  activation through Aadhaar.
This has significantly reduced the  paper usage in our operations and enhanced the customer  experience by enabling faster onboarding process.
Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 041 Integrated Report Manufactured Capital / Social & Relationship Capital Ensure Compliance with Rules and Regulations  Government  At Airtel, we ensure compliance to the rules, laws and  regulations set by the regulatory bodies in the countries we  operate, in letter and spirit.
The management is responsible for  implementation of our policies in compliant to the legislative  framework.
In the course of our business operations, we  engage with several regulatory authorities, maintaining  high governance standards with transparent and timely  communication.
Aligning to the government’s vision of Digital India, we have  stepped up our efforts to provide internet accessibility and  drive inclusive growth of all sections of the society.
We are  making investments towards setting up a comprehensive  infrastructure framework, partnering with government’s  institutions for empowering farmers in agricultural sector with  IFFCO Kisan Sanchar Limited (IKSL) initiative.
Investors  We value the relationship with our wide investor fraternity,  continuously improving the relationship quotient and  aligning our business goals with their expectations.
A regular  engagement process, driven by our investor relations team  provides all the updates and information on our operations,  and strategies and helps addresses any queries/ doubts.
4 Investor complaints received and timely resolved during   FY 2017-18 Suppliers  At Airtel, our business strategy revolves around fostering  mutually beneficial relationships for a common sustainable  goal and partnering with the best.
We treat our partners with  integrity and respect with transparency in all engagements  with them.
Over the years, we have significantly strengthened  our collaborative relationships with the suppliers.
While   on-boarding and on periodic basis, our partners go through a  detailed screening to adhere to compliance, regulations and  standards.
Airtel’s ‘Partner World’, a one stop online portal  for end to end partner management enables the suppliers to  share information, interact/ collaborate, and ultimately form  Maintain Transparency and Ethical Governance Standards  closer relationships with its external supply base.
The Annual  Confluence, a partnership event, provides opportunities for  our partners to interact with the top management and align  towards achieving long-term goals of Airtel.
Continuous  Online Surveys and Strategic Partner Satisfaction Survey  with our partners help us identify areas that have scope for  improvement and necessary actions.
7.9 Strategic Partner Satisfaction Survey Rating Socio-economic Activities Participation Our business philosophies capture our socio-economic intent  to create value for stakeholders.
We take proactive measures to  reduce our impact on both environment and our stakeholders,  particularly on communities that need special attention.
Our  actions towards creating value for stakeholders determine our  brand recall and our acceptance as a brand in the society.
Social Contribution by our Circle Offices T o widen the reach of our social impact, the employees at our  circle offices, across the country, focused on activities to create  value in the local communities of the urban landscape.
Some of  the initiatives undertaken by them were: 1.
Blood donation camps 5.
Share to care 2.
Safety workshops 6.
ACT (A Caring T ouch) 3.
Distributing school bags  and stationery  7.
Disaster management 4.
Life saving skills training Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 042  ACT (A Caring T ouch) An employee payroll giving program for Bharti Group  of Companies, ACT encourages employees to make a  contribution (in terms of money, time, skills or knowledge) and  improve lives of the underprivileged.
Age Home, Khapoli Village, Maharashtra and Anubandh,  situated on the outskirts of Jodhpur, help senior citizens who  are deserted by their families.
We partnered and supported  Anubandh and Ramadham in furtherance of their initiatives.
Protection and Maintenance of Site of Historical Importance  We, as a socially responsible company, have extended our  contribution towards establishment of Partition Museum in  the city of Amritsar for the purpose of commemorating the  partition of India and for fostering a greater understanding of  the forces and circumstances that shaped the momentous and  historic event.
It is the first of its kind museum in India.
Enhancement of Vocational Skills in Hearing Impaired Adults Aimed at providing high-quality leadership and management  skills training program and empowering environment, the  Company extended its support for vocational training program  to 400 hearing impaired adults.
The program and training will  collectively equip them to become “Deaf Change Makers” in  their communities and thrive as vibrant citizens within society.
Airtel and Magic Bus The main area of focus of this project supported by Airtel is to  empower 1,722 children (722 children in Mumbai and 1,000  children in Delhi) in the area of right to education, gender  equity, awareness on health and hygiene, right to play, life  skills and leadership through Magic Bus Sports based and  mentorship program “Sports for Development”.
The aim of the  project is to bring about a positive change in the attitude and  behaviour of children.
Bharti Foundation  Bharti Foundation, the philanthropic arm of Bharti Enterprises,  drives our approach in building positive community relations.
Through its various programs, we reach out to societies in  rural India, empowering lives of the underprivileged through  education with a focus on girl child and sanitation among  others.
Our programs have created a positive impact in the  society: 1.
Satya Bharti School Program 4.
Satya Bharti Abhiyan 2.
Satya Bharti Quality Support  Program 5.
Higher Education 3.
Satya Bharti Learning Centre  Program Bettering Societal State Helping the Disadvantaged We continued the scholarship and skill development  program for underprivileged students of Chhindwara District,  Madhya Pradesh.
We expanded the horizons of the program  by including digital literacy, adult literacy and livelihood  enhancement/ vocational skills for women in the program.
During the year we have trained students from various  domains on employability skills helping them to become  corporate ready.
Over 1,300 underprivileged students and  women were granted scholarship during the FY 2017-18.
Under  the program, we also imparted coaching to the underserved  youth for competitive exams helping them get selected for  central/ state government jobs.
Additionally, we run self- employed tailoring course for women empowerment program  in the tribal areas of Chhindwara.
Caring for the Elderly During the year, we have increased our contribution towards  well-being and up keeping of senior citizens.
Ramadham Old   K4.58 Mn ACT Employee Contribution*   K5.80 Mn  ACT Employer Contribution* *Companies included are Bharti Airtel Limited, Bharti Airtel Services  Limited and T elesonic Networks Limited.
[Read more in detail about our social engagements in  corporate responsibility report on page 048.]
Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 043 Integrated Report Social & Relationship Capital Natural Capital  As one of the world’s leading telecommunication companies, we remain  steadfast to responsible environment governance to ensure our operations  have minimum impact on the surrounding environment.
Our approach  towards environment protection and conservation of natural resources is  guided by our internal policies and applicable external standards.
(Free Cooling Unit), NCU  (Natural Cooling Unit), TCU  (Transmission Cooling Unit),  SCU (Solar Cooling Unit),  MCU (Micro Cooling Unit),  low power consuming BTS  etc.
to reduce the energy  consumption in the past 4-5  years.
Impact: Over 62,000 sites  converted with 25% reduced  energy requirements.
Our environment policies and actions  are aimed at reducing the impact of  our operations on environment.
At  Airtel, we focus on understanding  and managing our environmental  impact with three focus areas.
Reducing the impact of  telecom infrastructure  on the environment 1 Reducing the carbon  footprint in our facilities  and data centres 2 Resource  and waste  optimization 3 Airtel has taken  various measures  over the years, in response  to climate change, the  details of which are given  in this section and shall  also form a part of the  annual sustainability  report.
Reducing the Impact of T elecom Infrastructure on  the Environment We work closely with our tower infrastructure partners to  reduce the environmental impact of their business operations.
As technology continues to evolve, we make sincere efforts  and investments in energy-efficient equipment and utilization  of green energy technologies.
Our collaborative efforts have  led to conversion of several conventional DGs and battery  operated telecom tower sites into energy efficient towers  through adoption of renewable energy sources.
Our Milestones Action: We have installed  Rooftop Solar plants at  Main Switching Centres,  expanding the total installed  capacity over 1MWp across  the several locations in the  last 5 years.
Impact: Rooftop Solar plants  helped us save over 2,300  tonnes of CO2 emission in  the last 5 years.
Action: We have procured  over 90 Mn green units per  annum through various power  wheeling agreements.
Impact: Green energy  procurement helped us save  over 73,000 tonnes of CO2  emission per annum.
Action: We deployed low- power consuming Base  Transceiver Stations (BTS).
Impact: 30% reduction in  power consumption in last  4-5 years.
Action: Our pioneering  effort of telecom passive  infrastructure sharing has  helped reduce energy  consumption.
Impact: In FY 2017-18, over  44% sites were deployed as  shared sites.
Action: We deployed 91%  outdoor BTS sites in   FY 2017-18.
Impact: 25% reduced  energy requirements.
Action: We implemented  battery hybrid solutions to  eradicate use of diesel.
Impact: 4 hybrid tower sites  implemented in FY 2017-18.
Action: We converted  sites to outdoor mostly by  utilizing technology like FCU  With strong scientific  evidence supporting  the disruptive nature  of Climate Change, it  has become a global  challenge that will impact  every business.
Countries  are taking up individual  emission reduction  targets and these targets  will cascade down to  individual sector and  companies.
> Substitution of existing  energy sources with  lower emissions options  and cost perceived  to transition to lower  technology emissions  will be vital in the  coming years.
> Increased severity of  extreme weather events  such as cyclones,  floods, rising sea levels  and precipitation  can cause disruption  in the Company’s  network system thus  Climate Change – An Emerging Area of Focus interrupting smooth  delivery of services to  customers.
This has a considerable  impact on our operation  which include: > Increased Capital  investment and  operating costs due  to higher compliances,  increased insurance  premiums.
> T echnological  obsolescence and/ or write-offs, asset  impairments and early  retirement of existing  assets.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 044  Resource and Waste  Optimization  We have installed specific  systems and processes to  manage both our hazardous  and non-hazardous waste in  compliance with our waste  management guidelines.
Through innovative  technologies, reusing and  recycling, we have managed  Reducing the Carbon Footprint in Our Facilities  and Data Centres At Airtel, we recognize the significance of safeguarding climate  and make efforts that promote the containment and reduction  of carbon footprint in our operations.
We pursue this objective  through sustained investments in assets backed by periodic  assessments of emissions to meet the set targets.
Our Milestones Action: We installed  energy efficient lighting at  workplace to optimize light  consumption.
We retrofitted old  technologies with energy  solutions.
We optimized energy  consumption through  improving chiller efficiency,  controlling heating / air  conditioning and HVAC  optimization.
We installed Enisaver  (Quasar Enviro) smart high- tech devices and energy  efficient cooling systems for  our offices.
We installed collective  control system in lifts  such as “Duplexor” to  help in reducing power  consumption.
to reduce waste generated  and reduced its impact on  the environment.
Our Milestones Action: We encouraged  electronic billing and online  payment methodologies for  our customers.
Impact: Over 1,600 Mn  sheets of paper saved since  2011-12.
Action: Increasingly adopted  verification process through  Aadhaar thereby eliminating  paper work.
Impact: ~96% of prepaid  connections through  Aadhaar.
Our Achievements Equipped all our facilities to  reduce water consumption  and augment rainwater  harvesting.
Sewage treatment plants  are installed at our facilities  for handling domestic waste  water.
We installed efficient water  fixtures, sensors and other  gears to reduce water  utilization.
A dedicated team works  to trace end-to-end  handling and recycling  of e-waste in accordance  with Waste Electrical and  Electronic Equipment  (WEEE) guidelines and post  clearance from Central/ State Pollution Control  Board(s).
Impact*:  1 2 4 3 KWH emission reduction  2,568 MWh Units of electricity saved in  FY 2017-18 in our facilities  17.66% Reduction in C02 emission  per rack in our data centres  as compared to FY 2016-17  ~2900 T onnes E-waste from IT and  network infrastructure was  recycled in FY 2017-18  340,000+ DTH units refurbished in   FY 2017-18 1.
2.
3.
4.
Lighting Optimization (adjusting light intensity, use of natural light, LED  installation) - 8% Energy Optimization (UPS  optimization, improving  chiller efficiency) - 19% Innovative Solutions - 8% HVAC upgradation for  efficient heating and cooling  - 65% * above figures relate to impact  made at our facilities.
Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 045 Integrated Report Natural Capital The Crowning Moments Financial Capital > Bharti Airtel bagged ‘The Corporate Treasurer Award’ for  ‘Asia’s Best Treasury and Finance Strategies, 2016’ under the  ‘Best Hedging Strategy’ category.
> Bharti Airtel was ranked second in the ‘Brand Finance India  100 (2017)’- an annual report on the most valuable Indian  brands.
According to the report, the Company’s brand was  valued at US$ 7,722 Mn.
Human Capital > Bharti Airtel was honoured with ‘Aon Best Employer India  2017’ award at the ‘Aon Best Employers India 2017 Learning  Conference and Awards’ ceremony.
> Bharti Airtel was ranked the ‘Best Company to Work For’  in the ‘T elecom & Allied Sector’ in the ‘Business T oday -  PeopleStrong Survey’ (2017).
> Bharti Airtel Network Infra team won an award for  excellence in fire security at the ‘IFSEC Awards 2017’.
> Airtel Lanka won the ‘Best Employer Brand’, ‘Best HR  Strategy’ and ‘Best HR Strategy in line with Business’  awards at the ‘12th Employer Branding Awards’ (2017) in  Colombo.
> Airtel Nigeria adjudged the Company with best recruitment  strategy at the ‘HR People Magazine Awards’ (2017) in Lagos.
Manufactured Capital > Bharti Airtel was ranked second in Business World ‘Most  Respected Companies’ survey (2017).
> Bharti Airtel’s Broadband T eam and Open Network T eam  were awarded under ‘Broadband Product’ and ‘Marketing  Campaign’ categories respectively at the ‘Economic Times  T elecom awards, 2017’.
> Bharti Airtel was rated as the fastest mobile network in India  by ‘Ookla’ - the global leader in speedtest.
This is the third time  in a row that Ookla ranked Airtel as India’s fastest network.
> Nxtra Data, a subsidiary of ‘Bharti Airtel’ was awarded the  ‘CIO Choice Award 2018’ for ‘Data Center & Infrastructure  Vendor’ in the category of ‘Co-location Services’.
> Bharti Airtel’s Internet TV won the ‘T ech Peripheral of the  Year’ award at the ‘NEXA NDTV Gadget Guru Awards’ 2017.
> Airtel Global Business won in ‘Best Emerging Market  Initiative’ category at the 7th ‘Asia Communication Awards’  (2017) held in Singapore.
> Airtel Global Business won in the ‘Best Wholesale Carrier  (Global)’ category at the ‘Carriers World Awards’ 2017 held  in London, UK.
Social & Relationship Capital > Bharti Airtel was honoured in the categories of ‘Best Brand  Loyalty Marketing Campaign’ and ‘Best CSR Initiative’ at the  ‘Asian Customer Engagement Forum and Awards’ (2017).
> Airtel Nigeria bagged the ‘Most Outstanding Customer- Centric T elecoms Brand of the Year’ award at the Marketing  Edge’s ‘National Marketing Stakeholders Summit and Brands  & Advertising Excellence Award’ (2017).
> Airtel Seychelles was awarded the ‘Corporate Social  Responsibility of the Year 2017’ at the 5th edition of the  ‘Business Awards’ organized by the ‘Seychelles Chamber of  Commerce and Industries’ (SCCI).
> Airtel Kenya won in the ‘Humanitarian/Corporate Award  2017’ at the 5th edition of the annual ‘Kenya Red Cross  Volunteer Awards’.
Intellectual Capital > Bharti Airtel was ranked amongst the top 100 firms in the list of  ‘Most Innovative Companies’ in the world (2017) by Forbes.
> Bharti Airtel won the ‘Best Risk Management Practice Award’  in the ‘T elecom’ category at the ‘India Risk Management  Awards’ (2017) instituted by CNBC TV18 and ICICI Lombard.
> Bharti Airtel was ranked second in the ‘BrandZ T op 50 Most  Valuable Indian Brands 2017’ report.
According to the  study, Company’s brand was valued at US$ 10.2 Bn.
> Airtel Global Business won in two categories: ‘Best Voice  Services Innovation – Emerging Market’ and ‘Best SMS  Innovation’ at ‘Global Carrier Awards’ in London.
Natural Capital > Bharti Airtel bagged the ‘Golden Peacock Award for  Corporate Sustainability’ for the year 2017.
Note: The above include awards and recognitions at India and global level.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 046  Airtel Global Business - Asia Communication  Awards, 2017 Airtel Seychelles - ‘Business Awards’ organized by the ‘Seychelles Chamber of Commerce and Industries’ (SCCI), 2017 Bharti Airtel - Aon Best Employer India, 2017 Airtel Nigeria - Marketing Edge’s ‘National  Marketing Stakeholders Summit and Brands &  Advertising Excellence Award’, 2017 Airtel Nigeria - HR People Magazine Awards,  2017 Airtel Kenya - Kenya Red Cross Volunteer Awards, 2017 Bharti Airtel - India Risk Management Awards,  2017 Bharti Airtel - Business T oday-PeopleStrong  survey, 2017 Airtel Lanka - Employer Branding Awards, 2017 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 047 Integrated Report The Crowning Moments Corporate Social   Responsibility Report  At Bharti Airtel sustainability is defined in the context of operating our  business responsibly.
Operating in 16 countries with more than 4 Bn  customers, it is our endeavour to make a difference in our communities.
Our approach to sustainability is guided by our values and principles.
Our employees across the globe make sincere efforts to  leave a positive impact on the lives of people that need aid.
We empower the stakeholders through several initiatives in the field of  education, women empowerment, sanitation, employment generation and healthcare, among others.
India   At Bharti Airtel, we strive to inspire and empower people  to create a financially secure and sustainable future.
Over  the course of the year, we worked towards achieving socio- economic growth through our programs.
We stepped up our  efforts during the year through several programmes that bring  about life-lasting changes in the lives of the people.
Bharti Foundation  Bharti Foundation is the philanthropic arm of Bharti  Enterprises.
The Foundation provides free and quality  education to underprivileged children with a focus on the girl  child, across rural India through its flagship initiative - the Satya  Bharti School Program.
Post completion of 10 successful years  in 2016, the Foundation’s education focus is being scaled up  by transferring learning and best practices of the Satya Bharti  School Program to Government schools through the Satya  Bharti Quality Support Program.
The Foundation has also made  significant contributions in the field of secondary education  through its higher education programs in partnership with  renowned institutions like Indian Institute of T echnology (IIT) –  Delhi & Mumbai, Indian School of Business – Mohali, University  of Cambridge – UK and Newcastle University – UK.
Since 2014,  the Foundation has extended its service beyond education to  improve sanitation in Ludhiana, as well as in Amritsar with the  initiation of Satya Bharti Abhiyan.
Areas we  make a  difference  Education Sanitation Youth  empowerment Disaster  management Healthcare  Satya Bharti School Program The Satya Bharti School Program is the flagship initiative of  Bharti Foundation.
This rural education initiative provides  quality education to underprivileged children, completely  free of cost, with a special focus on the girl child.
The  program envisions transforming students into educated,  confident, responsible and self-reliant employable citizens  of India with a deep sense of commitment to their society.
The program’s reach is multi-pronged: encouraging active  involvement of the rural community, parents of students and  other organizations working in the field of education in India.
Making a lasting and sustainable impact on the community  where schools are present and finding innovative solutions  Education  Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 048  Agents of Change: The road connecting the villages  of Jharunangal and Dhulka in District Amritsar, Punjab  had deteriorated causing several road accidents and  injuries to people.
Satya Elementary School, Dhulka  started witnessing a steady decline in attendance rates  of students due to challenges faced by students by the  worsening condition of the road.
The students of Satya Elementary School, Dhulka,  along with the active support of their teachers, resolved  to change the situation.
It spurred them to initiate a  road safety project.
The children went door to door,  approached the village sarpanch, community members  and the students of nearby schools, informing them  about the situation.
The determination of the students  led to a change, inspiring the community to pitch in by  providing construction materials and labour.
Within a  short time-frame of less than a month, the students’  efforts led to a repaired road that was safe for use.
through its primary and senior secondary schools, the Satya  Bharti School Program is being implemented with the intent  to arrive at replicable and scalable components of quality  education which may be adapted by the Government and  other like-minded organizations.
Reaching out to thousands  of underprivileged children, the program, through its focus on  holistic development, aims to bring forth a new generation of  citizens eager to usher in positive change.
Key Achievements, 2017-18 National level  >  23 students from Satya Bharti School were winners  (Eight Gold, Eight Silver, Seven Bronze) at ‘Natural Capital  Olympiad’ (Environment based competition)  >  35 students secured admission in Jawahar Navodaya  Vidyalayas (JNVs) - complete residential schools for gifted  students in India supported by the Ministry of Human  Resource Development, Government of India > Two Satya Bharti School teachers were declared winners  by Centre for T eacher Accreditation (CENT A - a hallmark of  teaching excellence)  > Exemplary performance by students of Satya Bharti Schools  at India Art National level Painting Competition ‘Khula  Aasmaan’, receiving 11 medals and 87 honorable mentions > Nine Satya Bharti students among the coveted T op 100 at  the ‘Design For Change’ contest that recognizes impactful  community campaigns addressing social change > Three students were declared winners at ‘Pramerica Spirit  of Community Awards’ celebrating volunteer community  program in India  International level > Satya Bharti Adarsh Senior Secondary School, Rauni,  Punjab was awarded at ‘School Enterprise Challenge’, an  international initiative that promotes entrepreneurship > 14 Satya Bharti Schools students were declared winners at  ‘Inspire Aspire’ Poster Making Competition 2017 Students of Satya Elementary School, Dhulka, Punjab:  Narinderpal Singh (15 yrs old), Simranjot Kaur (13 yrs  old), Sanehdeep Kaur (12 yrs old), Daljit Singh (10 yrs  old), Arshdeep Singh (10 yrs old)  254 Schools  50% Percentage of girls   76% Percentage of students  from SC/ST/OBC  communities  70% Percentage of female  teachers  06 States   45,388 Students   1,617 T eachers All data as on March 31, 2018 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 049 Integrated Report Corporate Social Responsibility Report  Satya Bharti Quality Support Program Key Achievements, 2017-18 >  The remediation program has helped increase the learning  levels of 3,817 students thereby improving their English  language and Math across 151 schools   >  Leadership positions at clubs were led by girls witnessing  more than 60% girls at the helm compared to 31% last year  >  A total of 558 awards won by schools at different levels with  five students winning National Means-cum-Merit scholarship  awarded by Ministry of Human Resource Development; two  winning All India Kung Fu championship and one gold medal  in wrestling at 4th Indo-Nepal Golden Cup Youth Rural Games  2017-18 >  Leadership training organized for 104 schools to empower  the school leadership (Principals and senior staff).
Also,  capacity building exposure trips organized for Army Goodwill  Schools’ staff (100 participants) to Satya Bharti Adarsh  Senior Secondary Schools in Ludhiana  >  Schools connect with communities increased with average  number of meetings of School Management Committee up  from two in FY 2016-17 to five by end of FY 2017-18 >  Increased Parent-T eacher Meetings per school from two to  three over previous year.
Average attendance increased from  35% to 48% witnessing a rise of more than 1,300 basis  points   >  Three girl students were felicitated by the then President of  India, Hon’ble Sh.
Pranab Mukherjee in Sohna for exceptional  roles and leadership skills in club activities under Rashtrapati  Bhavan’s secretariat’s ‘Smartgram’ project  Program Approach:  The Satya Bharti Quality Support Program is an education  initiative with Government Schools.
Through this Program,  Bharti Foundation engages the school leadership, teachers,  students and the surrounding communities towards enhancing  the schooling experience and strive for excellence.
The  approach is to identify, integrate and optimize best practices  from Satya Bharti Schools with the intent of encouraging  innovation, participation and ownership to facilitate sustainable  change.
Optimize use of existing  resources, policies and  systems Collaborate with school  leadership and staff to  maximize usage Support schools leaders  to achieve higher goals  and bridge existing gaps   Facilitate, support and  enhance school resources,  processes and efforts *Program Footprint  across 10 states  of India: Delhi, Goa,  Haryana, Jammu  & Kashmir, Punjab,  Rajasthan, Andhra  Pradesh, T elangana,  Uttar Pradesh &  Jharkhand  398 Schools (in ten states*)  159,298 Students  5,982 T eachers  50% Girls  69% SC/ST/OBC communities All data as on March 31, 2018 Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 050   Satya Bharti Learning Centre Program (2013 to 2018)* This remedial/bridge courses program run by the Foundation,  aims to bridge the education gap of Out-of-School Children to  mainstream them into regular schools.
The first phase of the  program, started in 2013 and deployed in partnership with the  Government of Rajasthan was scaled up to Madhya Pradesh  and Jharkhand, thereby extending program reach to the  remote blocks of all three states.
Till March 2018, following have been the major achievements  of the program: Key Achievements, 2017-18 >  9,265 students were mainstreamed in year FY 2017-18 >  15 blocks (Nine in Rajasthan and Six in Jharkhand) declared  Out-of-School Children free by the Education departments.
In  these 15 blocks, Bharti Foundation contributed by operating  846 School Learning Centres and mainstreamed 18,646  students  >  Nearly 1,600 Education Volunteers (EV) worked in this  program, which has generated trained human resource for  remedial teaching at the village level > 1,522 Satya Bharti School Learning Centres have been  operated and closed successfully > Education Department, at all block and district levels have  formally appreciated and acknowledged Bharti Foundation’s  contribution for identifying Out-of-School Children, remedial  teaching and mainstreaming them in government schools  > 79 EVs appreciated by Education Department in Rajasthan  > Rajasthan Council of Elementary Education appreciated  the program  > Over 250 appreciation letters and formal recognitions  received from government officials  > Over 200 print and electronic media reports came about  Bharti Foundation’s School Learning Centres program  > MP Shri Nishikant Dubey appreciated the work of Bharti  Foundation  > Secretary, MHRD, Government of India appreciated Bharti  Foundation’s work to reopen a school  33,353 Students mainstreamed  49% Percentage of girls  1,522 Centres operational since  program inception  98% Percentage of SC/ST/OBC  students “Bharti Foundation’s Quality Support Program has benefitted  us in various ways and it has helped us in improving overall  development of students.
Their focus on innovative activities  like library week, art and craft workshops, study skills  workshops and celebration of national day have created an  impact on students’ lives.” Mrs. Poonam Nijhawan, Government School Principal Sarvodaya Senior Secondary School, Pitam Pura, Delhi “We would like to express our gratitude to Bharti Foundation  for their tireless contribution in changing the overall  atmosphere of our school.
Their initiatives like Lecture Series,  Students Competitions, Student-T eacher Excursions, T eacher  Training and Club Formation are priceless contributions in  development of a child’s future.
Apart from this we highly  appreciate the role of the Foundation in streamlining Parent  T eacher Meetings and community connect.”  Mrs. Santosh Kumari, Government School Principal Govt.
Girls Higher Secondary School, Kandoli, Nagrota, J&K *From April 2018, this program has been integrated with the Satya Bharti Quality Support Program for the comprehensive support of Government schools.
All data as on March 31, 2018 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 051 Integrated Report Corporate Social Responsibility Report “We appreciate Bharti Foundation’s Satya Bharti Learning  Centre Program and their collaboration with Government  of Rajasthan in identifying Out-of-School Children and  mainstreaming them in government schools.
We would like  to highlight Bharti Foundation’s support in achieving the  goal of 100% mainstreaming of drop out children.
We hope  that Bharti Foundation will continue this commendable work  across all districts of Rajasthan”.
Dr. Priya Balram Sharma, Deputy Commissioner (REI) Rajasthan Council of Elementary Education, Jaipur  “Wonderful initiative by Bharti Foundation in Naxal-hit district  of Jharkhand to bring back Out-of-School Children.
Such  public–private partnerships can help transform education.
The need now is to scale such efforts and expand nexus of  good work”.
Sh.
Anil Swarup, Secretary, MHRD Government of India (Courtesy: Twitter) A role model Bokrabandh, is a village  approximately 400 kms  north of Ranchi, falling  under Sunderpahari  block of Godda district.
This remote village  (the nearest station  is Bhagalpur Railway  Station which is 94 kms  away) has a population of around 600 people, primarily  belonging to a tribal community.
The only Government  school in Bokraband was closed for years due to lack of  infrastructure and basic facilities.
Lukas Hansda, a youth from a tribal village pledged to  bring the change that mattered.
Working as an Education  Volunteer with Bharti Foundation, Lukas Hansda, followed  the processes under Satya Bharti Learning Center Program.
The first challenging task was to get Out-of-School Children  back into school.
After a lot of hard work and persuasion,  24 children underwent the remedial course in Satya Bharti  Learning Centers.
The Satya Bharti Learning Center provided remedial  courses for Out-of-School Children and Satya Bharti Quality  Support Program, helped the school to set up co-scholastic  processes such as School Management Committee,  Community Volunteering Program, Students’ Council,  Parent T eacher Meeting, School Development Plan etc.
Government teachers were encouraged and persuaded  to attend the school regularly.
The activity based learning  approach and healthy teacher-student’s relationship  helped in enriching the overall schooling experience for  all stakeholders.
T oday the village has a fully functional  school and has institutionalized key processes that make  the initiative sustainable with Lukas motivating another 20  students to join in 2017-18 academic year.
> Bharti Foundation nominated in the 13 member core  Education reformation committee team at Pakur, Jharkhand  > Many students in this program (erstwhile Out-of-School  Children) went on to be selected in Jawahar Navodaya  Vidyalaya (JNV), Eklavya Vidyalaya and Kasturba Gandhi  Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV), besides 16 students completing  class 5 with over 60% marks (first division) > Three centres have been awarded ‘Swachh Vidyalay  Purashkar’ (one in Category green band and the other two in  category blue band by MHRD, GOI) > MLAs from constituency of Barmer, Ramsar, and Sawai  Madhopur visited centres and appreciated Bharti  Foundation’s work with government schools > MLA from constituency of Dahua in Jharkhand visited the  Centre and appreciated the program  State Wise Achievement (since inception) States No of  Centers No of Children  Mainstreamed No of  Children  Impacted Rajasthan 1,114 23,070 26,273 Jharkhand 320 8,373 8,758 Madhya  Pradesh 88 1,910 2,469 T otal 1,522 33,353 37,500 Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 052   90,276 T otal beneficiaries  1,010 Villages surveyed   18,286 T oilets constructed   (rural & urban Ludhiana  and rural Amritsar)  792 Villages (toilets  constructed)  11 Urban local bodies   (toilets constructed) 14 Girls’ toilets (government  schools) * Data as of March 31, 2018, with  total figures from inception in  August 2014   Satya Bharti Abhiyan On August 18, 2014, Bharti Foundation launched the Satya  Bharti Abhiyan, an initiative to improve sanitation facilities  with rural Ludhiana as a focus area.
Phase one of the program  has been completed with individual toilets constructed and  handed over across rural and urban Ludhiana.
In addition,  14 Government schools, identified by Punjab Education  Development Board, have been provided a separate toilet for  girls in rural Ludhiana.
In the urban areas of Ludhiana district,  201 households in a list provided by the Punjab Municipal  Infrastructure Development Company (PMIDC), that did not  have a toilet, have been provided one.
On July 15, 2017, the Foundation announced the expanded  outreach of the sanitation initiative with the launch of the  Abhiyan in Amritsar.
An MoU was signed with the Department  of Water Supply and Sanitation (DWSS), Punjab in September  2017 for providing financial assistance to beneficiaries for the  construction of toilets as identified by the DWSS.
Key Highlights, 2017-18  >  Reduction in open defecation enabling better health and  wellbeing.
A survey of usage of toilets provided to the  beneficiaries, revealed 98.54% being used  >  Ludhiana district (rural), one of the largest and most  populated districts of Punjab became the second self- declared “Open Defecation Free” district in the state in  November 2016.
Amritsar district (rural) has achieved self- declared Open Defecation Free (ODF) status on March 28,  2018 and Punjab (rural) on March 30, 2018  >  Satya Bharti Abhiyan received ‘CORPORA TE TRAILBLAZER’  Award at ‘India T oday Safaigiri Summit & Awards 2017’ >  The program has been appreciated at the village, district,  state as well as National level of governance.
On January  24, 2018, Hon’ble Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi lauded  Bharti Foundation’s sanitation initiative during a CEO meet at  the World Economic Forum in Davos Commemoration ceremony for completion of Abhiyan in Ludhiana graced  by then Minister of Finance and Corporate affairs, Govt.
of India, Shri Arun  Jaitley, Shri Manpreet Badal, Finance Minister Govt.
of Punjab, Shri Tript  Rajinder Singh Bajwa, then Cabinet Minister for Department of Water  Supply and Sanitation, Govt of Punjab, and Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal, Co- Chairman, Bharti Foundation.
Event joined by many government officials,  political fraternity and industry officials Sanitation  Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 053 Integrated Report Corporate Social Responsibility Report Airtel Connect  Airtel Delhi Half Marathon  The Airtel Delhi Half Marathon (ADHM) continues to be bring  together corporates, individuals, employees and students of  schools and colleges, giving them the opportunity to increase  their awareness about the Satya Bharti School Program, help  raise funds and enjoy the marathon run.
Young Leader Programme The Young Leader Programme is a two-week initiative (part of  corporate induction program) to engage new team members  of Bharti Airtel as volunteers to support various initiatives of  Bharti Foundation.
53 Number of Youth Leaders ACT (A Caring T ouch) It is an employee payroll giving programme encouraging  employees to give back to society in terms of money, time,  skills or knowledge.
In FY 2017-18 more than 4,145 employees  (from Bharti Airtel Limited, Bharti Airtel Services Limited and  T elesonic Networks Limited) participated contributing H 4.58  Mn, while the employer contribution was H 5.80 Mn.
Higher Education Bharti Foundation has also partnered with premier National and  International Institutes in the sphere of Higher Education: The Bharti School of T elecommunication T echnology  and Management at Indian Institute of T echnology (IIT),  Delhi, established as a premier institute developing ‘Young  T elecom Leaders’.
The Airtel IIT Delhi Centre of Excellence in  T elecommunications (AICET) was established to bring about a  sustained growth and progress in the T elecom sector through  various innovative initiatives.
The Bharti Centre for Communication at IIT , Bombay is  dedicated to being a contributor in expanding the frontiers  of knowledge through research and education in the  telecommunication industry.
The Bharti Institute of Public Policy, Mohali was set up in a  partnership between Indian School of Business (ISB) and Bharti  Enterprises with Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, T ufts  University (USA) as its partner school.
Key partnerships Partnerships with University of Cambridge (UK): The University of Cambridge and Bharti Foundation, signed a  Memorandum of Understanding (“MoU”) on September 12,  2016 to conduct a baby corn crop improvement research  program in India.
The program is being funded through a  grant from Bharti Foundation to the University of Cambridge.
The grant supports a three-year research program carried out  between Cambridge’s Department of Plant Sciences and the  Cambridge Centre for Crop Science (3CS), Punjab Agricultural  University and FieldFresh Foods.
Manmohan Singh Bursary Fund: Begun in 2010, this scholarship program enables high school  students of remarkable caliber to pursue their education at the  University of Cambridge University, thus removing the financial  barrier.
Partnership with University of Newcastle (UK): Bharti Foundation and Newcastle University, UK signed  and MoU in March 2018 to extend cooperation in the area  of student’s internship and joint academic research.
The  students from Newcastle University, UK, will make a visit to the  remote villages in India and conduct their research on various  educational reform projects run by Bharti Foundation.
The  findings of their research will be used to further develop and  enhance the ongoing programs.
Satya Bharti University Announcement In November 2017, Bharti Foundation announced its  plans to set up Satya Bharti University with the vision  of “Being a global leader in creating and disseminating  cutting-edge knowledge that transforms lives and  creates a brighter future”.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 054   Africa   We operate in a complex and dynamic environment, with economic controls, technological progressions and increasing focus on  digitization.
As a responsible corporate, we align our business growth with social and economic wellbeing of the communities where  we operate.
Our programs are executed at local level through our employees, thereby directing contributions to areas of greatest  impact in the particular regions.
300,000 Students benefitted through Internet for School program Internet hubs: Airtel Zambia employees scaled up their efforts  to bridge the digital gap in the country through donation of  computers and providing internet accessibility by setting  up dedicated ‘internet hubs’ across the country.
Through  partnerships with the British Council, Samsung Electronics,  Huawei and the Ministry of Education, Airtel is helping  students to realize their full potential and contribute to national  development.
The hubs helped students and teachers to use  the computers for improving their Internet and Communication  T echnology (ICT) capabilities.
7,000 Students used internet hubs created by Airtel Zambia Education  Adopt-a-School: Our flagship program in Africa, through  ‘Adopt-a-School’ initiative we have created an impact in lives of  more than 32,000 under-privileged children.
We have helped  schools rebuild infrastructure, provide reading materials,  support feeding programs and promote e-learning.
Internet for School: Airtel Kenya partnered with more than  315 schools in 36 counties across the country with its flagship  program ‘Airtel Internet for Schools’.
The program has provided  internet accessibility to several school students who cannot  afford cost of connection.
Till date more than 300,000 students  have been impacted through the initiative.
Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements 160-317 055 Integrated Report Corporate Social Responsibility Report “With changes in the education  system that have seen more  students turning to the Internet for  learning resources, the organization  continues to harness the strength  of the Company’s technology to  drive change in the community.
Airtel Africa is committed to support  schools across the continent  connect to the Internet.” Raghunath Mandava Message from MD and CEO (Africa)  40,000+ Calls received daily for information on plague   12,000+ Annual calls received from subscribers seeking healthcare advice  Health  Health Centre by Phone: Airtel Malawi is part of “Chipatala  cha Pa Foni” (CCPF) or ‘Health Centre by phone.
The toll free  health and nutrition program in partnership with NGO Village  Reach and Ministry of Health has helped the subscribers reach  out to trained health professionals for advice to any health  related issue.
Originally focused on women and children, the  hotline now covers all health topics, including nutrition, HIV , and  TB, youth-friendly service and content.
Youth empowerment   Train my generation: Train My Generation project was  initiated to train young Gabonese students in New Information  and Communication T echnology (ICT).
Airtel Gabon signed  the partnership agreement with UNESCO at the UNESCO  Headquarters in November 2014.
A first of its kind agreement  between UNESCO and a private company, the initiative helped  improve digital literacy in centres by training more than 5,000  students between the age of 17-35 years.
Airtel opened 13  such training centres across Gabon with 62 teachers being  imparted training by African Institute of Information and  T echnology.
Disaster management   Fight against plague: Airtel Madagascar partnered with World  Health Organization (WHO) and Malagasy Government in  implementing a strategy and response plan to help people fight  the plague outbreak that affected more than 23 Mn in August  2017.
Airtel Madagascar provided a short code number so  that all subscribers would have free access to information,  creating awareness to prevention, symptoms, transmission  and treatment of the plague from WHO.
Around 40,000  calls were received on a daily basis.
The initiative received a  commendation from the WHO (World Health Organization).
Our employees set up.
On March 29, 2018, the graduation ceremony for the “Train My  Generation Program” was conducted with Audrey Hazouley,  the Managing Director of UNESCO and the President of Gabon  were present as guests at the ceremony and commended  Airtel for this ground-breaking initiative.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 056  Business Responsibility Report Section A General Information about the Company Section B Financial Details of the Company * Please refer Annexure D of the Board’s Report viz.
the Annual Report on CSR activities for details Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company L74899DL1995PLC070609 Name of the Company Bharti Airtel Limited Registered Address Bharti Crescent 1, Nelson Mandela Road, Vasant Kunj, Phase II,   New Delhi - 110070 Website www.airtel.com Email ID compliance.officer@bharti.in Financial Year reported 2017-18 Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in  (Industrial activity code-wise) > T elecommunication Services –  mobile telecommunication, fixed line  services and telecommunication enterprise solutions.
> Direct-to-Home Services (through subsidiary company) > Payments Bank (through subsidiary company) Key products / services that the Company  manufactures / provides (as in balance sheet) > Mobile Services > Broadband Services > Enterprise Services > Direct to Home (DTH) Services T otal number of locations where business activity  is undertaken Number of international  locations (major 5) Operations in 16 countries including India and  Sri Lanka.
Number of national  locations Headquartered in New Delhi, the Company has  business in all 22 licensed telecom service areas.
Markets served by the Company- Local / State / National / International Besides India, operations in Africa and South Asia 1.
Paid up capital (H Millions) 19,987 2.
T otal turnover (H Millions) 536,630 3.
T otal profit after taxes (H Millions) 792 4.
T otal spending on Corporate Social  Responsibility (CSR) as percentage of average  Net Profit of the Company for last 3 financial  years (%) 0.26* 5.
List of activities in which expenditure in point   (4 above) has been incurred > Education promotion > Higher and technical education > Community development  > Employability and entrepreneurship > Sanitation > Restoration and establishment of building of historical importance Statutory Reports Business Responsibility Report 057 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 Section C Other Details  1.
Does the Company have any Subsidiary Company/  Companies?
Bharti Airtel Limited (hereinafter referred as Airtel) has 14  direct and 75 indirect subsidiary companies, as on March  31, 2018.
2.
Does the Subsidiary Company / Companies participate  in the Business Responsibility (BR) initiatives of the  parent company?
Nearly all subsidiary companies, either directly themselves  or jointly with Airtel, participate in the BR initiatives.
3.
Do any other entity / entities (e.g.
suppliers and distributors,  among others) that the Company does business with  participate in the BR initiatives of the Company?
Airtel supports and encourages its partners to undertake  sustainability and CSR initiatives.
At present, the Airtel’s  infrastructure and facility management partners support  its drive towards environment protection, which represents  less than 30% of all its partners.
Section D Business Responsibility Information  1.0 Details of Director / Directors responsible for BR  (a) Details of Director / Directors responsible for the  implementation of BR policy / policies DIN Number 00042494 Name Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal Designation Director  (b) Details of the BR head DIN Number N.A.
Name Mr. Sameer Chugh Designation Director - Legal & Regulatory T elephone Number +91 124 4243188 E-mail ID sustainability@airtel.com 2.0 Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy / Policies Ethics, Transparency and Accountability  Businesses should conduct and govern  themselves with ethics, transparency  and accountability Principle 1 Stakeholder Engagement  Businesses should respect the  interests of and be responsive towards  all stakeholders, especially those who  are disadvantaged, vulnerable and  marginalised Principle 4 Responsible Policy Advocacy  Businesses, when engaged in  influencing public and regulatory policy,  should do so in a responsible manner Principle 7 Products Lifecycle Sustainability Businesses should provide goods and  services that are safe and contribute to  sustainability throughout their life Principle 2 Human Rights Businesses should respect and  promote human rights Principle 5 Support Inclusive Growth  Businesses should support inclusive  growth and equitable development Principle 8 Employees’ Well-being Businesses should promote the well- being of all employees Principle 3 Protection of the Environment Businesses should respect, protect and  make efforts to restore the environment Principle 6 Providing Customer Value  Businesses should engage with and  provide value to their customers and  consumers in a responsible manner Principle 9 Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 058  a) Details of Compliance (Reply in Y /N) (A) The policies are formulated with detailed consultation with relevant stakeholders and benchmarking across the industry.
They are developed and aligned to  applicable legal and regulatory requirements, and guidelines, SEBI listing regulation and its internal mandates.
(B) All policies are administered under the overall supervision of the Airtel Management Board (AMB) of the Company, headed by the Managing Director and Chief  Executive Officer.
The Audit Committee of the Board along with other Board Committees reviews implementation of policies.
(C) The following policies can be viewed on website www.airtel.com and www.bharti.com  1.
Code of Conduct Policy  2.
Code of Conduct Policy for Partners  3.
CSR Policy  4.
Ombudsperson Policy and  Process  5.
Stakeholder Engagement Framework  6.
Human Rights Policy  7.
Environment Health and Safety Policy  8.
T ax Policy (D) Except policies listed above, all other policies are meant for internal consumption of employees and are available on the Company’s intranet.
All policies have  been periodically communicated to the relevant internal and external stakeholders.
(E) All policies are owned by the respective AMB member and their senior leadership teams are responsible for the effective implementation policy.
(F) Any clarifications for grievances related to either of the policies are addressed by the respective leadership team member and if not addressed to satisfaction  can be escalated to the Ombudsperson.
Governance related to BR > Performance assessment frequency of BR  The CSR Committee and Board assess and review the BR performance annually and give a strategic direction to Airtel’s BR initiatives, as  required.
> Details of BR and Sustainability Report  Airtel publishes an annual Sustainability Report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework.
The report has been  uploaded on Airtel’s website and can be viewed at www.airtel.in/sustainability.
Sl.
No.
Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 1.
Do you have a policy / policies for…?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 2.
Has the policy been formulated in consultation with the relevant  stakeholders?
(A) Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 3.
Does the policy conform to any national / international standards?
If yes, specify?
(50 words) (A) Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 4.
Has the policy being approved by the Board?
If yes, has it been  signed by MD / Owner / CEO / appropriate Board Director?
(B) Y N N Y N Y N N N 5.
Does the Company have a specified committee of the Board / Director / Official to oversee the implementation of the policy?
(B) Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 6.
Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?
(C) Y N N Y Y N N Y N 7.
Has the policy been formally communicated to all relevant internal  and external stakeholders?
(D) Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 8.
Does the Company have in-house structure to implement the  policy / policies?
(E) Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 9.
Does the Company have a grievance redress mechanism related  to the policy/policies to address stakeholders’ grievances related  to the policy / policies?
(F) Y - Y Y Y - - - Y 10.
Has the Company carried out independent audit / evaluation of  the working of this policy by an internal or external agency?
Y Y Y N N Y Y N Y Statutory Reports Business Responsibility Report 059 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 Section E - Principle-wise performance Airtel is committed to achieving the highest principles of  integrity and ethics.
Its Code of Conduct (COC / Code) outlines  the Company’s expected standards of ethical conduct and  behaviour.
Airtel’s core values represent mutual respect, trust  and personal growth for all.
The Code of Conduct extends to  employees at all levels and other individuals working with the  Company, its subsidiaries, associates, suppliers, contractors,  service providers, channel partners and explicitly prohibits  bribes, kickbacks, improper payments and direct them to   ensure ethical business conduct.
For effective implementation of the above mentioned Code  of Conduct, the Company has established the office of the  ombudsperson, which is an independent forum for employees  and stakeholders of the Company.
It is fully accessible to all  stakeholders who have grievances with regard to the conduct  of any employee / individual representing the Company.
A  formal process of reviewing and investigating any concern is  undertaken by the Ombudsperson and appropriate action is  taken to resolve the matter in accordance with the Consequence  Management Policy.
The instances of such misconduct are  periodically reported to the Audit Committee.
All employees  are required to undergo an annual e-certification on Code of  Conduct to reinforce their commitment to the Code.
During  2017-18, 24 allegations of corruption or bribery were received.
Investigations were completed in 22 cases.
The remaining 2  cases are under various stages of investigation.
The allegations  were substantiated in 7 cases and suitable actions initiated, as  per Consequence Management Policy.
and implemented procurement guidelines to confirm safety  and resource optimisation.
Besides, it adheres to standard  practices and procedures for waste disposal in accordance  with regulations.
Airtel gives primary importance to community  health and safety.
The Company acknowledges the growing concern over the  exposure to electromagnetic fields (EMF) and maintains  complete transparency in its position.
It also shares updated  and extensive research-based information on this matter with  its employees, partners, customers and the community, at large.
The Company’s existing practices comply with the relevant  guidelines issued by the Department of T elecommunication  (DoT), Government of India (GoI).
Airtel’s sites are subjected to  random checks and audits by the DoT’s T elecom Enforcement  Resource and Monitoring (TERM) Cells.
In FY 2017-18, over  99% of the base stations audited by TRAI were found compliant  with emission norms.
The Company in partnership with the  Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) conducts  various programmes, workshops, seminars and stakeholder  engagements.
Such initiatives are taken to build awareness  about the issue.
Airtel declared ‘War on Waste’ as one of its business priorities.
This initiative intends to improve the Company’s operating  efficiencies by eliminating waste.
Airtel is consistently deploying  innovative technologies with the aim to reduce its operational  wastes.
More details on waste management can be found in  the organization’s latest Sustainability report at www.airtel.in/ sustainability.
The most substantial waste generated from Airtel is e-waste,  owing to its nature of business.
The Company has adopted  a focused approach on e-waste management.
It has made  significant efforts to reduce environmental impact of its  operations, by minimising waste and ensuring proper disposal  and recycling.
Airtel has also implemented various awareness  strategies to reduce waste by promoting extended use of  network and IT based equipment.
The Company adheres to  the Government of India’s (GoI) guidelines to recycle the waste  generated from its source, due to technology up gradation or  any other reason.
In FY 2017-18, around 2,900 tons of e-waste  generated from IT and network infrastructure was recycled  through authorised recycling partners.
Airtel leverages its diverse platforms to deliver services to its  wide customer base.
Thus, it does not have any impact on  sourcing, production or distribution.
The Company also ensures  that there is no broad-based impact on energy and water due  to use of its services.
The Company is strongly committed  to building a responsive and sustainable supply chain.
The  Company  carries out a due diligence process including outlining  contract clauses before enlisting any supplier which includes  While evaluating the impact of business operations, Airtel  aims  to reduce any fallouts during the lifecycle of its products and  services across the value chain.
The Company is leveraging its  existing services such as Mobile DTH, Payments Bank, Fixed  line and Broadband and Enterprise solutions to provide basic  life services.
It is helping enhance financial inclusion, health and  education along with raising awareness around agriculture.
Airtel relentlessly works to provide value across its value chain  to minimise environmental fallout.
Airtel took some significant  steps like promoting reduced energy consumption, minimising  waste and focusing on developing innovative solutions to  ensure environmental stability.
The Company has formulated  Ethics, Transparency and Accountability  Principle 1 Product Lifecycle Sustainability Principle 2 Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 060  ‘Win with People’ is one of the key business priorities of Airtel.
The Company believes that its success depends on its ability  to develop knowledge, skills and expertise of its employees.
This belief translates in ensuring that every business vertical  is equipped with right talent, which is both competent and  engaged.
The Company achieved this objective by undertaking  various initiatives for talent development, employee engagement  and communication.
This approach has helped the Company in building an inclusive  organisation, driven by entrepreneurship providing equal  opportunity to all.
Airtel has consistently tried to create and  promote an inclusive work environment for employees from  diverse backgrounds to help them realise their full potential.
The objective is to ensure that the strong workforce of ~15,500  employees are both skilled and engaged.
The Company is fully committed to the promotion of diversity  across all levels of the organisation.
There were 1,412 permanent  women employees, which represented around 9.1% of the total  certain sustainability and statutory aspects like environmental  protection, health and safety, human rights and child labour,  and ethics.
In addition to this we target to empanel 100% of our  suppliers through contract clauses of sustainability parameters  by 2020.
Regular assessments of suppliers are conducted  through the vendor compliance monitoring process, on statutory  and sustainability requirements like minimum compensation,  benefits, labour issues etc.
and the non-compliances identified  are promptly remediated.
T o optimise resources, reduce  adverse environmental impact and promote indigenous   entrepreneurship, Airtel promotes local procurement from India  based suppliers.
In FY 2017-18 of the 4800+ suppliers Airtel  engaged with, 96% were based in India which constituted  over 58% of its procurement spent.
In addition to this the  Company strives for a minimum of 98% of procurement from  India based suppliers by 2020.
Airtel constantly encourages  its suppliers to adhere to international standards like ISO  9001:2008, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, ISO 27000 and target  atleast 50% of its procurement through suppliers holding  one of these certification by 2020.
The Company has been  continually working to consolidate its supply chain to make  its socio-economic engagements more meaningful.
Airtel has  taken various initiatives in developing a framework to help  marginalised sections, with a special focus on promoting women  entrepreneurs and small businesses.
workforce.
A total of 124 people with special abilities were  employed at various Company locations.
T o nurture workforce  diversity, with a particular focus on gender, the Company has  implemented practices and support systems that specifically  address the requirements of its female employees.
This is  backed by stringent policies and procedures, which ensures the  workplace environment free from sexual harassment.
In addition, the Company had 42,558 sub-contracted employees  for calendar year 2017, employed at its various sites.
During the  period, the Company did not engage any temporary or casual  staff in the organisation.
Airtel currently does not have any  employee associations in the organisation however, employees  have full access to raise their concerns with the management  without fear or coercion which are addressed and resolved  satisfactorily.
Airtel’s aspiration is a zero injury / accident workplace.
Its commitment to health and safety is driven by the  stringent workplace health and safety policies that provides   a comprehensive framework for ensuring safe and incidence- free workplace, effective investment in health promotion and  disease prevention activities at all levels of the business.
T o ensure occupational health and safety throughout the  operations, a dedicated safety team, led by a Safety officer, was  setup up to monitor and maintain a safe, healthy and injury-free  working conditions.
The Company’s commitment to health and  safety is driven by the various stringent health and safety policies.
These provide a comprehensive framework for ensuring a safe  and incident-free workplace and effective investment in health  promotion and disease prevention activities at all levels of its  business.
In FY 2017-18, more than 14,000 employees attended  the safety trainings including over 2,000 women employees and  31 specially abled employees.
The Bharti Code of Conduct ensures to build a workplace  culture that fully reflects Bharti’s values of trust, mutual  respect and inclusive growth for all.
The Code encompasses  a wide array of issues pertaining to harassment, workplace  conduct, labour conditions, and community responsibility.
The  Ombudsperson administers a formal process to review and  investigate all concerns and undertakes appropriate actions  required to resolve the reported matters.
In FY 2017-18 nine  cases regarding sexual harassment at the workplace were  reported and investigated.
In six of these cases, the allegations  were substantiated and the accused personnel were released  from their services.
Airtel received no complaints regarding child  labour, forced labour and discriminatory employment in the year  under review.
Employees’ Well-being Principle 3 Statutory Reports Business Responsibility Report 061 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 Bharti’s Code of Conduct, Airtel’s Human Rights Policy and  various HR Polices demonstrates its commitment toward  protection of Human Rights across value chain and upholding  Airtel’s approach towards responsible and sustainable business  practices undergoes a systematic mapping through regular  engagement with its internal and external stakeholders.
This  practice helps the Company to prioritize key sustainability issues  in terms of relevance to its business and stakeholders, including  society and environment.
It rigorously conducts a detailed  materiality-assessment, which enables it to map stakeholders’  expectations with its business priorities, risks and opportunities.
In FY 2017-18 Airtel revisited the Materiality Analysis process  and performed a detailed stakeholder surveys to identify  materiality issues / sustainability concerns with the highest  relevance and impact.
In order to streamline the process,  identification and categorisation of its key stakeholders, (both  internal and external) was performed.
The key stakeholders  identified include: Customers, Employees, Business Partners  (Suppliers and Vendors), Community, Investors, Government  Bodies, Industry Associations, Non-governmental Organizations  (NGOs) and Academic Institutions.
Stakeholder engagement  activities were carried out among respective categories of  stakeholders with the help of questionnaires.
The similar  exercise was performed with the Airtel Management Board to  delineate the business priorities, which when mapped with the  stakeholder concerns, fetched the sustainability issues that  demanded enhanced strategic and operational attention.
The Company has identified the disadvantaged, vulnerable  and marginalised stakeholders through Bharti Foundation,  the philanthropic arm of Bharti Enterprises.
The foundation’s  beneficiaries include economically-challenged and  disadvantaged groups, especially girls.
Bharti Foundation  touches all aspects of stakeholder empowerment through  multiple community initiatives in the realm of education,  employment generation, sanitation along with healthcare, and  disaster management.
Conducting need-based training for  key stakeholders forms a significant part of the foundation’s  empowerment and financial inclusion strategy.
Please refer  to the CSR section of the annual report and the sustainability  report for details on the Company’s intervention through Bharti  Foundation.
the highest levels of ethical business practices.
Strong  commitment to performance with integrity, and human rights  are embedded in the Company’s policies, which lays down  acceptable behaviour on various aspects including human  rights.
Where the Human Rights policy is applicable to all  employees across the organization and the code of conduct for  associates and the vendor compliance policy details acceptable  standards and statutory obligations expected from the partners  and suppliers.
Detailed monitoring is conducted internally  through its group wide compliance monitoring initiative to track  performance of each site on human rights risks such as labour  rights, work place standards, compensation, privacy and more  in line with the legal requirements of the country and standards.
The process involves identification of risks, identification of  vulnerable groups monitoring like child labour, forced labour etc.,  mitigation plans for identified risks and reporting on an ongoing  basis to the management through its enterprise compliance  monitoring system.
Corrective actions if any range from process  changes, feedback and disciplinary action for violations to even  suspension in line with the consequence management policy of  the organization.
In addition to this to prevent sexual harassment in workplace,  the company has set up Internal Complaints Committees  across geographies comprising a Presiding officer who is  a senior level woman employee, one member with legal  knowledge or experience in social work, one member from  the Ombudsperson’s office and one independent member  from outside the organization who expertise in dealing with  such matters and has the relevant knowledge and experience.
The Committee is responsible for dealing with all matters  related to the subject.
The committee constitution has been  communicated to all employees and also prominently displayed  in the public areas of all offices.
In the statutory compliance assessments on the above  parameters, conducted for all offices in India, no material  violations have been reported in the previous financial year.
In  addition to this an independent audit is conducted periodically  to assess the statutory risks pertaining to Human rights and  any observations are promptly remediated.
No incidences  of discrimination was reported to the ombudsman office in   FY 2017-18.
The details of complaints related to sexual  harassment and labour rights and the subsequent actions  taken have been detailed in Principle 3 of this report.
Human Rights Principle 5 Airtel along with its network-infrastructure partners resolved  to re-invent and reduce the environmental footprint of their  business and operations.
Along its journey towards path of  Protection of the Environment Principle 6 Stakeholder Engagement Principle 4 Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 062  The Company works closely with all industry associations and  trade chambers to ensure its public policy positions complement  and advance its sustainability and citizenship objective.
The  Company strives to drive digital inclusion, promote green  telecom, advance innovation, enhance competitiveness and  increase job creation opportunities.
In turn these activities  create economic growth and help elevate sustainable standards  of living for stakeholders at large.
Its policy agenda is centred  on the provision of network coverage, affordable access to  customers, building transparency and awareness around  network radiations.
Moreover, it deals with creating adaptability  of internet, easing and automating subscriber acquisition,  quality of service offerings, tariff and environment protection  As India’s leading telecommunication service provider, Airtel  has been taking sustained efforts to ensure value creation and  sustainable growth of community.
It sustainability framework  is structured to create a positive impacts on its customers,  partners, communities and society, helping them grow together  and inclusively.
Airtel has empowered millions across the length  and breadth of the country through its exhaustive bouquet of  innovative services and products that enhance community  life and e-governance, by working with the communities and  increasing its network reach.
It is widely acknowledged across the world that internet  accessibility is vital for enhancing socio-economic well-being.
The Government of India, through its ‘Digital India’ initiative,  is focusing on preparing a comprehensive framework for  transforming India’s economy into a digitally empowered society  and knowledge economy.
The key objective of the initiative is  to help elevate the life of a common citizen in multiple ways  and in a cost-effective manner.
T o support the efforts of the  Government and to drive the pursuit of driving digital inclusion,  rural connectivity is one of the major focus areas at Airtel.
With over 156.9 Mn mobile customers from rural market, Airtel  serves India’s largest rural mobile customer base.
The rural and  emerging markets constitute over 51 % of its customer base  and its constant endeavor is to develop tailor-made services  and systems to cater to the ever dynamic requirements of its  diverse subscriber base.
The Company’s philanthropic efforts, employee volunteerism  and community outreach initiatives support the desire to be  seen as a trusted partner.
Its activities are aligned to play an  active role in community wellness.
It is determined to create a  deep-rooted, positive impact on the society at large.
It, therefore,  proactively applies its competence and partnerships to promote  community wellness through initiatives undertaken by the  Bharti Foundation, the philanthropic arm of Bharti Enterprises  and through its own telecom circles offices at the regional level.
Responsible Policy Advocacy Principle 7 Support Inclusive Growth Principle 8 sustainability, the Company explored and implemented several  green solutions to curb emissions.
It is also continuously in  search of more energy efficient technologies and innovative  solutions for a greener future.
In today’s fast moving world, the network infrastructure needs to  be at its optimal best at all times.
The non-availability of reliable  power is a critical factor for remote network sites.
DGs and  batteries are usually used as alternatives to keep the equipment  running in absence of grid power supply.
Through its persistent  efforts, along with its network partners, the Company has been  able to upgrade and convert the existing telecom towers into  energy efficient towers, reducing the reliance on electricity from  grid or diesel.
The next step is maximizing the adoption of green  wheeling for sourcing power from renewable sources and in the  process, reducing its carbon footprint significantly.
In addition to this, Airtel has taken various initiatives towards  deployment of renewable energy solutions in network towers,  installation of rooftop solar panels at Main Switching Centres  (MSCs) and captive green energy generation through   solar / wind energy.
It is also committed to operate and provide  products and services in an environmentally responsible and  sustainable manner.
The Health, Safety and Environment  (HSE) policy specifies its approach towards protection of the  environment; and is applicable for all employees of the Company  and its subsidiaries.
The emissions or wastes generated by the  Company are within the permissible limits given by Central  Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and State Pollution Control  Boards (SPCBs).
As on March 31, 2018, there were 3 notices/ cases received by the organization from pollution control boards  and all of them have been resolved to satisfaction.
Details of the Company’s environmental initiatives are available  in the Natural Capital section of this report and its annual  sustainability report at www.airtel.in/sustainability.
among others.
As these issues continue to be scrutinised and  deliberated by a very proactive government, they are likely to  have a material impact on the lives of millions.
The Company generally conveys its policy positions through its  membership with the Cellular Operators Association of India  (COAI).
Besides, it is member of other industry associations like  Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and Federation of Indian  Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI).
Internationally,  Airtel is a member of the International T elecommunication  Union (ITU) and GSM Association (GSMA).
Statutory Reports Business Responsibility Report 063 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 ‘Win with Customers’ is key business priority for the Company.
Through its world-class network, innovative yet affordable  services and an exceptional customer experience, the Company  aims to win customers for life.
The long-term strategic goal of  the Company is to innovate and deliver a wide range of cost- effective, secured, timely, and customized services with the best  technology.
The Company actively seeks customer feedback,  act on it, and improve its customer service and in the process  improve its products, services, and processes.
At Airtel, the Company believes its customers are also its  business partners.
They help them to greatly improve and evolve  the services it offers.
Their ongoing feedback is the greatest  stimulus in improving its products, services and processes.
Through an integrated end-to-end experience, improving its  overall retail store experience and delivering impeccable voice  and internet services- the Company strives to increase its  customer retention.
Airtel relies on various mechanisms such  as the Net Promoter Score (NPS), social media mentions,  feedback over a call / point of sale, customer grievances,  complaint management and exit surveys to measure customer  satisfaction score.
Holistic tools such as the NPS enables it to  gather feedback and ascertain its customers’ experiences.
Airtel believes in transparency and empowering users to  manage their own Airtel products & services with ease.
Airtel has  consistently made efforts in this direction whether it is through  its Open Network, enriched self-care or ever evolving powerful  MyAirtel App.
This year, Airtel has successfully implemented  various initiatives to increase transparency for its customers  and/or reduce the surprises arising due to bill shock during  international roaming and lack of awareness about services.
Airtel has been communicating mandatory usage information  (as specified by the law) regarding enrolment and deactivation,  tariff, usage, contact and grievance on its welcome kits, periodic  bills, enrolment forms, booklets, websites and point of sales  displays.
Airtel works closely with the industry, government, law  enforcement and community organizations to help its customers  understand and manage the risks associated with the online  world.
Airtel supports a range of government initiatives to raise  awareness, and provide online education and guidance.
Some  of the measures undertaken in the last few years include:  1.
Proactively filtering offensive content available online which  is not compliant with the state laws  2.
Upgrading technology constantly to reduce threat  exposures  3.
Associating with Law Enforcement Agencies (LEA) to  support investigations by provision of customer information  and complying with all requests as per regulatory norms.
In addition to this, Airtel also takes prior consent of all customers  at the time of acquisition, collection, transfer and disclosure of  personal data details of which can be found in our privacy policy;  https://www.airtel.in/forme/privacypolicy.
All subscribers have an  option to opt-out of usage of customer information for promotional  purposes and they can readily opt out at any time through Airtel’s  website / application including at the time of enrollment.
As on March 31, 2018, 133 consumer cases and around 0.11%  of the consumer complaints are at various stages of resolution.
In FY 2017-18, no cases have been filed against the company  before the Competition Commission of India for anti-competitive  behaviour and 2 cases filed  are pending resolution as on March  31, 2018.
In addition to this 7 complaints were filed before ASCI  in the last financial year out of which 5 have been resolved  successfully.
Providing Customer Value Principle 9 During FY 2017-18, Airtel made significant contributions  towards various philanthropic projects, which include: H 207.3 Mn Bharti Foundation towards  furtherance of its objectives.
H 70.6 Mn Other contributions With a vision to help underprivileged children and young  people of country realize their potential,  Bharti Foundation is  committed to implement and support programs in the fields of  primary, elementary, senior secondary and higher education.
Education being its core focus area, Bharti Foundation has  been working steadfast to enable the cognitive, creative and  emotional development of students along with the instilling  values and attributes of responsible citizens.
The Satya Bharti School Program, the flagship program of  Bharti Foundation involves the communities towards operation  of schools.
The programme actively engages community  members in making monetary and tangible contributions to  schools and related activities and events.
Further details about  the initiatives undertaken by Bharti Foundation and by Airtel’s  regional circle offices are available in the CSR section of the  Company’s integrated report.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 064  Board’s Report Dear Members, Your Directors have pleasure in presenting the 23rd Board Report  on the Company’s business and operations, together with audited  financial statements and accounts for the financial year ended  March 31, 2018.
Company Overview Bharti Airtel is one of the world’s leading providers of  telecommunication services with significant presence in 16  countries, representing India, Sri Lanka and 14 countries in Africa.
The Company’s diversified service range includes mobile, voice  and data solutions, using 2G, 3G and 4G technologies.
We provide  telecom services under wireless and fixed line technology, national  and international long distance connectivity and Digital TV; and  complete integrated telecom solutions to our enterprise customers.
All these services are rendered under a unified brand ‘Airtel’ either  directly or through subsidiary companies.
Airtel Money (known as  ‘Airtel Payments Bank‘ in India) extends our product portfolio to  further our financial inclusion agenda and offers convenience of  payments and money transfers on mobile phones over secure and  stable platforms in India, and across all 14 countries in Africa.
The Company also deploys and manages passive infrastructure  pertaining to telecom operations through its subsidiary, Bharti  Infratel Limited, which also owns 42% of Indus T owers Limited.
T ogether, Bharti Infratel and Indus T owers are the largest passive  infrastructure service providers in India.
Financial Results In compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013,  and SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing Regulations’) the Company has  prepared its standalone and consolidated financial statements as  per Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) for the FY 2017-18.
The  standalone and consolidated financial highlights of the Company’s  operations are as follows: Standalone Financial Highlights (Ind AS) Particulars FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 J  Millions USD  Millions* J  Millions USD  Millions* Gross revenue 536,630 8,327 622,763 9,273 EBITDA before  exceptional  items 181,529 2,817 242,242 3,607 Cash profit from  operations 131,674 2,043 211,891 3,155 Particulars FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 J  Millions USD  Millions* J  Millions USD  Millions* Earnings before  taxation (6,812) (106) (85,095) (1,267) Net Income / (Loss) 792 12 (99,256) (1,478) *1 USD = H 64.44 Exchange Rate for the financial year ended March 31, 2018.
(1 USD = H 67.16 Exchange Rate for the financial year ended March 31, 2017).
Consolidated Financial Highlights (Ind AS) Particulars FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 J  Millions USD  Millions* J  Millions USD  Millions* Gross revenue 836,879 12,986 954,683 14,214 EBITDA before  exceptional  items 304,479 4,725 356,206 5,304 Cash profit from  operations  227,169 3,525 283,668 4,224 Earnings before  taxation 32,669 507 77,233 1,150 Net Income /  (Loss) 10,989 171  37,998 566 *1 USD = H 64.44 Exchange Rate for the financial year ended March 31, 2018.
(1 USD = H 67.16 Exchange Rate for the financial year ended March 31, 2017) The financial results and the results of operations, including  major developments have been further discussed in detail in the  Management Discussion and Analysis section.
Secretarial Standards Pursuant to the provisions of Section 118 of the Companies  Act, 2013, the Company has complied with the applicable  provisions of the Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of  Companies Secretaries of India.
Share Capital During the year, there was no change in the Company’s issued,  subscribed and paid-up equity share capital.
On March 31,  2018, it stood at H 19,987 Mn, divided into 3,997,400,102  equity shares of H 5/- each.
Statutory Reports Board’s Report 065 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 General Reserve During the year, the Company has transferred H 3,510 Mn  into General Reserve from the Share Based Payment Reserve  pertaining to gain / loss on exercise / lapse of vested options.
During the year, the Company has created Debenture  Redemption Reserve and transferred H 7,500 Mn out of the  General Reserve representing 25% of the value of unsecured  redeemable non-convertible debentures issued by the Company.
Dividend Your Directors have recommended a final dividend of H 2.50 per  equity share of H 5 each fully paid-up (50.00 % of face value)  for FY 2017-18.
The total final dividend payout will amount  to H 9,993.50 Mn, excluding tax on dividend.
The payment of  final dividend is subject to the approval of shareholders in the  Company’s ensuing Annual General Meeting (AGM).
The Register of Members and Share Transfer Books will remain  closed from Saturday, August 04, 2018 to Wednesday, August  08, 2018 (both days inclusive) for the purpose of payment of  final dividend for the FY 2017-18, if declared at the ensuing  AGM.
Dividend Distribution Policy As per Regulation 43A of the Listing Regulations, top 500  listed companies are required to formulate a dividend  distribution policy.
Accordingly, the Company has adopted the  dividend distribution Policy which sets out the parameters and  circumstances to be considered by the Board in determining  the distribution of dividend to its shareholders and / or retaining  profits earned by the Company.
The Policy is enclosed as  Annexure A to the Board’s Report and is also available on the  Company’s website at https://s3-ap-southeast-1.amazonaws.
com/bsy/iportal/images/ Airtel-Dividend_Distribution_ Policy_35406A496EEC3AB50D0C777F006C6D41.pdf.
Transfer of amount to Investor Education and  Protection Fund During FY 2017-18, the Company has transferred the unpaid  / unclaimed dividend amounting to H 7.42 Mn to the Investors  Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) Account established  by the Central Government.
The Company has also uploaded  the details of unpaid and unclaimed amounts lying with the  Company as on July 24, 2017 (date of last Annual General  Meeting) on the Company’s website www.airtel.com.
Pursuant to the provisions of Investor Education and Protection  Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules,  2016, as amended, the shares on which dividend remains  unpaid / unclaimed for seven consecutive years or more shall be  transferred to the Investor’s Education and Protection Fund (IEPF).
Accordingly, during the year Company has transferred 49,273  equity shares to the IEPF.
The details of equity shares transferred  are available on the Company’s website www.airtel.com.
The shareholders whose unpaid dividend / shares are  transferred to the IEPF can request the Company / Registrar and  Transfer Agent as per the applicable provisions in the prescribed  Form for claiming the unpaid dividend / shares from IEPF.
The  process for claiming the unpaid dividend / shares out of the IEPF  is also available on the Company’s website at https://www.airtel.
in/about-bharti/equity/shares.
Deposits The Company has not accepted any deposits and, as such,  no amount of principal or interest was outstanding, as on the  balance sheet closure date.
Capital Market Ratings  As on March 31, 2018, the Company was rated by two domestic  rating agencies, namely CRISIL and ICRA and three international  rating agencies, namely Fitch Ratings, Moody’s and S&P .
CRISIL and ICRA maintained their long-term ratings of the  Company.
As on March 31, 2018, they rate the Company at  [CRISIL] AA+ / [ICRA] AA+, with a stable outlook.
Short-term  ratings were maintained at the highest end of the rating scale  at [CRISIL] A1+ / [ICRA] A1+.
Fitch, S&P and Moody’s rate the  Company at BBB-/ Stable, BBB-/Stable and Baa3/Negative,  respectively.
As on March 31, 2018, the Company was rated ‘Investment  Grade’ by all three international rating agencies.
Employee Stock Option Plan At present, the Company has two Employee Stock Options  (ESOP) schemes, namely the Employee Stock Option Scheme  2001 and the Employee Stock Option Scheme 2005.
Besides  attracting talent, the schemes also helped retain talent and  experience.
The HR and Nomination Committee administers  and monitors the Company’s ESOP schemes.
Both the ESOP schemes are currently administered through  Bharti Airtel Employees Welfare Trust (ESOP Trust), whereby  shares held by the Trust are transferred to the employee, upon  exercise of stock options as per the terms of the Scheme.
Pursuant to the provisions of SEBI (Share Based Employee  Benefits) Regulations, 2014 (the ESOP Regulations), a  Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 066  disclosure with respect to ESOP Schemes of the Company as  on March 31, 2018, is available on Company’s website at http:// www.airtel.in/wps/wcm/connect/c9e25993-5b80-4ebo-9874- 37614225b876.
During the year, to make the aforesaid ESOP Schemes more  employee friendly, the shareholder’s in its meeting dated July  24, 2017 had approved the reduction in the period for transfer  of vested / unvested options in the name of legal heir / nominees  of deceased employee from 3 months to 1 month.
Apart from  the aforesaid change, there were no other changes in the ESOP  Schemes of the Company.
Further, ESOP Schemes are in compliance with ESOP  Regulations.
A certificate from Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP ,  Chartered Accountants, Statutory Auditors of the Company with  respect to the implementation of the Company’s ESOP schemes,  would be placed before the shareholders at the ensuing AGM.
A copy of the same will also be available for inspection at the   Company’s registered office.
Material changes and commitments affecting the  financial position between the end of financial year  and date of report after the balance sheet date There were no material changes and commitments affecting the  financial position of the Company between the end of financial  year and the date of this report.
Debentures During the financial year, your Company raised H 30,000 Mn  through issuance of unsecured, listed, rated, non-convertible  debentures at face value of H 1 Mn each on private placement  basis as per the following details: > 15,000 Series I debentures at a coupon rate of 8.25% per  annum [T enor: 2 years, 1 month and 7 days]; > 15,000 Series II debentures at a coupon rate of 8.35% per  annum.
[T enor: 3 years, 1 month and 7 days].
The aforesaid debentures are listed on National Stock Exchange  of India Limited.
Directors and Key Managerial Personnel Inductions, Re-appointments, Retirements & Resignations Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, Mr.  Rakesh Bharti Mittal and Ms. T an Yong Choo, Directors of the  Company will retire by rotation at the ensuing AGM and being  eligible, have offered themselves for re-appointment.
The Board  recommends their re-appointment.
Sheikh Faisal Thani Al-Thani, Non-Executive Director resigned  from the Company’s Board w.e.f.
July 25, 2017.
Mr. Rashid Fahad  O J Al-Noaimi was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on the  Board w.e.f.
July 25, 2017 and resigned from the Company’s  Board w.e.f.
November 22, 2017.
Mr. Craig Ehrlich, Independent Director will be completing his  present term as an independent director of the Company on  April 28, 2018.
On the recommendation of HR and Nomination  Committee, the Board in its meeting held on April 24, 2018,  subject to the approval of shareholders by special resolution,  has re-appointed Mr. Craig as an Independent Director of the  Company for a further term of five years w.e.f.
April 29, 2018 to  April 28, 2023.
On the recommendation of the HR and Nomination Committee,  the Board in its meeting held on April 24, 2018 subject to the  amendment in the Articles of Association, had changed the  nature of directorship of Mr. Gopal Vittal, Managing Director  & CEO (India & South Asia) from director not liable to retire by  rotation to a director liable to retire by rotation.
Brief resume, nature of expertise, details of directorships held in  other companies of the Directors proposed to be re-appointed,  along with their shareholding in the Company, as stipulated under  Secretarial Standard 2 and Regulation 36 of the Listing Regulations,  is appended as an Annexure to the Notice of the ensuing AGM.
The Board in its meeting held on July 18, 2017 has appointed  Mr. Pankaj T ewari as the Company Secretary of the Company.
Declaration by Independent Directors The Company has received declarations from all Independent  Directors of the Company confirming that they continue to meet  the criteria of independence, as prescribed under Section 149  of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 25 of the Listing  Regulations.
The Independent Directors have also confirmed  that they have complied with the Company’s code of conduct.
Board Diversity and Policy on Director’s Appointment and  Remuneration The Company believes that building a diverse and inclusive  culture is integral to its success.
A diverse Board will be able to  leverage different skills, qualifications, professional experiences,  perspectives and backgrounds, which is necessary for achieving  sustainable and balanced development.
The policy on ‘Nomination,  Remuneration and Board Diversity’ adopted by the Board sets  out the criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes  and independence while evaluating a person for appointment /  re-appointment as Director or as KMP , with no discrimination on  the grounds of gender, race or ethnicity, nationality or country of  origin.
The detailed policy is available on the Company’s website at  http://www.airtel.in/wps/wcm/connect/92b49e0e-8810-497a- 9c3e-9b80657a3688/Policy-on-Remuneration-Nomination-and  Board-Diversity.pdf?MOD=AJPERES and is also annexed as  Annexure B to this report.
Statutory Reports Board’s Report 067 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 Annual Board Evaluation and Familiarisation  Programme for Board Members A note on the familiarisation programme adopted by the  Company for orientation and training of the Directors, and  the Board evaluation process undertaken in compliance with  the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing  Regulations is provided in the Report on Corporate Governance,  which forms part of this Report.
The HR and Nomination Committee has put in place a robust  framework for evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and  Individual Directors.
Customised questionnaires were circulated,  responses were analyzed and the results were subsequently  discussed by the Board.
Recommendations arising from the  evaluation process were considered by the Board to optimize  its effectiveness.
A detailed update on the Board Evaluation is  provided in the report on Corporate Governance which forms  part of this report.
Committees of Board, Number of Meetings of the  Board and Board Committees The Board of Directors met eight (8) times during the previous  financial year.
As on March 31, 2018, the Board has nine  committees, namely, the Audit Committee, the Risk Management  Committee, the HR and Nomination Committee, the Corporate  Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) Committee, the Stakeholders’  Relationship Committee, the Committee of Directors, the Airtel  Corporate Council, the Special Committee of Directors (for  Monetization of stake in Bharti Infratel Limited) and the Special  Committee of Directors (for Restructuring of overseas holding  structure).
All the recommendations made by committees of the Board  including the Audit Committee were accepted by the Board.
A  detailed update on the Board, its composition, detailed charter  including terms and reference of various Board Committees,  number of Board and Committee meetings held during FY  2017-18 and attendance of the Directors at each meeting is  provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, which forms  part of this Report.
Subsidiary, Associate and Joint Venture  Companies As on March 31, 2018, your Company has 89 subsidiaries,  6 associates and 8 joint ventures, as set out in note 34 of the  Annual Report (for Abridged Annual Report please refer note 17).
During FY 2017-18, Juggernaut Books Private Limited became  associate of the Company.
Bharti Airtel Ghana Holdings B. V .,  Airtel Ghana Limited, Airtel Mobile Commerce (Ghana) Limited,  Milicom Ghana Company Limited, Mobile Financial Services  Limited became joint ventures of the Company.
During FY 2017-18, Bharti Digital Networks Private Limited  (formerly known as Tikona Digital Networks Private Limited),  Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Investments Limited, Airtel  Mobile Commerce Nigeria Limited and Tigo Rwanda Limited  became subsidiaries of the Company.
Bangladesh Infratel  Networks Limited, Bharti Infratel Lanka (Private) Limited, Airtel  (Ghana) Limited, Airtel Mobile Commerce Ghana Limited, Bharti  Airtel DTH Holdings B. V ., Bharti Airtel Ghana Holdings B. V ., Airtel  DTH Services Nigeria Limited, Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings B. V .,  MSI-Celtel Nigeria Limited, T owers Support Nigeria Limited and  Zap Trust Company Nigeria Limited ceased to be subsidiaries of  the Company.
Pursuant to Section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 read  with Rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, a statement  containing salient features of financial statements of subsidiary,  associate and joint venture companies is annexed to the  Abridged and full version Annual Report.
The statement also  provides the details of performance and financial position of  each of the subsidiary, associate and joint venture companies  and their contribution to the overall performance of the  Company.
The audited financial statements of each of its subsidiary,  associate and joint venture companies are available for  inspection at the Company’s registered office and also at  registered offices of the respective companies and pursuant to  the provisions of Section 136 of the Companies Act, 2013, the  financial statements of each of its subsidiary companies are also  available on the Company’s website www.airtel.com.
Copies of the annual accounts of the subsidiary, associate  and joint venture companies will also be made available to the  investors of Bharti Airtel and those of the respective companies  upon request.
Abridged Annual Report In terms of the provision of Section 136(1) of the Companies  Act, 2013, Rule 10 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014  and Regulation 36 of the Listing Regulations, the Board of  Directors has decided to circulate the Abridged Annual Report  containing salient features of the balance sheet and statement  of profit and loss and other documents to the shareholders for   FY 2017-18, who have not registered their e-mail id.
The  Abridged Annual Report is being circulated to the members  excluding Annexures to the Board’s Report viz.
‘Dividend  Distribution Policy’, ‘Nomination, Remuneration and Board  Diversity Policy’, ‘Secretarial Audit Report’, ‘Annual Report on  Corporate Social Responsibility u/s 135 of the Companies  Act, 2013’, ‘Extract of Annual Return’, ‘Particulars of Energy  Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 068  Conservation, T echnology Absorption and Foreign Exchange  Earnings and Outgo’, ‘Statement of Disclosure of Remuneration  under Section 197(12) of Companies Act, 2013 read with  Rule 5(1) of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of  Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014’, ‘Auditors’ Certificate on  Corporate Governance’.
Members who desire to obtain the full version of the report may  write to the Corporate Secretarial Department at the registered  office address and will be provided with a copy of the same.
Full version of the Annual Report will also be available on the  Company’s website www.airtel.com.
Auditors and Auditors’ Report Statutory Auditors In terms of the provisions of Section 139 of the Companies  Act, 2013, Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP were appointed as  the Company’s Statutory Auditors by the shareholders in the  AGM held on July 24, 2017, for a period of five years i.e.
till the  conclusion of 27th AGM.
The said appointment is subject to ratification by the members  at every AGM.
Accordingly, the appointment of Deloitte  Haskins & Sells LLP , Chartered Accountants, as the Company’s  Statutory Auditors, is placed for ratification by the members.
The  Company has received certificate from the Statutory Auditors  to the effect that ratification of their appointment, if made, shall  be in accordance with the provisions of Section 141 of the  Companies Act, 2013.
The annual ratification of auditors at the  next AGM (to be held in calendar year 2019) for their remaining  term, shall be done, if required by the statutory provisions.
The Board has duly examined the Statutory Auditors’ Report to  the accounts, which is self-explanatory.
Clarifications, wherever  necessary, have been included in the Notes to Accounts section  of the Annual Report.
As regards the comments under para i(a) of the Annexure 1  to the Independent Auditors’ Report regarding updation of  quantitative and situation details relating to certain fixed assets,  the Company is in the process of executing a comprehensive  project with the involvement of technical experts, for deploying  automated tools and processes which will enable near real-time  tracking of fixed assets and reconciliation thereto.
Internal Auditors and Internal Assurance Partners The Board had appointed Group Director - Internal Assurance  as the Internal Auditor of the Company and  Ernst & Young LLP  and ANB & Co., Chartered Accountants, Mumbai as the Internal  Assurance Partners to conduct the internal audit basis a detailed  internal audit plan which is reviewed each year in consultation  with the Internal Audit Group and the Audit Committee.
The Board, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee  has re-appointed Ernst & Young LLP and ANB & Co., Chartered  Accountants, Mumbai as the Internal Assurance Partners for FY  2018-19.
Cost Auditors The Board, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee has  approved the appointment of R. J. Goel & Co., Cost Accountants,  as Cost Auditors, for FY 2018-19.
The Cost Auditors will submit  their report for FY 2017-18 on or before the due date.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 148 of the  Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Audit and  Auditors) Rules, 2014, since the remuneration payable to the  Cost Auditors is required to be ratified by the shareholders, the  Board recommends the same for approval by shareholders at  the ensuing AGM.
Secretarial Auditors The Board had appointed Chandrasekaran Associates,  Company Secretaries, to conduct its Secretarial Audit for the  financial year ended March 31, 2018.
The Secretarial Auditors  have submitted their report, confirming compliance by the  Company of all the provisions of applicable corporate laws.
The  Report does not contain any qualification, reservation, disclaimer  or adverse remark.
The Secretarial Audit Report is annexed as  Annexure C to this report.
The Board has re-appointed Chandrasekaran Associates,  Company Secretaries, New Delhi, as Secretarial Auditors of the  Company for FY 2018-19.
Sustainability Journey We, at Bharti Airtel, strongly believe that power of communication  can bring in multi-dimensional transformations, ensuring  smooth functioning of life and businesses, and helping society  to become sustainable and inclusive.
We recognize our role in  this sustainable approach in the way we conduct our business  by integrating sustainability in our strategies and operations.
Our Vision defines what we aim to do, whereas our Core  Values - Alive, Inclusive and Respectful - expound how we  aim to embrace the responsible business practices.
As the  stakeholders have played a crucial role in Airtel’s sustained  success over the years, Airtel’s sustainability approach has  been carefully developed through systematic engagement  with its stakeholders worldwide.
We continuously strive to  provide long-term sustainable value to all our stakeholders  including investors, customers, employees, business partners  and suppliers, government and regulators and communities.
This is performed through systematic stakeholder dialogue to  Statutory Reports Board’s Report 069 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 gauge their expectations, share information and sustainability  priorities, practices and performance and explore avenues of  partnerships to achieve the goals.
The Company publishes  an annual Sustainability Report in accordance with the Global  Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework which can be downloaded  from the Company’s website www.airtel.in/sustainability.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Building upon and scaling up on various interventions initiated  in areas as prescribed in our CSR policy, the Company has  increased its CSR spending during the previous financial year i.e.
from H 55.84 Mn in FY 2016-17 to H 245.37 Mn in FY 2017-18.
Additionally, the Company has also contributed H 32.59 Mn  towards various other charitable causes.
The consolidated  contribution of the Company towards various CSR activities  during the financial year 2017-18 is H 277.96 Mn (i.e.
0.26% of  net profit of last three years).
Company is committed to build its CSR capabilities on a  sustainable basis and is also committed to gradually increase  its CSR contribution in the coming years.
The CSR spending  is guided by the vision of creating long-term benefit to the  society.
The Company through its Board and CSR Committee  is determined to beef up its efforts to meet the targeted CSR  expenditure.
With the strong foundation which has been  established during the year along with the proposed scaling up  of a number of its CSR Projects, the Company believes that it  has made meaningful progress towards reaching the target in  the coming financial years.
Further, during the year,  Bharti Family has pledged a significant  amount towards philanthropy, which will step-up scope and  reach of Bharti Foundation’s initiatives to create opportunities  for the underprivileged  and contribute to nation building.
Plan is  to set up a world-class University namely Satya Bharti University,  to offer free education to deserving youth from economically  weaker sections of society.
During the previous year, Mr. Sunil  Bharti Mittal, Chairman had also contributed H 50 Mn towards  CSR in his personal capacity.
A detailed update on the CSR initiatives of the Company is  provided in the Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability  Report, which forms part of the Annual Report.
The Annual Report on Corporate Social Responsibility u/s 135  of the Companies Act, 2013 is annexed as Annexure D to this  Report.
Integrated Reporting The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) vide circular  no: SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2017/10 dated February 06,  2017 has recommended voluntary adoption of ‘Integrated  Reporting’ (IR) from 2017 - 2018 by the top 500 listed companies  in India.
In line with its philosophy of being a highly transparent  and responsible company and considering IR as a journey, your  Company adopts its first ‘Integrated Report’ in accordance with  the framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council  (IIRC).
The Integrated Report covers capital approach of IIRC  Framework as well as the value that your Company creates for  its stakeholders.
The board acknowledges its responsibility for  the integrity of report and information contained therein.
Business Responsibility Report As stipulated under the Listing Regulations, the Business  Responsibility Report, describing the initiatives taken by  the Company from environmental, social and governance  perspective forms a part of the Annual Report.
Management Discussion and Analysis Report Pursuant to Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations the  Management Discussion and Analysis Report for the year under  review, is presented in a separate section, forming part of the  Annual Report.
Risk Management Risk management is embedded in Bharti Airtel’s operating  framework.
The Company believes that risk resilience is key  to achieving higher growth.
T o this effect, there is a process  in place to identify key risks across the Group and prioritize  relevant action plans to mitigate these risks.
T o have more robust process, the Company during the year,  constituted separate Risk Management Committee which  shall focus on the risk management including determination  of Company’s risk appetite, risk tolerance and regular risk  assessments (risk identification, risk quantification and risk  evaluation) etc.
Risk Management framework is reviewed  periodically by the Board and Audit & Risk Management  Committee / Risk Management Committee, which includes  discussing the management submissions on risks, prioritizing  key risks and approving action plans to mitigate such risks.
The Company has duly approved a Risk Management Policy.
The  objective of this Policy is to have a well-defined approach to risk.
The policy lays down broad guidelines for timely identification,  assessment, and prioritization of risks affecting the Company in  the short and foreseeable future.
The Policy suggests framing  an appropriate response action for the key risks identified, so as  to make sure that risks are adequately addressed or mitigated.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 070  The Internal Audit function is responsible to assist the Audit  Committee (erstwhile Audit & Risk Management Committee)/  Risk Management Committee on an independent basis with  a complete review of the risk assessments and associated  management action plans.
Operationally, risk is being managed at the top level by    Management Boards in India and South Asia and in Africa  (AMB   and   Africa   Exco) and at operating level by Executive  Committees of Circles in India and Operating Companies in the  international operations.
Detailed discussion on Risk Management forms part of  Management Discussion & Analysis under the section ‘Risks  and Concerns’, which forms part of this Annual Report.
At  present, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, there are no  risks which may threaten the existence of the Company.
Internal Financial Controls and their adequacy The Company has established a robust framework for internal  financial controls.
The Company has in place adequate controls,  procedures and policies, ensuring orderly and efficient conduct  of its business, including adherence to the Company’s policies,  safeguarding of its assets, prevention and detection of frauds  and errors, accuracy and completeness of accounting records,  and timely preparation of reliable financial information.
During  the year, such controls were assessed and no reportable  material weaknesses in the design or operation were observed.
Accordingly, the Board is of the opinion that the Company’s  internal financial controls were adequate and effective during  FY 2017-18.
Other Statutory Disclosures Vigil Mechanism The Code of Conduct and vigil mechanism applicable to  Directors and Senior Management of the Company is available  on the Company’s website at http://www.airtel.in/about-bharti/ investor-relations/corporate-governance.
A brief note on the highlights of the Whistle Blower Policy and  compliance with Code of Conduct is also provided in the report on  Corporate Governance, which forms part of this Annual Report.
Extract of Annual Return In terms of provisions of Section 92, 134(3)(a) of the Companies  Act, 2013 read with Rule 12 of Companies (Management  and Administration) Rules, 2014, the extracts of Annual  Return of the Company in form MGT-9 is annexed herewith as   Annexure E to this report.
Significant and material orders There are no significant and material orders passed by the  regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the going concern  status and Company’s operations in future.
Particulars of loans, guarantees and investments Particulars of loans, guarantees and investments form part  of note 10, 23 and 8 respectively to the financial statements  provided in the full version of the Annual Report.
Related Party Transactions A detailed note on the procedure adopted by the Company in  dealing with contracts and arrangements with Related Parties is  provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, which forms  part of this Annual Report.
All arrangements / transactions entered into by the Company  with its related parties during the year were in the ordinary  course of business and on an arm’s length basis.
During the  year, the Company has not entered into any arrangement /  transaction with related parties which could be considered  material in accordance with the Company’s Policy on Related  Party Transactions and accordingly, the disclosure of Related  Party Transactions in Form AOC - 2 is not applicable.
However,  names of Related Parties and details of transactions with them  have been included in note 34 of the financial statements  provided in the full version of the Annual Report and note 17  of the financial statements provided in abridged version of the  Annual Report under Indian Accounting Standards 24.
The Policy on the Related Party Transactions is available  on the Company’s website at http://www.airtel.in/wps/ wcm/connect/36a5305d-f0ba-490c-9eff-152ef6811917/ BALPolicy-on-Related-Party Transactions.pdf?MOD=AJPERES.
Energy Conservation, T echnology Absorption and Foreign  Exchange Earnings and Outgo The details of energy conservation, technology absorption and  foreign exchange earnings and outgo as required under Section  134(3) of the Companies Act, 2013, read with the Rule 8 of  Companies (Accounts of Companies) Rules, 2014 is annexed  as Annexure F to this report.
Particulars of Employees Disclosures relating to remuneration of Directors u/s 197(12)  read with Rule 5(1) of Companies (Appointment and  Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is annexed  as Annexure G to this report.
Statutory Reports Board’s Report 071 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 The information, as required to be provided in terms of Section  197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013, read with Rule 5(2) of  Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial  Personnel) Rules, 2014, is annexed as Annexure H to this report.
Corporate Governance A detailed report on Corporate Governance, pursuant to the  requirements of Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations, forms  part of the Annual Report.
A certificate from Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP , Chartered  Accountants, the Statutory Auditors of the Company, confirming  compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance, as stipulated  under the Listing Regulations, is annexed as Annexure I to this  report.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement Pursuant to Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013, the  Directors, to the best of their knowledge and belief, confirm that: a) in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable  accounting standards had been followed, along with proper  explanation relating to material departures; b) the Directors had selected such accounting policies and  applied them consistently and made judgements and  estimates that are reasonable and prudent, so as to give a  true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company at  the end of the financial year and of the profit and loss of the  Company for that period; c) the Directors had taken proper and sufficient care for the  maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance  with the provisions of this Act for safeguarding the assets  of the Company and for preventing and detecting fraud and  other irregularities; d) the Directors had prepared the annual accounts on a going  concern basis; e) the Directors, had laid down internal financial controls to be  followed by the Company and that such internal financial  controls are adequate and were operating effectively; f) the Directors had devised proper systems to ensure  compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and  that such systems were adequate and operating effectively.
Acknowledgements The Board wishes to place on record their appreciation to  the Department of T elecommunications (DoT), the Central  Government, the State Governments in India, Government  of Sri Lanka and Governments in the 14 countries in Africa,  Company’s bankers and business associates, for the assistance,  co-operation and encouragement extended to the Company.
The Directors also extend their appreciation to the employees  for their continuing support and unstinting efforts in ensuring  an excellent all-round operational performance.
The Directors  would like to thank various partners, viz., Bharti T elecom Limited,  Singapore T elecommunications Ltd. and other shareholders  for their support and contribution.
We look forward to their  continued support in future.
For and on behalf of the Board Place: New Delhi   Sunil Bharti Mittal Date: April 24, 2018  Chairman  Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 072  Dividend Distribution Policy   Annexure A 1.
Preamble, Objective and Scope  In terms of Regulation 43A of the SEBI (Listing Obligations  and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing  Regulations’), the Company is required to formulate a  Dividend Distribution Policy which shall be disclosed in its  Annual Report and on its website.
T o comply with the above requirement and with an  endeavor to maintain a consistent approach to dividend  pay-out plans, the Board of Directors (‘Board’) of Bharti Airtel  Limited (‘the Company’) adopts this Dividend Distribution  Policy (‘Policy’).
The objective of this Policy is to:  (i) specify the parameters (including internal and external  factors) that shall be considered while declaring the  dividend;   (ii) lay down the circumstances under which the  shareholders of the Company may or may not expect  dividend; and   (iii) provide for the manner of utilization of retained  earnings.
2. Dividend Philosophy  The Dividend philosophy of the Company is enshrined in  the principle that along with maintaining a reasonably  conservative policy in respect of liquidity and leverage,  ‘surplus’ cash in the Company shall be returned to its  shareholders when it is concluded by the Board that:   > The Company doesn’t / wouldn’t have avenues to  generate significantly higher returns on such ‘surplus’  than what a common shareholder can generate  himself; or  > By returning such ‘surplus’, the Company would be able  to improve its return on equity, while simultaneously  maintaining prudent & reasonably conservative  leverage in every respect viz.
interest coverage, DSCR  (Debt Service Coverage Ratio) Net Debt: EBITDA and  Net Debt : Equity etc.
The Company aims to distribute to its shareholders, the  entire dividend income (net of taxes) it receives from its  subsidiary / associate companies.
3.
Parameters / Factors considered by the  Company while declaring dividend  In line with the philosophy stated in clause 2 above, the  Board of Directors of the Company shall consider the  following parameters before declaring or recommending  dividend to shareholders:  A) Financial Parameters / Internal Factors:   (a) Financial performance including profits earned  (standalone), available distributable reserves etc.
;   (b) Impact of dividend payout on Company’s return on  equity, while simultaneously maintaining prudent  and reasonably conservative leveraging in every  respect viz.
interest coverage, DSCR (Debt Service  Coverage Ratio) Net Debt: EBITDA and Net Debt:  Equity, including maintaining a targeted rating –  domestically and internationally;   (c) Alternate usage of cash viz.
acquisition/ Investment opportunities or capital expenditures  and resources to fund such opportunities/ expenditures, in order to generate significantly  higher returns for shareholders;   (d) Debt repayment schedules;   (e) Fund requirement for contingencies and  unforeseen events with financial implications;   (f) Past Dividend trend including Interim dividend  paid, if any; and   (g) Any other factor as deemed fit by the Board.
B) External Factors:   (a) Macroeconomic conditions: In the event of  uncertain or recessionary economic and business  conditions, the Board may consider retaining a  larger part of the profits to have sufficient reserves  to absorb unforeseen circumstances;   (b) Statutory requirements: Statutory requirements,  regulatory conditions or restrictions as applicable  including tax laws, The Companies Act, 2013 and  SEBI regulations etc.
;    (c) Agreements with Lending Institutions: The  Board may consider protective covenants in  a bond indenture or loan agreement that may  include leverage limits & restrictions on payment  of cash dividends in order to preserve the  Company’s ability to service its debt; and Statutory Reports Board’s Report 073 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317   (d) Capital Markets: In favorable market scenarios, the  Board may consider for liberal pay – out.
However,  it may resort to a conservative dividend pay-out in  case of unfavorable market conditions.
4.
Circumstances under which the shareholders  of the Company may or may not expect  dividend  In line with Dividend Philosophy of the Company, there may  be certain circumstances under which the shareholders  of the Company may not expect dividend, including the  circumstances where:  (a) The Company has sufficient avenues to generate  significantly higher returns on such ‘surplus’ than what  a common shareholder can generate himself;   (b) The Company is in higher need of funds for acquisition/ diversification / expansion / investment opportunities/ deleveraging or capital expenditures;  (c) The Company proposes to utilize surplus cash in  entirety for alternative forms of distribution such as  buy-back of securities; or  (d) The Company has incurred losses or in the stage of  inadequacy of profits.
5.
Utilization of retained earnings  The profits retained by the Company (i.e.
retained earnings)  shall either be used for business purposes/ objects  mentioned in its Memorandum & Articles of Association or  shall be distributed to the shareholders.
6.
Parameters with regard to various classes of  shares  Presently, the issued and paid-up share capital of the  Company comprises of equity shares only.
In case, the  Company issues other kind of shares, the Board may  suitably amend this Policy.
7.
General     This Policy shall be reviewed at least once every 3 years.
The Chief Investor Relations Officer and the Company  Secretary are jointly authorized to amend the Policy to give  effect to any changes / amendments notified by Ministry of  Corporate Affairs, Securities and Exchange Board of India or  any appropriate authority from time to time.
Such amended  policy shall be periodically placed before the Board for  noting and ratification.
Any questions and clarifications  relating to this Policy should be addressed to the Company  Secretary at compliance.officer@bharti.in.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 074  Preamble The Board of Directors (the “Board”) on the recommendation  of the HR & Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”) has  approved and adopted this Nomination, Remuneration and  Board Diversity Policy (the “Policy”) in compliance with the  provisions of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 and rules  made thereunder, and Clause 49 of the Listing Agreements with  the Stock Exchanges.
Objectives The main objectives of this Policy are: > T o lay down criteria and terms and conditions with regard to  identifying persons who are qualified to become Directors  (Executive and Non-Executive including Independent  Directors), Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP”) and persons  who may be appointed in Senior Management positions.
> T o lay down criteria for determining the Company’s  approach to ensure adequate diversity in its Board.
> T o retain, motivate and promote talent and to ensure long  term sustainability of talented managerial persons and  create competitive advantage for the Company.
> T o determine remuneration of Directors, KMPs and other  senior management personnel’s, keeping in view all relevant  factors including industry trends and practices.
> T o provide for rewards linked directly to their effort,  performance, dedication and achievement of the  Company’s target.
A.
Attributes, Qualifications and Diversity  Directors and Key Managerial Personnel The Committee shall be responsible for identifying a suitable  candidate for appointment as Director or as KMP of the  Company.
The Board shall consist of such number of Directors as is necessary  to effectively manage the Company of the size and nature as of  Bharti Airtel, subject to a minimum of 3 and maximum of 15,  including woman Directors.
The Board shall have an appropriate  combination of Executive, Non-Executive and Independent  Directors.
The Board shall appoint a Chairman and a Managing  Director or CEO and the roles of Chairman and Managing Director  or CEO shall not be exercised by the same individual.
While evaluating a person for appointment / re-appointment as  Director or as KMP , the Committee shall consider and evaluate  number of factors including but not limited to background,  knowledge, skills, abilities (ability to exercise sound judgement),  professional experience & functional expertise, educational  and professional background, personal accomplishment, age,  experience, understanding of the telecommunication sector /  industry, marketing, technology, finance and other disciplines  relevant to the business etc.
and such other factors that the  Committee might consider relevant and applicable from time to  time towards achieving a diverse Board.
The Committee shall ensure that the proposed Director satisfies  the following additional criteria: > Eligible for appointment as a Director on the Board of the  Company and is not disqualified in terms of Section 164  and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act,  2013, and the Listing Agreements.
>  Has attained minimum age of 25 years and is not older  than 70 years.
> Does not hold directorship in more than 20 companies  (including private and public limited companies) or 10  public limited companies incorporated in India.
> Will be able to devote sufficient time and efforts in discharge  of duties and responsibilities effectively.
While evaluating a person for appointment / re-appointment as  an Independent Director, the Committee shall ensure that the  proposed appointee satisfies the following additional criteria: > Meet the baseline definition and criteria of “independence”  as set out in Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013 and  Clause 49 of the Listing Agreements and other applicable  laws.
> Should not hold the position of Independent Director in  more than six Indian listed companies and if serving as  Whole-time Director in any Indian listed company then in  not more than three Indian listed companies.
> Should not hold any Board / employment position with  a competitor in the geographies where the Company is  operating.
However, the Board may in special circumstances  waive this requirement.
The re-appointment / extension of term of any Board members  shall be on the basis of their performance evaluation report.
Senior Management While evaluating a person for appointment / re-appointment in a  senior management position, the management shall considers  various factors including individual’s background, competency,  Nomination, Remuneration and Board  Diversity Policy  Annexure B Statutory Reports Board’s Report 075 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 skills, abilities (viz.
leadership, ability to exercise sound  judgement), educational and professional background, personal  accomplishment, age, relevant experience and understanding  of related field viz.
marketing technology, finance or such other  discipline relevant to present and prospective operations   of the Company.
Senior Management means personnel of the Company  who are members of its core management team excluding  Board of Directors and shall comprise of all members of   management one level below the Executive Directors, including  all functional heads.
B. Remuneration Policy Board Members The overall limits of remuneration of the Board members  including Executive Board members (i.e.
Managing Director,  Whole-time Director, Executive Directors etc.)
are governed by  the provisions of Section 197 of the Companies Act, 2013, rules  made thereunder and shall be approved by the shareholders  of the Company and shall be subject to availability of   profits of the Company.
Within the overall limit approved by the shareholders, on  the recommendation of the Committee, the Board shall  determine the remuneration.
The Board can determine different  remuneration for different Directors on the basis of their role,  responsibilities, duties, time involvement etc.
Non-Executive Directors including Independent Directors Pursuant to the provisions of Section 197 of the Companies Act,  2013, rules made thereunder and the shareholders’ approval,  the Board has approved the following remuneration for Non- Executive Directors (including Independent Directors): I.
Commission on Net Profit (Calculated as per Section 198  of the Companies Act, 2013)  Amount of Commission per annum:  Subject to availability of sufficient profits and within an  overall ceiling of 1% of the net profits for all non-executive  directors in the aggregate, the amount of commission  payable to:  A. Non-Independent Non-executive directors:    > USD 60,000 for directors not residing in India   > H 3,000,000 for directors residing in India   B.
Independent non-executive directors:   > USD 100,000 for directors not residing in India   > J 5,000,000 for those residing in India  The Independent Directors shall also be entitled to following  additional commission:   i.
Audit Committee:   Chairmanship:   > Not residing in India: USD 50,000/- per annum   > Residing in India: H 3,000,000/- per annum   Membership:   > Not residing in India: USD 10,000/- per annum   > Residing in India: H 500,000/- per annum  ii.
HR and Nomination Committee:   Chairmanship:   > Not residing in India: USD 50,000/- per annum   > Residing in India: H 3,000,000/- per annum   Membership:   > Not residing in India: USD 10,000/- per annum   > Residing in India: H 500,000/- per annum  iii.
Risk Management Committee:    Chairmanship:   > H 2,000,000/- per annum  Independent Directors will also be entitled to Travel fee of  USD 10,000 per meeting if not residing in India.
Frequency of Payment: The commission is payable annually after the approval of the  financial results.
II.
Sitting Fees In addition to the profit linked commission, the Independent  Directors will also be entitled to sitting fee of H 100,000/- for all  Board meetings and all Committee meetings held in a single  day.
For avoidance of doubt, in case an Independent Director  attends more than one Board and / or Committee meeting in a  Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 076  day, he will be paid consolidated sitting fee of H 100,000/- for all  such meetings.
If the Board appoint any person as an alternate  Director to an Independent Director, such person will be entitled  to sitting fee for the relevant meeting.
Executive Board Members (Managing Director,  Whole-time Director, Executive Directors etc.)
The remuneration (including revision in the remuneration) of  Executive Board members shall be approved by the Board on  the basis of the recommendation of the HR and Nomination  Committee.
The remuneration payable to Executive Board members shall  consist of (a) Fixed Pay, which is payable monthly, and shall  include basic pay, contributions to retirement benefits, house  rent allowance or company-leased accommodation and other  allowances as per the Company’s policy (b) Variable Pay (paid  at the end of Financial Year) directly linked to the performance  of the individual employee (i.e.
achievement against pre- determined KRAs), his / her respective Business Unit and the  overall Company’s performance (c) Long term incentive /  ESOPs as may be decided by the HR & Nomination Committee  from time to time.
Remuneration to Key Managerial Personnel (other  than Managing Director and Whole-time Director),  Senior Management and other employees The remuneration of Key Managerial Personnel (other than  Managing Director and Whole-time Director), shall be as per the  compensation and appraisal policy of the Company.
The remuneration payable to key managerial personnel (other  than Managing Director and Whole-time Director), senior  management and other employees shall consist of (a) Fixed Pay,  which is payable monthly and include basic pay, contributions  to retirement benefits, house rent allowance or company-leased  accommodation and other allowances as per the Company’s  policy (b) Variable Pay (paid at the end of Financial Year) directly  linked to the performance of the individual employee (i.e.
achievement against pre-determined KRAs), his / her respective  business unit and the overall Company performance (c) Long  term incentive / ESOPs as may be decided by the Committee  from time to time.
Disclosures by the Company This Policy shall be disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report.
General  The Group Director – HR and the Company Secretary are jointly  authorised to amend the Policy to give effect to any changes  / amendments notified by Ministry of Corporate Affairs or  Security Exchange Board of India w.r.t.
Directors’ any matter  covered by this policy.
The amended policy shall be placed  before the Board for noting and ratification.
Any questions  and clarifications relating to this Policy should be addressed  to the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary at   compliance.officer@bharti.in.
Statutory Reports Board’s Report 077 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 Secretarial Audit Report Annexure C For the financial year ended March 31, 2018 The Members,  Bharti Airtel Limited  Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,  Vasant Kunj, Phase-II,  New Delhi – 110070 We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance  of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good  corporate practices by Bharti Airtel Limited (hereinafter  called the Company).
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a  manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the  corporate conducts / statutory compliances and expressing our   opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute  books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained  by the Company and also the information provided by the  Company, its officers, agents and authorized representatives  during the conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in  our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering  the financial year ended on March 31, 2018 complied with the  statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company  has proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in  place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting  made hereinafter:  We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and  returns filed and other records maintained by the Company  for the financial year ended on March 31, 2018 according to   the provisions of:  (i) The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made  thereunder;  (ii) The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’)  and the rules made thereunder;  (iii) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye- laws framed thereunder to the extent of Regulation 55A;  (iv) Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules  and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign  Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External  Commercial Borrowings;  (v) The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under  the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI  Act’):-  a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and T akeovers)  Regulations, 2011;   b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition  of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;   c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of  Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,  2009;   d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share  Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014;   e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and  Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008;   f) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars  to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations,  1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with  client to the extent of securities issued;   g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of  Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; Not Applicable and  h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback  of Securities) Regulations, 1998.
Not Applicable (vi) The other laws, as informed and certified by the management  of the Company which are specifically applicable to the  Company based on their Sectors/Businesses are:  a) The Indian T elegraph Act, 1885;  b) The T elecom Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997  and Rules and Regulations made thereunder; and  c) The Indian Wireless T elegraphy Act, 1933.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses  of the following:  a) Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company  Secretaries of India and notified by Ministry of Corporate  Affairs.
b) SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015.
During the period under review the Company has generally  complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations,  Guidelines, Standards, etc.
mentioned above.
We further report that,  The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with  proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors  Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 078  and Independent Directors.
The changes in the composition of  the Board of Directors that took place during the period under  review were carried out in compliance with the provisions   of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the Board  Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent least  seven days in advance (except in cases where meetings were  convened at a shorter notice for which necessary approvals  obtained as per applicable provisions), and a system exists for  seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications  on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful  participation at the meeting.
All decisions at Board Meetings and Committee Meetings are  carried out unanimously as recorded in the minutes of the  meetings of the Board of Directors or Committee of the Board,  as the case may be.
We further report that there are adequate systems and  processes in the Company commensurate with the size and  operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance  with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period following major  events have happened which are deemed to have major bearing  on the Company’s affairs in pursuance of the above referred  laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, standards, etc.
1.
Scheme of amalgamation of Tikona Digital Networks  Private Limited with the Company was approved, subject to  necessary approvals.
2.
Scheme of arrangement between the Company  and T elesonic Networks Limited for the demerger of  the optical fibre business was approved, subject to   necessary approvals.
3.
Scheme of arrangement between the Company and  T ata T eleservices (Maharashtra) Limited (‘TTML’) for the  demerger of the consumer wireless mobile business of  TTML into the company, subject to necessary approvals.
4.
Scheme of arrangement between the Company, Bharti  Hexacom Limited and T ata T eleservices Limited (‘TTSL’) for  the demerger of the consumer wireless mobile business of  TTSL into the company, subject to necessary approvals.
5.
Inter-se transfer of 44% stake (96,938,000 equity shares)  in T elesonic Networks Limited to Nettle Infrastructure  Investments Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the  Company  6.
Secondary sale of 8.14% % stake (15,05,34,392 equity  shares) in Bharti Infratel Limited through its wholly owned  subsidiary Nettle Infrastructure Investments Limited.
7.
The Company has made Private Placement of 30,000  unsecured, rated, redeemable, listed non-convertible  debentures of H 10,00,000/- each for an aggregate  consideration of H 30,000,000,000.
Chandrasekaran Associates Company Secretaries Dr. S. Chandrasekaran Senior Partner Place: New Delhi Membership No.
FCS No.
: 1644  Date: April 24, 2018 Certificate of Practice No.
: 715 Note: This report is to be read with our letter of even date which  is annexed as Annexure-A to this report and forms an integral  part of this report.
Statutory Reports Board’s Report 079 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 The Members Bharti Airtel Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,  Vasant Kunj, Phase-II,  New Delhi – 110070 1.
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of  the management of the Company.
Our responsibility is to  express an opinion on these secretarial records based on  our audit.
2.
We have followed the audit practices and processes as  were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about  the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records.
The verification was done on the random test basis to  ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial records.
We believe that the processes and practices, we followed  provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness  of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4.
Where ever required, we have obtained the Management  representation about the compliance of laws, rules and  regulations and happening of events etc.
5.
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and  other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the  responsibility of management.
Our examination was limited  to the verification of procedures on the random test basis.
6.
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to  the future viability of the company nor of the efficacy or  effectiveness with which the management has conducted  the affairs of the Company.
Chandrasekaran Associates Company Secretaries Dr. S. Chandrasekaran Senior Partner Place: New Delhi Membership No.
FCS No.
: 1644  Date: April 24, 2018 Certificate of Practice No.
: 715 Annexure-A to the Secretarial Audit Report Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 080  Annexure D The Annual Report on Corporate Social Responsibility  (CSR) Activities  1.
Brief Outline of Company’s CSR Policy  At Bharti Airtel, business success is not just about profits and shareholder returns.
We believe in pursuing wider socio-economic  and cultural objectives and have always endeavoured to not just live up to it, but to try and exceed the expectations of the  communities in which we operate.
The CSR policy of the Company which is available on its website, was adopted by the Board of Directors on April 29, 2014.
The  Company’s CSR activities focus on promoting education with special emphasis on girl child, livelihood enhancement education  programs, eradicating hunger, promoting preventive health care and sanitation and providing legal assistance to underprivileged  under-trials.
Bharti Airtel’s CSR activities are committed to create and support programs that bring about sustainable changes  through education.
The detailed CSR Policy of the Company is available on Company’s website at: http://www.airtel.in/wps/wcm/connect/fd7b3172- 02e5-4e25-af7e-51d64cc17534/CSR+Policy.pdf?MOD=AJPERES&ContentCache=NONE.
The overview of various CSR projects and programs undertaken by the Company has been provided in the Corporate Social  Responsibility Report section of this Annual Report.
2.
Composition of CSR Committee Name Category Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal, Chairman Non-Executive Director Mr. D. K. Mittal Independent Director Mr. Gopal Vittal Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia) (H Millions) 3.
Average net profit before tax of the Company for last three financial years 107,313.00          4.
Prescribed CSR Expenditure (2% of the amount as above)                                                                             2,146.26 5.
Details of CSR spent during the year a) T otal amount to be spent for the financial year   i) Amount spent towards CSR activities  ii) Amount spent towards other charitable activities          2,146.26 245.37 32.59 b) Amount Unspent 1,900.89*  c) Manner in which the amount spend during the financial year is detailed below:    *The Companny has contribued 245.37 Mn as CSR contribution under Section 135 of Companies Act, 2013.
In addition the Company has also  contributed 32.59 Mn to various other charitable activities.
The consolidated contribution of the Company towards various CSR programs during the  financial year 2017-18 is 277.96 Mn.
(H Millions) S.  No.
CSR project or  activity identified Sector in which the  project is covered Projects or  programs (1) Local area  or  other (2) Specify the  State and district  where projects  or programs was  undertaken Amount  outlay  (budget)  project or   programs  wise Amount spent on  the projects or  programs Sub-heads: (1) Direct  expenditure  on projects or  programs  (2) Overheads: Cumulative  expenditure  up to the  reporting  period Amount  spent: Direct  or through  implementing  agency Eligible CSR Programs/ Projects 1 Satya Bharti School  Program Promotion of education Specified below* 448.80 179.79 1390.90 Bharti  Foundation 2 Satya Bharti Abhiyan Sanitation Ludhiana & Amritsar,   Punjab 120.5 10.81 119.51 Bharti  Foundation Statutory Reports Board’s Report 081 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317  # Program discontinued w.e.f.
March 2018.
* District / State wise details of Satya Bharti School Program – Jodhpur, Amer and Neemrana in Rajasthan, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Sangrur in Punjab,  Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Rewari, Mahendergarh and Jhajjar in Haryana, Farrukhabad, Shahjahanpur, Sitapur and Bulandhahar in Uttar Pradesh, Murshidabad  in West Bengal, Sivaganga in T amil Nadu.
District / State wise details of Satya Bharti Learning Centres Kurukshetra, Rewari, Mahendergarh, Gurgaon and  Karnal in Haryana, Bhatinda and Fazikla in Punjab, Barmer, Sawaimadhopur and Udaipur in Rajasthan, Godda, Pakur, Sahibganj, Dhumka and Deoghar  in Jharkhand.
District /State wise details of Quality Support Program Jodhpur, Barmer T onk and Ajmer in Rajasthan, Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh, Rajanna  Sircilla in T elangana, Leh, Jammu, Kashmir and Nagrota in Jammu and Kashmir, Kurnool in Andhra Pradesh, Dhumka and Deoghar in Jharkhand, Barwani  and Jhabua in Madhya Pradesh, Delhi and Goa.
** Haryana, Delhi and NCR Region, Bihar, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh.
(H Millions) S.  No.
CSR project or  activity identified Sector in which the  project is covered Projects or  programs (1) Local area  or  other (2) Specify the  State and district  where projects  or programs was  undertaken Amount  outlay  (budget)  project or   programs  wise Amount spent on  the projects or  programs Sub-heads: (1) Direct  expenditure  on projects or  programs  (2) Overheads: Cumulative  expenditure  up to the  reporting  period Amount  spent: Direct  or through  implementing  agency 3 Educate a Child Promotion of education Specified below** 70.00 0.00 242.60 Bharti  Foundation 4 Nyaya Bharti  initiative# Promoting measures  for reducing inequalities  faced by economically  backward groups Delhi and NCR region 14.10 5.00 16.55 Bharti  Foundation 5 Crop science  research and   development  program Livelihood enhancement  Program Punjab 20.60 11.72 24.97 Bharti  Foundation 6 Magic Bus  Foundation Promotion of education  Delhi and Mumbai 2.50 2.00 4.30 Direct 7 Anubandh - Old Age  Home Setting up and  supporting old age  homes Jodhpur, Rajasthan 3.00 3.00 8.00 Direct 8 Partition Museum Restoration and  establishment of  building of historical  importance Amritsar, Punjab 5.00 5.00 10.00 Direct 9 Ramadham Old Age  home Setting up and  supporting old age  homes Raigad District,  Maharashtra 2.50 2.50 2.50 Direct 10 Skill development  program for youth  and vocational skills  for women Employment enhancing  vocation skills Chhindwara, Madhya  Pradesh 13.95 13.95 30.00 Centum  Foundation 11 Vocational training  program for hearing  impaired young  adults Employment enhancing  vocation skills to  differently abled Delhi 23.20 11.60 23.20 Centum  Foundation T otal 722.15 245.37 1872.53 Other Contributions 1 Miscellaneous Miscellaneous Miscellaneous 32.59 32.59 93.23 Direct  T otal 32.59 32.59 93.23 Grand T otal 754.74 277.96 1965.76 Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 082  6.
Reason for not spending the prescribed 2% amount   Despite the unprecedented challenges and pressure on the telecom industry, the Company had scaled-up various CSR  interventions during the FY 2017-18 which resulted into increased CSR spending vis-à-vis previous financial year i.e.
from H 55.84  Mn in FY 2016-17 to H 245.37 Mn in FY 2017-18.
Additionally, the Company has also contributed H 32.59 Mn towards various  other charitable causes (disclosed as ‘other contributions’ in the above mentioned table) which are not covered within the ambit  of the provisions of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013.
The aggregate CSR spending of the Company for FY 2017-18  (including other contributions) is H 277.96 Mn (i.e.
0.26% of net profit of last three years).
Company is committed to build its CSR capabilities on a sustainable basis and is also committed to gradually increase its CSR  contribution in the coming years.
The CSR spending is guided by the vision of creating long-term benefit to the society.
The  Company through its Board and CSR Committee is determined to beef up its efforts to meet the targeted CSR expenditure.
With  the strong foundation which has been established during the year alongwith the proposed scaling up of a number of its CSR  Projects, the Company believes that it has made meaningful progress towards reaching the target in the coming financial years.
Further, during the year,  Bharti Family has pledged a significant amount towards philanthropy, which will step-up scope and reach  of Bharti Foundation’s initiatives to create opportunities for the underprivileged  and contribute to nation building.
Plan is to set  up a world-class University namely Satya Bharti University, to offer free education to deserving youth from economically weaker  sections of society.
During the previous year, Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal, Chairman had also contributed H 50 Mn towards CSR in his  personal capacity.
Responsibility statement of the CSR Committee  The Committee confirms that the implementation and monitoring of CSR Policy is in compliance with CSR objectives and policy  of the Company.
Gopal Vittal Rakesh Bharti Mittal  Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia) Chairman, CSR Committee Statutory Reports Board’s Report 083 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 Extract of Annual Return  Annexure E Form No.
MGT-9 as on the financial year ended on March 31, 2018 [Pursuant to Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 12(1) of the Companies   (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014] II.
Principal Business Activities of the Company  Businesses contributing 10% or more of the total turnover of the company are given below: I.
Registration and Other Details: III.
Particulars of Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies   Note: * As per National Industrial Classification – Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation.
CIN L74899DL1995PLC070609 Registration Date July 07, 1995 Name of the Company Bharti Airtel Limited Category of the Company Limited by shares Sub-Category of the Company Indian Non- Government Company Address of the Registered office and contact details Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road, Vasant Kunj, Phase II,  New Delhi – 110 070.
Phone : +91 011-46666100 Whether listed company Yes Name, Address and Contact details of Registrar and  Transfer Agent Karvy Computershare Private Limited Karvy Selenium T ower B, Plot number 31 & 32, Gachibowli, Financial  District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad – 500032, India.
Phone : +91 040-67162222 Sl.
No.
Name and Description of main products/services NIC Code of the product/ service* % to total turnover of the  company 1 Wireless telecommunications activities 612 85.43% Sl.
No.
Name of the Company Address CIN/Registration No.
% of shares  held Holding Company u/s 2(46) of the Companies Act, 2013 1 Bharti T elecom Limited Airtel Centre, Plot No.
16, Udyog Vihar,  Phase - IV , Gurgaon, Haryana - 122001  U32039HR1985PLC032091 50.10 Subsidiary Companies u/s 2(87)(ii) of the Companies Act, 2013 1 Bharti Airtel Services Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,  Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi - 110 070 U64201DL1997PLC091001 100 2 Bharti Hexacom Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,  Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi - 110 070  U74899DL1995PLC067527 70 3 Bharti Infratel Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,  Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi - 110 070  L64201DL2006PLC156038 53.51 4 SmarT x Services Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,  Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi - 110 070  U64202DL2015PLC285515 53.51 5 Indo T eleports Limited (Formerly known  as Bharti T eleports Limited) Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,  Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi - 110 070  U32204DL2008PLC183976 99.99 Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 084  Sl.
No.
Name of the Company Address CIN/Registration No.
% of shares  held 6 Bharti T elemedia Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,  Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi - 110 070  U92200DL2006PLC156075 51 7 Airtel Payments Bank Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,  Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi - 110 070 U65100DL2010PLC201058 80.1 8 T elesonic Networks Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,  Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi - 110 070  U64200DL2009PLC325406 95 9 Nxtra Data Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,  Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi - 110 070 U72200DL2013PLC254747 56 10 Wynk Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,  Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi - 110 070 U74140DL2015PLC275325 56 11 Nettle Infrastructure Investments  Limited (formerly known as  Nettle  Developers Limited w.e.f.
March 14,  2017)  3rd Floor, Worldmark 2 Asset 8, Aerocity, NH-  8, New Delhi - 110037 U93000DL2010PLC301236 90 12 Bharti Digital Networks Private Limited  (Formerly known as Tikona Digital  Networks Private Limited) (w.e.f.
August  24, 2017) Bharti Crescent 1 Nelson Mandela Road,  Vasant Kunj, Phase II, New Delhi - 110070 U72900DL2008PTC325106 100 13 Bharti Airtel (France) SAS 88, T er Avenue Général Leclerc – 92100  Boulogne Billancourt RCS Nanterre 523 035 426 100 14 Bharti Airtel (Hong Kong) Limited 4th Floor, Cheung Hing Industrial Building,  12P Smithfield Road, Kennedy T own, Hong  Kong 1080074 100 15 Bharti Airtel (Japan) Private Limited Shinjuku Park T ower, 30th Floor, 7-1, Nishi  Shinjuku 3-chome, Shinjuku-ku, T okyo 0111-01-055989 100 16 Bharti Airtel (UK) Limited 10, Queen Street Place, London, United  Kingdom EC4R 1AG 5917314 100 17 Bharti Airtel (USA) Limited 335 Madison Avenue 12 th floor, New York   10017 F-060912000-217 100 18 Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius)  Limited  SGG Corporate Services (Mauritius) Ltd.,  33, Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis, 11324,  Mauritius 094380 CI/GBL 100 19 Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands)  B .V.
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD  Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 34387410 100 20 Bharti Airtel Lanka (Private) Limited Level 11, West T ower, World Trade Centre,  Echelon Square, Colombo 1, Sri Lanka PV10652 100 21 Bharti International (Singapore) Pte.
Ltd. 150, Orchard Road, #08-01, Orchard Plaza,  Singapore 2010-05788-R 100 22 Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius)  Investments Limited (w.e.f.
March 26,  2018)  SGG Corporate Services (Mauritius) Ltd.,  33, Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis, 11324,  Mauritius 154803 C1/GBL 100 23 Network i2i Limited SGG Corporate Services (Mauritius) Ltd.,  33, Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis, 11324,  Mauritius 25951/6339 100 24 Africa T owers N. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD  Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 50979965 100 25 Africa T owers Services Limited (under  liquidation) Plot Number LR No 209/11880, Parkside  T owers, Mombasa Road, PO Box 73146- 00200, Nairobi, Kenya CPR/2011/56039 100 26 Airtel (Seychelles) Limited Emerald House, PO Box 1358, Providence,  Mahe, Seychelles 841930-1 100 Statutory Reports Board’s Report 085 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 Sl.
No.
Name of the Company Address CIN/Registration No.
% of shares  held 27 Airtel Congo S.A. 2ème étage, Immeuble SCI MONTE  CRISTO, Rond-point de la Gare, Croisement  du Boulevard Denis SASSOU NGUESSO  et de l’avenue Orsy, Centre-Ville, B.P .
1038,  Brazzaville - République du Congo CG/BZV/07 B299 90 28 Airtel Gabon S.A. Rue Pecqueur, Immeuble Libreville Business  Square, B.P .
9259, Libreville, Gabon RG LBV 2001/B01000 90 29 Airtel Madagascar S.A. Immeuble Kube B, Zone Galaxy, Andraharo,  101 Antananarivo, Madagascar 1997B00392 100 30 Airtel Malawi Limited Immeuble Kube B Building, Zone Galaxy, Andraharo, Antananarivo 101, Madagascar 5114 100 31 Airtel Mobile Commerce B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD  Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 34375413 100 32 Airtel Mobile Commerce Holdings B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD  Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 34381129 100 33 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Kenya) Limited Parkside T owers, Mombasa Road, P .O.
Box  73146-00200, Nairobi, Kenya C 169576 100 34 Airtel Mobile Commerce Limited Airtel Complex, City Centre, Off Convention  Drive, P .O.
Box 57, Lilongwe, Malawi 9831 100 35 Airtel Mobile Commerce Madagascar  S.A. Immeuble Kube B Building, Zone Galaxy,  Andraharo, Antananarivo 101, Madagascar 2011B00235 100 36 Airtel Mobile Commerce Rwanda  Limited Remera, Gasabo, P .O.
Box 4164, Kigali,  Rwanda 102933620 100 37 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Seychelles)  Limited Emerald House, P .O.
Box 1358, Providence,  Mahe, Seychelles 8412656-1 100 38 Airtel Mobile Commerce (T anzania)  Limited Block 41, Kinondoni, Corner of Ali Hassan  Mwinyi & Kawawa Road, P .O.
Box 9623,   Dar es Salaam, T anzania 79802 100 39 Airtel Mobile Commerce T chad S.A.R.L Immeuble du Cinéma Etoile, Rue du  Commandant Galyam Negal, B.P .
5665,  N’Djamena, T chad TC/NDJ/10B 183 100 40 Airtel Mobile Commerce Uganda Limited Airtel House, Plot 16-A, Clement Hill Road, P .
O.
Box 6771, Kampala - Uganda  123833 100 41 Airtel Mobile Commerce Zambia Limited Airtel House, Corner of Addis Ababa Drive  and Great East Road, Stand 2375,  P .O.
Box  320001, Lusaka, Zambia 80052 100 42 Airtel Money (RDC) S.A. 127, Avenue du Plateau, Commune de  la Gombe, République Démocratique du  Congo CD/KIN/RCCM/14-B-6552 100 43 Airtel Money Niger S.A. 2054, Route de l'aéroport, B.P .
11922  Niamey, Niger NI-NIA-2012-M-2191 90 44 Airtel Money S.A. Libreville, Centre Ville, Avenue Du Colonel  Parrant, B.P .
23 899, Libreville, Gabon  RG LBV 2010B09955 100 45 Airtel Networks Kenya Limited Parkside T owers, Mombasa Road, P .
O.
Box  73146-00200, Nairobi, Kenya C. 140223 100 46 Airtel Networks Limited Plot L2, Banana Island, Foreshore Estate/ Ikoyi Lagos, Nigeria 398557 83.25 47 Airtel Networks Zambia Plc Airtel House, Corner of Addis Ababa Drive  and Great East Road, Lusaka, Stand 2375,  P .O.
Box 320001, Lusaka, Zambia 38136 96.36 Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 086  Sl.
No.
Name of the Company Address CIN/Registration No.
% of shares  held 48 Airtel Rwanda Limited Remera, Gasabo, P .O.
Box 4164, Kigali,  Rwanda 102437818 100 49 Airtel T anzania Public Limited Company Airtel House, Block 41, Kinondoni, Corner of  A.H. Mwinyi Road & Kawawa Road, P .O.
Box  9623, Dar es Salaam, T anzania 41291 60 50 Airtel T chad S.A. Immeuble du Cinéma Etoile, Rue du  Commandant Galyam Negal, B.P .
5665,  N’Djamena, T chad TC-NDJ 063/B/99 100 51 Airtel Uganda Limited Airtel T owers, Plot 16-A, Clement Hill Road,  Nakasero P .O.
Box 6771, Kampala - Uganda V-232-36 100 52 Bharti Airtel Africa B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD  Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 08076497 100 53 Bharti Airtel Burkina Faso Holdings B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD  Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 08077622 100 54 Bharti Airtel Chad Holdings B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD  Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 34125184 100 55 Bharti Airtel Congo Holdings B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD  Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 08077621 100 56 Bharti Airtel Developers Forum Limited Airtel House, Corner of Addis Ababa Drive  and Great East Road, Lusaka, Stand 2375,  P .O.
Box 320001, Lusaka, Zambia 82795 96.36 57 Bharti Airtel Gabon Holdings B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD  Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 08078528 100 58 Bharti Airtel Kenya B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD  Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 38023926 100 59 Bharti Airtel Kenya Holdings B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD  Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 34164357 100 60 Bharti Airtel Madagascar Holdings B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD  Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 34204848 100 61 Bharti Airtel Malawi Holdings B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD  Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 08077659 100 62 Bharti Airtel Mali Holdings B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD  Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 34164359 100 63 Bharti Airtel Niger Holdings B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD  Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 34143743 100 64 Bharti Airtel Nigeria B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD  Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 34164360 100 65 Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings II B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD  Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 08077623 100 66 Bharti Airtel RDC Holdings B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD  Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 34125193 100 67 Bharti Airtel Services B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD  Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 08077657 100 68 Bharti Airtel T anzania B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD  Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 08078747 100 69 Bharti Airtel Uganda Holdings B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD  Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 08078530 100 70 Bharti Airtel Zambia Holdings B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD  Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 08076501 100 Statutory Reports Board’s Report 087 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 Sl.
No.
Name of the Company Address CIN/Registration No.
% of shares  held 71 Celtel (Mauritius) Holdings Limited C/o Abax Corporate Services Ltd, 6 th floor,  T ower A, 1 Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius 18259/3238 C1/GBL 100 72 Airtel Congo (RDC) S.A. 278, Avenue de'l Equateur, Kinshasa,  Gombe, République démocratique du  Congo CD/KNG/RCCM/13-B-01054 98.50 73 Celtel Niger S.A. 2054 Route de l'aéroport, B.P .
11 922,  Niamey, Niger NI-NIM-2007-B 1848 90 74 Channel Sea Management Company  (Mauritius) Limited C/o Abax Corporate Services Ltd., 6 th floor,  T ower A, 1 Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius 18258/3237 C1/GBL 100 75 Congo RDC T owers S.A. Croisement des Avenues du T chad et du Bas  Congo, Commune de la Gombe, Kinshasa,  République démocratique du Congo CD/KIN/RCCM/14-B-4040 100 76 Gabon T owers S.A. (under dissolution) 124 Avenue Bouet / B.P .
9259, Libreville,  Gabon 2013B11106 90 77 Indian Ocean T elecom Limited C/o Minerva Trust & Corporate Services  Limited, The Le Gallais Building, 54 Bath  Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 8SB  Channel  Islands 70138 100 78 Madagascar T owers S.A. Immeuble Kube B, Zone Galaxy Andraharo,  101- Antananarivo, Madagascar 2011 B 00184 100 79 Malawi T owers Limited Airtel Complex, City Centre, Off Convention  Drive, P .O.
Box 57, Lilongwe, Malawi 10995 100 80 Mobile Commerce Congo S.A. 1er et 2ème  étages, Immeuble SCI Monte  Cristo, Rond Point de la Gare, Croisement  du Boulevard Denis Sassou Nguesso et  de l'avenue Orsy, Centre Ville, B.P .
1038,  Brazzaville - République du Congo CG/BZV/09 B 1796 100 81 Montana International C/o Abax Corporate Services Ltd., 6 th floor,  T ower A, 1 Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius 6/97/2593 C2/GBL 100 82 Partnership Investments S.A.R.L Croisement des Avenues du T chad et  du Bas Congo, Commune de la Gombe,  République démocratique du Congo CD/KIN/RCCM/14-B-4497 100 83 Société Malgache de T elephone  Cellulaire S.A. C/o Abax Corporate Services Ltd., 6 th floor,  T ower A, 1 Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius 19022/3479 C1/GBL 100 84 T anzania T owers Limited Airtel House, Block 41 Kinondoni, Corner  of A.H. Mwinyi Road / Kawawa Road,  Kinondoni, Dar es Salaam, T anzania 84005 60 85 Bharti Airtel Rwanda Holdings Limited C/o Abax Corporate Services Ltd., 6 th floor,  T ower A, 1 Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius C083311 C1/GBL 100 86 Airtel Money Transfer Limited Parkside T owers, Mombasa Road, L.R.
Nr.
209/11880, P .O.
Box 73146-00200 Nairobi,  Kenya CPR/2015/199517 100 87 Airtel Money T anzania Limited Airtel House, Block 41 Kinondoni, Corner  of A.H. Mwinyi Road / Kawawa Road,  Kinondoni, Dar es Salaam, T anzania 127040 60.04 Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 088  Sl.
No.
Name of the Company Address CIN/Registration No.
% of shares  held 88 Airtel Mobile Commerce Nigeria Limited  (w.e.f.
August 31, 2017) Plot L2, Banana Island, Foreshore Estate/ Ikoyi Lagos, Nigeria 1435923 83.25 89 Tigo Rwanda Limited (w.e.f.
January 31,  2018) 6th Floor, West Wing, Kigali Heights, KG7  Ave, Plot 772, Kimihurura, P .O.
Box 6979,  Kigali, Rwanda 101 775 989 100 Associates u/s 2(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 1 Seychelles Cable Systems Company  Limited Third Floor, Caravelle House, Victoria, Mahe,  Seychelles 846498-1 26 2 Robi Axiata Limited 53, Gulshan South Avenue, Gulshan-1,  Dhaka - 1212, Bangladesh C29552 25 3 Seynse T echnologies Private Limited Villa No.
4, House No.
22/296 Naroo  Heights, Opp.
Manipal Hospital Dona Paula,  North Goa U74999GA2015PTC007655 20 4 Aban Green Power Private Limited Anpriya Crest 113, Pantheon Road Egmore,  Chennai, T amil Nadu U40103TN2013PTC090446 24.88 5 Juggernaut Books Private Limited (w.e.f.
December 14, 2017) 118, Shahpur Jat 4 th Floor, K.S.
House,  New Delhi - 110049  U22219DL2015PTC280186 11.32 6 Greenergy Wind Corporation Private  Limited  No.3, 2 nd Floor Queens Road Cross Near  Congress Committee Office, Bangalore,  Karnataka - 560052 U40104KA2012PTC062414 20.33 Joint Venture Companies u/s 2(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 1 Indus T owers Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,  Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi - 110070  U92100DL2007PLC170574 22.47 2 Bridge Mobile Pte Limited 750 Chai Chee Road, T echnopark@ ChaiChee, The Oasis, #03-02/0, Singapore 469000 200413856E 10 3 Firefly Networks Limited A-19, Mohan Co-operative Industrial Estate, Mathura Road, New Delhi - 110044 U74999DL2014PLC264417 50 4 Bharti Airtel Ghana Holdings B. V .
(w.e.f.
October 12, 2017) Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD  Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 34204633 50 5 Airtel Ghana Limited (w.e.f.
October 12,  2017) Milicom Place, Barnes Road, PMB-TUC,  Accra, Ghana CS0002840316 49.95 6 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Ghana)  Limited (w.e.f.
October 12, 2017) Milicom Place, Barnes Road, PMB-TUC,  Accra, Ghana CS050612017 49.95 7 Milicom Ghana Company Limited (w.e.f.
October 12, 2017) Milicom Place, Barnes Road, PMB-TUC,  Accra, Ghana CS417992014 49.95 8 Mobile Financial Services Limited ( w.e.f.
October 12, 2017) Milicom Place, Barnes Road, PMB-TUC,  Accra, Ghana CA-72,549 50 Statutory Reports Board’s Report 089 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 Sl.
No.
Category of shareholders Number of shares held at the beginning of   the year i.e.
April 01, 2017 Number of shares held at the end  of  the year i.e.
March 31, 2018 %  change  during  the  year  Demat Physical T otal % of  total  shares Demat Physical T otal % of  total  shares (I)   (II)      (III)      (IV)      (V)      (VI)      (VII)      (VIII)      (IX)   (X)   (XI) (A) Promoters (1) Indian Individual /HUF  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Central Government/State  Government(s)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Bodies Corporate 1,81,79,87,269  -   1,81,79,87,269  45.48 2,00,28,18,452  -   2,00,28,18,452  50.10  4.62  Financial Institutions / Banks  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Any other  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Sub-T otal A(1)  : 1,81,79,87,269  -   1,81,79,87,269  45.48 2,00,28,18,452  -   2,00,28,18,452  50.10  4.62  (2) Foreign  Individuals (NRIs/Foreign Individuals)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Others - Individual Bodies Corporate 86,56,73,286  -   86,56,73,286  21.66 68,09,63,103  -   68,09,63,103  17.04  (4.62) Banks / FI  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Any other  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Sub-T otal A(2)  : 86,56,73,286  -   86,56,73,286  21.66 68,09,63,103  -   68,09,63,103  17.04  (4.62) T otal A=A(1)+A(2) 2,68,36,60,555  -   2,68,36,60,555  67.14 2,68,37,81,555  -   2,68,37,81,555  67.14 - (B) Public Shareholding  (1) Institutions  Mutual Funds   12,84,31,707  -    12,84,31,707  3.21  26,57,39,997  -    26,57,39,997  6.65  3.43  Financial Institutions /Banks  21,41,271  -    21,41,271  0.05  31,08,671  -    31,08,671  0.08  0.02  Central Government / State  Government(s)  -    -    -    -   -  -    -    -    -    Venture Capital Funds  -    -    -    -   -  -    -    -    -    Insurance Companies   31,54,20,470  -    31,54,20,470  7.89  22,74,66,498  -    22,74,66,498  5.69  (2.20) Foreign Institutional Investors  60,82,26,075  -    60,82,26,075  15.22  73,74,53,635  -    73,74,53,635  18.45  3.23  Foreign Venture Capital Funds  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Others (specify)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Sub-T otal B(1)  :  1,05,42,19,523  -    1,05,42,19,523  26.37  1,23,37,68,801  -    1,23,37,68,801  30.86  4.49  (2) Non-Institution  Bodies Corporate (i) Indian  27,21,800 54,44,250  81,66,050  0.20  1,86,57,340 54,44,250  2,41,01,590  0.60  0.40  (ii) Overseas  Individuals (i) Individuals holding nominal share  capital upto H 1 lakh  2,47,56,135  7,661  2,47,63,796  0.62  2,45,34,573  6,904  2,45,41,477  0.61  (0.01) (ii) Individuals holding nominal share  capital in excess of H 1 lakh  45,44,671 -  45,44,671  0.11  1,33,24,375 -  1,33,24,375  0.33  0.22  Others (Specify) Clearining Members  90,58,391 -  90,58,391  0.23 2536099 - 2536099 0.06  (0.16) Foreign Companies  20,31,77,716 -  20,31,77,716  5.08 2532710 - 2532710  0.06  5.02  NBFC  8,614 -  8,614 -  12,358 -  12,358 - - Non Resident Indians  12,83,871 -  12,83,871  0.03  15,68,737 -  15,68,737  0.04  0.01  Non Resident Indians   (Non-Repatriation)   5,73,389 -  5,73,389  0.01  7,47,080 -  7,47,080  0.02 - ESOP Trust  13,45,184 -  13,45,184  0.03  17,19,041 -  17,19,041  0.04  0.01  Trusts                                65,98,342 -  65,98,342  0.17  87,17,006 -  87,17,006  0.22  0.05  Investor Education and Protection  Fund - - - -  49,273 -  49,273 - - Sub-T otal B(2) :  25,40,68,113  54,51,911  25,95,20,024  6.49  7,43,98,592  54,51,154  7,98,49,746  2.00  5.54  T otal Public Shareholding  B=B(1)+B(2)  :  1,30,82,87,636  54,51,911  1,31,37,39,547  32.86  1,30,81,67,393  54,51,154  1,31,36,18,547  32.86  10.04  T otal (A+B)   :  3,99,19,48,191  54,51,911  3,99,74,00,102 100.00  3,99,19,48,948  54,51,154  3,99,74,00,102 100.00  10.04  (C) Shares held by custodians for  GDR’s and ADR’s - - - - - - - - - Grand T otal (A+B+C) :  3,99,19,48,191  54,51,911  3,99,74,00,102 100.00  3,99,19,48,948  54,51,154  3,99,74,00,102 100.00 IV .
Share Holding Pattern (Equity Share Capital Breakup as percentage of T otal Equity)   (i) Category- Wise Share Holding Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 090   (ii) Shareholding of Promoters  (iv) Shareholding Pattern of top ten Shareholders (other than Directors, Promoters and Holders of GDRs and ADRs):  1.
Bharti T elecom Limited is promoter of Bharti Airtel Limited as prescribed in its IPO Prospectus dated February 07, 2002.
2.
Pastel Limited qualifies as “deemed promoter” u/r 2(1)(t) of SEBI (Substantial Acquisition and T akeover) Regulations, 2011 but is not having control over  the listed company nor is “person acting in concern” with promoter (Bharti T elecom Limited) as specified u/r 2(1) (q) of the Regulations.
3.
Indian Continent Investment Limited is person acting in concern with promoter (Bharti T elecom Limited).
4.
Viridian Limited is person acting in concern with Pastel Limited.
As mentioned above Pastel Limited qualifies as “Deemed Promoter” u/r 2(1)(t) of SEBI  (Substantial Acquisition and T akeover) Regulations, 2011 but is not having control over the listed company nor is “person acting in concern” with promoter  (Bharti T elecom Limited) as specified u/r 2(1) (q) of the Regulations.
(iii) Change in Promoter Shareholding Sl.
No.
Name of the Share  Holder Shareholding at the beginning of the Year Shareholding at the end of the Year % change in  shareholding   during the  year No.
of Shares % of total  shares  of the  Company % of shares  pledged/  encumbered to total shares No.
of Shares % of total  shares  of the  Company % of shares  pledged/  encumbered  to total shares 1 Bharti T elecom Limited  1,81,79,87,269 45.48 -  2,00,28,18,452 50.10 - 4.62 2 Pastel Limited  59,13,19,300 14.79 -  59,13,19,300 14.79 - 0.00 3 Indian Continent  Investment Limited  26,58,60,986 6.65 -  8,11,50,803 2.03 - -4.62 4 Viridian Limited  84,93,000 0.21 -  84,93,000 0.21 - 0.00 Sl.
No.
Name of the Shareholder Shareholding Cumulative Shareholding during  the Year No of Shares % of total shares  of the Company No of Shares % of total shares  of the Company 1 Life Insurance Corporation of India At the beginning of the year 211,834,356 5.30 211,834,356 5.30 Bought during the year - - - - Sold during the year 61,651,493 1.54 150,182,863 3.76 At the end of the year 150,182,863 3.76 150,182,863 3.76 2 ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited   At the beginning of the year 82,165,754 2.06 82,165,754 2.06 Bought during the year 13,978,109 0.35 96,143,863 2.41 Sold during the year 44,957,322 1.12 51,186,541 1.28 At the end of the year 51,186,541 1.28 511,865,41 1.28 3 Dodge and Cox International Stock Funds                                  At the beginning of the year 49,441,504 1.24 49,441,504 1.24 Bought during the year - - - - Sold during the year 49,441,504 1.24 - - At the end of the year - - - - Sl.
No.
Name of the Promoter Shareholding at the  beginning of the Year  Date Increase/ Decrease  during the  year Reasons Cumulative Shareholding  during the year/Shareholding  at the end of the Year  No.
of Shares % of total  shares of the  Company No.
of Shares % of total  shares of the  Company 1 Bharti T elecom Limited 1,81,79,87,269 45.48 August 18,  2017  1,21,000  Inter-se  Transfer  1,81,81,08,269 45.48 November  03, 2017 18,47,10,183  2,00,28,18,452 50.10 2 Indian Continent  Investment Limited   26,58,60,986 6.65 November  03, 2017 18,47,10,183  8,11,50,803 2.03 Statutory Reports Board’s Report 091 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 Sl.
No.
Name of the Shareholder Shareholding Cumulative Shareholding during  the Year No of Shares % of total shares  of the Company No of Shares % of total shares  of the Company 4 ICICI Prudential Mutual Funds                                      At the beginning of the year 45,724,712 1.14 45,724,712 1.14 Bought during the year 54,795,760 1.37 100,520,472 2.51 Sold during the year 37,303,767 0.93 63,216,705 1.58 At the end of the year 63,216,705 1.58 63,216,705 1.58 5 Franklin T empleton Mutual Funds                 At the beginning of the year 37,733,651 0.94 37,733,651 0.94 Bought during the year 13,734,605 0.34 51,468,256 1.29 Sold during the year 12,622,959 0.32 38,845,297 0.97 At the end of the year 38,845,297 0.97 38,845,297 0.97 6 Government Pension Fund Global                                             At the beginning of the year 9,444,613 0.24 9,444,613 0.24 Bought during the year 22,807,424 0.57 32,252,037 0.81 Sold during the year 6,115,767 0.15 26,136,270 0.65 At the end of the year 26,136,270 0.65 26,136,270 0.65 7 Capital World Growth and Income Fund                                   At the beginning of the year 25,940,837 0.65 25,940,837 0.65 Bought during the year 3,447,439 0.09 29,388,276 0.74 Sold during the year 17,475,177 0.44 11,913,099 0.3 At the end of the year 11,913,099 0.3 11,913,099 0.3 8 Reliance Capital Trustee Co. Ltd.                    At the beginning of the year 1,886,546 0.05 1,886,546 0.05 Bought during the year 33,307,115 0.83 35,193,661 0.88 Sold during the year 11,332,886 0.28 23,860,775 0.6 At the end of the year 23,860,775 0.6 23,860,775 0.6 9 Government of Singapore  At the beginning of the year 11,068,086 0.28 11,068,086 0.28 Bought during the year 15,261,249 0.38 26,329,335 0.66 Sold during the year 2,580,760 0.06 23,748,575 0.59 At the end of the year 23,748,575 0.59 23,748,575 0.59 10 SBI Mutual Fund                                At the beginning of the year 22,475,610 0.56 22,475,610 0.56 Bought during the year 35,240,792 0.88 57,716,402 1.44 Sold during the year 4,666,980 0.12 53,049,422 1.33 At the end of the year 53,049,422 1.33 53,049,422 1.33 11 Fort Canning Investments Pte.
Ltd.                                          At the beginning of the year 2,859,947 0.07 2,859,947 0.07 Bought during the year 19,200,170 0.48 22,060,117 0.55 Sold during the year - - - - At the end of the year 22,060,117 0.55 22,060,117 0.55 12 Tybourne Equity Master Fund                                                 At the beginning of the year - - - - Bought during the year 21,939,623 0.55 21,939,623 0.55 Sold during the year - - - - At the end of the year 21,939,623 0.55 21,939,623 0.55 13 Vangaurd Emerging Markets Stock Index Fund                     At the beginning of the year 20,702,111 0.52 20,702,111 0.52 Bought during the year 24,423,683 0.61 45,125,794 1.13 Sold during the year 23,741,485 0.59 21,384,309 0.53 At the end of the year 21,384,309 0.53 21,384,309 0.53 14 Comgest Growth Plc.
At the beginning of the year 18,484,273 0.46 18,484,273 0.46 Bought during the year 1,521,866 0.40 20,006,139 0.50 Sold during the year 12,423,775 0.31 7,582,364 0.19 At the end of the year 7,582,364 0.19 7,582,364 0.19 15 Morgan Stanley Mauritius Company Limited                                   At the beginning of the year 17,564,459 0.44 17,564,459 0.44 Bought during the year 6,096,985 0.15 23,661,444 0.59 Sold during the year 22,055,775 0.55 1,605,669 0.04 At the end of the year 1,605,669 0.04 1,605,669 0.04 Note: The details of shareholding are maintained by respective Depositories and it is not feasible to provide daily change in the shareholding of top ten  shareholders.
Therefore, consolidated changes during the year 2017-18 has been provided.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 092  (H Millions) Secured Loans  excluding  deposits Unsecured Loans Deposits T otal Indebteness Indebtedness at the beginning of  the financial year  i) Principal Amount 31 602,240 - 602,271 ii) Interest due but not paid - - - - iii) Interest accured but not due - 2,796 - 2,796 T otal (i+ii+iii) 31 605,036 - 605,067 Change in indebtedness during the  financial year  Addition 10 520,024 - 520,034 Reduction 12 468,414 - 468,426 Net Change (2) 51,610 - 279 Indebtedness at the end of the  financial year  i) Principal Amount 29 654,129 - 654,159 ii) Interest due but not paid - - - - iii) Interest accured but not due - 23,681 - 23,681 T otal (i+ii+iii) 29 677,810 - 677,840   V .
Indebtedness   Indebtedness of the Company including interest outstanding/accrued but not due for payment  (v) Shareholding of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel Sl.
No.
Name of the  Director or KMP Shareholding at the  beginning of the Year  Date Increase /  Decrease  in share  holding Reasons Cumulative Shareholding  during the year/ Shareholding  at the end of the Year No.
of  Shares % of total  shares of the  Company No.
of Shares % of total  shares of the  Company Key Managerial Personnel 1  Mr. Gopal Vittal  3,29,885 0.01 August 10, 2017  1,21,000 Market Sale  2,08,885 0.01 December 01, 2017  30,000 Share  allotted  under ESOP  2,38,885 0.01 December 13, 2017  30,000  2,68,885 0.01 January 25, 2018  10,000  2,78,885 0.01 February 16, 2018  10,000  2,88,885 0.01 March 05, 2018  10,000  2,98,885 0.01 2 Mr. Nilanjan Roy - - March 05, 2018 13,003 Share  allotted  under ESOP  13,003 -  Note: No other Director and Key Managerial Personnel hold shares as on March 31, 2018 Statutory Reports Board’s Report 093 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 (H Millions) Sl.
No.
Particulars of Remuneration Name of Managing Director /   Whole-time Director / Manager T otal Amount Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal   Chairman Mr. Gopal Vittal   Managing Director & CEO   (India & South Asia) (1) Gross salary (a) Salary as per provisions contained in  section 17(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 269.78 120.17 389.95 (b) Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) Income-tax  Act, 1961 10.62 0.03* 10.65 (c) Profits in lieu of salary under section  17(3) Income-tax Act, 1961 - - - (2) Stock Option** - 43.29** 43.29 (3) Sweat Equity - - - (4) Commission - - - - as % of profit - - - - others, specify… - - - (5) Others – PF Contribution 21.57 6.24 27.81 T otal (A) 301.97 169.73 471.70 Ceiling as per the Act H 690.39 Mn.
(being 10% of Net Profits of the Company calculated as  per Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013) VI.
Remuneration of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel   A. Remuneration to Managing Director, Whole-time Directors and / or Manager:  B. Remuneration to Non-Executive Directors including Independent Directors:  Note:   > During the year, Mr. Gopal Vittal was granted 105,000 and 30,000 stock options on August 08, 2017 under ESOP Scheme 2005 at an exercise price of   H 5 per option, with a vesting period spread over 3 years and 2 years respectively.
> Value of Performance Linked Incentive (PLI) considered above represents incentive which will accrue at 100% performance level for FY 2017-18 and will  get paid basis actual performance parameters in the next financial year.
* Value of perquisites u/s 17 (2) Income T ax Act, 1961 does not include perquisite value of H 43.29 Mn towards stock options exercised by Mr. Gopal Vittal  during FY 2017-18.
The same has been shown separately in point no.
(2).
** In accordance with the definition of perquisite under the Income T ax Act, 1961, the value of stock options only on those shares that have been exercised  during the period is provided.
Accordingly, the value of stock options granted during the financial year is not included.
(H Millions) Independent Directors Fee for attending board /  committee meetings Commission T otal Mr. Ben Verwaayen 0.30 14.46 14.76 Mr. Craig Ehrlich 0.20 8.47 8.67 Mr. D.K.
Mittal  1.30 7.08 8.38 Mr. Manish Kejriwal 0.40 6.34 6.74 Mr. Shishir Priyadarshi 0.50 9.78 10.28 Mr. V .K.
Viswanathan 0.80 8.00 8.80 T otal B1 3.50 54.13 57.63 Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 094  (H Millions) Sl.
No.
Particulars of Remuneration  Key Managerial Personnel T otal  AmountMr.
Nilanjan Roy Global CFO Mr. Pankaj  T ewari (1) Gross salary (a) Salary as per provisions contained in section 17(1) of the Income-tax  Act, 1961 40.73^ 11.78^^ 51.00 (b) Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) Income-tax Act, 1961 0.09* - 0.09 (c) Profits in lieu of salary u/s 17(3) Income-tax Act, 1961 - - - (2) Stock Option** 5.36* - 5.36 (3) Sweat Equity - - - (4) Commission - - - -as % of profit - - - -others, specify… - - - (5) Others – PF Contribution 1.42 0.46 1.80 T otal (A) 47.60 12.24 58.25  B. Remuneration to Non-Executive Directors including Independent Directors:  C. Remuneration to Key Managerial Personnel other than Managing Director / Whole-time Director / Manager: VII.
Penalties / Punishment/ Compounding of Offences There were no penalties / punishment / compounding of offences for breach of any section of Companies Act against the Company  or its Directors or other officers in default, if any, during the year.
*The shareholders of the Company had approved the limit of 0.5% instead of prescribed limit of 1% of Section 198 net profits, for the payment of commission  to non-executive directors.
The Commission for the FY 2017-18 will be paid post approval from the shareholders in the ensuing annual general meeting for  the amendments in limits of payment of commission from 0.5% to 1% w.e.f.
April 01, 2017.
Notes:   > Value of Performance Linked Incentive (PLI) considered above represents incentive which will accrue at 100% performance level for FY 2017-18 and will get  paid basis actual performance parameters in the next financial year.
*Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) Income T ax Act, 1961 does not include perquisite value of H 5.36 Mn towards stock options exercised by Mr. Nilanjan Roy during  FY 2017-18.
The same has been shown separately in point no.
(2).
** In accordance with the definition of perquisities under the Income T ax Act, 1961, the value of stock options only on those shares that have been exercised  during the period is provided.
Accordingly, the value of stock options granted to KMPs viz.
23,952 stock options to Mr. Nilanjan Roy, Global CFO and 3,842  stock options to Mr. Pankaj T ewari, Company Secretary, is not included.
^Salary u/s 17(1) includes value of cash payout of H 14.28 Mn under performance based long term incentive plan.
^^ Mr. Pankaj T ewari had joined the Company w.e.f.
June 01, 2017 and was designated as Company Secretary of the Company w.e.f.
July 18, 2017.
The  remuneration above of Mr. Pankaj T ewari is for the FY 2017-18 and includes joining bonus.
(H Millions) Other Non-Executive Directors Fee for attending board /  committee meetings Commission T otal Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal - 3.00 3.00 Ms. Chua Sock Koong - 3.91 3.91 Ms. T an Yong Choo - 3.91 3.91 Sheikh Faisal Thani Al-Thani - 1.23 1.23 Mr. Rashed Fahad Al-Noaimi - 1.29 1.29 T otal B2 - 13.34 13.34 T otal B = (B1+B2) 3.50 67.47* 70.97 Ceiling as per the Act H 69.04 Mn (being 1% of Net Profits of the Company calculated as per Section 198 of  the Companies Act, 2013) T otal Managerial Remuneration  (A+B) H 542.67 Mn T otal ceiling as per the act  (11%) H 759.43 Mn (being 11% of Net Profits of the Company calculated as per Section 198  of the Companies Act, 2013) Statutory Reports Board’s Report 095 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 (A) Conservation of energy  (i) The Company undertook various initiatives to reduce  and conserve energy: a.
On Network side:  > Maximizing outdoor – 91% New sites have been  deployed as outdoor sites with reduced need of air- conditioners and diesel.
> Sites on shared basis – Our constant endeavour is to  promote infrastructure sharing, along with our partners.
Our efforts with partners to consolidate passive  infrastructure and green initiatives have considerably  reduced carbon emission in the entire industry.
This  initiative not only reduces operational cost for service  providers by eliminating operational waste, but also  promotes optimal use of resources.
In FY 2017-18,  over 44% sites were deployed as shared sites, which  results in reduction of their energy consumption by  30% as compared to standalone sites  > Airtel partnered with T owercos to convert indoor sites to  outdoor sites.
Over 66,000 sites have been converted  to outdoor till date, reducing the energy consumption  by about 25%.
Sites are being converted mostly  by utilizing technology like low power consuming  BTS, Free Cooling Unit (FCU), Natural Cooling Unit  (NCU), Micro Cooling Unit (MCU), Solar Cooling Units  (SCU), Transmission cooling Unit (TCU) and Power  Management Units (PMUs).
> Installed 745 sites own sites with advance VRLA  battery banks, Li-ion Battery solutions and other  operational measures till date.
> Introduced air-conditioning rationalization over 706  own sites, reducing the consumption by 10%.
> Deployed energy efficient retrofits in BTS sites such as  integrated power management systems, efficient DC  to AC convertors, efficient aircons.
> Installed energy efficient air-conditioning and LED  lighting in core locations.
> Introduced innovative design modifications at sites.
> Designed and installed outdoor small cell sites with  ground based mast with  Li-ion batteries reducing the  energy consumption by with 30-40%.
> Installed sites with auto-TRX shutdown feature, which  reduces the energy requirement at non-peak hours.
> Pilot Auto TRX shutdown feature with cell, sector and  cluster level on all technologies is progress in four  circles for reduction power consumption.
> Reduced the indoor placement of BTS, which reduced  the air-conditioning load.
> Deployed SRAN to optimized the energy consumption  at sites.
b.
Energy efficiency across Data Centres:  The Company puts emphasis on optimising the data center  facilities, operations for energy conservation, improved  space utilisation and enhanced performance.
Some of the  initiatives undertaken:   > Use of cold aisle containment a physical barrier to  reduce the mixing of cold supply air and hot exhaust  air in data center aisles.
This delivers lower energy  consumption and more efficient cooling.
> Installed Variable Frequency Drives (VFDs) in for the  HVAC systems, which helps to automatically reduce  the motor’s speed and power driven.
> Performed identification and rectification of hot spots  and optimized lighting and aircon usage.
> Maintained an average Power Utilization Efficiency to  improve efficiency across all Data Centres.
c. Energy efficiency in Airtel facilities:  > Use of Variable Frequency Drive for HVAC system.
> Retrofitted the various buildings with  energy efficient  air-conditioning and LED lights.
> Introduced UPS optimisation at its technology centers.
> Installed Automatic Power Factor Controller, (APFC) at  office across Pan India.
ii) Utilisation of green energy:  1) Rooftop Solar at Main Switching Centres (MSCs): The  Company has installed solar power plants at total 17  MSC locations by the end of FY 2017-18, expanding  the total installed capacity to 1MWp.
Work in progress  for 175KWp more on 3 sites.
2) Green Power Wheeling for MSC: T o enhance the energy  efficiency, the Company implemented the renewable  sources of energy at its core locations.
Green Power  Wheeling Agreements were made agreements  Particulars of Energy Conservation, T echnology Absorption and Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo Annexure F Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 096  for procuring green energy for 8 locations and are  planning to extend the same for 10 more sites over  90 Mn green Units/annum procured through various  wheeling arrangements for our core locations.
3) Solar hybrid solution: The Company installed over 4  sites were converted to green sites using the solar and  battery hybrid solutions in FY 2017-18.
4) Reduction by using battery back-ups: In FY 2017- 18, over 5700 sites were installed with advance  VRLA batteries and Li-Ion battery solutions to reduce  the running of DG set with our T oCo partners.
Few  sites were also installed with Li-ion battery banks by  utilizing ground based mast designs with lithium ion   battery solution.
5) Project Green City was launched with Indus & Infratel  few years back; and over 53745 sites have been  tagged as green sites till date.
iii) The capital investment on energy conservation  equipment is shown below: Sr.  No Location Capex  (J Mn) Remarks 1 Own sites  (Hexacom &  Core)                      12  (Amount derived from  issued P .O.
's, Including ED  & CST): 2 TOCO (Indus  & Infratel) &  SP (Ericsson/ NSN)                   831  1) From T oCo: cost of  solution to be paid in 60  Installments, which will be  built in monthly site rental.
2) BTS and MW IP 55  cabinet is procured  against P .O.’s to SP’s 3 Solar Roof to  sites                      10  170 KWp P .O.
are issued  in FY 2017-18.
Installation  and commissioning will be  completed in FY 2018-19.
TOTAL 853  (B) T echnology absorption   1.
The efforts made towards technology absorption:   With over 460 Mn internet users, India is the second largest  online market, ranked only behind China.
90% of the users  are using internet service on mobile network.
There are  1.18 Bn wireless subscribers as opposed to a mere 23 Mn  wire line subscribers.
With an objective to provide best in class mobile broadband  experience to our customers and improvement in spectrum  efficiency, Airtel envisaged deployment of 100,000 4G  sites last year.
This was a challenging task as this had to be  deployed across India in partnership with multiple vendors.
Every tower installation required proper wireless planning,  MW planning, transport planning, availability of material,  permission, alignment of material with ASP team, MW team,  provisioning team.
All the deployment was happening on live  sites, which made this deployment exercise even more critical.
Data consumption increased by staggering 450%, to meet  Increase in Data demand we have planned measures like  1800MHz spectrum refarming to 4G for improved indoor  coverage for mobile broadband network, spectrum addition  i.e.
20+10 in 4G along with 3CC carrier aggregation,  spectrum integration of acquired operators  for increasing  capacity of 4G networks and increasing efficiency of the  scarce spectrum resources.
Airtel network has now become truly heterogeneous.
From  2 technology & 3 layers, we have moved to 4 technology  & 6 layers, this has made the network very complex.
As  customers now have to traverse across technologies and  layers, maintaining and improving the network experience  becomes a challenge.
T o tackle this, Airtel has embarked  on innovative tools for near real time network operation  through cutting edge virtualized NOC, optimization through  Self Optimization Network (SON), Geo analytical tools and  various process automation and analytics tools.
These platforms have enabled automatic optimization  of multi-layered networks, thereby reducing drop calls,  network blocking, and increasing data throughputs for  setting new benchmarks in end user experience.
2.
The benefits derived like product improvement, cost  reduction, product development or import substitution:   Through meticulous and effective planning and project  management, we managed to deploy more than 100,000  4G towers in our network and additional 21,000 Km of fibre  across India.
We now connect more than 480,000 towns  and villages through high speed broadband.
We are now  4G provider in all circles.
Airtel became first company in India to launch 3CC carrier  aggregation, L TE TD (20+10 MHz) and FD, on a commercial  device reaching a speed of 145 Mbps.
Airtel launched dual  carrier in 2100 MHz in 7 circles reaching a peak speed on 42  Mbps.
Low band L TE using dynamic sharing of spectrum were  launched in Karnataka.
Spectrum sharing done in GSM 1800  & FDD to increase 4G capacity.
Implementation of 256 QAM  in 4G done to improve user experience.
VOL TE launch done  in 19 circles now for better Voice experience.
Massive MIMO  Statutory Reports Board’s Report 097 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 trails done in IPL matches across India in 8 cities has shown  unparalleled performance.
4K+ simultaneous connected  users during match hours at Bangalore, nearly 200 mbps of  Peak cell throughput clocked during the match hours at Delhi.
This technology adaption and innovation helped us to  manage the spectrum efficiently and provide a great  broadband experience to our customers.
Airtel has done an alliance with SK T elecom for establishing  a network analytics stack.
Partnership across several areas  including developing bespoke software to dramatically  improve network experience, leveraging advanced digital  tools including machine learning, big data and building  customized tools to improve network planning based on  every customer’s device experience.
This will develop the capability to identify, monitor and  deliver improvements to the network experience on an  individual device basis will be a first in India.
3.
In case of imported technology (imported during the  last three years reckoned from the beginning of the  financial year):   a. the details of technology imported:   Only telecom equipment is imported, no technology is  imported.
b. the year of import:   N.A.
c. whether the technology been fully absorbed:    N.A.
d. if not fully absorbed, areas where absorption has not  taken place, and the reasons thereof:    N.A.
4.
The expenditure incurred on Research and  Development:  NIL  The efforts made towards creating a digital airtel;  Airtel has grown by leaps & bounds towards creating a digital  organization.
We are committed towards delivering a digitally  sound experience for our customers, our on ground field  force and our employees.
At airtel we ensure that the power of technology is used to  disrupt the conventional way of doing things and in return  creating a brilliant customer experience.
We are building  innovations through our digital teams, both in Gurgaon &  now in Bangalore – airtel X labs.
The company completely focuses on digitizing customer  experience through our myairtel app & website.
We are  building platforms – like Airtel Home, Online Store, Project  Next to ensure a brilliant customer experience.
We are  revamping existing processes & systems with the customer  at the heart of what we do.
With our deep data analytics we  are building for the airtel of the future.
Due to all these advanced developments, Airtel has  won the prestigious Global TM forum digital award for  Outstanding Contribution to Improved Business Agility  Award – Communications Industry.
C. Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo  Activities relating to initiatives taken to increase exports;  development of new export markets for products and  services, and export plans.
T otal foreign exchange used and earned for the year:  (a) T otal Foreign Exchange Earnings H 45,088 Mn  (b) T otal Foreign Exchange Outgo H 196,540 Mn Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 098  Statement of Disclosure of Remuneration under Section 197(12) of Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule  5(1) of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 Annexure G i.
The percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Executive Officer and Company Secretary  during FY 2017-18 and ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company  for FY 2017-18 are as under:  Notes:  1.
The value of performance linked incentive (PLI) in remuneration of Key Managerial Personnels (KMPs) represents incentive @ 100% performance level.
For effective comparison, the PLI component of their remuneration for FY 2016-17 has also been considered @ 100% performance level.
2.
Percentage increase in remuneration is based on annualised remuneration.
3.
Remuneration of KMPs does not include perquisite value of stock options exercised during FY 2017-18.
4.
Change in remuneration of Non-Executive Directors vis-à-vis previous year, if any, is due to change in their Committee membership, meetings attended,  sitting fee paid and change in foreign exchange rates.
5.
Sheikh Faisal Thani Al-Thani resigned w.e.f.
July 25, 2017.
6.
Mr. Rashed Fahad Al-Noaimi was appointed w.e.f.
July 25, 2017 and resigned w.e.f.
November 22, 2017.
* The remuneration of Mr. Gopal Vittal excludes perquisite value of H 43,286,800 on exercise of stock options during FY 2017-18.
# The remuneration of Mr. Nilanjan Roy excludes perquisite value of H 5,355,285 on exercise of stock options and cash payout of H 14,279,481 under  performance-based long-term incentive plan of the Company during FY 2017-18.
^ Mr. Pankaj T ewari had joined the Company w.e.f.
June 01, 2017 and was designated as Company Secretary of the Company w.e.f.
July 18, 2017.
The  remuneration above of Mr. Pankaj T ewari is for the FY 2017-18 and includes joining bonus.
ii.
The percentage increase in the median remuneration of the employees in the financial year: There has been an increase  of 4.11% in median remuneration of employees in FY 2017-18 as compared to FY 2016-17. iii.
The number of permanent employees on the roll of the Company: There were 8,453 employees on the rolls of the Company  as on March 31, 2018. iv.
Average percentage increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in   FY 2017-18 and its comparison with the percentage increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof:  The average increase in the remuneration of employees excluding KMPs during FY 2017-18 was 7.1% and the average increase in  the remuneration of KMPs was 14.84%.
The increase in remuneration of KMP is mainly attributed to the changes in the remuneration  of the Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia) of the Company which was approved by the Board on the recommendation  of HR and Nomination Committee on the basis of external benchmarking in relevant peer group to be reflective of the appropriate  remuneration level for this position, Company’s continued market leadership and his individual performance level.
The aforesaid  remuneration is within the limits approved by the shareholders in their Annual General Meeting held on August 19, 2016.
Mr. Pankaj T ewari was appointed as Company Secretary of the Company w.e.f.
July 18, 2017 and since his last comparable  remuneration is not available, the same is not considered for above calculation.
v. Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company: The remuneration of Directors was as  per the Remuneration Policy of the Company.
S.  No.
Name of the Director Remuneration  of Director /  KMP for FY  2017-18 (in J)  Percentage  increase in  remuneration  in FY 2017-182 Ratio of remuneration of  each Director to median  remuneration of the  employees of the Company2,3 Executive Directors 1.
Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal, Chairman 301,968,769 0.17  352.44  2.
Mr. Gopal Vittal, Managing Director & CEO (India &  South Asia) 126,446,716* 36.13  147.58  Non-Executive Directors 3.
Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal 3,000,000 -  3.50  4.
Ms. Chua Sock Koong 3,910,500 0.52  4.56  5.
Ms. T an Yong Choo 3,910,500 0.52  4.56  6.
Sheikh Faisal Thani Al-Thani5 1,232,075 (0.62) 4.52 7.
Mr. Rashed Fahad Al-Noaimi6 1,285,644 N.A.
4.53 Independent Directors 8.
Mr. Ben Verwaayen 14,463,506 (9.38) 16.88 9.
Mr. Craig Ehrlich 8,672,750 (15.19)  10.12  10.
Mr. D.K.
Mittal 8,380,822 (0.23)  9.78  11.
Mr. Manish Kejriwal 6,738,356 (2.34) 7.86 12.
Mr. Shishir Priyadarshi 10,276,250 (0.48)  11.99  13.
Mr. V .K.
Viswanathan 8,800,000 -  10.27  Key Managerial Personnel other than Executive Directors 14.
Mr. Nilanjan Roy, Global Chief Financial Officer 27,962,023# 8.20 - 15.
Mr. Pankaj T ewari, Company Secretary 12,242,883^ N.A.
- Statutory Reports Board’s Report 099 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 Annexure H Statement of particulars under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial  Personal) Rules, 2014 for the year  ended March 31, 2018 * Remuneration of Mr. Gopal Vittal does not include perquisite value of H 43,286,800 towards exercise of stock options during FY 2017-18.
# Remuneration of Mr. Nilanjan Roy includes perquisite value of H 5,355,285 towards exercise of stock options and H 14,279,481 towards payout under performance based long term incenticve plan  during FY 2017-18.
Notes:  1.
There are no specific terms and conditions for employment.
2.
None of the employees mentioned above is a relative of any Directors of the company except Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal and Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal, who are brothers.
3.
None of the employees mentioned above hold 2% or more share capital of the Company.
4.
The designation - ‘Director’ wherever prefixed describing the area of responsibility occurring in the above Statement is not a Board position except that of Mr. Sunil B Mittal and Mr. Gopal Vittal.
5.
Nature of employment for all the employees is permanent except for Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal & Mr. Goptal Vittal which is contractual.
T op ten employees in terms of remuneration drawn  (A) Employed Throughout the Financial Year (B) Employed for the Part of Financial Year Sl.
No.
Name Designation Qualification(s) Age              (In years) Date of Commencement of Employment T otal experience  (in years) Nature of duties of the employee Gross             Remuneration (in J) Previous employment / Designation 1 Ajai Puri Chief Operating Officer (India & South Asia) Post Graduation 57 15-May-04 37 Business Head  7,28,88,938 Cargill Foods India / Business Head-India Foods 2 Deven Khanna Group Director - CMD's Office CA, B.Com 58 01-Sep-04 32 Finance  4,72,54,002 Triveni Engineering Industries Ltd. / VP-Corp Finance & Planning 3 Gopal Vittal MD & CEO - India & South Asia MBA 52 03-Apr-12 27 Business Head  126,446,716* Hindustan Uniliver Limited / Executive Director 4 Harmeen Mehta Global CIO B.E.
(Computer Sc.
& Engg) 44 24-Oct-13 19 Information T echnology  8,44,52,973 BBVA / CIO Global Markets 5 Moti Gyamlani Director - Global Supply Chain Masters in International Business Administration 44 17-Dec-12 22 Supply Chain Management  5,72,98,361 GE Energy / Group Vice President - Global Supply Chain 6 Nilanjan Roy Global CFO CA 52 01-Mar-06 28 Finance 47,596,789# Unilever Nv / Plc, Usa / Finance Director 7 Srikanth Balachandran Global CHRO CA, B.Com 57 17-Nov-08 37 Human Resources  5,70,70,961 Hindustan Unilever Limited / Programme Leader – Global Finance 8 Sunil Bharti Mittal Chairman Graduate 60 01-Oct-01 42 General Management  30,19,68,769 Bharti Cellular Limited  / CMD 9 V .M.
Raj Pudipeddi Director- Consumer Business & CMO MBA 46 06-Feb-17 23 Business Head  4,83,17,675 Procter & Gamble / VP , North America, Oral Care Sl.
No.
Name Designation Qualification(s) Age              (In years) Date of Commencement of Employment T otal experience  (in years) Nature of duties of the employee Gross             Remuneration (in J) Previous employment / Designation 1 Campbell Mcclean CIO - Non Wireless Graduate (Royal Military Academy Sandhurst) 54 07-Jul-14 35 Engineering  4,67,06,784 T elefonica / Global Chief Architect Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 100  Statement of particulars under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial  Personal) Rules, 2014 for the year ended March 31, 2018  (A) Employed Throughout the Financial Year Sl.
No.
Name Designation Qualification(s) Age              (In years) Date of Commencement of Employment T otal experience  (in years) Nature of duties of the employee  Gross             Remuneration (in H)  Previous employment / Designation 1 Abhay Savargaonkar Director Networks  & CTO B.E / B. T ech 53 5-Aug-06 28 Operations  3,73,20,239 Bharti Infotel Ltd / Chief T echnology Officer 2 Aditya  Kohli Head HR - Enabling  Functions PG Diploma 42 13-Oct-14 20 Human Resources  1,97,43,494 Standard Chartered Bank / Head P&R 3 Ajay Chitkara Director - Global Voice & Data Business PGDBM 46 1-May-01 24 Business Head  3,21,55,718 Comsat Max Limited / Area Sales Manager 4 Amit  Anchal Head - Business Development and M & A MBA 41 10-Jun-02 19 Business Development  1,11,07,549 Kucheri & Associates, Mumbai / Audit Assistant 5 Anant  Arora CEO - Strategic Accounts-Airtel Business B.E / B. T ech 51 11-Apr-03 28 Sales  2,33,63,550 Reliance Infocomm Ltd / Head - Sales Operations 6 Anjani  Rathor CIO - Postpaid Homes & DTH PGDBM 45 10-Dec-07 21 Engineering  1,97,85,141 Delhi Accenture Boeing / Director, Strategy and Business Development 7 Archana  Aggarwal Head - Media Planning & Buying MMM, marketing 46 9-Dec-13 23 Marketing  1,16,36,104 Procter & Gamble / Country Media Manager 8 Aruna  Pidikiti Head - Operations  (Network) M. T ech 48 21-Dec-00 27 Network  1,28,50,887 STPI / Dy.
Director (T ech) 9 Ashish  Arora CEO - Key Accounts- Airtel Business MBA 48 3-Apr-07 23 Sales  1,89,92,393 Sify Ltd / National Sales Head 10 Ashish  Goenka Financial Controller - NSG MBA 39 3-Oct-16 15 Finance  1,54,39,930 Hindustan Unilever Limited / General Manager, Finance 11 Ashok Ganapathy Director - Airtel Business PGDBM 52 3-May-13 29 Business Head  2,98,80,354 Reliance Mediaworks / CEO 12 Atul  Sachdeva Head Wireless Planning PGDBM 45 29-Aug-06 23 Network  1,85,48,856 T ata T eleservices Ltd / Head- BSS, Transmission and Core Planning 13 Badal Bagri CFO - India & South Asia CA 46 16-Jan-17 18 Finance  2,41,38,231 Aircel Limited / CFO 14 C  Surendran CEO-Market Operations KK B.E & MBA 52 4-Nov-03 30 Business Head  2,17,85,974 Modi Xerox / Head-Outsourcing 15 Chamakura Venkatanarasimha  varaprasad Head-Core SAE-Network B.E 48 29-Apr-10 25 Network  1,82,53,712 Etisalat / AVP 16 Chandrasekar Ramamoorthy Head - Network  Experience MBA 36 3-Feb-14 13 Network  1,24,83,401 Booz & Company / Senior Associate 17 Deepak  Sanghi Head-Transport Planning-Network B.E 44 29-Mar-04 23 Network  1,17,43,904 Nortel Networks / T echnical Consultant 18 Dharmender  Khajuria CEO-Market  Operations-MP&CG MBA 49 21-Nov-01 26 Business Head  1,63,54,082 National Panasonic / Sr.
Sales Officer Statutory Reports Board’s Report 101 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 Sl.
No.
Name Designation Qualification(s) Age              (In years) Date of Commencement of Employment T otal experience  (in years) Nature of duties of the employee  Gross             Remuneration (in H)  Previous employment / Designation 19 Dushyant  Kumar Head - Fiber Factory Operations B.E / B. T ech 52 2-Nov-98 26 Network  1,61,12,432 Bharti BT Internet Ltd / Manager 20 Gaurav  Khandelwal Group Financial Controller CA 40 3-Nov-14 17 Finance  2,11,70,307 Hindustan Unilever Limited/Director - Financial Controls 21 Gautam  Anand Head HR  - GTM & Market Ops MBA 41 30-Jul-09 19 Human Resources  1,74,91,247 Citibank / Portfolio Management 22 George Mathen CEO - Homes Post Graduation 49 17-Nov-06 27 Business Head  2,77,24,537 Coca Cola India / Head - Sales 23 Hemanth Kumar Guruswamy CEO-Market Operations -  Rajasthan PGDBM 47 27-Jan-14 23 Marketing  1,24,99,144 Matrimony.com / Sr. VP Retail 24 Kamal  Dua Financial Controller  - CB ICWA 39 8-Mar-07 17 Finance  1,02,27,610 Idea Cellular Limited / Assistant Manager 25 Kartik  Sheth Chief Innovation Officer & CEO Wynk MBA 40 6-May-13 16 Marketing  2,65,03,247 Lakme Lever Private Limited / Chief Operating Officer 26 Krishnan  Govindan Chief Contact Experience MBA 50 9-May-16 22 Customer Experience  1,84,87,636 ICICI Bank Limited / JGM 27 Manish  Agarwal Global Head T axation CA / CS 44 11-Dec-08 20 Finance  2,09,71,891 HCL TEchnologies, Noida / Deputy General Manager 28 Manoj  Murali CEO-Market Operations-Hexacom Rajasthan MBA 47 1-Oct-01 23 Business Head  2,17,02,839 Crompton Greaves / Area Sales Manager 29 Manu  Sood CEO-Market Operations-Punjab MBA 45 13-Jan-12 17 Business Head  3,41,32,883 Hindustan Lever Limited / General Manager - North India 30 Mohan Shukla Head - External  Affairs B.A.
64 2-Sep-13 34 Corporate Regulatory  1,16,03,702 Carrefour WC&C Indian Pvt Limited / Director - Corporate Affairs 31 Mukesh Bhavnani Group General  Counsel LL.B., CS 63 42522 40 Legal  4,59,55,608 Vedanta Resources Plc / Group Legal Counsel and Head Compliance 32 Pankaj Sarna Lead - India T axation CA 57 16-Jan-99 33 Finance  1,03,78,043 Modi Xerox Limited / Controller Indirect channels 33 Papiya  Banerjee CLO & Global Head of T alent MA (PM & IR) 44 1-Feb-16 20 Human Resources  1,36,91,236 Edelweiss T okio Life Insurance / CHRO 34 Rajiv Mathrani Chief Brand & Online  Officer MBA 43 1-Sep-15 18 Brand  2,00,74,011 PepsiCo / Senior Marketing Director 35 Ram  Kuppuswamy Chief Global Sourcing  Officer MBA 42 5-Jan-15 19 SCM  2,42,29,603 Microsoft Mobile (China) Investment Company Ltd. / Director Materials Management 36 Ranjan  Sharma Head - Network Sourcing-SCM B. T ech 43 9-Mar-15 22 SCM  1,27,18,330 ZTE T elecom India Pvt Ltd / Director 37 Rashim  Kapoor Head - Core Operations B. T ech 45 31-Aug-05 23 Network  1,06,78,437 Reliance Infocomm Ltd / T eam Leader 38 Ravi Parkash Gandhi Chief Regulatory Policies B. T ech 47 3-Mar-08 26 Legal  2,08,47,730 Reliance Communication Limited Usha / Vice President Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 102  Sl.
No.
Name Designation Qualification(s) Age              (In years) Date of Commencement of Employment T otal experience  (in years) Nature of duties of the employee  Gross             Remuneration (in H)  Previous employment / Designation 39 Ravindra Singh Negi CEO-Market Operations-NCR PGDBM 46 1-Aug-00 23 Business Head  2,62,38,145 Koshika T elecom Ltd. / Product Manager - Prepaid 40 Rohit  Marwha CEO-Market Operations - ROM PGDBM 42 16-Jul-01 20 Marketing 1,50,94,488 Vijaya Prints & Packs / Director 41 Rohit  Relan Head Market Ops CA 48 4-Apr-05 23 Customer Experience 1,38,83,500 T ata T eleservices Ltd. /  Sr.
Manager 42 Sachin  Verma Head - Cloud  Operations B. T ech 42 9-Jul-07 20 Engineering 1,08,72,867 COL T T elecom / Principal Consultant 43 Sameer  Batra CEO - Wynk PGDM / B.E 42 21-Feb-06 18 Business Head 1,57,68,107 BPL Mobile Ltd / Product Manager 44 Sameer Chugh Director - Legal LL.B., PGDBM 44 4-Aug-14 23 Legal 30,906,334 Cummins India Limited / VP - Legal  and Secretarial 45 Sameer Kala Global Head - ACE MBA 47 6-Jun-16 24 Finance 1,50,04,998 Capgemini Consulting / Vice President - Global Engagements 46 Sameer Kirit Anjaria CEO-Market Operations-WBO MMS / B.E 45 3-Dec-12 21 Business Head 1,79,99,661 Nokia Corporation MEA / Head Care Channel Development, IMEA 47 Sandeep Gupta Head-Wireless SAE-Network B. T ech 48 30-Nov-12 27 Network 2,01,90,716 Huawei T elecommunications India Pvt.
Limited / Director - Wirelsss & PS Solution Sales 48 Sanjiv  Mishra Head - Operations PGDBM 48 1-Aug-07 26 Sales 1,33,03,052 Becton Dickinson / RSM North 49 Sarang  Kanade Director - Customer Experience & Retail B.E (Mech.
), MMS (Mkg.)
47 2-Mar-10 21 Business Head 3,22,29,182 Spencers Retail Ltd / VP Operation 50 Shailendra  Singh CEO-Market Operations-UP Post Graduation 52 16-Mar-16 26 Business Head 1,44,35,845 T ata T eleservices / Sr. VP 51 Shefali Malhotra Global Head Revenue Assurance CA 45 1-Mar-00 23 Finance 1,23,25,201 Airborne Express / Manager Accounts 52 Shyam P Mardikar CTO - Wireless B.E / B. T ech 47 26-Jul-12 25 Network 3,87,04,635 Leara / Chief T echnical Officer 53 Swati  Kamat Head - Network Experience B.E 52 29-Aug-14 31 Network 1,11,54,294 T ech M / Corperate Head Director 54 Vani Venkatesh Chief Marketing Officer MBA 43 1-Nov-16 17 Business Head 1,44,08,200 Abbott Healthcare Private Limited /Associate Director - Sales 55 Venkatesh Vijay Raghavan CEO-Market Operations AP PGDBM 45 4-Jul-03 23 Business Head 2,19,92,354 Reliance Infocom Ltd. / Product Manager-Marketing 56 Vir Inder  Nath CEO - Retail PGDBM 45 23-Apr-07 21 Business Head 1,90,44,751 IDEA Cellular / DGM 57 Vivek  Manglik Head - Global Voice VAS & Roaming PGDBM 47 6-Sep-10 23 Sales 1,53,26,550 T ata Communications Limited /  GM Sales Statutory Reports Board’s Report 103 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 Sl.
No.
Name Designation Qualification(s) Age              (In years) Date of Commencement of Employment T otal experience  (in years) Nature of duties of the employee  Gross             Remuneration (in H)  Previous employment / Designation 1 A Ganesh Distribution Head - Market Ops B. T ech, PGDBM 41 1-Feb-13 17 Sales  73,90,952 Hindustan Unilever Limited / General Manager 2 Anupam  Bhat Sr. VP - Internal Assurance CA 53 1-Mar-17 27 Finance  1,32,85,031 BAIN B. V / Head - Internal Asurance 3 Arvind Chopra Group Director - Internal Assurance B.Com (H), CA 54 30-Sep-15 27 Internal Assurance  3,00,02,141 Essar Services India Pvt Ltd / President - Group Assurance and Cost Control 4 Harjeet Kohli Group Treasurer MBA 44 19-Jan-09 20 Finance  2,72,26,317 Citigroup India / Director 5 K C Narendran CEO-Market  Operations- Gujarat Graduate, Cost Accounting 51 6-Nov-17 27 Business Head  41,84,986 T elenor (India) Communications Pvt Ltd / Sr. Vice President 6 Pankaj T ewari* Company Secretary CS 46 1-Jun-17 17 Corp Secretarial &  Regulatory 10,674,069 PWC Consulting / Director 7 Ritesh Kumar Singh CEO-Market Operations- Bihar B.E 44 16-Nov-16 19 Business Head  46,88,481 T elenor Asia (ROH) Limited / Vice President 8 Santanu Bhattacharya Chief Data Scientist Doctor of Phylosophy (PhD) 52 19-Feb-18 30 Engineering  16,85,118 Massachusetts Institute of T echnology / Research 9 Satyamoorti Sivasubramanian Sr VP-Engineering PhD 60 2-Jun-14 37 Engineering  1,85,68,995 SingT el-Optus / Director, Information Security 10 Sreerama Murthy Chaganti CEO-Market Operations-Gujarat PGDBM, B.E 48 10-Apr-14 23 Business Head  2,04,64,031 Aircel / Circle Business Head 11 Srinivas S  Vemuri Head CS - PS Planning MBA 49 11-Jul-98 27 Network  1,06,78,683 Vizag Steel Plant / Lecturer 12 Subarno Krishna Ghosh Head FAM & TSS Project CA 52 1-Mar-12 25 Network  73,41,842 Reliance Communications Ltd. / Head - Netwrok Commercial 13 Subramanian Balasubramanian Head - Integration Project CA 52 6-Apr-17 24 Business Head  1,67,04,314 Quess Corporation Limited / Group Chief Financial Officer 14 Sundeep  Sahi Head - Digital Brain B. T ech (Electrical) 41 10-Jul-17 19 Engineering  1,08,83,510 Indifi T echnologies Pvt.
Ltd / Cofounder  & CTO 15 T ushar Vijay Kamat CEO - Major Accounts MBA 44 4-Apr-16 17 Sales  1,97,15,991 SAP India Pvt.
Ltd. / Vice President 16 Vidur  Rattan CEO-Market Operations  - Maharashtra PGDBM 40 16-Apr-01 17 Business Head  1,41,08,303 Standard Chartered Bank / Management Trainee 17 Vidyut Gulati Director - Legal LL.B.
39 17-Jul-17 16 Legal  1,76,83,926 Cairn India Limited / General counsel & Member Executive Committee (B) Employed for the Part of Financial Year Notes:  1.
Gross remuneration comprises of Salary, Allowances, Company’s contribution to Provident Fund and taxable value of perquisites.
2.
The employee would qualify for being included in Category (A) or (B) on the following basis:  For (A) if the aggregate remuneration drawn by him during the year was not less than H 10,200,000 p.a.
For (B) if the aggregate remuneration drawn by him during the part of the  year was not less than H 8,50,000 p.m. 3.
None of the employees mentioned above is a relative of any Director of the Company.
4.
None of the employees mentioned above hold 2% or more share capital of the Company.
5.
There are no specific terms and conditions for employment.
6.
The designation - ‘Director’ wherever prefixed describing the area of responsibility occurring in the above Statement is not a Board position.
* Mr. Pankaj T ewari had joined the Company w.e.f.
June 01, 2017 and was designated as Company Secretary of the Company w.e.f.
July 18, 2017.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 104  Annexure I 1.
This certificate is issued in accordance with the terms of our  engagement letter dated July 25, 2017.
2.
We, Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP , Chartered Accountants,  the Statutory Auditors of Bharti Airtel Limited (“the  Company”), have examined the compliance of conditions  of Corporate Governance by the Company, for the year  ended on March 31, 2018, as stipulated in regulations 17  to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of regulation 46(2) and para C  and D of Schedule V of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and  Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the Listing  Regulations).
Managements’ Responsibility  3.
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is  the responsibility of the Management.
This responsibility  includes the design, implementation and maintenance of  internal control and procedures to ensure the compliance  with the conditions of the Corporate Governance stipulated  in Listing Regulations.
Auditor’s Responsibility  4.
Our responsibility is limited to examining the procedures  and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for  ensuring compliance with the conditions of the Corporate  Governance.
It is neither an audit nor an expression of  opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
5.
We have examined the books of account and other relevant  records and documents maintained by the Company for  the purposes of providing reasonable assurance on the  compliance with Corporate Governance requirements by  the Company.
6.
We have carried out an examination of the relevant records  of the Company in accordance with the Guidance Note  on Certification of Corporate Governance issued by the  Institute of the Chartered Accountants of India (the ICAI),  T o The Members of  Bharti Airtel Limited the Standards on Auditing specified under Section 143(10)  of the Companies Act 2013, in so far as applicable for the  purpose of this certificate and as per the Guidance Note  on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes issued by  the ICAI which requires that we comply with the ethical  requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI.
7.
We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements  of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1, Quality Control  for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical  Financial Information, and Other Assurance and Related  Services Engagements.
Opinion  8.
Based on our examination of the relevant records and  according to the information and explanations provided to  us and the representations provided by the Management, we  certify that the Company has complied with the conditions  of Corporate Governance as stipulated in regulations 17 to  27 and clauses (b) to (i) of regulation 46(2) and para C and  D of Schedule V of the Listing Regulations during the year  ended March 31, 2018.
9.
We state that such compliance is neither an assurance as  to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or  effectiveness with which the Management has conducted  the affairs of the Company.
For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm’s Registration No.
117366W/W-100018)  Hemant M. Joshi Place: New Delhi  Partner Date: April 24, 2018  (Membership No.
38019) Independent Auditor’s Certificate on Corporate Governance  Statutory Reports Board’s Report 105 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 Management Discussion and Analysis Overview The Indian T elecom Sector is the second largest in the world  and has been growing rapidly.
The pace of transformation of the  telecom market over the course of years has been staggering.
Of the 1.3 Bn addressable population in India, there are only  0.7 Bn unique connections today, presenting a large residual  opportunity in the sector.
Further, at 58.7%, rural teledensity  also has massive potential to grow and enable the masses to  realize the Digital India vision.
In a mobile first market like India, with massive data offtake,  telecom operators are transforming from pure play mobile  to being a digital services provider - integrating connectivity  and content across various screens.
The role of a smartphone  is emerging as more than just a connection.
It is leading to a  convergence of connectivity, entertainment, education, and  banking.
The sector is witnessing exponential data traffic growth led by  increased smartphone penetration, cheaper data tariffs, and  proliferation of regional content.
Though the mobile broadband  penetration is ~30% today, it is expected to grow manifold and  make India the second largest smartphone market (ahead of US  and just behind China).
Further, data traffic is expected to grow 7  fold from 2016-2021.
T o ensure a market leading position, Airtel  continues to invest heavily in providing high speed broadband  networks in the country and spent H 240,000 Mn this year in  capital expenditure.
Large opportunities exist in non-wireless space of the telecom  industry as well.
With less than 5% of the households connected  by fixed broadband, single digit SMB (Small and Medium  Businesses) connectivity, large cash based economy, and low  digital TV penetration, Airtel with an integrated suite of offerings  is very well positioned to catalyse the digital transformation of  the country.
FY 2017-18 was a decisive  year for the Indian T elecom Sector  on numerous counts.
Industry revenue table continued to  remain under pressure, with the launch of aggressive price  offerings by the latest entrant.
The continuing disruption  hastened consolidation and operators with stretched balance  sheets found it difficult to survive.
The industry has moved  towards a 3+1 structure with early signs of SIM consolidation.
In  this phase of high competitive intensity, Airtel’s priorities center  around growing market share, stripping out costs, and improving  margins.
Putting customers at the heart is the key foundation of  our strategy and we continue to maintain network leadership  and  provide brilliant customer experience to our more than   300 Mn customers.
We believe that the telecom industry in India is going through a  once in a lifetime transformation and we are truly well poised to  capitalize on this with our industry leading position in customers,  revenues, best in class spectrum and network assets.
In Africa, macroeconomic factors turned favorable with  stabilization in prices of crude oil and commodities.
Airtel  remains committed to Africa and with consolidation in 2  countries (Ghana and Rwanda), a better industry structure  is emerging.
Low banking penetration, ~20% smartphone  penetration, and exponential data traffic growth are creating  massive opportunities for telecom operators in Africa.
Airtel is  creating a strong foundation for a solid, sustainable business in  Africa.
Twin engines of data and mobile money, underpinned by  strict cost controls have strengthened our competitive position  during the year.
Economic Review Global Review Globally, 2017 witnessed strong growth across most advanced  and emerging economies aided by rebound in investment  and trade, accommodative government policies, improved  confidence, favorable financing costs, rising profits, and  improved business sentiments.
Global growth is projected to be  3.1% during 2018.
Global goods trade volumes have gathered significant  momentum since mid-2016, following two years of marked  weakness.
Momentum was sustained throughout 2017.
The  recovery in global trade is connected to a cyclical upturn in  global manufacturing, which was encouraged by stronger  capital spending.
Services trade also recovered in 2017, albeit  at a slower pace.
Growth in 2017 in advanced economies rebounded to more  than 2%, driven by a pickup in capital spending, a turnaround  in inventories, and strengthening external demand.
In the US,  economic data largely printed on a positive note, powering the  Fed to raise rates in its last policy meeting by 25bps to 1.50- 1.75%.
The U.S. tax reform and associated fiscal stimulus are  expected to raise U.S. growth going forward.
Policy stimulus and  strengthening global demand, along with private sector credit  growth to respond to the simulative stance of European Central  Bank led to markedly stronger than expected improvement in  Euro Area.
The unemployment rate reached its lowest level  since 2009.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 106  Growth in emerging markets rose to ~4.3% in 2017, reflecting  firming activity in commodity exporters and continued growth in  commodity importers.
Most emerging markets benefitted from  improvements in exports.
East and South Asia accounted for  nearly half of the global growth as both regions continued to  develop at a rapid pace.
2018 will continue to be a year of broad based economic growth  both in Developed and Developing Economies.
With easing  financial conditions and fiscal support, strong expansion is  expected in the world economy.
Actual Projections Global Growth Trend  (%) 2016 2017 2018 2019 World Output 3.2 3.8 3.9 3.9 Advanced Economies 1.7 2.3 2.5 2.2 Emerging and  Developing Economies 4.4 4.8 4.9 5.1 China 6.7 6.9 6.6 6.4 India 7.1 6.7 7.4 7.8 Sub-Saharan Africa 1.4 2.8 3.4 3.7 (Source: IMF April 2018) Indian Economy India’s macroeconomic fundamentals remained strong  throughout the year.
India’s growth story showcases improving  growth dynamics and domestic consumption with supportive  tailwinds from global growth and exports.
India is expected to be  the top three economic powers of the world in next 10-15 years.
Going ahead strong private consumption project high growth  rate in India.
(Source: CSO) Quarterly GDP Growth Rate for India FY 2017-18*  (in %) 5.7 6.5 7.2 7.7 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 *GDP growth rates at constant (2011-12) prices Economic scenario improved with investments in various  sectors of the economy.
Key events during the year were: a) Ratings Upgrade: Moody’s upgraded India’s sovereign  rating with a stable economic outlook.
There was a progress  in structural reforms.
b) Implementation of GST: GST will help reduce internal  barriers to trade, increase efficiency and improve tax  compliance.
c) Bank recapitalization: T o encourage private participation  thus boosting growth.
d) Improved Ranking: India jumped 30 places to include  itself among top 100 companies under World Bank’s Ease  of Doing Business ranking.
India’s Foreign Direct Investment inflows were bullish with  maximum contribution from services, computer software  and hardware, telecommunication, trading and automobiles.
The Union Budget for 2018-19 focuses on uplifting the rural  economy and strengthening the agricultural sector, healthcare  and quality of education.
Make in India initiative to boost the  manufacturing sector, and to increase the purchasing power  would boost domestic demand further.
As per World Bank,  private investments in India are expected to grow and overtake  private consumption growth and thereby drive the growth in  GDP .
India is expected to achieve upper middle income status  on the back of digitization, globalization and new economic  reforms.
Africa Economy Aided by strong global growth, higher commodity prices, and  improved market access, sub-Saharan Africa is expected to grow  by 3.4% during 2018 as compared to 2.8% a year ago.
Better  terms of trade contributed to narrowing of current account  deficits in most resource intensive countries, but demand  compression also played a role in few resulting in non-uniform  growth across the region.
Portfolio flows fueled stock markets,  however they were restricted to economic hubs.
Although  growth impetus stems mainly from improved commodity prices,  countries are making structural transformations as well.
The upward momentum in global economic growth is likely  to be sustained, which will continue to create a supportive  environment for commodity prices.
The Balance of Payments  problems that plagued many of the continent’s commodity- exporting countries are mostly behind, partly due to recovering  commodity prices and some bold policy measures taken in  some countries.
There are still signs of long-running structural  deficiencies that would likely restrain the medium-term recovery  path.
But, overall, the outlook for growth in Africa is positive.
Statutory Reports Management Discussion and Analysis 107 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 There are fundamentally positive dynamics which play in Africa’s  favour, including a growing labour force, increased urbanisation  and advanced technology.
Africa has the potential to emerge  as one of the world’s most productive and dynamic economies  where the telecom sector continues to witness a revolution in  the areas of data and mobile commerce.
Mobile has become a platform of choice for creating, distributing  and consuming innovative digital solutions in Africa.
This  scenario is also leading to a tech start-up ecosystem in the  region.
Mobile devices are now the primary means through  which about 80% of internet users in sub-Saharan Africa access  the internet.
Megatrends that drive our business: a) Convergence of payments via smartphones is driving  financial inclusion.
Demonetisation and cashless initiative  has pushed the digital payments in India significantly.
T elecom industry, with an expansive distribution network  is best placed to capture this opportunity.
According to  a white paper by ACI Worldwide along with AGS Transact  T echnologies (AGSTTL), digital transactions in India could  be worth USD 1 Tn annually by 2025, with four out of every  five transactions being done digitally.
The user base for  digital transactions in India is currently close to 90 Mn, but  could triple to 300 Mn by 2020 as new users from rural and  semi-urban areas enter the market, the report said.
b) Sub-Saharan Africa is home to 338.4 Mn mobile money  accounts which grew by 18.4% YoY .
A steady uptick in  active customers, transactions and direct revenue are  expected to drive the digital transactions further.
c) Increased penetration of affordable devices, combined  with cloud computing, analytics and rising consumer  expectations is driving the rapid growth of the IOT market.
The IOT market in India is poised to reach USD 15 Bn by  2020, accounting for nearly 5% of total global market.
T elecom will play a critical role in providing connectivity and  solutions in this market.
Number of M2M connections in  Africa is expected to reach 26 Mn by 2020. d) Convergence of fixed and wireless technologies is  becoming more tangible with improvements in handsets,  increased data speed, and development of backhaul.
e) Indian smartphone market witnessed a 14% annual growth  with a total shipment of 124 Mn units in 2017, expected to  reach 500-600 Mn by 2020. f) The number of internet users in India will reach 500 Mn by  June 2018, rising by 11.34% from 481 Mn users in 2016.
Users in urban India grew by 9.66% till December 2017  from December 2016, while users in rural India grew by  14.11% during the same period.
g) The penetration of high-speed mobile broadband in India  continues to outpace industry expectations, driven by rapid  adoption of low cost smartphones and lower data pricing.
A divergent consumer base has led to consumption of  video / entertainment in varied patterns (smaller durations  and multiple times a day).
The increasing usage of digital  service will push the consumption through Over the top  (OTT) platform in near future.
h)  Smartphone connections in sub-Saharan Africa have doubled  over the past two years to nearly 200 Mn, accounting for a  quarter of mobile connections in 2016.
Affordability of new  devices and growing second-hand mobile devices market  have led to increase in mobile data traffic.
i) By 2020, India is set to become the world’s youngest country  with 64% of its population in the working age group.
This  demographic potential will offer India an unprecedented  edge with increase in mobile data penetration.
j) With digitization Phase III and IV , DTH operators are likely  to benefit from a rising subscriber base and higher market  penetration.
Innovations in paid TV services, migration  from SD to HD boxes have increased consumption of –  smart TV’s and HD services, offering more opportunities to  service operators.
Industry overview  Indian T elecom Sector India’s total customer base stood at 1,206.22 Mn with tele- density of 92.84%, as on March 31, 2018.
The year saw financial  stress across the industry ultimately leading to hastening of  the eventual consolidation in the industry.
The year saw a host  of operator shut downs and M&A announcements.
This has  fast tracked the customer consolidation and consequently  the customer base has registered a muted growth of 1.0% in   FY 2017-18 vis-à-vis 1,194.58 Mn last year and there has been a  marginal decline in the tele-density from 92.98% last year.
The sector has witnessed a strong growth of internet users  and remains to have world’s second highest number of internet  users.
The wire-line customer base was at 22.81 Mn at the end of  March 31, 2018 vis-à-vis 24.40 Mn at the end of March 31, 2017.
Among the service areas excluding metros, Himachal Pradesh  has the highest tele-density (135.52%) followed by T amil  Nadu (134.11%), Punjab (123.30%), Kerala (121.61%),  Gujarat (112.44%), Karnataka (109.01%), Jammu & Kashmir  (108.63%) and Maharashtra (108.46%).
Among the three  metros, Delhi tops with 252.93% tele-density.
On the other hand,  the service areas, such as Bihar (63.12%), Madhya Pradesh  (66.99%), Uttar Pradesh (71.21%) and Assam (74.63%) have  comparatively low tele-density.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 108  A population of over a billion people and growing economic  potential continue to offer opportunities for the African telecom  sector.
The company has witnessed robust growth across  mobile data and digital economy offerings on the back of  sustained customer focus, enhanced capex spends toward  data capacities and expansion of its mobile money offering.
With the smartphone prices coming down and increase in data  adaptability, the African telecom market is at the cusp of its long  term profitable growth story.
Development in Regulations The year saw several regulatory changes and developments.
The significant regulatory changes were: India > Revision of Mobile T ermination Charges (MTC): In  September, 2017 the sector regulator T elecom Regulatory  Authority of India (TRAI) came out with final regulation on  termination rates for the industry effective from October 1,  2017.
The Mobile T ermination charge has been reduced  from H 0.14 per min to H 0.06 per min.
The regulation also  lays out a roadmap to phase out these charges completely  w.e.f.
January 1, 2020.
> Revision in International call termination charges:  The sector regulator, T elecom Regulatory Authority of  India (TRAI) has announced a reduction in International  T ermination Rate (ITR) from H 0.53 per min to H 0.30 per min  w.e.f.
February 1, 2018.
> Implementation of the Goods and Services T ax (GST): With  the enactment of GST Act, 2017, various central and state  taxes have been subsumed in a unified Goods & Services tax  (GST) w.e.f.
July 1, 2017.
The GST rate for telecommunication  and broadcast services has been fixed at 18%.
> Re-verification of existing subscribers through Aadhar  based e-KYC: Pursuant to Hon’ble Supreme Court’s order  dated February 6, 2017 and the subsequent DoT direction  dated March 23, 2017, licensees are required to re-verify  all existing mobile subscribers (prepaid and postpaid)  through Aadhar based E-KYC process.
The last date for  re-verification has been extended by DoT vide its direction  dated March 21, 2018 till the matter is finally heard and the  judgement is pronounced by the Hon’ble Supreme Court  on its interim order passed on December 15, 2017.
> Amendment in Unified License Agreement for  deployment of Switches and other network elements:  DoT vide its direction dated June 23, 2017 has permitted  T elecom Service Providers (TSPs) to deploy its equipment  anywhere in India subject to the interconnection points  T ele Density: India  (Source: T elecom Regulatory Authority of India) FY 2013-14 Customer Base (Million) T ele Density (%) FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 FY 2017-18 75.23 79.38 83.36 92.98 92.84 933.00 996.49 1058.86 1194.58 1206.22 While the rural penetration improved during the year and touched  59.05% as on March 31, 2018 vis-à-vis 56.91% as on March 31,  2017, there is still a strong headroom for growth.
With urban  tele-density of over 160%, customer service and experience will  be the key growth drivers in urban areas.
With the government’s  favourable regulations and policies, the fast changing   high-speed 4G ecosystem, India’s telecommunication sector is  expected to witness a continued surge in data consumption in  the coming years.
The financial stress across the industry was further exacerbated  by the explosion of voice and data traffic and the need to invest  to sustain network capacities.
The company continued to invest  in capex to enhance data capabilities and better customer  experience.
It remains best placed to capture the ever growing  data market.
African T elecom Sector  Fuelled by improved economic conditions, the African continent  continues to present great opportunities in the telecom sector.
The liberalization of the sector, the extension of services by  multinational conglomerates and the active competition currently  have all contributed to the continued expansion of the sector.
The currencies across the continent have remained comparatively  stable versus the US dollar over the last 12 months (exit March  31 rates) except for CFA franc (which appreciated by 13%) and  Nigeria where the company transitioned from ‘administered’ to  ‘market based’ exchange rate during the year.
In terms of the  12-month average rates, the revenue weighted Y-o-Y currency  depreciation has been 3.5%, mainly caused by depreciation in  Ugandan Shilling by 5% and Rwandan Franc by 7%.
Statutory Reports Management Discussion and Analysis 109 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 being located and operated in the respective service areas  and meeting the security conditions as mentioned in the  license.
> Regulation on Quality of Service: TRAI has released  an amendment to the Quality of Service regulation w.e.f.
October 1, 2017 and key highlights are as below:  > Methodology for assessment of Drop Call Rate (DCR)  has been revised from ‘simple average’ of call drop  across all Base Transceiver Station (BTS) in a month  to a ‘percentile’ based approach which better reflects  area-to-area and day-to-day variations.
> T o ensure a technology agnostic performance  measurement, the DCR assessment will be done  across all technologies (GSM, WCDMA, CDMA, L TE  etc.)
as a whole.
> Graded financial disincentives for failing to meet DCR  benchmarks have been introduced.
Disincentives  range up to H 5 lakhs per parameter in the first month.
> T elecommunication Interconnection Regulations, 2018:  The regulation, effective from February 1, 2018, lays down  rules for drafting network connectivity agreements along  with norms for initial provisioning of such connectivity,  augmentation of Points of Interconnect (PoI), applicable rates  or charges, disconnection of ports, and financial disincentive  on interconnection issues.
The key features are:    > Post receipt of a request for interconnection, service  providers now have a defined time frame of 30 days to  enter into a non-discriminatory agreement.
> A financial disincentive, not exceeding rupees one lakh  per day per licensed service area, has been introduced  for violation of these regulations and timelines.
> Regulation on T elecom T ariff Order: T elecom Regulatory  Authority of India (TRAI) notified the “T elecommunication  T ariff (63rd amendment) Order, 2018” dated February 16,  2018.
The key features are:   > The term significant market power (SMP) has been  defined.
Any service provider holding a share of at  least thirty percent of total activity (subscriber base or  revenue) in a relevant market is now categorized as an  SMP .
> A SMP will be considered to be involved in predatory  pricing if it provides services at a price which is  below the average variable cost with intent to reduce  competition or eliminate the competitors in the  relevant market.
> No service provider can discriminate its offerings  between subscribers of the same class and such  classification of the subscribers shall not be arbitrary.
> In case of tariff being found to be predatory, the service  provider shall be liable to pay an amount not exceeding  fifty lakh rupees per tariff plan for each service area.
> All segmented offers are required to be reported to  TRAI and published on the operator’s website as well.
However, as per TDSA T Interim order dated April 24, 2018,  the Hon’ble TDSA T has stayed the reporting requirement  and definition of SMP as quoted in TTO 63rd Amendment.
Africa  > Rwanda: The Regulator has set a new glide path for Mobile  T ermination Revenue (MTR) effective from September 1,  2017.
The current MTR rate of 20.7 FRW will change to  15 FRW till December 31, 2017, 10 FRW till December 31,  2018 and finally 5 FRW from January 1, 2019.
> Malawi:   > A new T elecommunication Bill has made it mandatory  for companies to have 20% local shareholding before  August 1, 2018.
> The Regulator has set a glide path for Mobile  T ermination Revenue (MTR) effective from January 1,  2018.
The current MTR of USD 0.04 has changed to  USD 0.02, will become USD 0.012 effective January 1,  2019 and finally USD 0.006 effective January 1, 2020.
> The Reserve Bank has passed a law in June, 2017  which makes mobile money interoperability mandatory  with an implementation timeline of six months.
> Zambia:   > The Regulator has awarded fresh license to Uzi Zambia  Limited making it the 4th mobile operator in the market.
> The Zambian regulator has completed the process of  migrating existing licences to a unified licence regime.
> T anzania: The Regulator has set a new glide path for  Mobile T ermination Revenue (MTR).
The current MTR of  TZS 26.96 has been changed to TZS 15.60 effective from  January 1, 2018.
Thereafter the rates will steadily decline  every year in January.
> Uganda: The regulator has set a new glide path for Mobile  T ermination Revenue (MTR).
The current MTR of 112  UGX will change to UGX 65 effective from July 1, 2018.
Thereafter the rates will steadily decline every year in July.
> Madagascar: The regulator in Madagascar has issued  new Mobile T ermination Revenue (MTR) determination  terms.
The current MTR of Ar 125 has been replaced with  operator-wise terms.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 110  Strengths  > Leadership: #1 telecom player in India and #2  operator in Africa.
Market leadership (Rank 1 & 2) in  12 of 14 African countries.
> Scale: Largest Revenue and Subscriber Market Share  in India.
> Distribution Platform: Large distribution platform  enabling services like Mobile Money, OTT applications  - Wynk Music and Airtel TV .
> QuadPlay: Only operator to leverage quad play   Mobile, Fixed Voice, Broadband and DTH.
> Network: Only player with Pan India 4G/3G spectrum.
Highest spectrum market share (~30%).
Large  deployments of Network T owers and Base Stations.
SCOT analysis Opportunities  > T ele Density: Low teledensity in India and Africa.
Unique users in India ~750 Mn (<60% penetration).
420 Mn unique users in Africa (<50% penetration).
> Data Usage Growth: Data explosion with the  proliferation of affordable smartphones and  Government of India’s digital drive.
Data usage  exploding in Africa.
> Digital Payments: India’s digital payments space is  expected to grow the segment by about five-fold to  USD 1 trillion by 2023.
Underpenetrated banking  opportunity in Africa.
> Content: Increased interest in digital content.
Video consumption contributes to >70% of data  consumption.
> Active Infra Sharing: Active infra sharing to lead to  reduced expenditures.
> Other Non-Mobile Businesses: Low fixed broadband  penetration in India (1.4 fixed broadband subscriptions  per 100 inhabitants).
Digitization phase 3 and 4 to  uplift DTH homes.
Large SMB’s with low connectivity.
> Consolidation: Consolidation in the industry with exits  of various telcos leading to better industry dynamics  and higher/better market share.
Threats > Competition: Decline in average revenue per user due  to increasing competition.
> Regulatory: Political and Economic uncertainties  across regions.
> Currency Exposures: Volatility in currencies due to  global macro-economic uncertainties.
Challenges > Operations: Geographically varied presence,  integrating operations across India, South Asia and  Africa leveraging common platform.
> Customer Needs: Understanding evolving customer  perceptions in fast-changing multi-cultural and multi- lingual environment.
Statutory Reports Management Discussion and Analysis 111 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 Financial review  Consolidated Figures Standalone Figures *1 USD = H 64.44 Exchange Rate for financial year ended March 31, 2018 (1 USD = H 67.16 for financial year ended March 31, 2017).
*1 USD = H 64.44 Exchange Rate for financial year ended March 31, 2018 (1 USD = H 67.16 for financial year ended March 31, 2017).
Particular FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 G Millions USD Millions* G Millions USD Millions* Gross revenue  8,36,879  12,986  9,54,683  14,214  EBITDA before exceptional items  3,04,479  4,725  3,56,206  5,304  Interest, Depreciation & Others before  exceptional items  2,63,878  4,095  2,67,277  3,979  Profit before exceptional items and T ax  40,601  630  88,930  1,324  Profit before tax  32,670  507  77,233  1,150  T ax expense  10,835  168  34,819  518  Profit for the year  10,990  171  37,998  566  Earnings per share (In H / USD)  2.75  0.04  9.51  0.14  Particular FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 G Millions USD Millions* G Millions USD Millions* Gross revenue  5,36,630  8,327  6,22,763 9,273 EBITDA before exceptional items  1,81,529  2,817  2,42,242  3,607  Interest, Depreciation & Others before  exceptional items  1,82,300  2,829  1,54,629  2,302  Profit before exceptional items and T ax  (771)  (12)  87,613  1,304  Profit before tax  (6,812)  (106)  (85,095)  (1,267) T ax expense  (7,604)  (118)  14,161  211  Profit for the year  792  12  (99,256)  (1,478) Earnings per share (In H / USD)  0.20  0.00  (24.84)  (0.37) The Company’s consolidated revenues stood at H 836,879 Mn  for the year ended March 31, 2018, as compared to H 954,683  Mn in the previous year, decrease of 12.3% (decrease of 9.8%  after normalising for impact of IUC rate cut in India, divested  operating units of Africa / Bangladesh and acquisition of Tigo,  Rwanda).
The revenues for India and South Asia (H 644,217 Mn  for the year ended March 31, 2018) represented a de-growth  of 13.5% compared to that of previous year (de-growth of  11.6% after normalising for impact of IUC rate cut and impact  of Bangladesh divestment).
The revenues across 14 countries  of Africa, in constant currency terms, grew by 4.9% (growth of  4.6% adjusting for the impact of divestment of tower assets and  acquisition of Tigo, Rwanda).
The Company incurred operating expenditure (excluding access  charges, cost of goods sold, license fees and CSR costs) of   H 358,888 Mn representing a decrease of 9.2% over the  previous year.
Consolidated EBITDA at H 304,479 Mn decreased  by 14.5% (decrease of 13.3% after normalising for impact of IUC  rate cut in India, divested operating units of Africa / Bangladesh  and acquisition of Tigo, Rwanda) over the previous year.
The  Company’s EBITDA margin decreased during the year to 36.4%  as compared to 37.3% in the previous year.
Depreciation and  amortization costs for the year were lower by 2.7% to H 192,430  Mn.
Consequently, EBIT for the year at H 110,845 Mn decreased  by 29.3% (decrease of 31.1% after normalising for impact of  IUC in India and impact of divestments) resulting in margin of  Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 112  13.2% vis-à-vis 16.4% in the previous year.
The cash profits  from operations (before derivative and exchange fluctuations)  for year ended March 31, 2018 was H 227,169 Mn vis-à-vis   H 283,666 Mn in the previous year.
Net finance costs at H 80,712 Mn were higher by H 3,737 Mn,  compared to previous year, mainly due to lower investment  income by H 3,488 Mn (FY 2017-18 – H 5,117 Mn, FY 2016-17 –  H 8,606 Mn).
The increase on account of spectrum related debt  in India was partially off-set by lower forex losses in current year  compared to previous year.
Consequently, the consolidated  profit before taxes and exceptional items at H 40,601 Mn  compared to H 88,930 Mn for the previous year.
The consolidated income tax expense (before the impact on  exceptional items) for the full year ending March 31, 2018 was   H 14,918 Mn, compared to H 44,230 Mn for the previous year.
The  decline is primarily led by drop in profits in India.
After adjusting  for certain losses where no DT A was created, the underlying  effective tax rate in India for the year ended March 31, 2018 was  at 26.5% vs 29.4% in the previous year.
The tax charge in Africa  for the full year (excluding divested units) was at USD 159 Mn vs   USD 148 Mn in the previous year on account of change in profit  mix of the countries.
Net income before exceptional items for the full year came in  at H 13,960 Mn as compared to H 38,134 Mn in the previous  year.
Exceptional items during the year accounted for net  impact of H 2,970 Mn.
These included impact of gains / losses  on divestment of subsidiaries, translation impact in Nigeria  due to transition to market based exchange rate, litigation  related assessments, operating costs on network re-farming &  upgradation programmes and assessment of tax provisions.
After accounting for exceptional items, the resultant consolidated  net income for the year ended March 31, 2018 came in at   H 10,990 Mn as compared to H 37,998 Mn in the previous year.
The capital expenditure for the full year was H 268,176 Mn (USD  4.2 Bn) as compared to H  198,745 Mn in the previous year (an  increase of 34.9%).
Consolidated operating free cash flow for  the year was at H  36,303 Mn as compared to H  157,461 Mn in  previous year.
Higher investments and continued pricing pressure  in India has resulted in decline of Return on Capital Employed  (ROCE) to 4.6% from 6.5% in the previous year.
Liquidity and funding  As on March 31, 2018, the Company had cash and cash  equivalents of  H 47,886 Mn and short-term investments of   H 68,978 Mn.
During the year ended March 31, 2018, the  Company generated operating free cash flow of  H 36,303 Mn.
The Company’s consolidated net debt as on March 31, 2018  increased by USD 517 Mn to USD 14,611 Mn as compared to  USD 14,094 Mn last year, mainly on account of increased capital  expenditure.
The Net Debt - EBITDA ratio (USD terms L TM) as on  March 31, 2018 stood at 3.13 times as compared to 2.63 times  in the previous year, mainly on account of increased borrowings  and reduced EBITDA.
The Net Debt-Equity ratio stood at 1.37  times as on March 31, 2018, compared to 1.35 times in the  previous year.
During the year, the Company undertook several initiatives to  meet its liquidity and funding requirements.
The Company  completed the secondary sale of its subsidiary Bharti Infratel  Limited (“Bharti Infratel”) to global fund managers and global  tower company investors for a consideration of approx H 25,700  Mn and  H 33,250 Mn in Q2’18 and Q3’18 respectively, thereby  reducing it’s equity stake to 53.51% in Bharti Infratel.
These  proceeds were primarily used by the Company to reduce its  debt.
The Company also made its maiden unsecured listed NCD  issuance of  H 30,000 Mn in Q4’18.
The Company continues to  maintain its credit ratings and has access to both domestic and  international debt capital markets.
Awards and Recognition > Airtel has won the ‘Aon Best Employer India 2017’ award  for its innovative people practices and achieving high  levels of employer brand, employee engagement and well  established people practices.
> Airtel won the TM Forum’s Excellence Award 2017 in the  ‘Smart Service Provider – Business of the Year’ category for  accelerating digital transformation in India.
TM Forum is a  global non-profit industry association for service providers  and their suppliers within the telecommunications industry.
> Airtel has won the prestigious ‘Golden Peacock Award for  Corporate Sustainability – 2017’.
The award assesses  the responsiveness of organizational strategy to the  needs of different stakeholders, integration of sustainable  development issues with corporate functioning and  development of innovative partnership models to fulfill  social responsibility.
> Airtel is one of the only 3 companies from India to be  ranked amongst the Forbes list of 100 most Innovative  Companies in the world for 2017.
> Airtel won the ‘Best Brand Loyalty Marketing Campaign’  and ‘Best CSR Initiative Award’ at the Asian Customer  Engagement Forum (ACEF) awards.
The Forum honors  campaigns that display the highest proficiency and  creativity in fields of integrated marketing and customer  engagement.
Statutory Reports Management Discussion and Analysis 113 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 > Airtel has been rated as the fastest mobile network in  India by the global leader in internet speed tests - Ookla for  third time in a row.
> Airtel has been ranked as the ‘Best Company to Work  For’ within the telecom sector and amongst the top 10  across sectors in India by Business T oday – PeopleStrong  Survey, 2017.
Segment-wise Performance B2C services Mobile Services: India   Overview The year saw a number of impactful regulatory developments  and heightened financial stress across the industry.
The year  began with the implementation of customer verification norms  through the Aadhar based e-KYC.
This ushered in a paper less  and digital activation process which led to improvement in the  customer on boarding experience.
Goods and Services T ax  (GST) was made effective July 1, 2017 and the indirect tax  on telecommunication and broadcasting services was fixed  at 18%.
The sector regulator, T elecom Regulatory Authority  of India (TRAI) came out with regulations on the interconnect  termination rates.
The domestic mobile termination charge  (MTC) was reduced from H 0.14 per min to H 0.06 per min  effective October 1, 2017 and the international MTC rate was  reduced from H 0.53 per min to 0.30 per min effective February  1, 2018.
These rate cuts have led to further decline in industry  ARPU.
Low priced bundle products with unlimited voice calling benefits  and large data download became the norm and consequently,  voice and data traffic saw unprecedented levels of growth.
The financial stress across the industry ultimately led to the  hastening of the eventual consolidation in the industry.
The year  saw a host of operator shut downs and M&A announcements.
The financial stress across the industry was further exacerbated  by the explosion of voice and data traffic, and the need to  invest to sustain network capacities.
Airtel entered into several  M&A transactions to harness operational synergies and scale  benefits from consolidation.
During the year, the acquisition  of T elenor India has also been approved by the Department  of T elecommunications (DoT).
The company also completed  the acquisition of Tikona Digital Networks.
The company also  entered into agreements with T ata T eleservices Ltd. (TTSL)  and T ata T eleservices (Maharashtra) Ltd. (TTML) to merge  their Consumer Mobile Business (CMB).
The deal is currently  under regulatory approvals.
The above acquisitions have further  strengthened the company’s spectrum portfolio and are in line  with company’s commitment to provide the best network and  customer experience.
The company crossed the milestone of 300 Mn customers in  India; the latest 100 Mn customers have joined the Airtel family  in less than 2 years.
As on March 31, 2018, the Company  had 304.2 Mn GSM customers.
During the year, total minutes  on network increased by 45.3% to 1,946.3 Bn.
The churn  decreased to 3.5% for the current year, compared to 3.7%  during the previous year.
The Company had 86.1 Mn data  customers at the end of March 31, 2018, of which 76.6 Mn were  mobile broadband customers.
The total MBs on the network for  the full year has increased by 432.2% to 3,901.8 Bn MBs.
The  company has also expanded its reach within the digital space.
Wynk music remains the number 1 music app in the country  and Airtel TV is now ranked number 3 amongst comparable  video OTT apps.
It offers more than 350 live channels, 8000+  movies and is available in 14 languages.
During the year, revenues decreased by 18.2% to H 462,639 Mn  as compared to H 565,511 Mn in the previous year.
The segment  witnessed decline in the EBITDA margin to 32.6% during the  year, compared to 40.3% in the last year.
EBIT margin for the year  declined to 4.5%, compared to 18.7% in the last year.
In line with its  commitment to provide best network & customer  experience to its customers, the company launched a number  of innovative offerings to maintain differentiation in a highly  competitive market.
There were a number of ‘industry firsts’  through the year such as:  > ‘Data rollover’: Allows the un-used data of a customer to be  carried forward into the next billing cycle;  > ‘Project Next’: A digital innovation program aimed at  transforming customer experience across all of its services  and touch points; > *121#: A digital care platform in 10+ regional languages;  > A digital platform dedicated for B2B customers.
These innovations increased Airtel’s innovation premium and  made it feature on the Prestigious Forbes’ list of 100 most  innovative companies in the world for 2017 - one of the only 3  Indian companies to feature on the same.
The company expanded its “project leap” initiative announced  last year and continued to invest in building data capabilities  and provide a world class network to customers who are on  a journey of digital transformation.
The capex investment, its  highest ever, were almost entirely targeted to this end.
These  investments resulted in the company being named as the  Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 114  ‘fastest mobile network in India’ by the global leader in internet  speed test – Ookla for three consecutive times in a row.
The Company had 165,748 network towers, compared to  162,046 network towers in the last year.
Mobile broadband  (MBB) base stations were at 298,014 the end of the year,  compared to 190,860 at the end of last year.
Particulars FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Y-O-Y  Growth G Millions G Millions % Gross Revenues 4,62,639 5,65,511 -18% EBIT 20,829 1,05,484 -80% Wireless Subscribers: India (Million) 304.2 273.6 251.2 FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 FY 2017-18 Key Highlights Strategic Alliances & Partnerships: Airtel entered into a host of  partnerships with the aim to provide a differentiated customer  experience > Airtel has partnered with Amazon to launch a first-of-its-kind  offer for its postpaid customers.
Existing and new postpaid  customers with an Airtel Infinity Plan of H 499 or above can  now get a one year membership of Amazon Prime, worth   H 999 at no additional cost.
Airtel also partnered with  Amazon for Amazon’s Fire TV Stick with Voice Remote,  which was launched in India.
Customers purchasing  Amazon Fire TV will get free 100 GB high speed data via  Airtel Broadband/ Airtel 4G Home Wi-Fi.
> Airtel and Ola (ANI T echnologies Pvt.
Ltd.) have entered into  a partnership that enables a seamless digital experience  for customers.
Airtel Payments Bank will be integrated with  the Ola app to offer payment solutions to Ola’s consumers.
Ola’s digital wallet will be integrated with Airtel to enable  payments for mobile, broadband and direct-to-home bills  through Ola Money.
> Airtel announced a partnership with Facebook to deploy  20,000 hotspots across India, allowing Express Wi-Fi  to reach millions of Indians and provide super-fast and  affordable connectivity.
> Airtel has joined hands with Hotstar and AL T Balaji to bring  their popular original shows and movies onto the Airtel TV  App.
> Airtel announced a strategic partnership with SK T elecom,  Korea’s largest telecommunications company to leverage  the latter’s expertise to build the most advanced telecom  network in India.
> Airtel launched ‘Mera Pehla Smartphone’ initiative wherein  Airtel and Karbonn Mobiles have announced a partnership  to bring an affordable 4G Smartphone to the market.
The  Android based 4G smartphone comes with full touch screen  experience, dual SIM slots and access to all popular apps like  YouT ube, WhatsApp and Facebook.
Airtel further extended a  number of partnerships with Google, HMD Global, Motorola,  Lava Celkon, Intex, Samsung and Itel to bring highly  affordable ‘bundled’ 4G smartphone options to the market.
> Airtel has partnered with OneWeb, Airbus, Delta and  Sprint in a global ‘Seamless Alliance’ to leverage satellite  technology and bring uninterrupted In-Flight connectivity to  mobile users.
> Airtel Payments Bank entered into a strategic partnership  with Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL), and  enabled all 14,000 HPCL fuel stations across the country  to also act as its banking points.
Airtel Payments Bank  customers will also be able to make secure and convenient  digital payments for fuel purchases at all these stations.
Mergers & Acquisitions: Airtel entered into several M&A  transactions to harness operational synergies & scale benefits  from consolidations.
> Airtel’s proposed merger with the Indian unit of Norway’s  T elenor has been approved by DoT .
The Department of  T elecommunications has transferred all licenses belonging  to the Indian unit of Norway’s T elenor, along with its liabilities  to Airtel.
The transaction will boost the Airtel’s 4G spectrum  holdings, fortify its network capacity and augment its  revenue.
The T elenor India acquisition consolidates Airtel’s  market leadership, further strengthens its network portfolio  in key markets and will add to shareholder value.
> Airtel’s proposed merger with the consumer business unit  of T ata T eleservices (Maharashtra) Ltd. (TTML) and T ata  T eleservices Ltd. (TTSL) is under regulatory approvals.
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has given  approval for the TTML merger.
Statutory Reports Management Discussion and Analysis 115 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 > Airtel has completed the proposed acquisition of shares of  Tikona Digital Networks.
With the said acquisition, Tikona  has become a wholly owned subsidiary of Airtel.
Merger is  subject to other statutory approvals.
> Airtel (through the subsidiary Company) acquired a strategic  stake in Juggernaut Books (‘ Juggernaut’), a popular digital  platform to discover and read high quality, affordable books  and to submit amateur writing.
This synergizes with Airtel’s  endeavor to build an open content ecosystem and bring  world class digital content to customers.
Successful Divestment/Funding: Airtel (through the subsidiary  company) offloaded H 58,950 Mn stake in Bharti Infratel  primarily to pare debt & issued H 30,000 Mn worth NCDs to  refinance existing debt.
> Bharti Airtel Limited via its wholly owned subsidiary, Nettle  Infrastructure Investments Limited, divested 150 Mn shares  of its subsidiary Bharti Infratel Limited through secondary  share sale in the stock market for a consideration of over   H 58,950 Mn.
> Airtel has issued non-convertible debentures worth up to   H 30,000 Mn on a private placement basis.
The proceeds  of the issue will be used for routine treasury activities such  as refinancing of existing debt and spectrum liabilities etc.
Network Expansion & Transformation: Airtel took several  initiatives to remain lean & Agile and provide a world class  network to customers who are on a journey of digital  transformation.
> Airtel has signed an agreement with the Department of  T elecom (DoT) and the Universal Service Obligation Fund  (USOF) in December 2017 for provision of mobile services  in identified uncovered villages and national highways  in the North Eastern States of Assam, Manipur, Mizoram,  Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh.
Under  the agreement, Airtel will set up over 2,000 mobile towers  in more than 2,100 villages over the next 18 months.
> Airtel announced the launch of India’s first T elecom Infra  Project (TIP) Community Lab.
Airtel is among the early  members of TIP – a global initiative founded by Facebook,  Deutsche T elekom, Intel, Nokia and SK T elecom to create a  new approach for building and deploying telecom network  infrastructure.
> In an Industry first, Airtel announced the deployment  of Massive Multiple-Input Multiple-Output (MIMO) in  partnership with Huawei T elecommunication India.
Part of  Airtel’s ongoing network transformation program, Project  Leap, this technology will expand existing network capacity  and enhance user experience.
The first round of deployment  has started in Bangalore and Kolkata.
> Airtel launched its VoL TE services in Mumbai, Madhya  Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Chennai,  Maharashtra, Goa and Chhattisgarh.
Customers can now  enjoy HD quality voice calls and call any mobile, landline  network using Airtel VoL TE, which works over 4G.
> Airtel conducted India’s first 5G network trial in partnership  with Huawei.
Digital Innovations & Customer Delight: Airtel continued its  journey of digital innovations to empower the increasingly  demanding customers & to maintain differentiation in a highly  competitive market.
> Airtel has crossed the 300 mn mobile customer mark in  India during the quarter ending March 31, 2018.
> Airtel launched ‘Project Next’ – a digital innovation program  aimed at transforming customer experience across all of  its services and touch points.
This will entail an investment  of upto H 2,000 crores over the next three years to launch  several exciting digital innovations to bring a step change  in the simplicity and interactivity of the Airtel customer  experience.
As part of the project, Airtel has launched its  first set of digital innovations which include:   > Next-Gen Airtel Stores which are minimalistic by design  to provide a highly interactive customer experience  including a digital screen, touch screen table top and  entertainment hubs.
The first two such stores are  operational in Gurgaon, Haryana.
> New version of the MyAirtel App to enable real time  customer experience.
With the new version, bill plan  change, notifications, self-care and many other services  will be enabled with the click of a button.
> Airtel’s postpaid promise (www.airtel.in/postpaid  promise) which will get seamlessly delivered through  the MyAirtel App.
As part of the same, Airtel has  introduced ‘data roll-over’ feature which allows  customers to roll over unused data quota to the next  billing cycle.
T o protect customer smartphones against  accidental / liquid damage and malwares, Airtel has  launched – ‘Airtel Secure’ a one of its kind solution for  smartphones up to two years old.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 116   > Airtel launched its Online Store to bring a range of  premium devices at affordable down payments and  bundled monthly plans.
In a first of its kind digital store,  Airtel has introduced the iPhone 7 at just H 7,777.
> In an Industry first, Airtel launched its *121# digital care  platform for prepaid customers in Hindi and 10 more  regional languages - Punjabi, Marathi, Gujarati, T amil, T elugu,  Malayalam, Kannada, Bangla, Oriya and Assamese.
This  platform allows Airtel’s prepaid customers to get seamless  access to a host of information such as balance amount,  details of last few transactions as well as ongoing offers  without requiring to speak to a customer care executive.
> In an industry first, Airtel Payments Bank launched UPI  enabled digital payments which allows for secure digital  payments to online / offline merchants and instant money  transfers to any bank account in India over smartphones.
Corporate Social Responsibility: Airtel implemented a host of  sustainability initiatives across the organization and remains  fully committed to keep building upon it.
> Airtel released the latest edition of its India Sustainability  Report.
Airtel’s India Sustainability Report 2017 outlines its  impact across all stakeholders.
Airtel reported over 81%  reduction in CO2 emissions per TB in network infrastructure  over the last five years and committed to reduce carbon  footprint by 70% by 2020.
Homes Services   Overview The Company provides fixed-line telephone and broadband  (DSL) services for homes in 89 cities across India.
The company  expanded ‘V-Fiber’ technology for its Homes customers after  it became the first operator to deploy Vectorization in India;  this technology enables the customers to experience internet  speeds of up to 100 Mbps.
The Homes business had 2.2 Mn  customers as on March 31, 2018, representing a growth of  2.0% as compared to 2.1 Mn at the end of previous year.
DSL  customers now represent 94% of the total Homes customers as  compared to 92.3% in the previous year.
Revenues from Homes services stood at H 25,265 Mn for the  year ended March 31, 2018, as compared to H 27,518 Mn in  the previous year, decrease of 8.2%.
EBITDA margin has been  slightly decreased during the year to 46.7% as compared to  47.2% in the previous year.
During the year data traffic increased  by 55.6% to 1,340.8 Bn MBs.
Particulars FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Y-O-Y  Growth G Millions G Millions % Gross Revenues 25,265 27,518 -8% EBIT 4,717 6,868 -31% Homes Subscribers: (Million) 2.13 1.95 FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 FY 2017-18 2.17 Key Highlights Unrivalled Customer Experience > Airtel introduced an all new superfast Home broadband  plan with speed of up to 300 Mbps over Wi-Fi with free  subscription to Airtel’s OTT apps - Wynk Music and Airtel TV .
> Further enhancing its value proposition for customers,  Airtel introduced ‘Data Rollover’ feature for its home  broadband customers enabling them to carry forward  unused monthly data to the next billing cycle.
Customers  can now accumulate up to 1,000 GB data and easily track  their usage and balance data on the My Airtel App.
Digital TV Services   Overview The company served a customer base of 14.2 Mn on its Direct- to-Home platform (Airtel digital TV), as on March 31, 2018,  adding 1.4 Mn customers during the year.
The company currently offers both standard and high definition  (HD) digital TV services with 3D capabilities and Dolby surround  sound.
The company currently offer a total of 649 channels  including 75 HD channels, 5 international channels and 4  interactive services.
Revenues for the year stood at H 37,570 Mn  for the year ended March 31, 2018, as compared to H 34,306  Mn in the previous year, increase of 9.5%.
Affordability of HD  set-top boxes, demand for HD channels and upselling efforts led  to ARPU flat at H 231.
Operating free cash flow on full year basis  at H 3,949 Mn compared to cash flow of H 3,611 Mn during the  previous year.
Statutory Reports Management Discussion and Analysis 117 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 (included in India Mobile) is at H 95,894 Mn in this year, this is  now 15.0% of the total India revenues.
Global Business, the international arm of Airtel Business, offers  an integrated suite of global and local connectivity solutions,  spanning voice and data to the carriers, T elcos, OTT s, large  multinationals and content owners globally.
Airtel’s international infrastructure includes the ownership of  i2i submarine cable system, connecting Chennai to Singapore  and consortium ownership of submarine cable systems like  South East Asia - Middle east - Western Europe - 4 (SWM4), Asia  America Gateway (AAG), India - Middle East - Western Europe  (IMEWE), Unity, Europe India Gateway (EIG) and East Africa  Submarine System (EASSy).
Along with these seven owned  subsea cables, Airtel Business has a capacity on 22 other cables  across various geographies.
Its global network runs across 250,000 Rkms with over 1200  customers, covering 50 countries and five continents and 65  Global PoPs (Point of presence).
This is further interconnected  to its domestic network in India and direct terrestrial cables to  SAARC countries, Myanmar and China helping accelerate India’s  emergence as a preferred transit hub.
Leveraging the direct presence of Airtel Mobile operations in 16  countries across Asia and Africa, Global Business also offers mobile  solutions (ITFS, signalling hubs, messaging), along with managed  services and SatCom solutions.
Global business is also providing  advanced consumers solutions like IOT to global customers.
Particulars FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Y-O-Y  Growth G Millions G Millions % Gross Revenues 1,13,218 1,09,429 3% EBIT 31,044 22,737 37% Key Highlights Digital Transformation & Expansion > Airtel rolled out a first-of-its-kind dedicated digital platform  for B2B customers (including SMEs and startups) to serve  their growing connectivity, communication and collaboration  requirements.
With Airtel’s new digital platform on www.airtel.
in/business/businessinternet small businesses can buy new  communication and collaboration products to enable faster  time to market and enhance ease of doing business.
> Airtel has acquired the Indian leg of Gulf Bridge International  (GBI) India - Middle East - Europe submarine cable with an  aim to consolidate its global network leadership and serve  the exploding data demand in emerging markets like India,  Gulf and Africa.
Particulars FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Y-O-Y  Growth G Millions G Millions % Gross Revenues 37,570 34,306 10% EBIT 5,306 3,577 48% DTH Subscriber Base: (Million) 12.8 11.7 FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 FY 2017-18 14.2 Key Highlights Divestment: Airtel beefs up its war chests to fight competition.
> Bharti Airtel announced that an ‘affiliate’ of Warbug  Pincus will acquire an equity stake of up to 20% in Bharti  T elemedia Limited – its DTH arm.
The transaction is subject  to regulatory and statutory approvals.
After this transaction,  Airtel will own 80% equity stake in Bharti T elemedia Limited.
Awards > Airtel’s Internet TV – India’s first 4K hybrid set-top box,  powered by Android TV , has won the ‘T ech Peripheral of  the Year’ award at the NEXA NDTV Gadget Guru Awards.
B2B Services Airtel Business   Overview Airtel Business is India’s leading and most trusted ICT services  provider.
Its diverse portfolio of services includes voice, data,  video, network integration, data centre, managed services,  enterprise mobility applications and digital media.
Airtel  Business consistently delivers cutting-edge integrated solutions,  superior customer service and unmatched depth / reach to  global markets, to enterprises, governments, carriers, and small  and medium businesses.
Revenues in this segment comprises of: a) Enterprise &  Corporates Fixed Line, Data and Voice businesses; and b) Global  Business which includes wholesale voice and data.
Revenue as  per point a) above, together with Enterprise Mobile revenues  Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 118  Strategic Alliances > Airtel entered into a strategic alliance with Symantec  Corp. to serve the growing cyber security requirements of  businesses in India, providing protection and prevention of  online threats.
As part of the agreement, Airtel will be the  exclusive Cyber Security Services partner for Symantec  in India, and will distribute Symantec’s enterprise security  software.
Awards > Airtel Global Business won the ‘Best Wholesale Carrier  (Global) Award’ at the Carriers World Awards’ 2017 held  in London, UK.
Passive tower infrastructure   Overview  A subsidiary of the Company, Bharti Infratel Ltd. (Infratel), is  India’s leading provider of tower and related infrastructure and it  deploys, owns & manages telecom towers and communication  structures, for various mobile operators.
It holds 42% equity  interest in Indus towers, a joint venture with Vodafone India and  Aditya Birla T elecom who hold 42% and 16% respectively.
The  Company’s consolidated portfolio of 91,451 telecom towers,  which includes 39,523 of its own towers and the balance from its  42% equity interest in Indus T owers, makes it one of the largest  tower infrastructure providers in the country with presence in all  22 telecom circles.
The company has been the industry pioneer  in adopting green energy initiatives for its operations.
Infratel is  listed on the Indian stock exchanges, NSE and BSE.
Particulars FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Y-O-Y  Growth G Millions G Millions % Gross Revenues 66,284 60,829 9% EBIT 20,452 17,246 19% Africa Overview Airtel recorded a first full year of profits for its African operations  which was a result of a healthy double digit revenue growth,  strong cost control through its ‘war on waste’ program and asset  monetisation.
Airtel is now one of the top operators in Africa; it  holds No.1 position in Zambia, Niger, Madagascar and Malawi  and No.2 position in 7 OpCos including Nigeria & Uganda in  terms of revenue market share.
During the year, Airtel Africa B. V .
entered into a Joint Venture with MIC Africa B. V .
for its Ghana  operations.
With this, the company now operates in 14 countries  on a standalone basis.
Consequently, the financial numbers of  Africa have been reinstated to exclude Ghana financials for the  period before sale.
The transaction for the acquisition of Tigo  operations in Rwanda has also been closed effective January  31, 2018 and results for the year also include Tigo for 59 days.
The comparable growths have been mentioned as ‘Organic’  below.
Owing to the underlying economic changes in Nigeria, the  company has transitioned from ‘administered’ to ‘market  based’ exchange rate during the year.
The currencies across  the continent have remained comparatively stable versus the  US dollar over the last 12 months (exit March 31 rates) except  for CFA (which appreciated by 13%).
In terms of the 12-month  average rates, the revenue weighted Y-o-Y currency depreciation  has been 3.5%, mainly caused by depreciation in Ugandan  Shilling by 5% and Rwandan Franc by 7%.
T o enable comparison  on an underlying basis, all financials up to PBT and all operating  metrics mentioned below are in constant currency rates as on  March 1, 2017 and are adjusted for divestment of operating units  for all the periods i.e.
the comparison till PBT has been given below  for 14 countries.
PBT as mentioned below excludes any realized/ unrealized derivatives and exchange gain or loss for the period.
As on March 31, 2018, the Company had 89.3 Mn customers in  Africa across 14 countries as compared to 76.7 Mn customers  in previous year, an increase of 16.3%.
Its continuous focus on  acquiring quality customers has resulted in lower customer  churn for the year at 4.4% as compared to 4.9% in the previous  year.
The total minutes on the network during the year increased  by 18.5% to 159.5 Bn.
At the end of the year, 24.9 Mn data  customers accounted for 27.9% of the total customer base as  compared to 22% in the previous year.
The total MBs on the  network has significantly increased by 89.9% to 237.6 Bn MBs  from 125.1 Bn MBs in previous year with usage per customer  increasing from 657 MBs to 954 MBs.
Overall ARPU in Africa  marginally declined from USD 3.25 to USD 3.14.
T otal sites in  Africa as on March 31, 2018 were 19,731 of which 13,725 were  3G sites, representing 69.6% of the total sites.
Airtel Africa revenues grew by 4.9% (organic growth of 4.6%) to  USD 3,036 Mn as compared to USD 2,894 Mn in the previous  year.
The company’s continued focus on running the operations  efficiently and cost effectively has resulted in EBITDA of USD  1,014 Mn for the year as compared to USD 694 Mn in the  previous year, increase of 46.2% (organic growth of 46.0%).
Consequently EBITDA margin improved significantly by 9.4%  to 33.4% compared to 24.0% in the previous year.
EBIT for  the year was at USD 551 Mn as compared to USD 136 Mn in  the previous year.
PBT for the full year was at USD 425 Mn as  compared to USD 8 Mn in the previous year.
After accounting  for full year capex of USD 421 Mn (PY: USD 412 Mn), operating  free cash flow was USD 593 Mn as compared to USD 282 Mn  in the previous year.
Statutory Reports Management Discussion and Analysis 119 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 In H Reported Currency Particulars FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Y-O-Y  Growth G Millions G Millions % Gross Revenues 2,01,564 2,19,568 -8% EBIT 35,586 10,189 249% In USD Constant Currency – 14 Countries Particulars FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Y-O-Y  Growth G Millions G Millions % Gross Revenues 3,036 2,894 5% EBIT 551 136 306% Note: During the current financial year, Bharti Airtel Limited divested 1  operating unit in Africa.
Accordingly, the above table has been shown for  remaining 14 countries only.
Wireless Subscribers: Africa (Million)  76.73 70.99 FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 FY 2017-18 89.26 across 14 Countries Key Highlights Mergers, Acquisitions & Joint Ventures > Tigo acquisition in Rwanda has been approved by the  Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Authority (RURA).
Accordingly  the financials have been consolidated in Africa performance  effective January 31, 2018.
The business integration is  underway across functions to ensure smooth customer  experience and seamless operations management.
> The transaction between Airtel and Millicom International  Cellular to combine their telecommunication operations in  Ghana has been consummated.
Network Transformation > Airtel continues to expand its mobile broadband network  in Africa by adding 3,391 broadband base stations during  the quarter – the highest ever in a single quarter.
The  quarter saw roll-out of 4G services in 4 countries.
Airtel now  provides high speed 4G connectivity in 8 countries across  the continent.
Digital Innovation > Airtel Kenya and Safaricom Kenya have launched mobile  money interoperability on April 10, 2018.
The customers of  the two operators are now able to seamlessly transfer or  receive money across networks for no extra charge.
Awards & Recognition > Airtel Nigeria won the 2017 Most Outstanding Customer-  centric T elecom Brand Award at the National Marketing  Stakeholders Summit and Brands & Advertising Excellence  Awards.
> Airtel Nigeria adjudged as the Best Company in  Recruitment Strategy during the HR People Magazine  Awards in Lagos.
> Airtel Nigeria won the ‘Service Excellence in  T elecommunication Award’ at the 2017 Commerce  & Industry Awards organized by the Lagos Chamber of  Commerce and Industry.
> Airtel Nigeria won the ‘Payment Innovation Award’ at an  award ceremony organized by Interswitch, Africa’s leading  transaction switching and processing services company.
The award recognizes Airtel’s transformative use of mobile  financial solutions to solve real world customer problems.
> Airtel Ghana won the ‘Best Corporate Social  Responsibility Initiative Award’ at the 2017 African  Carrier Awards.
The award recognizes Airtel Ghana’s  educational initiatives like the School Adoption Programme.
> Airtel Kenya won the Humanitarian / Corporate Award  2017, at the Red Cross Volunteer Awards in Nairobi, Kenya.
The awards are held in recognition of exemplary service and  contribution to Red Cross work of alleviating human suffering.
> Airtel Seychelles won the ‘CSR Company of the year’ at  the business awards organized by Seychelles Chambers of  Commerce and Industry.
> Airtel Nigeria, won the prestigious ‘Pitcher Advertiser of  the Year Award’ at the creativity week in recognition of its  creativity and bold attempts to create fresh and inspiring  campaigns.
> The Regulatory Authority for Electronic Communications  and Posts (RAECP) awarded Airtel Chad for its Best quality  of network calls and Internet services in Chad.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 120  Share of Associates / Joint Ventures  A) Robi Axiata Limited  Robi Axiata Limited is a joint venture between Axiata Group Berhad of Malaysia, Bharti Airtel Limited of India and NTT Docomo Inc. of  Japan.
Axiata holds 68.7% controlling stake in the entity, Bharti Airtel holds 25% while the remaining 6.3% is held by NTT Docomo.
Robi Axiata Limited is the second largest mobile phone operator of Bangladesh and the first operator to introduce GPRS and 3.5G  services in the country.
Key operational and financial performance Particulars Unit Quarter ended Mar-18 Dec-17 Sep-17 Jun-17 Operational Performance Customer Base 000’s 45,609 42,908 41,211 39,570 Data Customer as % of Customer Base % 57.8 56.6 57.7 56.1 ARPU BDT 118 123 131 132 Financial Highlights (proportionate share of Airtel) T otal Revenues H Mn 3,153 3,605 3,466 3,310 EBIDT A H Mn 679 724 770 526 EBIDT A / T otal Revenues % 21.5 20.1 22.2 15.9 Net Income H Mn (200) (261) (93) 135 Mar-18 financials are as per IFRS 15.
B) Bharti Airtel Ghana Limited  Bharti Airtel Ghana Limited is a joint venture between Bharti Airtel Africa B. V .
and MIC Africa B. V .
Both the entities effectively hold  49.95% share each in the merged entity.
Key operational and financial performance Particulars Unit Quarter ended Mar-18 Dec-17 Operational Performance Customer Base 000’s 6,113 6,306 Data Customer as % of Customer Base % 58.2 57.6 ARPU BDT 13.2 13.1 Financial Highlights (proportionate share of Airtel) T otal Revenues H Mn 1,767 1,839 EBIDT A H Mn 262 291 EBIDT A / T otal Revenues % 14.8 15.8 Net Income H Mn (241) (373) South Asia  Overview  The financial numbers of South Asia as mentioned below are not  comparable as the previous year includes demerged Bangladesh  results for part of the year.
Also on account of changes in the MTC  rates (Domestic and International) the current figures includes a  portion of old rates as well.
Full year revenue of South Asia was at H 4,045 Mn as compared  to H 11,743 Mn in the previous year.
EBITDA for the year was at   H 8 Mn as compared to H 238 Mn in the previous year.
EBIT losses  for the year reported at H 1,268 Mn as compared to loss of H 4,018  Mn in the previous year.
Capex for the year was H 1,235 Mn as  compared to H 1,830 Mn in the previous year.
Particulars FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Y-O-Y  Growth G Millions G Millions % Gross Revenues 4,045 11,743 -66% EBIT (1,268) (4,018) 68% Statutory Reports Management Discussion and Analysis 121 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 Risk & Mitigation Framework Bharti Airtel (the Company), has thrived globally by building a culture of innovation and high performance.
The Company explores new  markets and business models across the world; evolve new ways of customer and stakeholder engagement; enter into new strategic  partnerships; adopt new technologies; and build exponential efficiencies in existing systems.
While these initiatives unveil a universe  of possibilities, potential risks and uncertainties arise in a volatile business environment.
The distress signals need to be picked up  and addressed with urgency for smooth operations.
Therefore, the Company has created a robust risk management framework in  its operating landscape that caters to strategic, legal, financial, operational and climate risks.
The Company has a sound practice to  identify key risks across the Group and prioritise relevant action plans for mitigation.
1.
Regulatory and Political Uncertainties (Legal & Compliance) Outlook from last year > Stable Definition  The Company operates in India, Sri Lanka and 14 African  countries.
Some of these countries (or regions within countries)  are affected by political instability, civil unrest and other social  tensions.
The political systems in a few countries are also fragile,  resulting in regime uncertainties; hence, the risk of arbitrary  action.
Such conditions tend to affect the overall business  scenario.
In addition regulatory uncertainties and changes, like  escalating spectrum prices, call drops penalties, EMF norms  among others are potential risks being faced by the business.
Mitigating actions: > As a responsible corporate citizen, the Company engages  proactively with key stakeholders in the countries in which  it operates; and continuously assess the impact of the  changing political scenario.
The Company contributes  to the socio-economic growth of the countries in its  area of operation through high-quality services to its  customers, improved connectivity, providing direct and  indirect employment, and contributing to the exchequer.
These activities are covered in detail through its annual  sustainability report.
It also maintains cordial relationships  with governments and other stakeholders.
The Country  MDs and Circle CEOs carry direct accountability for  maintaining neutral Government relations.
Through its  CSR initiatives (Bharti Foundation etc.
), it contributes to the  social and economic development of community, especially  in the field of education.
> The Company actively works with industry bodies like Cellular  Operators Association of India (COAI), Confederation of  Indian Industry (CII), and Federation of Indian Chambers of  Commerce & Industry (FICCI) on espousing industry issues  e.g.
penalties, right of way, tower sealing amongst others.
> Regulatory team along with legal and networks keeps a  close watch on compliances with regulations and laws  and ensures the operations of the Company are within the  prescribed framework.
Definition:  The Company’s strategy is to focus on growth opportunities  in the emerging and developing markets.
These markets are  characterised by low to medium mobile penetration, low internet  penetration and relatively lower per capita incomes, thus offering  more growth potential.
However, these markets fall under  countries which are more prone to economic uncertainties,  such as capital controls, inflation, interest rates and currency  fluctuations.
Since the company has borrowed in foreign  currencies, and many loans are carrying floating interest terms,  it is exposed to market risks, which might impact its earnings  and cash flow.
These countries are also affected by economic  downturns, primarily due to commodity price fluctuations,  reduced financial aid, capital inflows and remittances.
Slowing  down of economic growth tends to affect consumer spending  and might cause a slowdown in telecom sector.
Mitigating actions:  > As a global player with presence across 16 countries, the  Company has diversified its risks and opportunities across  markets.
Its wide service portfolio including voice, data,  Airtel Money, Digital Services and value added services  helps widen its customer base.
> T o mitigate currency risks, it follows a prudent risk  management policy, including hedging mechanisms  to protect the cash flows.
No speculative positions are  created; all foreign currency hedges are taken on the back  of operational exposures.
A prudent cash management   2.
Economic Uncertainties (Operational) Outlook from last year > Stable Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 122   3.
Poor quality of networks and information technology including redundancies  and disaster recoveries (Operational) Outlook from last year > Stable Definition: The Company’s operations and assets are spread across  wide geographies.
The telecom networks are subject to risks  of technical failures, partner failures, human errors, or wilful  acts or natural disasters.
Equipment delays and failures, spare  shortages, energy or fuel shortages, software errors, fibre cuts,  lack of redundancy paths, weak disaster recovery fall-back, and  partner staff absenteeism, among others are few examples of  how network failures happen.
The Company’s IT systems are critical to run the customer- facing and market-facing operations, besides running internal  systems.
In many geographies or states, the quality of IT  connectivity is sometimes erratic or unreliable, which affects the  delivery of services e.g.
recharges, customer query, distributor  servicing, customer activation, billing, etc.
In several developing  countries, the quality of IT staff is rudimentary, leading to  instances of failures of IT systems and / or delays in recoveries.
The systems landscape is ever changing due to newer versions,  upgrades and ‘patches’ for innovations, price changes, among  others.
Hence the dependence on IT staff for turnaround of such  projects is huge.
Mitigating actions:  > The Company has state-of-the-art Network Operations  Centre for both India as well as Africa to monitor real time  network activity and to take proactive and immediate action  to ensure maximum uptime of network.
> Network Planning is increasingly being done in-house, to  ensure that intellectual control on architecture is retained  within the Company.
As part of the previously announced  ‘Leap Programme’ in India, it continuously seeks to  address issues (congestion, indoor coverage, call drops,  modernisation and upgrade of data speeds, among others)  to ensure better quality of network.
Recent efforts also  include transformation of the microwave transmission, fibre  networks, secondary rings / links and submarine cable  networks.
The Company consistently eliminates systemic  congestion in the network, and removes causes of technical  failures through a quality improvement programme, as well  as embedding redundancies.
Tighter SLAs are reinforced  upon network partners for their delivery.
The Company’s  Network T eam performance is measured, based on  network stability, customer experience and competitor  benchmarking.
The Company follows a conservative  insurance cover policy that provides a value cover, equal to  the replacement values of assets against risks, such as fire,  floods and other natural disasters.
> The Company’s philosophy is to share infrastructure with  other operators, and enter into SLA-based outsourcing  arrangements.
We have been proactively seeking sharing  relationships on towers, fibre, VSA T , data centres and  other infrastructure.
The disposal of towers in Africa to  independent and well-established tower companies and  long-term lease arrangements with them will ensure  high quality of assets and maintenance on the passive  infrastructure.
The Company has put in place redundancy  plans for power outages, fibre cuts, VSA T breakdowns, and  so on, through appropriate backups such as generators,  secondary links, among others.
Similar approaches are  deployed for IT hardware and software capacities; and  internal IT architecture teams continuously reassess the  effectiveness of IT systems.
> Information Security is managed by dedicated IT  professionals, given the huge dependency on automated  systems, as well as to ensure that customer privacy is  protected.
policy ensures that surplus cash is up-streamed regularly to  minimise the risks of blockages at times of capital controls.
It has specifically renegotiated many operating expenditure  / capex Fx contracts in Africa and converted them to local  currency, thereby reducing Fx exposure.
> T o mitigate interest rate risks, the Company is further  spreading its debt profile across local and overseas sources  of funds and to create natural hedges.
It also enters in  interest rate swaps to reduce the interest rate fluctuation  risk.
> Finally, the Company adopts a pricing strategy that is based  on principles of mark to market, profitability and affordability,  which ensures that the margins are protected at times of  inflation, and market shares at times of market contraction.
Statutory Reports Management Discussion and Analysis 123 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317  4.
Inadequate Quality of Customer Lifecycle Management (Operational) Outlook from last year > Expanded Definition:  In a market dominated by prepaid customers, several inefficient  processes have crept in over the years across the industry, in  respect of customer acquisitions.
Such practices are resulting in  high rotational churn, high acquisition costs, low lifetime value of  new customers, diversion of focus of sales force on acquisitions,  rather than revenue generation, trade frauds, among others.
Customer mind-sets and habits are shifting rapidly, reflected in  their ever-rising expectations in terms of quality, variety, features  and pricing.
The competitive landscape is also changing  dramatically, as operators vie with one another to capture  customer and revenue market shares which is accelerating  customer migration from legacy 2G / 3G networks to high  speed 4G networks.
The Company might see heightened competitive intensity in  its non-wireless businesses on account of irrational pricing  by potential new entrant leading to erosion of revenue &  customers.
In mobility business, the Company may face a risk of  deeply discounted Volte feature phone pricing from new entrant.
Mitigating actions:  > Improved customer acquisition process like monitoring  new customer acquisition churn, high acquisition recharge  denominations, direct distribution, trade margins structures  have been introduced.
The Company has also been  launching varied bundled offers to provide maximum  benefits to the customers at affordable prices.
> The Company constantly refreshes its ways of working,  especially in customer service, innovation, marketing and  distribution.
These are now captured in the Company’s  integrated Customer Lifecycle Management approach,  which ensures that every customer’s behaviour is studied,  classified and segmented.
Organisational effectiveness  is enhanced through appropriate design and creation  of leaner and multi-functional teams.
T echnologies and  tools (business intelligence, scientific pricing models) are  deployed in managing the customer lifecycle.
> For the non-wireless businesses, the Company is focussing  on ring-fencing the existing customers by offering them  annual plans with increased value propositions.
Focus lies  on offering differentiated products to customers like higher  speed, content, data roll-over, data borrow etc.
The entire  GTM plan has been re-invented to acquire & retain high  value customers across businesses.
> In order to protect its feature phone customers from  churning to competition, the Company is focussed  on upgrading the customers to smart phones at very  low cost.
Airtel has launched ‘My First Smart phone’  program which offers smart phones to customers at  an effective cost of a feature phone thereby giving  him more value at same cost.
Airtel has tied up with  leading handset manufacturers to offer a bouquet of  smartphones at reduced cost to the customers and  continues to tie-up with various handset manufactures  to provide affordable upgrades to smartphones.
> The Company has also been the preferred network  for high value customers.
The Company has strategic  programmes for driving down churn through an  integrated and end-to-end experience through sharp  propositions for high-value customers.
> The Company has made several measures to transform  its telecom networks to improve customer experience  of its subscribers.
As part of open network initiative,  Airtel upgraded its current network infrastructure.
> Also its unique portfolio beyond wireless consisting of  Home Broadband, Airtel Business, and DTH TV continue  to grow and deliver significant value to the company.
> The Company is also investing in building its own  digital innovations such Wynk music, Airtel TV and  Wynk Games.
Wynk music is now the number 1 music  app in the country.
Earlier this year, it also launched  Airtel TV which provides more than 350 live channels  and 8000 movies & TV shows in 14 languages.
Airtel  TV is now among the top 3 TV and movie apps.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 124   5.
Non-compliance of subscriber verification norms and KYC regulations  (Operational) Outlook from last year > Stable Definition Regulators are introducing stringent subscriber verification and  KYC guidelines, including biometric verification and quality of  KYC documents.
Mitigating actions:  > The Company has invested significantly in KYC tools,  including biometric scanners to improve the quality of  subscriber activation and documentation processes as per  required legislation.
Self-compliance and reinforcing of ‘tone  at the top’ are the key factors which ensure complete control  on our compliances.
The Company follows strict guidelines  on quality of partners and IT systems, staff training,  proactive maker-checker controls and internal audits, as  well as robust internal MIS to adhere to compliances.
> The Company, in case of any such identified non- compliances, takes immediate and necessary actions as  required to remediate the situation.
The Company envisages  to abide by both the letter and spirit of the regulation and  on a timely basis communicates to its employees regarding  the necessity to abide by government regulations while  being sensitive towards customers.
6.
Increase in cost structures ahead of revenues thereby impacting liquidity  (Operational / Strategic) Outlook from last year > Stable Definition:  Across markets, costs structures have been increasing  both from volumes (new sites rollouts, capacity) and/or rate  increases (inflation, Fx impacts, wage hikes, energy etc.).
With  the entry of new operator, market pricing has been dampened  putting pressure on margins and cash flows thereby leading  to increased debt leverage.
Increased investment in network  to ensure quality of service, continued spends on distribution  and maintaining world class customer service are expected to  remain thereby heightening debt levels.
Mitigating actions:  > The Company has institutionalised the War on Waste  (WOW) Programme, an enterprise-wide cost-reduction  programme.
This has been rolled out across all functions,  business units and countries.
All functions / business  units / countries are targeting cost reductions and cost  efficiencies.
The Company continues to focus on capex  optimisation through various programmes like ICR, tower- sharing, fibre sharing through IRU or co-build.
> Digitisation and automation with significant programmes  on self-care, paper less acquisition, e-bill penetration, online  recharges, Indoor to outdoor conversion, digital customer  interactions are continuously monitored through our WoW  initiative etc.
> The Company has been progressively maintaining to keep  the debt levels at acceptable levels.
T o this end it has and  continues to take decisions on inorganic sources of funding  including divestment of Infratel and DTH stakes.
> Inorganic solutions to consolidate operations like Ghana  are also being taken to ensure viable business models are  created in these geographies.
Strategic Investment Group  (SIG) has been set up to look at future monetisation of any  strategic investments.
7.
Lack of Digitisation and Innovations around Digital Content (Strategic) Outlook from last year > Stable Definition Digitization is reshaping the telecom sector and will be a key  driver for innovation within the Company as companies compete  in a digital ecosystem away from pure connectivity based  environment.
Further evolving technologies result in change  in customer value propositions.
Digital content and apps have  now become the favourites for mobile customers.
Digital Mobile  money technologies, innovative mobile apps, Cloud, M2M, SaaS  and other technology-based VAS products are also evolving.
Such rapid technology evolution may impact the functionality of  existing assets and accelerate obsolescence.
Keeping pace with  changing customer expectations is a big agenda for the telecom  sector.
Lack of Digitisation of internal business processes may  render the company in-able or lethargic in turn to respond to  Statutory Reports Management Discussion and Analysis 125 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317  8.
Lack of investment in infrastructure capacity building (Strategic) Outlook from last year > Stable Definition:  In order to keep pace with rising data demand of customers  and to ensure competitive parity traffic, telecom companies  will be required to invest heavily in building data capacities  and broadband coverage expansion.
Operators are adopting  new strategies to provide unlimited voice and significant data  benefits to customers.
Additionally, today’s customers is looking  at seamless mobile internet experience while being technology  agnostic.
Mitigating actions:  > Airtel is expanding its broadband network footprint to stay  abreast with competition and fulfilling customers’ expectation.
As a part of expansion program, the Company will deploy  additional L TE sites with fibre/backhaul readiness and will  expand its coverage by strengthening its L TE FDD footprint in  order to provide seamless connectivity.
The surge in volume  will necessitate enhancement of the L TE TDD layer to support  additional traffic in select places of high throughput.
> With the explosion in data, Airtel will significantly step- up backhaul readiness on its site along with increased  Fiberization and rapidly expand its transmission backbone  and aggregation capacity to cater to the additional data  load.
> With the increase in voice minutes exponentially, the  Company has recently launched VOL TE services offering  HD quality calls along with faster call set up time which  once scaled up will give a significantly better experience to  the customers.
> T echnology has been rapidly evolving in T elecom.
In the  next few years wide scale commercial deployment of 5G  is expected to start.
In such a scenario, the Company is  making its investments future proof and starting to be  ready for 5G network deployment.
customer needs.
Rapidly evolving technologies like robotics,  block chain, app automation for internal processes in Customer,  Finance, Supply Chain and HR can render the company slow in  decision making and reacting to new and emerging customer,  vendor, and partner expectations.
Mitigating actions:  For the last 18 months digitization for the customers has been  the prime area of focus, with several digital initiatives being  undertaken.
Our own digital channels, ‘myAirtel app’ and ‘Airtel.in’  have seen tremendous growth in customer interaction over the  course of the year, where complete self-care for retail customers  is now available through these digital channels, we have also  started rolling out digital retail stores which also leverage self- care on ‘myAirtel app’ for resolving customer issues.
> For digital growth, the Company has adopted a platform  centric approach and created new digital platform for  attracting millennials and digitally savvy customers.
Our  new online store (www.airtel.in/onlinestore) was recently  launched with very unique offering for the iPhone, with a  complete online journey including real-time credit.
In the  coming years the customers will see increased focus on  this as we bring more and more devices on this platform.
Homes platform being created as a digital layer on top to  provide unique quad play proposition.
> The Company is also investing in building its own digital  innovations such ‘Wynk music’, ‘Airtel TV’ and ‘Wynk  Games’.
Wynk music is now the number 1 music app in the  country.
Earlier this year we also launched Airtel TV which  provides 300 live channels and 6000 movies & TV shows  in 13 languages.
Airtel TV is now among the top 5 TV and  movie apps.
> The sales & distribution team of out company is one of  the most digitized operating team in the entire country &  has won several global awards & accolades.
This covers  complete digitization from the sales team to feet on street,  distributors, retailers and entire sales and distribution  channel.
> One of the key digital initiatives being run is creating a  digital network.
This covers network planning, deployment  (including TOCOs and MS partners), operations and  network quality.
In addition the Company also partnered  with SKT for creating network Data Lake and building deep  analytics and intelligence on top of it.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 126  Definition:  Regulatory developments in India, South Asia and Africa can  pose several challenges to the telecom sector.
The telecom  sector is highly taxed with high revenue share-based license  fees and significant spectrum acquisition costs in auctions.
Introduction of GST has proven to be a landmark decision with  wide ranging impact on all businesses.
Whilst it has eliminated  the cascading effect of indirect taxes in the erstwhile regime, on  other hand it has increased the compliance burden significantly.
Mitigating actions:  > The Company has always stood for a fair, transparent and non  – discriminatory government policy on telecom regulation.
It  has insisted governments of all countries that sustainable  regulatory regimes will lead to a healthy growth of the sector,  leading to higher investments and modernisation, which in  turn benefits the industry and society.
The Company stands  for a regime that promotes healthy, competitive pricing  keeping two objectives in mind – customer interests and  health of the sector.
As a responsible operator, the company  participates in government consultation and industry  association events, to foster collaboration and knowledge  sharing for best industry policies and practices.
> The Company has undertaken state wise registration of  its operations and has modified its existing IT systems  to deliver reporting in line with necessary compliances.
Necessary operational level changes have been revamped  to accommodate a state level and GST driven mechanism  and processes.
10.
Gaps in internal controls (financial and non-financial) (Operational) Outlook from last year > Stable Definition:  The Company serves over 412 Mn customers globally with a  monthly average of 164 Bn minutes of voice on network and  402 Bn MBs of data carried on wireless networks located at  more than 185,000 sites.
Gaps in internal controls and / or  process compliances not only lead to wastages, frauds and  losses, but can also adversely impact the Airtel brand.
Mitigating actions:  > The Company’s business philosophy is to ensure  compliance with all accounting, legal and regulatory  requirements proactively.
Compliance is monitored  meticulously at all stages of operation.
Substantial  investments in IT systems and automated workflow  processes help minimise human errors.
> Besides internal audits, the Company also have a process of  self-validation of several checklists and compliances as well  as a ‘maker-checker’ division of duties to identify and rectify  deviations early enough.
The Company has also implemented  GRC system (Governance, Risk and Compliance) to embed  systemic controls.
> The Company has Internal Financial Controls and the  Corporate Audit Group has tested such controls.
The  Audit Group has asserted that the Company has in place  adequate tools, procedures and policies, ensuring orderly  and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence  to Company’s policies, safeguarding of its assets,  prevention and detection of frauds and errors, accuracy  and completeness of accounting records; and timely  preparation of reliable financial information.
9.
Adverse regulatory or fiscal taxation developments including compliance risks  (Legal & Compliance)Outlook from last year > Diminished Statutory Reports Management Discussion and Analysis 127 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 Internal Controls  The Company’s philosophy towards internal control is based  on the principle of healthy growth and proactive approach to  risk management.
Aligned to this philosophy, the Company has  deployed a robust framework of internal controls that facilitates  efficient conduct of business operations in compliance with  the company policy; fair presentation of our financial results  in a manner that is complete, reliable and understandable;  ensure adherence to regulatory and statutory compliances;  and safeguards investor interest by ensuring the highest level  of governance.
The Internal Control framework has been set up  across the company and is followed at the circle and country  level.
This framework is assessed periodically and performance  of circles and countries are measured via objective metrics and  defined scorecards.
Accounting hygiene and audit scores are driven centrally  through central financial reporting team and Airtel Centre of  Excellence (ACE), both teams responsible for accuracy of books  of accounts, preparation of financial statements and reporting  the same as per the company’s accounting policies.
Regulatory  and legal requirements, accounting standards, and other  pronouncements are evaluated regularly to assess applicability  and impact on financial reporting.
The relevant financial  reporting requirements, documented in the Group Accounting  Manuals, are communicated to relevant units and enforced  throughout the Group.
This, together with the financial reporting  calendar evidencing the tasks and timelines, forms the basis of  the financial reporting process.
Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP , the statutory auditors, have done  an independent evaluation of key internal controls over financial  reporting (ICOFR) and expressed an unqualified opinion stating  that the company has, in all material respects, adequate internal  control over financial reporting; and such internal controls over  financial reporting were operating effectively as on March 31,  2018.
The Company has in place an Internal Assurance (IA) function  headed by Group Director - Internal Assurance.
EY and ANB  & Co (ANB) are the Assurance Partners of the Company who  conducts financial, compliance and process improvement audits  each year.
Audits are categorized into defined assurance tracks  with EY responsible to audit finance, customer and technology  track and ANB responsible to audit legal and regulatory track.
The internal assurance plan for the year is derived from a  bottoms-up risk assessment and directional inputs from the  Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee oversees the scope  and coverage of the IA plan, and evaluates the overall results  of these audits during the quarterly Audit Committee meetings.
The Audit Committee also reviews the effectiveness of the  internal control system, and invites functional Directors and  senior management personnel to provide updates on operating  effectiveness and controls, from time to time.
An independent  validation was also led by the Internal Assurance function to  assess the effectiveness of Internal Financial Controls (IFC) and  no reportable material weaknesses in the design or operation  were observed.
A CEO and CFO Certificate forming part of the Corporate  Governance Report, confirm the existence and effectiveness  of internal Controls and reiterate their responsibilities to report  deficiencies to the Audit Committee and rectify the same.
The  Company’s code of conduct requires compliance with law and  Company policies, and also covers matters such as financial  integrity, avoiding conflicts of interest, workplace behavior,  dealings with external parties and responsibilities to the  community.
The Airtel Centre of Excellence (ACE) based in Gurugram and  Bengaluru, is the captive shared service for financial accounting,  Revenue Assurance, SCM and HR processes.
Its global footprint  across 16 countries is bolstered by standardization of all these  processes across the organization with inbuilt embedded  controls.
Digitization of ACE is being aimed as a part of the  transformation agenda and includes initiatives like system  based reconciliation, reporting processes with vividly defined  segregation of duties.
ERP integration in Africa into an Oracle  Single Instance across all African countries ensures uniformity  and standardization in ERP configurations, chart of accounts,  finance and SCM processes across countries.
Quality of financial  reporting and controls continues to show improvement.
We  continuously examine our governance practices to enhance  investor trust and improve the Board’s overall effectiveness.
Initiatives such as virtual desktop interface for ultimate data  security, self-validation checks, desktop reviews and regular  physical verification are producing measurable outcomes  through substantial improvement in control scores across  India and Africa.
Oracle Governance Risk & Compliance (GRC)  module has been implemented for India and Africa to strengthen  existing controls pertaining to access rights for various ERPs,  ensuring segregation of duties and preventing possibilities of  access conflicts.
Material developments in Human Resources  An overview  The significant role played by our people in sustaining Airtel’s  growth trajectory in turbulent times was encapsulated in our  business strategy of the year, under the theme of ‘Win With  People’.
The strong people agenda was constituted around  three pillars of Learn, Lead and Grow.
Airtel continued to clinch  accolades including emerging among the Best Employers in  Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 128  the Business T oday - People Strong Survey.
With over 370,000  followers on LinkedIn, Airtel has also carved a niche for itself in  the social media space.
At the end of March 2018, Bharti Airtel  had 17,263 permanent employees employed in India & South  Asia and 3,530 permanent employees employed in Africa.
India  The first pillar – Learn was envisaged to ensure that each  employee becomes a ‘Master of the Craft’ by achieving higher  levels of functional proficiencies.
Airtel launched a host of  marquee functional learning programs such as ‘Sales Mindset  in Changing Times’, training in leadership presence for store  employees, problem solving and design thinking for customer  experience, etc.
The idea behind these interventions was to  equip our people to deal with the dynamic market scenario with  greater dexterity.
Different mediums of digital learning enabled  our employees to learn on the go.
The Company partnered  with Coursera, a global leader in online education and learning  to provide its employees with valuable learning and credentials  from top universities around the globe.
T o ensure that employees  stay at the forefront of technological innovation, the Company  collaborated with Pluralsight – to provide online video training  courses in the technology space.
T o further imbibe a strong  learning culture in the organization, it introduced learning in a  gamified format launching more than 30 ‘Airtel 101’ courses,  which are perfect examples of byte-sized learning, delivering  information in nuggets and on the go.
The year saw employees  earning more than a lakh certifications on Airtel 101.
The agenda  of gamified micro learning was carried forward by introducing an  exciting weekly contest – Fastest Finger First which witnessed  an average participation of 1,000 people.
It also initiated a  learning challenge christened Ironman which witnessed 7000  participants clocking in more than 90,000 learning hours.
Across  functions, a combined total of more than 27,000 man-days worth  of learning has been recorded.
The people at Airtel proved to be  curious learners, with more than 8,000 learners completing over  2000 online courses and clocking in more than 120,000 hours  on iLearn – the Company’s learning management system.
It also  continued to build strong teams in emerging domains like IoT ,  Product and Data Science.
At Airtel, we believe in creating leaders from within the  organization.
The second pillar – Lead was envisaged with the  thought of people managers demonstrating what it is to ‘Lead  Right’ by role modeling all key leadership behaviours.
It instituted  two People Leadership Programs, ‘Embark’ for transforming  employees into first time people managers and ‘Ascent’, which  grooms people managers to lead large teams and functions.
The results have been overwhelming with more than 200 of our  people poised and ready to transform into leaders of tomorrow.
The Airtel Leadership Series – a continuation of the Career Fair,  saw industry experts from the external world as well as senior  leaders from the Company talk about the business challenges  and available opportunities.
The Company also launched  Insight+, a 360 degree feedback tool available on a mobile  app for people to seek feedback from their stakeholders and  enable them to work on perceived areas of improvement.
It also  made career coaching real and actionable for our people and  empowered them to choose their mentors and seek advice on  their career path with Coaching Conversations – a tool available  on our intranet platform.
Grooming and cultivating talent is a focus area around which  the third pillar – Grow was designed to ensure that Airtel and  employees both become ’Future Ready’.
Career development  programs for different functions were launched to enable and  prepare its people to take up larger roles with seven such  learning ‘academies’ being institutionalized, an example being  the Retail Leadership Academy.
T o empower the people to take  charge of their own careers and curate their career paths, we  launched the My Career app on our internal mobile platform  – Hive.
The app enables employees to take the next big leap  in their career by exploring suitable roles.
The aim of these  initiatives is for the people to be good navigators of their own  career, and even try unconventional paths.
These initiatives have  resulted into a strong internal succession pipeline that helps us  to provide people with growth opportunities.
It also continued  to focus on attracting dynamic and agile leaders of the future  through its prestigious ‘Young Leader’ and ‘Young T echnical  Leader’ campus programs and these vibrant minds continue to  infuse youthful energy and expertise.
T o improve employee engagement, the Company launched  “Workplace by Facebook” for all employees, opening the doors  for digital collaboration and communication to all employees,  with over 11,500 accounts being claimed so far.
It is also keen  on listening to the voice of its people, and 8200+ employees  have expressed themselves via the Mood-O-Meter App.
The Company continued to strengthen its Diversity Agenda  under the ‘WE’ – Women Empowered platform beginning with  celebrating women achievers across functions and circles with  the ‘We Achieve’ programme.
It launched ‘She For Change’ – a  compendium of stories documenting personal narratives of  transformation by our women employees this Women’s Day and  also continued with our ‘WE Lead’ sessions with accomplished  women leaders for the industry.
Statutory Reports Management Discussion and Analysis 129 Integrated Report 006-056 Financial Statements 160-317 Africa  In Africa, Airtel is focusing on building functional skills  within the workforce, specifically in Network & Information  T echnology, which is the backbone.
It has recognized the  need to build expertise internally, reducing the dependence on  vendor-managed services.
T o this end, it launched Airtel 101.
Through its interactive learning interface, the app provides an  enjoyable and engaging learning experience for employees.
In  addition, Airtel E-Learning platform was revamped to feature  a refreshed catalogue of programs, updated with the most  current online content in a wide range of cross-functional skills.
These e-learning programs are running concurrent to other  classroom based and coaching interventions that are in place  to enhance skills transfer.
The Airtel - Tigo merger in Rwanda  was announced and communicated to all employees.
T o ensure  that the new entity molds itself in the Airtel culture, steps were  taken to build cohesiveness amongst teams.
We implemented  a dedicated people focused strategy encompassing all facets of  human resources.
In Ghana, we operationalized the formation of  the joint venture with Tigo.
Giving back to the community has always been one of the  key priorities for Airtel in Africa.
The “Change Maker awards”  provides a platform to our OpCos to showcase best practices  in CSR and employee participation.
This year’s Change Maker  Awards were presented to Kenya, Malawi, Madagascar and  T anzania.
Driven by the vision of HR being a core business  function that lays the road instead of just filling the cracks,  harnessing people energies and talent has been a significant  factor in the business turnaround.
As a business critical function,  HR in Africa is keeping pace with the changing workforce trends  of adopting technology and mobility.
At Airtel, our endeavor is to create and groom a rich pool of talent  across verticals to contribute to our vision of building a vibrant,  agile, digital and dynamic organization.
As it marches into the  future with optimism and zeal, it hopes to groom its people to  take on bigger challenges with remarkable adroitness and flair.
Outlook Indian economy is expected to reclaim the fastest growing  economy title in 2018.
Strong private consumption and  services are expected to continue to provide fillip to India’s  growth.
Government of India’s Digital Drive will focus on digital  technologies and be the biggest driver in improving quality of  education, healthcare and rural sector.
The budget proposal to  double the allocation to Digital India initiative is a fine booster  to transform the digital economy.
This will provide enormous  opportunity to telecom industry as well and guide telcos to move  to next-gen networks efficiently and effectively.
This would also  work on development of the Internet of Things and machine to  machine applications.
The high usage of mobile internet during  the year has accelerated digital adoption in India, even in rural  pockets.
The digital industry in India has leapfrogged in the past  few years, with the number of smartphone users in the country  estimated at ~400 Mn in 2018, and phones accounting for >70%  of all internet consumption.
Increased internet penetration allows  global brands to reach the doorsteps of customers in remote  places, adding to the value of investing in India.
Africa’s economic pulse has accelerated infusing the continent  with a new commercial vibrancy.
T elecommunications, banking,  and retailing are flourishing.
Sub-Saharan Africa’s telecom  market offers strong revenue growth opportunities in most  markets, with more than 1.0 Bn mobile connections and over  USD 45 Bn in total service revenue forecasted by 2022.
The  increased availability of low-cost smartphones and improved  coverage of 3G and 4G networks are helping to drive the  demand for data connectivity and the take-up of digital services  including mobile money which has significantly contributed to  changing the financial inclusion landscape.
With convergence of mobility services, entertainment, banking,  education, role of a smartphone has expanded enormously.
Airtel is the only player with an integrated product portfolio, and  wide geographical presence.
Bharti Airtel’s Network leadership  and excellent customer experience delivery will continue to  stimulate Company’s growth against its competitors.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 130  Report on Corporate Governance Corporate Governance is more than a set of processes and  compliances at Bharti Airtel Limited.
It underlines the role  that we see for ourselves for today, tomorrow and beyond.
The following report on Corporate Governance reflecting ethos  of Bharti Airtel Limited (Bharti Airtel / Airtel / the Company)  and its continuous commitment to ethical business principles  across its operations, lays down the best practices and the  procedures adopted by the Company in line with the Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (Listing Regulations) and  internationally followed standards of corporate governance.
Governance Philosophy At Bharti Airtel, Corporate Governance focuses on creating and  sustaining a deep relationship of trust and transparency with  all stakeholders.
We follow ethical business standards in all our  operations globally.
We consider stakeholders as partners in our  journey forward and we are committed to ensure their wellbeing,  despite business challenges and economic volatilities.
Our governance philosophy reflect our commitment to disclose  timely and accurate information regarding our financial  and operational performance, as well as our leadership  and governance structure.
Over the years, our stakeholder  commitment has enhanced the respect and recall of our  brand nationally and internationally.
Our global stature  has enabled us to attract the best talent and resources to   translate our short-term and long-term strategies into a viable  business blueprint.
Our Board of Directors (‘Board’) shapes the long-term vision and  policy approach to steadily elevate the quality of governance  in our organisation.
We follow global standards of Corporate  Governance and continuously benchmark ourselves to adopt  the best practices.
The objective is to emerge as a market  leader in our industry, nationally and internationally with focus  on creating greater value for all those who have a stake in our  progress directly or indirectly.
The Board puts a lot of emphasis  on creating a global talent pool, compliant ethical business  practices and making all our actions consistent with the need  to protect the environment by following green practices and  technologies.
Our Board represents a confluence of experience and  expertise across diverse areas, ranging from global finance,  telecommunication, general management, administrative  services and consulting.
There is a clear demarcation of duties and responsibilities  among the Chairman and Managing Directors & CEOs to ensure  best corporate performance and socio-economic value creation.
Our governance conforms to global standards through  continuous evaluation and benchmarking.
The broad tenets  Company follows are: > Transparent procedures and practices and decisions based  on adequate information.
> Compliance with all relevant laws in letter and spirit.
> High levels of disclosures to disseminate corporate, financial  and operational information to all stakeholders.
> Policies on tenure of Directors, rotation of Auditors and a  Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management.
> Constitution of various Committees for Audit, HR and  Nomination, Risk Management, Corporate Social Responsibility,  Employee Stock Option Plans, Stakeholders’ Relationship etc.
> Complete and timely disclosure of relevant financial and  operational information to enable the Board to play an  effective role in guiding strategies.
> Meetings of Independent Directors without the presence of  any Non-Independent / Executive Directors and members  from the management to identify areas, where they need more  clarity or information and for open and transparent discussions  and placing these before the Board and management.
> Formal induction schedule and familiarisation programme  for new Board members that enable them to meet  individually with the top management team, customers etc.
> Regularly reviews and establishes effective meeting  practices that encourage active participation and  contribution from all members.
> Independence of Directors in reviewing and approving  corporate strategy, major business plans and activities.
> Well-defined corporate structure that establishes checks,  balances and delegates decision making to appropriate  levels in the organisation though the Board always remains  in effective control of affairs.
Bharti Airtel has always followed the highest principles  and standards of corporate governance and continually  endeavoured to outperform its peers.
Bharti Airtel’s global  recognition, among others by Transparency International,  FTI Consulting, Asian Centre for Corporate Governance &  Sustainability, The Institute of Directors (Golden Peacock  Award for excellence in Corporate Governance) and  the Institute of Company Secretaries of India is a grand  acknowledgement of the defined and structured framework  of Corporate Governance embedded in Bharti Airtel’s culture.
Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports Report on Corporate Governance Financial Statements 160-317 131  Corporate Governance Rating CRISIL has assigned to Bharti Airtel its Governance and Value  Creation (GVC) rating, viz.
CRISIL GVC Level 1 for Corporate  Governance practices.
The rating indicates that Bharti Airtel’s  capability, with respect to Corporate Governance and value  creation for all its stakeholders, is the highest.
The Company is  fully cognizant that standards are a constantly upwardly moving  target.
Therefore, it always strives to benchmark itself with the  best companies in India and globally and to maintain the highest  ratings for its practices.
Governance Structure Sustaining a culture of integrity along with high performance  orientation and an adaptive management style in today’s  dynamic business environment needs a robust governance  structure.
The Corporate Governance structure of the Company  is multi-tiered, comprising governing / management Boards  at various levels, each of which is interlinked in the following  manner: > At the apex level is the Board of Directors and various  committees, which collectively direct the highest standards  of Corporate Governance and transparency in the  Company’s functioning.
The Board exercises independent  judgment in overseeing management performance on  behalf of the share owners and other stakeholders, and  hence, plays a vital role in the oversight and management of  the Company.
The Board is chaired by the Chairman, who is  responsible for the overall strategy development, alliances,  leadership development, international opportunities,  strengthening governance practices and enhancing brand  value and Airtel’s global image and reputation.
> At one level below the Board, strategic co-ordination  and direction is provided by the Airtel Corporate Council  (ACC).
The ACC is headed by the Chairman and comprises  the Managing Directors & CEOs and selected senior  management personnel as its members.
The key role and  responsibilities of the ACC are provided later in this report.
> The Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia) is  responsible for strategy deployment and overall business  performance of India and South Asia.
He is supported by  the Airtel Management Board (AMB).
The Company’s  business in India is structured into six business units (BUs)  i.e.
Mobile Services, Homes, Airtel Business, Global Voice &  Data Business, Wynk and Emerging Businesses and Digital  TV Services.
While the Mobile Services business is headed  by the MD & CEO (India & South Asia) himself, the other five  businesses are headed by respective CEOs.
The Company’s  operations in India are run in 22 Circles, each headed by  Circle CEO or a Chief Operating Officer, each supported by  an Executive Committee.
The Sri Lankan operations are  headed by the Country MD, supported by an Executive  Committee.
> The Company’s operations in Africa are guided by  the Managing Director & CEO (Africa) of Bharti Airtel  International (Netherlands) B. V ., a subsidiary company.
He is responsible for strategy deployment and overall  business performance.
He is supported by the Africa  Executive Committee (Exco).
Each of the operations in the  14 countries in Africa are headed by a Country MD, each  supported by an Executive Committee.
> The AMB in India and South Asia, and Exco in Africa provide  support relating to the Company’s business strategy and  also derive operational synergies across business units.
They own and drive company-wide processes, systems,  policies, and also function as role models for leadership  development and as catalysts for imbibing customer  centricity and meritocracy in the Company.
> Airtel’s governance structure thus helps in clearly  determining the responsibilities and entrusted powers  of each of the business entities, enabling them to fulfill  those responsibilities in the most effective manner.
It  also allows the Company to retain the organisational  DNA, while enabling effective delegation of authority and  empowerment at all levels.
> Airtel Payments Bank is an unlisted subsidiary in which the  Company owns 80.10%, the remaining 19.90% is held by  Kotak Mahindra Bank.
The Payment Bank’s operations are  managed by its MD & CEO, under the supervision of an  independent Board.
> The Passive Infrastructure business is deployed, owned  and managed by Bharti Infratel Limited (Infratel), a listed  subsidiary company.
Infratel’s operations are managed by  its Managing Director & CEO under the supervision of an  Independent Board.
The business transactions between  the Company and Infratel are undertaken on an arms’  length basis, since it provides services to other telecom  operators as well, on a non-discriminatory basis.
Board of Directors Composition of the Board The Company’s Board is an optimum mix of Executive, Non- Executive and Independent Directors, and conforms with the  provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, Listing Regulations,  Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 132  FDI guidelines, terms of shareholders’ agreement and other  statutory provisions.
The Board comprises eleven members  which includes a Chairman, a Managing Director & CEO (India &  South Asia), three Non-Executive Directors and six Independent  Directors.
Detailed profile of each of the Directors is available on the  Company’s website at www.airtel.com in the ‘Investors’ section.
The Company’s Board members are from diverse backgrounds  with skills and experience in critical areas like technology, global  finance, telecommunication, entrepreneurship, administrative  services, consulting and general management.
Many of them  have worked extensively in senior management positions in  global corporations, and others are business leaders of repute  with a deep understanding of the global business environment.
The Board reviews its strength and composition from time to  time to ensure that it remains aligned with the statutory, as well  as business requirements.
As per the Company’s Policy on Nomination, Remuneration  and Board Diversity, selection of a new Board member(s) is  the responsibility of the HR and Nomination Committee, which  is subsequently approved by the Board.
All the appointments  are made with unanimous approval.
The appointment of such  new Director is subsequently approved by the shareholders at  the Annual General Meeting (AGM).
While the shareholders’  representative Directors are proposed by the respective  shareholders, Independent Directors are selected from diverse  academic, professional or technical background depending  upon business needs.
Independent Directors The Company has a policy on Independent Directors, their  roles, responsibilities and duties are consistent with the  Listing Regulations and Section 149 of the Companies Act,  2013.
It sets out the criteria of independence, age limits,  recommended tenure, committee memberships, remuneration  and other related terms of appointment.
The policy emphasises  importance of independence.
As per the policy: a) The Independent Director must meet the baseline definition  and criteria on ‘independence’ as set out in Listing  Regulations and Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013  and other regulations.
b) The Independent Director must not be disqualified from  being appointed as Director in terms of Section 164 and  other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. c) The minimum age is 25 years and the maximum is 70  years.
d) The Independent Directors are not to be on the Board of  more than six listed companies.
However, pursuant to the  Listing Regulations if the Independent Director is serving as  a Whole-time Director in any listed company then he shall  not serve as an Independent Director in more than three  listed companies.
e) The maximum tenure is two terms of five years each.
However, the second term is subject to approval by  shareholders by way of special resolution.
The Company has issued letters of appointment to all the  Independent Directors.
This letter inter-alia sets out the  roles, functions, duties and responsibilities, details regarding  remuneration, training and development and performance  evaluation process.
The detailed terms and conditions of  the appointment of Independent Directors are available on  the Company’s website i.e.
http://www.airtel.in/wps/wcm/ connect/2ffaf2d2-d542-44e2-a42a-50225c9245f5/T erms- and-Conditions-of-Appointment-of-Independent-Director.
pdf?MOD=AJPERES.
At the time of appointment and thereafter at the beginning of  each financial year, the Independent Directors submit a self- declaration, confirming their independence and compliance  with various eligibility criteria laid down by the Company among  other disclosures and the Company also ensures that its  Directors meet the above eligibility criteria.
All such declarations  are placed before the Board for information.
Lead Independent Director The Company has for a long time followed the practice of  appointing a Lead Independent Director.
Mr. Craig Ehrlich is  currently designated as the Lead Independent Director and his  role and responsibilities, inter-alia, are to: > Preside over all deliberation sessions of the Independent  Directors.
> Provide objective feedback of the Independent Directors as  a group to the Board on various matters, including agenda  and other matters relating to the Company.
> Undertake such other assignments, as may be requested  by the Board from time to time.
Meeting of Independent Directors The Independent Directors meet separately at least once  in a quarter, prior to the commencement of Board meeting,  without the presence of any Non-Independent Directors or  representatives of management.
They meet to discuss and  Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports Report on Corporate Governance Financial Statements 160-317 133  form an independent opinion on the agenda items, various  other Board-related matters, identify areas where they need  clarity or information from management and to annually review  the performance of Non-Independent Directors, the Board as  a whole and the Chairman.
The Lead Independent Director  updates the Board about the proceedings of the meeting.
In these meetings, the Independent Directors also engage  with Statutory Auditors, as well as Internal Assurance Partners  at least once a year, to discuss internal audit effectiveness,  control environment, internal financial controls and their general  feedback.
The Lead Independent Director updates the Audit  Committee / the Board about the outcome of the meetings and  action, if any, required to be taken by the Company.
During FY 2017-18, the Independent Directors met four times  i.e.
on May 09, 2017, July 25, 2017, October 31, 2017 and  January 18, 2018.
Familiarisation programme for Board members The Company has adopted a well-structured two-day induction  programme for orientation and training of Directors at the time  of their joining so as to provide them with an opportunity to  familiarise themselves with the Company, its management, its  operations and the industry in which the Company operates.
The induction programme includes one-to-one interactive  sessions with the top management team, business and functional  heads among others, and also includes visit to networks centre  to understand the operations and technology.
Apart from the  induction programme, the Company periodically presents  updates at the Board/Committee meetings to familiarise the  Directors with the Company’s strategy, business performance,  operations, product offerings, finance, risk management  framework, human resources and other related matters.
The  Board members also visit Airtel outlets and meet customers /  other stakeholders for gaining first-hand experience about the  products and services of the Company.
The Board has an active communication channel with the executive  management, which enable Directors to raise queries, seek  clarifications for enabling a good understanding of the Company  and its various operations.
Quarterly updates, press releases and  mid-quarter updates are regularly circulated to the Directors to  keep them abreast on significant developments in the Company.
Detailed familiarisation programme for Directors is available  on the Company’s website at http://www.airtel.in/wps/ wcm/connect/ea0152dc-a649-40ae-89d9-b3cec142d249/ Familiarisation+Programme+for+Board+Members.
pdf?MOD=AJPERES&ContentCache=NONE  Board Evaluation One of the key functions of the Board is to monitor and review the  Board evaluation framework.
In compliance with the provisions  of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations, the HR  and Nomination Committee has approved the process, format,  attributes and criteria for the performance evaluation of the  Board, Board Committees and Individual Directors including the  Chairman and MD & CEO (India and South Asia).
The process provides that the performance evaluation shall be  carried out on an annual basis.
During the year, the Directors  completed the evaluation process, which included evaluation  of the Board as a whole, Board Committees and individual  Directors including the Chairman and the MD & CEO (India  and South Asia).
The evaluation process was facilitated by an  independent consulting firm.
Performance of the Board and Board Committees was evaluated  on various parameters such as structure, composition, quality,  diversity, experience, competencies, performance of specific  duties and obligations, quality of decision-making and overall  Board effectiveness.
Performance of individual Directors was evaluated on  parameters, such as meeting attendance, participation and  contribution, engagement with colleagues on the Board,  responsibility towards stakeholders and independent  judgement.
All the directors were subject to peer-evaluation.
The Chairman and the MD & CEO (India & South Asia) were  evaluated on certain additional parameters, such as performance  of the Company, leadership, relationships, communication,  recognition and awards received by the Company.
Some of the performance indicators based on which the  Independent Directors were evaluated include: > Devotion of sufficient time and attention towards  professional obligations for independent decision making  and for acting in the best interest of the Company.
> Providing strategic guidance to the Company and help  determine important policies with a view to ensure long- term viability and strength.
> Bringing external expertise and independent judgement  that contributes objectivity in the Board’s deliberation,  particularly on issues of strategy, performance and conflict  management.
All Directors participated in the evaluation process.
The results  of evaluation were discussed in the Independent Director’s  meeting, respective Committee meetings and in the Board  Meeting held on April 24, 2018.
The Board discussed the  Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 134  performance evaluation reports of the board, board committees,  individual directors, Chairman and Managing Directors & CEO  (India and South Asia) and also noted the suggestions / inputs  of independent directors, HR and Nomination Committee and  respective committee Chairman.
Recommendations arising  from this entire process were deliberated upon by the Board to  augment its effectiveness and optimize individual strengths of  the Directors.
Board Meeting Schedules and Agenda The calendar for the Board and Committee meetings, in which  the financial results would be considered in the ensuing year, as  well as major items of the agenda are fixed in advance for the  whole year.
The Board Calendar for the financial year 2018-19 has  been disclosed later in the report and has also been uploaded on  the Company’s website.
The Board meetings are held within 45  days from the end of the quarter in the manner that it coincides  with the announcement of quarterly results.
Time gap between  two consecutive meetings does not exceed 120 days.
In case of  necessity, additional Board meetings are called.
The Audit Committee and the HR and Nomination Committee  meetings are generally held on the same dates as Board  meetings.
T o ensure an immediate update to the Board, the  Chairman of the respective committee briefs the Board about  the proceedings of the respective committee meetings.
The Company Secretary, in consultation with the Chairman,  prepares Board and Committee meeting’s agenda.
The detailed  agenda, along with explanatory notes and annexures, as  applicable are sent to the Board and Committee members, at  least a week before the meetings except for the meetings called  at a shorter notice.
In special and exceptional circumstances,  additional or supplementary item(s) are permitted to be taken up  as ‘any other item’.
Sensitive subject matters are discussed at the  meeting, without written material being circulated in advance.
As a process, prior to each Board meeting, proposals are invited  from Independent Directors for discussion / deliberation at the  meeting(s) and these are included in the meeting’s agenda to  promote objective decision making.
The Board devotes its significant time in evaluation of current  and potential strategic issues and reviews Company’s business  plans, Corporate strategy and risk management issues based  on the markets it operates in and in light of global industry  trends and developments to help achieve its strategic goals.
Global CFO and other Senior Management members are invited  to the Board meetings to present reports on the items being  discussed at the meeting.
In addition, the functional heads of  various business segments / functions are also invited at regular  intervals to present updates on their core areas.
Information available to the Board The Board has complete access to all the relevant information  within the Company and to all the employees of the Company.
The information shared on a regular basis with the Board  specifically includes: > Annual operating plans, capital budgets and updates  therein.
> Quarterly and annual consolidated and standalone results  and financial statements of the Company and its operating  divisions or business segments.
> Minutes of meetings of the Board and Board Committees,  resolutions passed by circulations, and Board minutes of  the unlisted subsidiary companies.
> Information on recruitment / remuneration of senior officers  just below Board level.
> Material important show cause, demand, prosecution  notices and penalty notices, if any.
> Fatal or serious accidents, dangerous occurrences, material  effluent or pollution problems, if any.
> Any material default in financial obligations to and by the  Company or substantial non-payment for services provided  by the Company.
> Any issue which involves possible public or product liability  claims of substantial nature, if any.
> Details of any acquisition, joint venture or collaboration  agreement.
> Transactions involving substantial payment towards  goodwill, brand equity or intellectual property.
> Human resource updates and strategies.
> Sale of material nature, of investments, subsidiaries, assets,  which is not in the normal course of business.
> Quarterly treasury reports.
> Quarterly compliance certificates with the ‘Exceptions  Reports’, which includes non-compliance of any regulatory,  statutory nature or listing requirements and shareholders  service.
> Disclosures received from Directors.
> Proposals requiring strategic guidance and approval of the  Board.
Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports Report on Corporate Governance Financial Statements 160-317 135  > Related party transactions.
> Regular business updates.
> Update on Corporate Social Responsibility activities.
> Significant transactions and arrangements by subsidiary companies.
> Report on action taken on last Board meeting decisions.
Number of Board Meetings During FY 2017-18, the Board met eight times i.e.
on May 09, 2017, July 18, 2017, July 25, 2017, October 12, 2017, October 31,  2017, December 19, 2017, January 18, 2018 and March 12, 2018.
Requisite information, according to the requirements of Regulation  34 of the Listing Regulations is provided below: 1.
The directorships, held by Directors, as mentioned above, do not include the directorships held in foreign body corporates and Bharti Airtel Limited.
2.
Committees considered for the purpose are those prescribed under Regulation 26 of the Listing Regulations viz.
Audit Committee and Stakeholders’  Relationship Committee of Indian Public Limited companies other than Bharti Airtel Limited.
Committee memberships details provided do not include  chairmanship of committees as it has been provided separately.
Name of  Director Director  Identification  Number Category Number of other directorships1  and committee2 memberships and  chairmanships No.
of board  meetings  attended  (total held  during tenure) Whether  attended  last AGM Directorships Committees Chairman Member Mr. Sunil Bharti  Mittal 00042491 Chairman 14 Nil Nil 8(8) Yes Mr. Gopal Vittal 02291778 Executive  Director 4 Nil 1 7(8) Yes Ms. Chua Sock  Koong3 00047851 Non-Executive  Director 1 Nil Nil 4(8) Yes Mr. Rakesh  Bharti Mittal 00042494 Non-Executive  Director  17 Nil Nil 8(8) Yes Sheikh Faisal  Thani Al-Thani4 06675785 Non-Executive  Director N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
0(3) No Mr. Rashed  Fahad Al-Noaimi5 07887199 Non-Executive  Director N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
0(2) N.A.
Ms. T an Yong  Choo 02910529 Non-Executive  Director 1 Nil Nil 7(8) Yes Mr. Ben  Verwaayen 06735687 Independent  Director Nil Nil Nil 3(8) No Mr. Craig Ehrlich 02612082 Independent  Director Nil Nil Nil 2(8) Yes Mr. D.K.
Mittal 00040000 Independent  Director 11 Nil 4 8(8) Yes Mr. Manish  Kejriwal 00040055 Independent  Director 4 Nil 2 4(8) No Mr. Shishir  Priyadarshi 03459204 Independent  Director 1 Nil Nil 5(8) No Mr. V .
K.  Viswanathan 01782934 Independent  Director 8 4 4 8(8) Yes Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 136  (Amount in J) Name of Director Sitting Fees Salary and  allowances Performance  linked incentive Perquisites Commission T otal Executive directors Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal -- 201,352,623 90,000,000 10,616,146 -- 301,968,769 Mr. Gopal Vittal -- 78,911,194 47,500,000 35,522 -- 126,446,716 Non-executive directors Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal-- -- -- -- 3,000,000 3,000,000 Mr. Ben Verwaayen 300,000 -- -- -- 14,463,506 14,763,506 Ms. Chua Sock Koong -- -- -- -- 3,910,500 3,910,500 Mr. Craig Ehrlich 200,000 -- -- -- 8,472,750 8,672,750 Mr. D.K.
Mittal 1,300,000 -- -- -- 7,080,822 8,380,822 Mr. Manish Kejriwal 400,000 -- -- -- 6,338,356 6,738,356 Ms. T an Yong Choo -- -- -- -- 3,910,500 3,910,500 Sheikh Faisal Thani Al-Thani -- -- -- -- 1,232,075 1,232,075 Mr. Rashed Fahad Al-Noaimi -- -- -- -- 1,285,644 1,285,644 Mr. Shishir Priyadarshi 500,000 -- -- -- 9,776,250 10,276,250 Mr. V .K.
Viswanathan 800,000 -- -- -- 8,000,000 8,800,000 T otal 3,500,000 280,263,817 137,500,000 10,651,668 67,470,403 499,385,888 3.
One meeting was attended by Mr. Mark Chong Chin Kok, alternate director and one meeting was attended by Mr. T ao Yih Arthur Lang, alternate director.
4.
Sheikh Faisal Thani Al-Thani resigned w.e.f.
July 25, 2017.
5.
Mr. Rashed Fahad Al-Noaimi was appointed as non-executive director w.e.f.
July 25, 2017 and resigned w.e.f.
November 22, 2017.
6.
Except Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal and Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal, who are brothers, none of the Directors are relatives of any other director.
7.
As on March 31, 2018, apart from Mr. Gopal Vittal, Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia) who holds 298,885 equity shares, no other Director of the  Company holds shares in the Company.
Nomination, Remuneration & Board Diversity In terms of the Listing Regulations and Companies Act, 2013, the Board has approved a Policy on Nomination, Remuneration and  Board Diversity for Directors, KMPs and other Senior Management Personnel and includes the criteria of making payments to non- executive directors.
The Company’s remuneration policy is directed towards rewarding performance based on a periodic review of the achievements  periodically.
The detailed Nomination, Remuneration and Board Diversity Policy is annexed as Annexure B to the Board’s Report.
The Company  affirms that the remuneration paid to the Directors is as per terms laid out in the Nomination, Remuneration and Board Diversity Policy.
Directors’ Remuneration The details of the remuneration of Directors during FY 2017-18 are given below: > The salary and allowance includes the Company’s contribution to the Provident Fund.
Liability for gratuity and leave encashment is provided on actuarial  basis for the Company as a whole, the amount pertaining to the Directors is not ascertainable and, therefore, not included.
> The value of the perquisites is calculated as per the provisions of the Income T ax Act, 1961.
> Value of Performance Linked Incentive (PLI) considered above represents incentive which will accrue at 100% performance level for FY 2017-18 and will  get paid basis actual performance parameters in the next financial year.
At 100% performance level, the gross remuneration of Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal was   H 301,968,769 for FY 2017-18 and H 301,442,108 for FY 2016-17 and that of Mr. Gopal Vittal was H 126,446,716 for FY 2017-18 and H 92,884,551 for   FY 2016-17.
During the year, Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal and Mr. Gopal Vittal were paid H 105,000,000 and H 38,131,027 respectively as PLI for previous year  2016-17.
Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports Report on Corporate Governance Financial Statements 160-317 137  > During the year, Mr. Gopal Vittal was granted 105,000 and 30,000 stock  options on August 08, 2017 under ESOP Scheme 2005 at an exercise  price of H 5 per Option, with vesting period spread over 3 years and 2  years respectively.
The above remuneration of Mr. Gopal Vittal does  not include perquisite value of H 43,286,800 towards the value of Stock  Options exercised during the year.
The options can be converted into equity shares either in full or in  tranches at any time upto seven years from the grant date.
The  unexercised vested options can be carried forward throughout the  exercise period.
The options which are not exercised will lapse after the  expiry of the exercise period.
No other director has been granted any stock option during the year.
> The Company has entered into contracts with the executive directors  i.e.
Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal dated August 19, 2016 and with Mr. Gopal  Vittal dated July 24, 2017.
These are based on the approval of the  shareholders.
There are no other contracts with any other director.
> No notice period or severance fee is payable to any director.
> There were no other pecuniary relationships or transactions of Non- Executive Directors vis-à-vis the Company.
Board Committees In compliance with the statutory requirements, the Board has  constituted various committees with specific terms of reference  and scope.
The objective is to focus effectively on the issues  and ensure expedient resolution of the diverse matters.
The committees operate as the Board’s empowered agents  according to their charter / terms of reference.
The Constitution  and charter of the Board Committees are available on the  Company’s website, www.airtel.com, and are also stated herein.
Audit Committee The Board in their meeting held on January 18, 2018, constituted  separate Risk Management Committee and the nomenclature  of Audit & Risk Management Committee was changed to Audit  Committee.
Audit Committee comprises four Directors, three  of whom are independent.
The Chairman of the Committee,  Mr. V .
K. Viswanathan, Independent Director is a Chartered  Accountant and has sound financial knowledge, as well as many  years of experience in general management.
All members of  the Audit Committee, including the Chairman, have accounting  and financial management expertise.
The composition of the  Audit Committee meets the requirements of Section 177 of the  Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations.
The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
The  Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia), the Managing  Director & CEO (Africa), the Global CFO, the Group Director –  Internal Assurance, the Statutory Auditors, Internal Auditors and  Internal Assurance Partners are permanent invitees.
The Chairman of the Committee was present at the last AGM,  held on July 24, 2017.
Key Responsibilities of the Audit Committee > Oversee the Company’s financial reporting process and  the disclosure of its financial information, to ensure that the  financial statements are correct, sufficient and credible.
> Consider and recommend to the Board, the appointment  (including filling of a casual vacancy), resignation or  dismissal, remuneration and terms of appointment  (including qualification and experience) of the Statutory  Auditor, Internal Auditors / Chief Internal Auditor, Cost  Auditor and Secretarial Auditor.
> Prior approval of non-audit services that can be provided  by the Statutory Auditors and approval of payment of such  non-audit services.
> Prior approval of all transactions with related party(ies),  subsequent modifications of transactions with related  parties and review of the statement of significant related  party transactions with specific details of the transactions.
> Discussion with the Statutory Auditor before the  commencement of audit about the nature and scope of  the audit to be conducted and post-audit discussion to  ascertain any areas of concern.
> T o call for comments of the Auditors about internal control  system, including the observation of the Auditors, review  financial statement before their submission to the Board  and discussion on any related issues with the Internal and  Statutory Auditors and the management of the Company.
> Review, with the Management, the quarterly financial  statements before submission to the Board for approval.
> Review, with the Management, the annual financial  statements and Auditor’s Report thereon before submission  to the Board for approval, with particular reference to:  > Matters required to be included in the Directors’  responsibility statement, included in the Board’s report  in terms of clause (c) of sub-section 3 of Section 134 of  the Companies Act, 2013.
> Changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices  and reasons for the same.
> Major accounting entries involving estimates based on  the exercise of judgment by management.
> Significant adjustments made in the financial  statements arising out of audit findings.
> Compliance with listing and other legal requirements  relating to financial statement.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 138   > Disclosure of all related party transactions.
> Modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report.
> Review the following information:  > Management Discussion and Analysis of financial  condition and results of operations.
> Management letter / letters of internal control  weaknesses issued by the Statutory Auditors.
> Internal Audit Reports relating to internal control  weaknesses.
> The financial statements, in particular the investments,  if any, made by unlisted subsidiary companies.
> Quarterly compliance certificates confirming  compliance with laws and regulations, including any  exceptions to these compliances.
> Oversee the functioning of the Vigil Mechanism / Whistle  Blower Mechanism.
> Establish the systems for storage, retrieval and display of  books of accounts and other financial records in electronic  format.
> Review the findings of any internal investigation by the  Internal Auditors into matters where there is suspected  fraud or irregularity, or a failure of internal control systems  of a material nature and reporting the matter to the Board.
> Review the reasons for substantial defaults, if any, in the  payment to the depositors, debenture holders, shareholders  (in case of non-payment of declared dividends) and  creditors, if any.
> Approve the appointment, re-appointment and removal  of Company’s Chief Financial Officer after assessing the  qualifications, experience and background, among others,  of the candidate.
> Review the Company’s financial and risk management  policies, implementation of treasury policies, strategies and  status of investor relation activities.
> Ensure that the internal audit function is effective,  adequately resourced, and to review coordination between  Internal and Statutory Auditors.
> Review the state and adequacy of internal controls with  key members of the Management, Statutory Auditors and  Internal Auditors.
> Discuss with the Internal Auditor the coverage, functioning,  frequency and methodology of internal audits as per the  annual audit plan and discuss significant findings and  follow up thereon.
> Review and monitor the Statutory and Internal Auditor’s  independence, performance and effectiveness of audit  process.
> Review and scrutinize the inter-corporate loans and  investments.
> Monitor and review with the Management, the statement of  uses / application of funds raised through an issue (public  issue, right issue and preferential issue, among others), the  statement of funds utilised for purposes, other than those  stated in the offer document / prospectus / notice and the  report submitted by the monitoring agency monitoring the  utilisation of proceeds of a public or right issue, and making  appropriate recommendations to the Board to take up  steps in this matter.
> Valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company,  wherever necessary.
> Appointment of a registered valuer of the Company and  fixation of their terms and conditions.
> Evaluation of internal financial controls.
> Delegate above said functions to Sub-Committees,  whenever required.
> The Audit Committee shall also undertake such other  functions, as may be assigned by the Board of Directors  from time to time, or as may be stipulated under any law,  rule or regulation including the Listing Regulations and the  Companies Act, 2013.
Powers of the Audit Committee > Investigate any activity within its terms of reference.
> Seek any information that it requires from any employee of  the Company, and all employees are directed to cooperate  with any request made by the Committee.
> Obtain outside legal or independent professional advice.
> Secure attendance of outsiders with relevant expertise.
> Access sufficient resources to carry out its duties.
Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports Report on Corporate Governance Financial Statements 160-317 139  Meetings, Attendance and Composition of the Audit  Committee During FY 2017-18, the Committee met six times i.e.
on May 09,  2017, July 25, 2017, October 31, 2017, December 19, 2017,  January 18, 2018 and March 12, 2018.
Beside the Committee meetings as above, the Committee also  holds a conference call before every regular Committee meeting  to discuss routine internal audit issues and other matters.
This  provides an opportunity to the Committee to devote more time  on other significant matters in the regular Committee meeting.
During FY 2017-18, the Committee had met four times through  the conference call i.e.
May 02, 2017, July 18, 2017, October 17,  2017 and January 16, 2018.
All recommendations made by the Audit Committee were  accepted by the Board.
The composition and the attendance of members at the  meetings held during FY 2017-18, are given below: Name Category Number of  meetings  attended  (total held  during  tenure) Number of  conference  calls attended  (total  conducted  during tenure) Mr. V .
K.  Viswanathan  (Chairman) Independent  Director 6(6) 4(4) Mr. Craig  Ehrlich Independent  Director 2(6) 4(4) Ms. T an Yong  Choo Non- Executive  Director 5(6) 4(4) Mr. Dinesh  Kumar Mittal Independent  Director 6(6) 3(4) Audit Committee Report for the year ended March  31, 2018 T o the Shareholders of Bharti Airtel Limited The Audit Committee (“Committee”) is pleased to present its  report for the year ended March 31, 2018: 1.
The Committee presently comprises four members  of whom three-fourths, including the Chairman are  Independent Directors, as against the requirement of two- thirds prescribed under Regulation 18 of the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Section 177 of the  Companies Act, 2013.
2.
The responsibility for the Company’s internal controls and  financial reporting processes lies with the Management.
The  Statutory Auditors have the responsibility of performing an  independent audit of the Company’s financial statements  in accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind- AS) and issuing a report thereon.
The Ombudsperson is  responsible for the Company’s Whistle Blower Mechanism.
3.
The Company has in place an Internal Assurance Group (IAG)  headed by a Group Director – Internal Assurance, who acts  as the Chief Internal Auditor in accordance with Section 138  of the Companies Act (the incumbent has resigned effective  March 8, 2018 and the Company is in the process of identifying  a suitable replacement).
The Company also has Ernst & Young  LLP and ANB & Co., Chartered Accountants, Mumbai as the  internal assurance partners which carry out the internal audit  basis a detailed internal audit plan which is reviewed each  year in consultation with the IAG and the Audit Committee.
These audits are based on risk based methodology and inter- alia involve the review of internal controls and governance  processes, adherence to management policies and review  of statutory compliances.
Besides the Committee meetings  as above, the Committee also holds a conference call  before every regular Committee meeting to specifically  discuss internal audit issues.
This provides an opportunity  to the Committee to devote more time on internal control  & audit issues and make the regular Committee meeting  time available for other matters within its scope.
During   FY 2017-18, the Committee met four times through  conference calls i.e.
May 02, 2017, July 18, 2017, October  17, 2017 and January 16, 2018.
All recommendations  made by the Audit Committee were accepted by the Board.
The Internal Assurance Partners share their findings on an  ongoing basis during the year for corrective action.
4.
The Audit Committee oversees the work of Statutory  Auditors, Internal Auditors, IAG, Internal Assurance  Partners and the Ombudsperson.
It is also responsible for  overseeing the processes related to the financial reporting  and information dissemination.
5.
In this regard, the Audit Committee reports as follows:  I.
The Committee has discussed with the Company’s  Internal Auditors (viz.
IAG), Internal Assurance Partners  and Statutory Auditors the overall scope and plan  for their respective audits.
The Committee has also  discussed the results and eff ectiveness of the audit,  evaluation of the Company’s internal controls and the  overall quality of financial reporting.
II.
The Management has presented the Company’s  financial statements to the Committee and affirmed  Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 140  that the Company’s financial statements have been  drawn in accordance with Ind-AS.
Based on its review  and the discussions conducted with the Management  and the Statutory Auditors, the Committee believes  that the Company’s financial statements are fairly  presented in conformity with applicable accounting  standards in all material aspects.
The Committee also  considers that the financial statements are true and  fair and provide sufficient information.
The Committee  believes the Company has followed adequate  processes to prepare these financial statements.
III.
The Committee has reviewed both abridged  and unabridged versions of the standalone and  consolidated financial statements for the year ended  March 31, 2018.
It has recommended the same for the  Board’s approval.
IV .
The Committee has reviewed the internal controls for  ensuring that the Company’s accounts are properly  maintained and that the accounting transactions are  in accordance with prevailing laws and regulations.
In conducting such reviews, the Committee found no  material deficiency or weakness in the Company’s  internal control systems.
V .
The Committee reviewed the Company’s internal  financial controls and risk management systems  from time to time.
During the year the Company has  constituted a separate Risk Management Committee  which shall focus on risk management including  determination of company’s risk appetite, risk tolerance  and regular risk assessments (risk identification, risk  quantification and risk evaluation) etc.
VI.
The Committee reviewed the Ombudsperson’s report  on the functioning of the Whistle Blower Mechanism for  reporting concerns about unethical behaviour, actual  or suspected fraud, or violation of the Company’s Code  of Conduct or ethics policy.
The Committee believes  that the Company has an effective Whistle Blower  Mechanism and nobody has been denied access to  this mechanism.
VII.
The Committee has reviewed with the Management,  the independence and performance of Deloitte  Haskins & Sells LLP , Chartered Accountants, the  Statutory Auditors of the Company.
VIII.
The Committee, along with the Management, reviewed  the performance of the Internal Assurance Partners  viz.
Ernst & Young LLP and ANB & Co., Chartered  Accountants, Mumbai during the financial year 2017- 18.
The Committee has also reviewed the eligibility and  independence of Ernst & Young LLP and ANB & Co. and  has recommended to the Board the re-appointment  of Ernst & Young LLP and ANB & Co. as the internal  assurance partners.
IX.
The Committee has been vested with the adequate  powers to seek support and other resources from  the Company.
The Committee has access to the  information and records as well.
It also has the authority  to obtain professional advice from external sources, if  required.
X.
The Audit Committee monitored and approved all  related party transactions, including any modification  / amendment in any such transactions.
In conclusion, the Audit Committee is sufficiently satisfied  that it has complied with the responsibilities as outlined in  the Audit Committee’s Charter.
Place: New Delhi V .
K. Viswanathan Date: April 24, 2018 Chairman, Audit Committee Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports Report on Corporate Governance Financial Statements 160-317 141  HR and Nomination Committee The Committee comprises five Non-Executive Directors, of whom  three members, including, the Chairman of the Committee are  Independent Directors.
The composition of the Committee  meets the requirements of Section 178 of the Companies  Act, 2013 and Regulation 19 of the Listing Regulations.
The  Company Secretary acts as the Secretary of the Committee.
The Global Chief HR Officer is a permanent invitee to the  Committee meetings.
Other Senior Management members are  also invited to the meeting to present reports relating to items  being discussed at the meeting.
Key Responsibilities of the HR and Nomination Committee HR Related > Formulation and recommendation to the Board, of a policy  relating to remuneration of Directors, Key Managerial  Personnel* and other employees.
> Determine the compensation (including salaries and  salary adjustments, incentives / benefits, bonuses) and  performance targets of the Chairman and of the Managing  Directors & CEO’s.
> In the event of no profit or inadequate profit, to approve the  remuneration payable to managerial persons, taking into  account the Company’s financial position, industry trend,  appointee’s qualification, experience, past performance,  past remuneration while bringing objectivity in determining  the remuneration package, while striking a balance  between the Company’s interest and shareholders.
> Attraction and retention strategies for employees.
> Review employee development strategies.
> Assess the learning and development needs of the Directors  and recommend learning opportunities, which can be used  by Directors to meet their needs for development.
> Review all human resource related issues, including  succession plan of key personnel.
> The Committee shall also consider any other key issues  / matters as may be referred by the Board, or as may be  necessary in view of Regulation 19 of the Listing Regulations  or any other statutory provisions.
ESOP Related > Formulation of ESOP plans and decide on future grants; > Formulation of terms and conditions on following under the  present ESOP Schemes of the Company with respect to:  > Quantum of options to be granted under ESOP Scheme(s)  per employee and in the aggregate under a plan.
> Performance conditions attached to any ESOP Plan.
> Conditions under which options vested in employees  may lapse in case of termination of employment for  misconduct.
> Exercise period within which the employee should  exercise the option, and that option would lapse on  failure to exercise the option within the exercise period.
> Specified time period within which the employee must  exercise the vested options in the event of termination  or resignation of an employee.
> Right of an employee to exercise all the options vested  in him at one time or at various points of time within the  exercise period.
> Procedure for making a fair and reasonable adjustment  to the number of options and to the exercise price, in  case of rights issues, bonus issues and other corporate  actions.
> Grant, vest and exercise of option in case of employees,  who are on long leave, and the procedure for cashless  exercise of options.
> Any other matter which may be relevant for  administration of ESOP schemes from time to time.
> T o frame suitable policies and processes to ensure that there is  no violation of SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations,  2015 and SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade  Practices relating to the Securities Market) Regulations, 2003.
> Other key issues as may be referred by the Board.
Nomination Related > Formulate the criteria / policy for appointment of  Directors, Senior Management**, which shall, inter-alia,  include qualifications, positive attributes, diversity and  independence of a Director.
> Review and recommend the structure, size and composition  (including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity) of  the Board and Board Committees.
> Evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, experience  and diversity on the Board for description of the role and  capabilities, required for a particular appointment.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 142  > Identify and recommend to the Board, persons who are  qualified to become Directors and who may be appointed in  Senior Management, including Key Managerial Personnel, in  accordance with the criteria laid down and their removal thereof.
> Recommend the appointment of any Director to executive  or other employment / place of profit in the Company.
> Review succession planning for Executive and Non- Executive Directors and other Senior Executives, particularly  the Chairman, Managing Directors & CEOs.
> Recommend suitable candidate for the role of Lead  Independent Director.
> Formulation of criteria for evaluation of Independent  Directors and the Board.
> Conduct an annual evaluation of the overall effectiveness  of the Board, the Committees of the Board and the  performance of each Director.
> Review the T erms of Reference of all committees of the  Board, including itself on an annual basis, and recommend  any changes to the Board.
*Key Managerial Personnel’ means: i) the Chief Executive Officer or the  Managing Director or the Manager; ii) the Company Secretary; iii) the Whole-  time Director; iv) the Chief Financial Officer.
**Senior Management’ means personnel of the Company who are members  of its core management team excluding Board of Directors, comprising  all members of the Management one level below the Executive Directors,  including the functional heads.
Meetings, Attendance and Composition of HR and  Nomination Committee During FY 2017-18, the Committee met four times i.e.
May 09,  2017, July 25, 2017, October 31, 2017 and January 18, 2018.
The composition and the attendance of members at the  meetings held during FY 2017-18, are given below: Name Category Number of meetings  attended (total held  during tenure) Mr. Ben Verwaayen,  Chairman Independent  Director 3(4) Ms. Chua Sock  Koong*  Non-Executive  Director 2(4) Mr. Manish Kejriwal Independent  Director 4(4) Name Category Number of meetings  attended (total held  during tenure) Mr. Rakesh Bharti  Mittal Non-Executive  Director 4(4) Mr. Shishir  Priyadarshi Independent  Director 4(4) *Two meetings attended by Mark Chong Chin Kok and T ao Yih Arthur Lang,  alternate director(s).
The details relating to remuneration of Directors, as required  under Listing Regulations have been given under a separate  section, viz.
‘Directors Remuneration’ in this Report.
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee In compliance with the Regulation 20 of the Listing Regulations,  requirements and provisions of Section 178 of the Companies  Act, 2013, the Company has a Stakeholders’ Relationship  Committee.
The Committee comprises four members including  two Independent Directors.
Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal, Non- Executive Director is the Chairman of the Committee.
The  Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Key Responsibilities of the Stakeholders’ Relationship  Committee The key responsibilities of the Stakeholders’ Relationship  Committee include the following: > Formulation of procedures, in line with the statutory  guidelines to ensure speedy disposal of various requests  received from shareholders from time to time.
> Consider and resolve the complaints / grievances of  security holders of the Company, including complaints  related to transfer of shares, non-receipt of balance sheet  and non-receipt of declared dividend.
> Dematerialise or re-materialise the share certificates.
> Approve the transmission of shares or other securities arising  as a result of death of the sole / any of joint shareholder.
> Sub-divide, consolidate and / or replace any share or other  securities certificate(s) of the Company.
> Issue duplicate share / other security(ies) certificate(s) in  lieu of the original share / security(ies) certificate(s) of the  Company.
Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports Report on Corporate Governance Financial Statements 160-317 143  > Approve, register and refuse to register transfer /  transmission of shares and other securities.
> T o further delegate all or any of the power to any other  employee(s), officer(s), representative(s), consultant(s),  professional(s), or agent(s).
> Oversee & review, all matters connected with the transfer of  securities of the Company.
> Oversee the performance of the Company’s Registrar and  Share Transfer Agent.
> Recommend methods to upgrade the standard of services  to the investors.
> T o deal with the Company’s unclaimed / undelivered  shares, as prescribed in the relevant regulation of the  Listing Regulations.
> T o do all such acts, deeds and things as may be necessary  in this regard.
The meetings of the Committee are generally held as and when  deemed necessary, to review and ensure that all investor requests  / grievances are redressed within stipulated time period.
Meetings, Attendance and Composition of Stakeholders’  Relationship Committee During FY 2017-18, the Committee met seven times i.e.
on  May 09, 2017, July 25, 2017, October 31, 2017, November 23,  2017, December 19, 2017, January 18, 2018 and March 12,  2018.
The composition and the attendance of members at the  meetings held during FY 2017-18, are given below: Name Category Number of meetings  attended (total held  during tenure) Mr. Rakesh Bharti  Mittal, Chairman Non-Executive  Director 7(7) Mr. Manish Kejriwal Independent  Director 4(7) Mr. Gopal Vittal Executive  Director 6(7) Mr. D.K.
Mittal Independent  Director  7(7) Compliance Officer Mr. Rohit Krishan Puri, Dy.
Company Secretary, acts as the  Compliance Officer of the Company for complying with the  requirements of the Listing Regulations and requirements of  securities laws, including SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading)  Regulations, 2015.
Nature of Complaints and Redressal Status During FY 2017-18, the complaints and queries received by the  Company were general in nature, which include issues relating  to non-receipt of dividend warrants, shares, annual reports and  others, which were resolved to the satisfaction of the shareholders.
Details of the investors’ complaints received during FY 2017-18  are as follows: Type of complaint Number Redressed Pending  on March  31, 2018 Non-receipt of  securities 0 0 Nil Non-receipt of  Annual Report 2 2 Nil Non–receipt of  dividend / dividend  warrants 1 1 Nil Miscellaneous 1 1 Nil T otal 4 4 Nil Committee of Directors T o cater to various day-to-day requirements and to facilitate  seamless operations, the Company has formed a functional  Committee known as the Committee of Directors.
The  Committee meets as and when deem necessary to cater to the  day to day requirements of the Company.
The Committee comprises four members including two  Independent Directors.
Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal, Non-Executive  Director is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Company  Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Meetings, Attendance and Composition of Committee of  Directors During FY 2017-18, the Committee met six times i.e.
on May 09,  2017, July 25, 2017, October 31, 2017, January 18, 2018, March 9,  2018 and March 13, 2018.
The composition and the attendance of  members at the meetings held during FY 2017-18, are given below: Name Category Number of meetings  attended (total held  during tenure) Mr. Rakesh Bharti  Mittal, Chairman Non-Executive  Director 6(6) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 144  Name Category Number of meetings  attended (total held  during tenure) Mr. D.K.
Mittal Independent  Director 6(6) Mr. Manish  Kejriwal Independent  Director 4(6) Mr. Gopal Vittal Executive  Director 6(6) Key Responsibilities of the Committee of Directors (within  the limit approved by the Board) Investment Related > T o grant loans to any body corporate / entity.
> T o give guarantee(s) in connection with loan made to any  body corporate / entity.
> T o negotiate, finalise, amend, modify, approve and accept  the terms and conditions with respect to aforesaid loans  and / or guarantee(s) from time to time.
> T o purchase, sell, acquire, subscribe, transfer or otherwise  deal in the shares / securities of any Company, body  corporate or other entities.
Treasury Related > T o borrow such sum of money, as may be required by  the Company from time to time provided that the money  already borrowed, together with the money to be borrowed  by the Company does not exceed the limits provided under  Section 180 of the Companies Act, 2013 i.e.
upto the paid  up capital and free reserve of the Company.
> T o create security / charge(s) on all or any of the assets of  the Company for the purpose of securing credit facility(ies)  of the Company.
> T o deal in government securities, units of mutual funds,  fixed income and money market instruments, fixed deposits  and certificate of deposit programme of banks and other  instruments / securities / treasury products of banks &  financial institutions as per treasury policy of the Company.
> T o deal in foreign exchange and financial derivatives  linked to foreign exchange and interest rates including, but  not limited to foreign exchange spot, forwards, options,  currency swaps and interest rate swaps.
> T o open, operate, close, change in authorisation for any  Bank Account, Subsidiary General Ledger (SGL) Account,  Dematerialisation / Depository Account.
> T o approve, finalise and authorise the execution of any  deed, document, letter or writing in connection with the  aforesaid activities, including borrowing / credit facilities,  creation of charge.
Allotment of Shares > Issue and allot shares of the Company in one or more  tranches as per the terms of the ESOP Schemes for the  time being in force or upon conversion of Foreign Currency  Convertible Bonds issued by the Company.
> T o seek listing of shares issued as above on one or more  Stock Exchanges in India and all such shares being pari- passu with the existing equity shares of the Company in all  respects.
> T o do all such acts, deeds and things, as may be necessary  and incidental to allotment and listing of shares.
General Authorisations > T o open, shift, merge, close any branch office, circle office.
> T o approve for participation into any tender, bid, auction by  the Company.
> T o register the Company with any Central / State Government  authorities, Semi-Government authorities, local authorities,  tax authorities including sales tax, service tax, value added  tax authorities, labour law authorities, administrative  authorities, business associations and other bodies.
> T o purchase, sell, take on lease / license, transfer or  otherwise deal with any property.
> T o apply for and surrender any electricity, power or water  connection.
> T o appoint any Merchant Banker, Chartered Accountant,  Advocate, Company Secretary, Engineer, T echnician,  Consultants and / or Professionals for undertaking any  assignment for and on behalf of the Company.
> T o constitute, reconstitute, modify, dissolve any trust or  association with regard to the administrative matters  or employee related matters and to appoint, reappoint,  remove, replace the trustees or representatives.
> T o authorise one or more employee(s), officer(s),  representative(s), consultant(s), professional(s), or agent(s)  jointly or severally to:  > represent the Company before Central Government,  State Governments, Judicial, Quasi-judicial and other  statutory / administrative authorities or any other entity.
Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports Report on Corporate Governance Financial Statements 160-317 145   > negotiate, finalise, execute, modify, sign, accept,  and withdraw all deed, agreements, undertakings,  certificates, applications, confirmations, affidavits,  indemnity bonds, surety bonds, and all other  documents and papers.
> affix common seal of the Company.
> enter into, sign, execute and deliver all contracts for  and on behalf of the Company.
> T o do all such acts, deeds and things as may be required for  the smooth conduct of the operations of the Company and  which does not require the specific approval of the Board  of the Company or which has specifically been delegated  by the Board to any other Committee of the Board or any  officer, employee or agent of the Company.
> T o perform such other functions as may be authorised /  delegated by the Board or as might have been authorised  / delegated to the erstwhile Borrowing Committee,  Investment Committee, Committee of Director or the  Allotment Committee.
> T o authorise / delegate any or all of its power to any person,  officer, representative.
Special Committee of Directors (Monetization of  stake in Bharti Infratel Limited) The Special Committee of Directors (Monetization of stake in  Bharti Infratel Limited) evaluates the proposal for monetization  of stake in Bharti Infratel Limited.
The Committee meets as and  when necessary to explore divestment in Bharti Infratel Limited.
The Committee comprises three members including one  independent director.
Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal, Non-Executive  Director is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Company  Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Meetings, Attendance and Composition of Special  Committee of Directors (Monetization of stake in Bharti  Infratel Limited) During FY 2017-18, the Committee met one time i.e.
on October  31, 2017.
The composition and the attendance of members at  the meetings held during the FY 2017-18, are given below: Name Category Number of meetings  attended (total held  during tenure) Mr. Rakesh Bharti  Mittal, Chairman Non-Executive  Director 1(1) Name Category Number of meetings  attended (total held  during tenure) Ms. Chua Sock  Koong Non-Executive  Director 1(1) Mr. D.K.
Mittal Independent  Director 1(1) Key Responsibilities of the Special Committee of Directors  (Monetization of stake in Bharti Infratel Limited) > T o engage and negotiate with the prospective buyers  including in relation to the terms of sale provided that  the terms shall be subject to the approval of the board of  directors and no agreements shall be approved and or  executed except after the approval of the board of directors.
> T o appoint, terminate, reappoint legal advisors, advisors,  consultants, and any other professionals or intermediaries  etc.
on such terms and conditions as deemed fit.
> T o represent the Company before any prospective buyer  and any regulatory and / or statutory authorities and  departments.
> T o delegate all or any of the authorisations conferred as  above to any Officer(s) / Authorized Representative(s) of  the Company.
> T o do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as it may in  its absolute discretion, deem necessary, expedient, usual or  proper in furtherance of the above.
Special Committee of Directors (Restructuring of  overseas holding structure) The Special Committee of Directors (Restructuring of overseas  holding structure) evaluates the proposal for restructuring of  overseas holding structure of the Company.
The Committee  meets as and when necessary.
The Committee comprises three members including one  independent director.
Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal, Non-Executive  Director is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Company  Secretary / Deputy Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the  Committee.
Meetings, Attendance and Composition of Special  Committee of Directors (Restructuring of overseas holding  structure) During the year no meeting of Special Committee of Directors  (Restructuring of overseas holding structure) was convened.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 146  Key Responsibilities of the Special Committee of Directors  (Restructuring of overseas holding structure) > T o evaluate the proposal for restructuring of overseas  holding structure.
> T o appoint, terminate, reappoint legal advisors, advisors,  consultants, and any other professionals or intermediaries  etc.
on such terms and conditions as deemed fit.
> T o represent the Company before any regulatory and / or  statutory authorities and departments.
> T o delegate all or any of the authorisations conferred as  above to any Officer(s) / Authorized Representative(s) of  the Company.
> T o do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as it may in  its absolute discretion deem necessary, expedient, usual or  proper in furtherance of the above.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee In compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act,  2013, the Company has constituted the Corporate Social  Responsibility Committee.
The Committee evaluates and  recommend the CSR proposals to the Board for approval.
The Committee comprises three members including one  Independent Director.
Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal, Non-Executive  Director, is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Company  Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Key Responsibilities of the CSR Committee > Formulate, monitor and recommend to the Board CSR  Policy and the activities to be undertaken by the Company.
> Recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred on  the activities undertaken.
> Review the Company’s performance in the area of CSR.
> Evaluate social impact of the Company’s CSR activities.
> Review the Company’s disclosure of CSR matters including  any annual social responsibility report.
> Review the following, with the Management, before  submission to the Board for approval  > The Business Responsibility (BR) Report  > CSR Report  > Annual Sustainability Report > Formulate and implement the BR policies in consultation  with the respective stakeholders.
> Establish a monitoring mechanism to ensure that the funds  contributed by the Company are spent by Bharti Foundation,  or any other charitable organisation to which the Company  makes contributions, for the intended purposes only.
> Approve the appointment or re-appointment of Directors  responsible for Business Responsibility.
> Nominate at least one member of the CSR Committee as a  trustee of Bharti Foundation.
> Consider other functions, as defined by the Board, or as  may be stipulated under any law, rule or regulation including  the Listing, Corporate Social Responsibility Voluntary  Guidelines, 2009 and the Companies Act, 2013.
On the recommendation of the CSR Committee, the Board had  on April 29, 2014, approved the Corporate Social Responsibility  (CSR Policy) of the Company.
The CSR Policy intends to strive  for economic development that positively impacts the society at  large with minimal resource footprints.
The Policy is available on  the Company’s website at www.airtel.com.
Meetings, Attendance and Composition of CSR Committee During FY 2017-18, the Committee met three times i.e.
on May  09, 2017, November 21, 2017 and January 18, 2018.
The  composition and the attendance of members at the meetings  held during the FY 2017 -18, are given below: Name Category Number of meetings  attended (total held  during tenure) Mr. Rakesh Bharti  Mittal, Chairman Non-Executive  Director 3(3) Mr. D.K.
Mittal Independent  Director 3(3) Mr. Gopal Vittal Executive  Director 2(3) Corporate Social Responsibility Report for the year ended  March 31, 2018 The CSR Report for the year ended March 31, 2018 is annexed  as Annexure D to the Board’s Report.
Risk Management Committee The Board in its meeting held on January 18, 2018, constituted  separate Risk Management Committee to focus on risk  management including determination of Company’s risk  Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports Report on Corporate Governance Financial Statements 160-317 147  appetite, risk tolerance and regular risk assessments (risk  identification, risk quantification and risk evaluation) etc.
The Committee comprises seven members viz.
Mr. D. K. Mittal,  Mr. V .K.
Viswanathan, Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal, Mr. Gopal Vittal,  Mr. Nilanjan Roy, Group Director, Internal Assurance and Mr.  Pankaj T ewari.
Mr. D.K.
Mittal is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Company Secretary / Dy.
Company Secretary acts as  secretary to the Committee.
During the year no Risk Management Committee meeting was  held.
Authority a) Obtain any legal or independent professional advice  on matters to be deliberated in the Risk Management  Committee.
b) Access sufficient resources to carry out its duties.
Key Responsibilities of the Risk Management Committee  > Formulate and review risk management policy; > Approve the process for risk identification; > Assess / Determine risk appetite and monitor risks  (including Cyber Security risk); > Implement, monitor and review the risk management  framework, risk management plan and related matters;  > Advise the board on risk strategy;  > Foster an appropriate risk culture; and > Delegate above said authorities to sub-committees,  whenever required.
Airtel Corporate Council (ACC) Airtel Corporate Council is a non-statutory committee, constituted  by the Board for strategic management and supervision of the  Company’s operations within the approved framework.
The Committee comprises six members.
Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal,  is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Company Secretary acts  as secretary to the Committee.
Key Responsibilities of the ACC Committee > Strategic Management and supervision of Company’s  business; CEO Board Report.
> Formulation of Company’s annual business plan including  objectives and strategies, capex, and investments.
Approval  of the variation in the Approved Annual Operating Plan up  to 5% negative deviation.
> Formulation of organisation policies, systems and  processes, concerning the Company’s operations.
> Review and recommend for approval of all items / proposals  relating to restructuring, new line of business, investments,  General Reserved Matters (as referred in Article 125 (ii)  of Articles of Association of the Company) and other  matters, which require the Board’s approval in relation to  the Company and its subsidiaries in India, Africa and SA, as  a shareholder.
> Acquisition, disposal, transfer of any immovable property of  value exceeding any amount in excess of the duly approved  respective DoA’s.
> Formation, modification, withdrawal, implementation  of systems, policies, control manuals and other policy  frameworks for operational efficiency and risk management.
The Committee to agree in advance the specific key  operational efficiency / risk management matters that  business must present at each meeting.
> Approval for contribution to any political party / political  trust within the overall limit set by the Board.
> Business Development transaction related updates/next  steps.
> Financial Restructuring / Treasury Strategy.
> Review and approval of all strategic consulting assignments.
> Change of Company’s brand name, logo, and trade mark.
All brand launches (new or rebranding to be presented to  ACC, prior to formally committing material expenditure).
Powers of ACC in respect of the Subsidiaries and their step  down Subsidiaries (Other than listed subsidiaries) > Formulation of business plan, including any strategic  initiative, investments, capex, borrowing including  refinancing and extension, among others.
> Nomination of the respective subsidiaries nominee on  Board of other companies.
> Entry into / exit from business / major business activities,  in any manner whatsoever, including purchase, sale, lease,  franchise, among others.
With respect to overseas subsidiaries and their step down  subsidiaries, the power of ACC is confined to performing key  shareholder functions.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 148  General Body Meetings The details of last three Annual General Meetings (AGMs) are as follows: Financial Year Location Date Time Special Resolutions passed 2016-2017 Air Force  Auditorium,  Subroto Park,  New Delhi -  110010 July 24, 2017 1530 Hrs.
(IST) 1.
Re-appointment of Mr. Manish Kejriwal as an Independent  Director 2.
Amendment in the Employee Stock Option Scheme  2005 of the Company 2015-2016 August 19, 2016 1530 Hrs.
(IST) 1.
Adoption of new Articles of Association of the Company 2.
Alteration of Memorandum of Association of the Company  2014-2015 August 21, 2015 1530 Hrs.
(IST) No Special Resolution Passed Tribunal Convened Meetings Pursuant to the Order dt.
July 28, 2017 by the Hon’ble Special Bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (Tribunal), the meeting  of equity shareholders of the Company was held as per below details: Location Date Time Special Resolution passed Sri Sathya Sai International Centre,  Pragati Vihar, Bhisham Pitamah  Marg, Lodhi Road,   New Delhi – 110003 September 19, 2017 0930 Hrs.
(IST) Approval of Scheme of amalgamation between  T elenor (India) Communications Private Limited  and the Company Mr. Sanjay Grover of Sanjay Grover and Associates, Company Secretaries, New Delhi (C.P .
No.
3850) was appointed as a Scrutinizer  by the Tribunal for conducting the poll at the Tribunal Convened Meeting of the equity shareholders.
Details of Poll conducted at the Tribunal Convened meeting: Details of Agenda No.
of valid votes Votes cast in favour of  the resolution (no.
& %) Votes cast against the  resolution (no.
& %) Approval of Scheme of amalgamation  between T elenor (India) Communications  Private Limited and the Company  3,729,191,826 3,728,392,180 (99.98%) 799,646 (0.02%) Postal Ballot The Board had on March 12, 2018 approved the Notice of Postal Ballot / E-Voting for passing of special resolution for Issue of  unsecured / secured redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures / Bonds by way of Private Placement.
Person Conducting the Postal Ballot Exercise Mr. Gopal Vittal, Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia), Mr. Mukesh Bhavnani, Group General Counsel, Mr. Pankaj T ewari,  Company Secretary and Mr. Rohit Krishan Puri, Deputy Company Secretary were appointed as persons responsible for the entire  postal ballot / e-voting process.
Mr. Sanjay Grover of Sanjay Grover & Associates, Company Secretaries, New Delhi (C.P .
No.
3850) was  appointed as the Scrutinizer for conducting the postal ballot / e-voting process in a fair and transparent manner.
Procedure followed / to be followed 1.
In compliance with the Regulation 44 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and  Section 108, 110 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, read with the rules made thereunder, the Company  Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports Report on Corporate Governance Financial Statements 160-317 149  has provided electronic voting facility to all its members, to  enable them to cast their votes electronically.
The Company  engaged the services of Karvy Computershare Pvt.
Ltd.  (Karvy) for the purpose of providing e-voting facility.
The  members has the option to vote either by physical ballot or  e-voting.
2.
The Company has dispatched the postal ballot notice dated  March 12, 2018 containing draft resolutions together  with the explanatory statements, postal ballot forms and  self-addressed envelopes to the members whose names  appeared in the register of members / list of beneficiaries  as on cut-off date i.e.
Friday, March 30, 2018.
The Company  has also published a notice in the newspaper declaring the  details of completion of dispatch on April 10, 2018 and  April 11, 2018 and other requirements as mandated under  the Act and applicable rules.
3.
Members desiring to exercise their votes by physical  postal ballot forms are requested to return the forms duly  completed and signed, to the Scrutinizer on or before the  close of business hours on Wednesday, May 09, 2018.
The members who opts for the e-voting can vote during  T uesday, April 10, 2018 from 09:00 a.m. and Wednesday,  May 09, 2018 till 05:00 p.m. (both days inclusive).
4.
The Scrutinizer will submit his report, after the completion  of scrutiny.
5.
The results of the postal ballot will be announced by the  Chairman or any other director authorised by him on Friday,  May 11, 2018.
The last date specified for receipt of duly  completed Postal Ballot Forms and closure of e-voting i.e.
May 09, 2018, will be taken as the date of passing the  resolution.
6.
The result of the postal ballot along with the scrutinizer’s report  will be displayed at the registered office of the Company,  hosted at the Company’s website at www.airtel.com and  on the website of Karvy i.e.
https://evoting.karvy.com and  will be communicated to the Stock Exchanges where the  Company’s shares are listed.
Apart from the above announcement of results, there is no  immediate proposal for passing any other special resolution  through Postal Ballot on or before ensuing Annual General  Meeting.
Code of Conduct In compliance with Regulation 17 of the Listing Regulations  and the Companies Act, 2013, the Company has framed  and adopted a Code of Conduct for all Directors and Senior  Management personnel.
The code is available on the Company’s  website www.airtel.com.
The Code is applicable to all Board  members and Senior Management personnel who directly  report to the Chairman, the Managing Director & CEO (India &  South Asia).
The Code is circulated to all Board members and  Senior Management Personnel and its compliance is affirmed  by them annually.
Besides, the Company also procures a quarterly confirmation  of material financial and commercial transactions entered into  by Senior Management personnel with the Company that may  have a potential conflict of interest.
A declaration signed by the Managing Director & CEO (India &  South Asia), regarding affirmation of the compliance with the  Code of Conduct by Board Members and Senior Management  for the financial year ended March 31, 2018, is annexed as  Annexure A to this report.
Along with the Code of Conduct for the Board members and  Senior Management, the Company has also laid down a Code of  Conduct for its employees.
As a process, an annual confirmation  is also sought from all employees.
All employees are expected  to confirm compliance to the Code annually.
Regular training  programmes / self-certifications are conducted across locations  to explain and reiterate the importance of adherence to the code.
Disclosures and Policies Disclosure on Materially Significant Related Party  Transactions that may have potential conflict with the  interest of Company at large All transactions entered into with related parties as defined  under the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations  during the financial year were in the ordinary course of business  and on an arm’s length basis and do not attract the provisions of  Section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013.
None of the transactions with any of the related parties  were in conflict with the interest of the Company rather, they  synchronise and synergise with the Company’s operations.
Attention of members is drawn to the disclosure of transactions  with the related parties set out in Note No.
34 of the Standalone  Financial Statements, forming part of the Annual Report.
The required statements / disclosures, with respect to the related  party transactions, are placed before the Audit Committee and to  the Board of Directors, on quarterly basis in terms of Regulation  23(3) of the Listing Regulations and other applicable laws for  approval / information.
Prior omnibus approval is obtained for  Related Party Transactions which are of repetitive in nature.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 150  The Company’s major related party transactions are generally  with its subsidiaries and associates.
These transactions are  entered into based on consideration of various business  exigencies, such as synergy in operations, sectoral specialisation,  liquidity and capital resource of subsidiary and associates and  all such transactions are on an arm’s length basis.
The Board of Directors has formulated a Policy on dealing  with Related Party Transactions pursuant to the provisions  of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations.
The  Policy intends to ensure that proper reporting, approval and  disclosure processes are in place for all transactions between  the Company and related parties.
The Policy is posted on the  website of the Company at http://www.airtel.in/wps/wcm/ connect/36a5305d-f0ba-490c-9eff-152ef6811917/BAL- Policy-on-Related-Party-Transactions.pdf?MOD=AJPERES.
Disclosure on Risk Management The Company has established an Enterprise-wide Risk  Management (ERM) framework to optimally identify and  manage risks, as well as to address operational, strategic and  regulatory risks.
In line with the Company’s commitment to  deliver sustainable value, this framework aims to provide an  integrated and organised approach to evaluate and manage  risks.
Risk assessment monitoring is included in the Company’s  annual Internal Audit programme and reviewed by the Audit  Committee / Risk Management Committee at regular intervals.
In compliance with Regulation 17 and 21 of the Listing  Regulations, the Board of Directors has formulated a Risk  Management Policy for framing, implementing and monitoring  the risk management plan for the Company.
The Board is periodically updated on the key risks, steps and  processes initiated for reducing and, if feasible, eliminating  various risks.
Business risk evaluation and management is an  ongoing process within the Company.
Detailed update on risk management framework has been  covered under the risk section, forming a part of the Management  Discussion and Analysis.
Details of Non-compliance with regard to Capital Markets  during the last three years There have been no instances of non-compliances by the  Company and no penalties and / or strictures have been imposed  by Stock Exchanges or SEBI or any statutory authority on any  matter related to capital markets during the last three years.
Insider Trading In compliance with the SEBI regulation on prevention of insider  trading, the Company has established systems and procedures  to prohibit insider trading activity and has formulated a code on  insider trading for designated persons, who may have access to  the Company’s price sensitive information.
The Code lays down  procedures to be followed and disclosures to be made, while  trading in the Company’s shares.
The Company follows highest standards of transparency and  fairness in dealing with all stakeholders and ensures that no  insider shall use his or her position with or without knowledge  of the Company to gain personal benefit or to provide benefit to  any third party.
Ombudsperson Policy / Whistle Blower Policy Bharti Airtel has adopted an Ombudsperson Policy (includes  Whistle Blower Policy).
It outlines the method and process for  stakeholders to voice genuine concerns about unethical conduct  that may be in breach with the employees’ Code of Conduct.
The policy aims to ensure that genuine complainants are able  to raise their concerns in full confidence, without any fear of  retaliation or victimisation.
The Policy also allows for anonymous  reporting of complaints.
The Ombudsperson administers the  entire formal process from reviewing and investigating concerns  raised, undertaking all appropriate actions for resolution thereof  and regular monitoring of ombuds process to strengthen its  effectiveness and adequacy.
Instances of serious misconduct dealt  with by the Ombudsperson are reported to the Audit Committee.
All employees of the Company as well as vendors / partners and  any person that has a grievance (excluding standard customer  complaints) has full access to the Ombudsperson through phones,  emails or even meetings in person.
During the year under review,  no employee was denied access to the Audit Committee.
Auditors’ Certificate on Corporate Governance As required under Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations, the  auditors’ certificate on Corporate Governance is annexed as  Annexure I to the Board’s Report.
CEO and CFO Certification The certificate required under Regulation 17(8) of the Listing  Regulations, duly signed by the CEO and CFO of the Company  was placed before the Board.
The same is provided as Annexure  B to this report.
Subsidiary Companies The Company monitors performance of subsidiary Companies,  inter-alia, by the following means: > Financial Statements, in particular investments made by  unlisted subsidiary companies, are reviewed quarterly by  the Audit Committee.
Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports Report on Corporate Governance Financial Statements 160-317 151  > Minutes of the Board Meetings of unlisted subsidiary  companies are regularly placed before the Board.
> A statement containing significant transactions and  arrangements entered into by unlisted subsidiary  companies is placed before the Board.
Bharti Infratel Limited, the Company’s material Indian subsidiary,  is listed on Stock Exchanges and therefore, the Company is not  required to nominate a Director on the Board of Bharti Infratel  Limited.
The Board of Directors have formulated a Policy for determining  material subsidiaries pursuant to the provisions of the Listing  Regulations.
The same is posted on the Company’s website at  http://www.airtel.in/wps/wcm/connect/7e99add6-9401-4ab3- 899a-07572390a956/BAL-Policy-for-determining-Material- Subsidiaries.pdf?MOD=AJPERES.
Compliance with the Mandatory Requirements of the  Listing Regulations The Board of Directors periodically review the compliance of  all applicable laws.
The Company has complied with all the  mandatory requirements of the Code of Corporate Governance  as specified in Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of sub  regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of the Listing Regulations.
It has  obtained a certificate affirming the compliances from Deloitte  Haskins & Sells LLP , Chartered Accountants, the Company’s  Statutory Auditors and the same is attached to the Board’s  Report.
Details of Compliances with the Non-mandatory Requirements  of Regulation 27 of the Listing Regulations.
In addition to the mandatory requirements, the Company  has also adopted the following non-mandatory requirements  Regulation 27(1) of the Listing Regulations: (i) Shareholders’ Rights   The Company has a policy of announcement of the audited  quarterly results.
The results, as approved by the Board  of Directors (or Committee thereof) are first submitted to  Stock Exchanges within 30 minutes under Regulation 30  of the Listing Regulations of the approval of the results.
Once taken on record by the Stock Exchanges, the same  are disseminated in the media through press release.
The  quarterly financial results are published in newspapers and  uploaded on Company’s website www.airtel.com.
On the next day of the announcement of the quarterly  results, an earnings call is organised, where the management  responds to the queries of the investors / analysts.
These  calls are webcast live and transcripts posted on the  website.
In addition, discussion with the management team  is webcast and also aired on the electronic media.
(ii) Audit Qualifications  Company’s financial statements are unqualified.
(iii) Separate posts of Chairman and CEO  The positions of the Chairman of the Board and the  Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer of the  Company are held by separate individuals.
(iv) Reporting of Internal Auditor / Internal Assurance  Partners  The Internal Auditors / Internal Assurance Partners directly  reports to the Audit Committee.
Green Initiatives by MCA In compliance with the provisions of Section 20 of the  Companies Act, 2013 and as a continuing endeavour towards  the ‘Go Green’ initiative, the Company proposes to send all  correspondence / communications through email to those  shareholders who have registered their email id with their  depository participants / Company’s registrar and share  transfer agent.
In case the shareholders desire to receive a  printed copy of such communications, they send a requisition to  the Company.
The Company forthwith sends a printed copy of  the communication to the shareholder.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 152  Status of Dividend Declared Status of the dividend declared by the Company is as under: Amount in J Millions Financial Year Rate of Dividend per  equity share of J 5 each T otal Pay-out Amount Paid to  the shareholders Amount un-paid to  the shareholders 2017-18 (Interim) H 2.84 11,352.62 11,351.68 0.94 2016-17 H 1 3,997.40 3,991.24 6.16 2015-16 H 1.36 5,436.46 5,427.88 8.59 2014-15 H 2.22 8,874.23 8,860.86 13.37 2014-15 (Interim Dividend) H 1.63 6,515.76 6,505.78 9.99 2013-14 H 1.80 7,195.32 7,184.27 11.05 2012-13 H 1 3,797.53 3,791.06 6.47 2011-12 H 1 3,797.53 3,790.80 6.73 2010-11 H 1 3,797.53 3,791.16 6.37 The Company constantly endeavours to reduce the unpaid dividend amount.
The shareholders, who have not claimed their dividend  for the above financial years are requested to contact the Company or its Share Transfer Agent.
Equity Shares in the Suspense Account In terms of Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations, the details of the equity shares lying in the suspense accounts, which were issued  in physical form, are as follows: Particulars Number of  Shareholders Number of  equity shares Number of shareholders and aggregate number of shares as transferred to the Unclaimed  Suspense Account outstanding as on April 01, 2017 7 19 Number of shareholders who approached the Company for transfer of shares and shares  transferred from suspense account during the year 6 18 Aggregate Number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense account  lying as on March 31, 2018 1 1 The voting rights on the share(s) in the suspense account as on March 31, 2018 shall remain frozen till the rightful owners of such  share(s) claim the share(s) .
Means of Communication Quarterly Results: The Company’s Quarterly Audited Results are published in prominent daily newspapers, viz.
Mint (English daily)  and Hindustan (vernacular newspaper) and are also uploaded on the Company’s website www.airtel.com.
News releases, presentations: Official news releases and official media releases are sent to Stock Exchanges and uploaded on the  Company’s website www.airtel.com.
Earning Calls & Presentations to Institutional Investors / Analysts: The Company organises an earnings call with analysts and  investors on the next day of announcement of results, which is also broadcast live on the Company’s website.
The transcript of the  earnings call is posted on the website soon after.
Any specific presentation made to the analysts / others is also uploaded on the  Company’s website www.airtel.com.
Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports Report on Corporate Governance Financial Statements 160-317 153  NSE Electronic Application Processing System (NEAPS)/ BSE Corporate Compliance & Listing Centre: The NEAPS/ BSE’s  Listing Centre is a web-based application designed for corporates.
All periodical compliance fillings, like shareholding pattern,  Corporate Governance Report, media releases and other material information is also filed electronically on the designated portals.
Website: Upto date financial results, annual reports, shareholding patterns, official news releases, financial analysis reports, latest  presentation made to the institutional investors and other general information about the Company are available on the website   www.airtel.com.
Shareholders Satisfaction Survey: In our constant endeavour to strengthen the shareholder service standards, a Shareholders  Satisfaction Survey is conducted through a Shareholders Feedback Form uploaded on the Company’s website www.airtel.com under  ‘Investors’ section.
Accordingly, members may provide their valuable feedback.
Since the time of listing of shares, Bharti Airtel adopted a practise of releasing a quarterly report, which contains financial and  operating highlights, key industry and Company developments, results of operations, stock market highlights non-GAAP information,  ratio analysis, summarised financial statements and so on.
The quarterly reports are posted on the Company’s website and are also  submitted to the Stock Exchanges, where the Company’s shares are listed.
General Shareholders’ Information 23rd Annual General Meeting Date : August 08, 2018 Day  : Wednesday Time  : 3.30 p.m.  Venue  : Air Force Auditorium,    Subroto Park, New Delhi – 110 010     Financial Calendar (T entative Schedule, subject to change) Financial year : April 1 to March 31  Results for the quarter ending: June 30, 2018 : July 26, 2018, (Thursday) September 30, 2018 : October 25, 2018, (Thursday) December 31, 2018 : January 17, 2019, (Thursday) March 31, 2019 : April 23, 2019 (T uesday) Book Closure Saturday, August 04, 2018 to Wednesday, August 08, 2018 (both days inclusive).
Final Dividend H 2.50 per equity share of H 5/- each (i.e.
50.00% on the face value of the shares).
Dividend Pay-out Date On or after August 08, 2018 (within the statutory time limit of 30 days i.e.
up to September 07, 2018), subject to the approval of the  shareholders.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 154  Equity Shares Listing, Stock Code and Listing Fee Payment Name and address of the Stock Exchange Scrip code Status of fee paid  for FY 2018-19 National Stock Exchange of India Limited Exchange Plaza, C-1 Block G Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra, Mumbai – 400001 BHARTIARTL Paid BSE Limited Phiroze Jeejeebhoy T owers Dalal Street, Mumbai – 400001 532454 Paid Debentures Listing and Listing Fee Payment Name and address of the Stock Exchange Scrip code Status of fee paid  for FY 2018-19 National Stock Exchange of India Limited Exchange Plaza, C-1 Block G Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra, Mumbai – 400001 BAL20 Paid BAL21 Stock Market Data for the Period April 01, 2017 to March 31, 2018 Month BSE NSE High Low Volume (Nos.)
High Low Volume (Nos.)
April 2017 361.35 333.25  47,26,962 361.95 332.75 5,93,38,264 May 2017 381.50 336.95  75,03,227 381.60 336.50 12,36,20,920 June 2017 386.45 361.00  66,39,494 386.35 360.60 6,89,74,184 July 2017 431.00 373.35  97,05,730 431.60 373.35 8,60,41,584 August 2017 438.00 403.70  24,99,266 438.15 403.75 5,45,08,784 September 2017 430.15 370.00  24,80,960 430.45 371.00 7,91,81,681 October 2017 519.35 373.10  95,34,448 519.35 373.15 19,70,62,070 November 2017 565.00 480.00  47,50,82,156 564.80 481.15 22,93,86,228 December 2017 547.20 477.00 1,97,91,369 547.50 476.85 13,20,10,586 January 2018 542.25 422.20  5,39,81,181 542.50 435.05 18,66,10,123 February 2018 449.15 403.00  63,51,520 449.40 403.20 14,22,48,998 March 2018 436.70 391.10  92,19,414 436.60 391.25 11,54,58,421 Source: www.bseindia.com Source: www.nseindia.com Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports Report on Corporate Governance Financial Statements 160-317 155  Bharti Airtel Share Prices Vs. BSE Sensex Bharti Airtel Share Price Vs. NSE Nifty Registrar and Transfer Agent All the work related to share registry, both in physical and electronic form, is handled by the Company’s Registrar and Transfer Agent  at the address mentioned in the communication addresses section.
Share Transfer System As much as 99.86% of the Company’s equity shares are in electronic format.
These shares can be transferred through the depositories  without the Company’s involvement.
Transfer of shares in physical form is processed within 15 days from the date of receipt, provided the documents are complete in all  respects.
All transfers are first processed by the Transfer Agent and are submitted thereafter to the Company, for approval.
The Transfer  Agent has been authorised to transfer minor shareholding up to 50 shares per instrument without the Company’s involvement.
Pursuant to Regulation 40(9) of the Listing Regulations, the Company obtain certificates from a practicing Company Secretary on a  half-yearly basis to the effect that all the transfers are completed within the statutory stipulated period.
A copy of the certificates so  received is submitted to both Stock Exchanges, where the shares of the Company are listed.
Distribution of Shareholding By number of shares held as on March 31, 2018 Sl.
no.
Category   (by no.
of shares) No.
of shareholders % to holders No.
of shares % of shares 1 1 – 5000 194,871 97.43 15,671,641 0.40% 2 5001 – 10000 2,013 1.01 3,049,839 0.07% 3 10001 – 20000 1,016 0.51 2,968,767 0.07 % 4 20001 – 30000 390 0.19 1,944,855 0.05% 5 30001 – 40000 193 0.09 1,366,884 0.03% 6 40001 – 50000 121 0.06 1,123,232 0.03% 7 50001 – 100000 279 0.14 3,995,395 0.10% 8 100001 – above 1,132 0.57 3,967,279,489 99.25% T otal 2,00,015 100 % 3,997,400,102 100% 160 150 140 130 120 110 100 Apr-17 May-17 Jun-17 Bharti Airtel Share Price BSE Sensex Jul-17 Aug-17 Sep-17 Oct-17 Nov-17 Dec-17 Jan-18 Feb-18 Mar-18 90 80 160 150 140 130 120 110 100 Apr-17 May-17 Jun-17 Bharti Airtel Share Price NSE Nifty Jul-17 Aug-17 Sep-17 Oct-17 Nov-17 Dec-17 Jan-18 Feb-18 Mar-18 90 80 Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 156  By category of holders as on March 31, 2018 S.  no.
Category No.
of shares %age of holding I Promoter and Promoter Group (i) Indian promoters  2,002,818,452 50.10 (ii) Foreign promoters  680,963,103 17.04 T otal Promoters shareholding  2,683,781,555 67.14 II Public Shareholding (A) Institutional Investors (i) Mutual Funds and Unit Trust of India  264,178,731 6.60 (ii) Financial institutions and Banks  3,108,671 0.08 (iii) Insurance companies  227,466,498 5.70 (iv) Foreign Institutional Investors  1,262,459 0.03 (v) Others - Foreign Portfolio Investors  736,191,176 18.42 (B) Others (i) Bodies Corporate (Indian)  24,101,590 0.60 (ii) Bodies Corporate (Foreign)  2,532,710 0.06 (iii) Trusts  8,717,006 0.22 (iv) NRIs / OCBs / Foreign Nationals / QFI  2,315,817 0.06 (v) Resident Individuals  36,868,027 0.92 (vi) Indian Public & Others  6,875,862 0.17 T otal Public Shareholding 1,313,618,547 32.67 T otal Shareholding 3,997,400,102 100 Dematerialisation of Shares and Liquidity The Company’s shares are compulsorily traded in dematerialised form and are available for trading with both the depositories i.e.
National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL).
The shareholders can hold  the Company’s shares with any of the depository participants, registered with these depositories.
ISIN for the Company’s shares is  INE397D01024.
The Company’s equity shares are frequently traded at the BSE Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited.
Outstanding GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any Convertible instruments, conversion date and likely impact  on equity The Company does not have any outstanding GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any convertible instruments as on date.
Disclosure of commodity price risks and commodity hedging activities The Company follows prudent Board approved risk management policies.
A detailed note on commodity price risks and commodity  hedging activities is given in Management Discussion and Analysis forming part of Annual Report.
Plant Locations Being a service provider company, Bharti Airtel has no plant locations.
The Company’s Circle Office addresses are provided at the end  of the Annual Report.
Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports Report on Corporate Governance Financial Statements 160-317 157  Communication Addresses Contact Email Address For Corporate  Governance and  Other Secretarial  related matters Mr. Pankaj T ewari Sr. VP & Company  Secretary  or Mr. Rohit Krishan Puri Dy.
Company Secretary &  Compliance Officer  compliance.officer@bharti.
in  Bharti Airtel Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,  Vasant Kunj, Phase – II, New Delhi  110 070 T elephone no.
+91 011-46666100 Fax no.
+91 11 46666137 Website: www.airtel.com For queries relating  to Financial  Statements Ms. Komal Sharan Head - Investor Relations ir@bharti.in For Corporate  Communication  related matters Mr. Raza Khan Head - Group Corporate  Communications corporate.
communications@bharti.in Registrar & Transfer  Agent Karvy Computershare  Pvt.
Ltd. einward.ris@karvy.com Karvy Selenium T ower B, Plot number 31 & 32,  Gachibowli, Financial District, Nanakramguda,  Hyderabad – 500032 T elephone no.
+91 040-67162222 Fax No.
040-23001153 Website: www.karvy.com Debentures Trustee Chief Financial Officer Axis Trustee Services  Limited debenturetrustee@ axistrustee.com  Ground Floor, Axis House  Wadia International Centre, Pandurang  Budhkar Marg, Worli, Mumbai-400 025 T elephone No.
+91 022-62260050/54  Fax No.
022-43253000 Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 158  Annexure A Annexure B Declaration Chief Executive Officer (CEO) / Chief Financial Officer (CFO) certification I hereby confirm that the Company has received from all the members of the Board and Senior Management, for the financial year  ended March 31, 2018, a confirmation that they are in compliance with the Company’s Code of Conduct.
For Bharti Airtel Limited Date: April 24, 2018 Gopal Vittal Place: New Delhi Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia) We, Gopal Vittal, Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia) and Nilanjan Roy, Global Chief Financial Officer of Bharti Airtel Limited,  to the best of our knowledge and belief hereby certify that: (a) We have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement for the year ended March 31, 2018 and that to the best of  our knowledge and belief :   (i) these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that might  be misleading;   (ii) these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing  accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
(b) There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the year which are  fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s code of conduct.
(c) We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that we have evaluated the  effectiveness of internal control systems of the company pertaining to financial reporting and we have disclosed to the Auditors  and the Audit Committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls, if any, of which we are aware and the  steps we have taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies.
(d) We have indicated to the auditors and the Audit Committee:   (i) significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year;   (ii) significant changes in accounting policies during the year and that the same have been disclosed in the notes to the financial  statements; and   (iii) instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the management or an  employee having a significant role in the company’s internal control system over financial reporting.
Place: New Delhi   Nilanjan Roy Gopal Vittal Date:  April 24, 2018  Global Chief Financial Officer Managing Director & CEO  (India & South Asia) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports Report on Corporate Governance Financial Statements 160-317 159  Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 160 Independent Auditor’s Report T o the members of BHARTI AIRTEL LIMITED   Report on the Standalone Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying Standalone Financial  Statements  of BHARTI AIRTEL LIMITED (“the Company”),  which comprise the Standalone Balance Sheet as at March 31,  2018, the Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss (including  Other Comprehensive Income), the Standalone Statement of  Cash Flows and the Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity  for the year ended on that date and a summary of the significant  accounting policies and other explanatory information  (hereinafter referred to as “Standalone Financial Statements”).
Management’s Responsibility for the Standalone  Financial Statements The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters  stated in Section 134(5) of the Companies Act,2013 (“the Act”)  with respect to the preparation of these Standalone Financial  Statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position,  financial performance including other comprehensive income,  cash flows and changes in equity of the Company in accordance  with the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) prescribed under  section 133 of the Companies Act,2013 read with the Companies  (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended, and  other accounting principles generally accepted in India.
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate  accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act  for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for preventing  and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and  application of appropriate accounting policies; making  judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and   design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal  financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring  the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records,  relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Standalone  Financial Statements that give a true and fair view and are free  from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these Standalone  Financial Statements based on our audit.
In conducting our audit, we have taken into account the  provisions of the Act, the accounting and auditing standards  and matters which are required to be included in the audit report  under the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder  and the Order issued under section 143(11) of the Act.
We conducted our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements  in accordance with the Standards on Auditing specified under  Section 143(10) of the Act.
Those Standards require that we  comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit  to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Standalone  Financial Statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence  about the amounts and the disclosures in the Standalone  Financial Statements.
The procedures selected depend on the  auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of  material misstatement of the Standalone Financial Statements,  whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments,  the auditor considers internal financial control relevant to the  Company’s preparation of the Standalone Financial Statements  that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures  that are appropriate in the circumstances.
An audit also includes  evaluating the appropriateness of the accounting policies used  and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates made by  the Company’s Board of Directors, as well as evaluating the  overall presentation of the Standalone Financial Statements.
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us is sufficient  and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the  Standalone Financial Statements.
Opinion In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to  the explanations given to us, the aforesaid Standalone Financial  Statements give the information required by the Act in the  manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity  with the Ind AS and other accounting principles generally  accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company as at  March 31, 2018, its profit, total comprehensive income, changes  in equity and its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Emphasis of Matter We draw attention to Note 23(i)(f)(v) to the Standalone Financial  Statements which describes the uncertainties related to the  legal outcome of Department of T elecommunications demand  with respect to one time spectrum charges.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 161 Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Other Matter The comparative financial information of the Company for the  year ended March 31, 2017 prepared in accordance with Ind  AS included in these Standalone Financial Statements have  been audited by the predecessor auditor.
The report of the  predecessor auditor on comparative financial statements for  the year ended and as at March 31, 2017 dated May 9, 2017  expressed an unqualified opinion.
Our opinion is not modified in  respect of this matter.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory  Requirements 1.
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our  audit we report that:  a) We have sought and obtained all the information and  explanations which to the best of our knowledge and  belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit.
b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required  by law have been kept by the Company so far as it  appears from our examination of those books.
c) The Standalone Balance Sheet, the Standalone  Statement of Profit and Loss including Other  Comprehensive Income, the Standalone Statement of  Cash Flows and Standalone Statement of Changes in  Equity dealt with by this Report are in agreement with  the books of account.
d) In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial  statements comply with the Indian Accounting  Standards prescribed under section 133 of the Act.
e) On the basis of the written representations received  from the directors of the Company as on 31st March,  2018 taken on record by the Board of Directors, none  of the directors is disqualified as on 31st March, 2018  from being appointed as a director in terms of Section  164(2) of the Act.
f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial  controls over financial reporting of the Company and  the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer  to our separate Report in “Annexure A”.
Our report  expresses an unmodified opinion on the adequacy  and operating effectiveness of the Company’s internal  financial controls over financial reporting.
g) With respect to the other matters to be included in  the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of  the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as  amended, in our opinion and to the best of our information  and according to the explanations given to us:   i.
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending  litigations on its financial position in its standalone  financial statements.
ii.
The Company has made provision, as required  under the applicable law or accounting standards,  for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term  contracts including derivative contracts.
iii.
There has been no delay in transferring amounts,  required to be transferred, to the Investor  Education and Protection Fund by the Company.
2.
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order,  2016 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government in  terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, we give in “Annexure  B” a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 3  and 4 of the Order.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm’s Registration No.
117366W/W-100018) Hemant M. Joshi Partner (Membership No.
38019) Place: New Delhi Date: April 24, 2018 Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 162 We have audited the internal financial controls over financial  reporting of Bharti Airtel Limited (“the Company”) as of March  31, 2018 in conjunction with our audit of the Standalone  Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended on  that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial  Controls The Company’s management is responsible for establishing  and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal  control over financial reporting criteria established by the  Company considering the essential components of internal  control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial  Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of  Chartered Accountants of India.
These responsibilities include  the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate  internal financial controls that were operating effectively for  ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business,  including adherence to Company’s policies, the safeguarding of  its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the  accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the  timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required  under the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s  internal financial controls over financial reporting based on our  audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance  Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial  Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of  Chartered Accountants of India and the Standards on Auditing  prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013,  to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls.
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply  with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to  obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal  financial controls over financial reporting was established  and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all  material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit  evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial  controls system over financial reporting and their operating  Annexure “A” to the   Independent Auditor’s Report (Referred to in paragraph 1 (f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our  report of even date) Report on the Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the  Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) effectiveness.
Our audit of internal financial controls over  financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of  internal financial controls over financial reporting, assessing the  risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating  the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based  on the assessed risk.
The procedures selected depend on the  auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of  material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due  to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient  and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the  Company’s internal financial controls system over financial  reporting.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls Over  Financial Reporting A company’s internal financial control over financial reporting is  a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding  the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of  financial statements for external purposes in accordance with  generally accepted accounting principles.
A company’s internal  financial control over financial reporting includes those policies  and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records  that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the  transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)  provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded  as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in  accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and  that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made  only in accordance with authorisations of management and  directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance  regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised  acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that  could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls  Over Financial Reporting Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls  over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion  or improper management override of controls, material  misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be  detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal  Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 163 Financial Statements Annexure “A” to the Independent Auditor’s Report financial controls over financial reporting to future periods are  subject to the risk that the internal financial control over financial  reporting may become inadequate because of changes in  conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or  procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion In our opinion, to the best of our information and according to  the explanations given to us the Company has, in all material  respects, an adequate internal financial controls system over  financial reporting and such internal financial controls over  financial reporting were operating effectively as at March 31,  2018 , based on the criteria for internal control over financial  reporting established by the Company considering the essential  components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on  Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting  issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm‘s Registration No.117366W/W-100018) Hemant M. Joshi Partner (Membership No.
38019) Place: New Delhi Date: April 24, 2018 Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 164 Annexure “B” to the   Independent Auditor’s Report (Referred to in paragraph 2 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our  report of even date) i.
In respect of its fixed assets:  a) The Company has maintained proper records showing  full particulars with respect to most of its fixed assets,  and is in the process of updating quantitative and  situation details with respect to certain fixed assets in  the records maintained by the Company.
b) The Company has a program of verification of fixed  assets to cover all the items in a phased manner  over a period of three years which, in our opinion, is  reasonable having regard to the size of the Company  and the nature of its assets.
Pursuant to the program,  certain fixed assets were physically verified by the  Management during the year.
According to the  information and explanations given to us, no material  discrepancies were noticed on such verification.
c) According to the information and explanations given  to us, the records examined by us and based on  examination of property tax receipts, utility bills, lease  agreement for land on which building is constructed,  registered sale deed / transfer deed / conveyance deed  or court orders approving schemes of arrangements / amalgamations provided to us, we report that, the title  in respect of self-constructed buildings and the title  deeds, comprising all the immovable properties of land  and buildings which are freehold, are held in the name  of the Company as at the balance sheet date.
In respect of immovable properties that have been  taken on lease and disclosed as property, plant and  equipment in the financial statements, based on  our examination of the lease agreements or court  orders approving the schemes of arrangement or  amalgamations, we report that the lease agreements  are in the name of the Company, where the Company  is the lessee in the agreement.
ii.
As explained to us, the inventories, except for those lying  with the third parties, were physically verified during the  year by the Management at reasonable intervals and no  material discrepancies were noticed on physical verification.
iii.
According to information and explanation given to us, the  Company has not granted any loans, secured or unsecured,  to companies, firms, Limited Liability Partnerships or other  parties covered in the register maintained under section  189 of the Companies Act, 2013. iv.
In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, there are no loans, investments,  guarantees, and securities granted in respect of which  provisions of Section 185 and 186 of the Companies Act,  2013 are applicable.
v. According to the information and explanations given to us,  the Company has not accepted deposits during the year  and does not have any unclaimed deposits as at March 31,  2018 and therefore, the provisions of the clause 3 (v) of the  Order are not applicable.
vi.
The maintenance of cost records has been specified by the  Central Government under section 148(1) of the Companies  Act, 2013.
We have broadly reviewed the cost records  maintained by the Company pursuant to the Companies  (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014, as amended  prescribed by the Central Government under sub-section  (1) of Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013, and are of  the opinion that, prima facie, the prescribed cost records  have been made and maintained.
We have, however, not  made a detailed examination of the cost records with a view  to determine whether they are accurate or complete.
vii.
According to the information and explanations given to us,  in respect of statutory dues:  (a) The Company is regular in depositing undisputed  statutory dues, including Provident Fund, Employees’  State Insurance, Income-tax, Sales T ax, Service T ax,  Goods and Services T ax, Customs Duty, Value Added  T ax, cess and other material statutory dues applicable  to it to the appropriate authorities.
As explained to  us, the provisions relating to duty of excise are not  applicable to the Company.
(b) There were no undisputed amounts payable in respect  of Provident Fund, Employees’ State Insurance,  Income-tax, Sales T ax, Value Added T ax, Service T ax,  Goods and Services T ax, Customs Duty, cess and other  material statutory dues in arrears as at March 31, 2018  for a period of more than six months from the date they  became payable.
(c) There are no dues of Goods and Service T ax, cess  which have not been deposited on account of any  dispute.
Details of dues of Income-tax, Sales T ax, Value  Added T ax, Service T ax and Customs Duty which have  not been deposited as on March 31, 2018 on account  of disputes are given below: Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 165 Financial Statements Annexure “B” to the Independent Auditor’s Report Name of the Statutes Nature of  the Dues  Amount Disputed  (in J Million)  Period to Which  the amount Relates  Forum where the dispute is  pending Andhra Pradesh VA T Act,  2005 Sales T ax            87   2004-13 Tribunal  Andhra Pradesh VA T Act,  2005 Sales T ax            52 2013-15 Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) Bihar VA T Act, 2005 Sales T ax 0* 2015-16 Assistant Commissioner Bihar VA T Act, 2005 Sales T ax              2 2006-07 Commercial T ax Officer Bihar VA T Act, 2005 Sales T ax              1 2016-17 Deputy Commissioner Bihar VA T Act, 2005 Sales T ax            22 2015-17 Joint Commissioner (Appeal) Bihar VA T Act, 2005 Sales T ax           139 2005-15 Tribunal  Chhattisgarh VA T Act, 2003 Sales T ax 0* 2006-07 Assistant Commissioner Delhi VA T Act, 2004 Sales T ax              6 2011-14 Assistant Commissioner The Gujarat VA T Act, 2003 Sales T ax              1 2005-07 Assistant Commissioner  The Karnataka VA T Act, 2003 Sales T ax           291 2005-06 Assistant Commissioner   The Karnataka VA T Act, 2003 Sales T ax 0* 2012-13 Deputy Commissioner The Karnataka VA T Act, 2003 Sales T ax              2 2016-17 Joint Commissioner (Appeal) The Kerala VA T Act, 2003 Sales T ax              1 2005-17 Commercial T ax Officer  The Kerala VA T Act, 2003 Sales T ax 0* 2016-17 Intelligence Officer Ernakulum Kerala Sales T ax Act Sales T ax 0* 2005-11 Commercial tax Officer Kerala Sales T ax Act Sales T ax            16 2005-10 Deputy Commissioner, Appeal   Kerala Sales T ax Act Sales T ax 0* 2008-10 Intelligence Officer Squad   Kerala Sales T ax Act Sales T ax              1 2002-05 Tribunal   The Kerala VA T Act, 2003 Sales T ax            71 2006-07 High Court of Kerala The Kerala VA T Act, 2003 Sales T ax            44 2007-12 Asst.
Commissioner, Spl Circle III,  Ernakulam The Kerala VA T Act, 2003 Sales T ax 0* 2015-16 Intelligence Inspector, Squad No.
I,  T ellichery The Kerala VA T Act, 2003 Sales T ax 0* 2015-16 Intelligence Inspector, Squad No.
3,  Ernakulam The Madhya Pradesh VA T Act,  2002 Sales T ax              7 2008-10,2012-13 Tribunal The Madhya Pradesh VA T Act,  2002 Sales T ax 0* 2004-08 Commercial T ax Officer The Madhya Pradesh VA T Act,  2002 Sales T ax              1 2008-10 Deputy Commissioner  The Madhya Pradesh VA T Act,  2002 Sales T ax            22 1997-04 Deputy Commissioner, Appeal  The Madhya Pradesh VA T Act,  2002 Sales T ax 0* 2005-06 Assistant Commissioner   The Maharashtra VA T Act,  2002 Sales T ax 0* 2003-04 Joint Commissioner, Appeal   Punjab VA T Act, 2005 Sales T ax              1 2009-17 Deputy Excise and T axation  Commissioner Punjab VA T Act, 2005 Sales T ax            30 2003-04 High Court   Punjab VA T Act, 2005 Sales T ax              1 2002-03 Jt.
Director( Enforcement)   Punjab VA T Act, 2005 Sales T ax              1 2008-10 Tribunal  Rajasthan VA T Act, 2003 Sales T ax              2 2015-16 Commercial T ax Officer The T amil Nadu VA T Act,  2003  Sales T ax 0* 2010-11 Deputy Commissioner Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 166 Name of the Statutes Nature of  the Dues  Amount Disputed  (in J Million)  Period to Which  the amount Relates  Forum where the dispute is  pending The Uttar Pradesh VA T Act,  2008 Sales T ax            11 2005-13 Assessing officer  The Uttar Pradesh VA T Act,  2008 Sales T ax            21 2002-05 Assistant Commissioner  The Uttar Pradesh VA T Act,  2008 Sales T ax 0* 2017-18 Commercial T ax Officer The Uttar Pradesh VA T Act,  2008 Sales T ax              1 2007-08 Joint Commissioner The Uttar Pradesh VA T Act,  2008 Sales T ax              6 2008-10 High court  The Uttar Pradesh VA T Act,  2008 Sales T ax              2 2003-10 Joint Commissioner, Appeal  The Uttar Pradesh VA T Act,  2008 Sales T ax              9 2005-13 Tribunal  The Uttar Pradesh VA T Act,  2008 Sales T ax              1 2015-16 Additional Commissioner The Uttar Pradesh VA T Act,  2008 Sales T ax              9 2003-17 Deputy Commissioner The West Bengal VA T Act,  2003 Sales T ax 0* 1996-97 The Deputy Commissioner of  Commercial T axes The West Bengal VA T Act,  2003 Sales T ax 0* 1995-98 Commercial T ax Officer  The West Bengal VA T Act,  2003 Sales T ax              9 2005-06 Revision Board  The West Bengal VA T Act,  2003 Sales T ax              3 1997-12 Tribunal  Sub T otal (A)           877    Finance Act, 1994 (Service  tax provisions ) Service T ax          278 1995-08 Supreme Court   Finance Act, 1994 (Service  tax provisions ) Service T ax              7 2002-07 High court  Finance Act, 1994 (Service  tax provisions ) Service T ax       7,226 1995-16 Tribunal  Finance Act, 1994 (Service  tax provisions ) Service T ax          571 1999-13 Commissioner of Service T ax Sub T otal (B)        8,082    Custom Act, 1962 Custom Act       4,128 2001-05 Supreme Court  Custom Act, 1962 Custom Act          755 2003-15 Tribunal   Sub T otal (C)        4,883    Income T ax Act, 1961 Income T ax 128  2001-03, 2004-08 Supreme Court Income T ax Act, 1961 Income T ax 10,519  1996-97, 2003-10 High Court Income T ax Act, 1961 Income T ax 24,338  1995-2015 Income T ax Appellate Tribunal Income T ax Act, 1961 Income T ax 607  1998-2015 Commissioner of Income T ax  (Appeals) Income T ax Act, 1961 Income T ax 638  1996-97; 2004-17 Assessing Officer Sub T otal (D)    36,230    Grand T otal(A+B+C+D):        50,071    The above mentioned figures represent the total disputed cases without any assessment of Probable, Possible and Remote, as done in case of Contingent  Liabilities.
Of the above cases, total amount deposited in respect of Sales T ax is 327 Mn, Service T ax is 472 Mn, Income T ax is 10,968 Mn and Custom Duty  is 2,141 Mn.
* Amount less than million are appearing as ‘0’.
Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 167 Financial Statements Annexure “B” to the Independent Auditor’s Report viii.
In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, the Company has not defaulted  in the repayment of loans or borrowings to financial  institutions, banks and government and dues to debenture  holders.
ix.
During the current year, the Company has not raised  moneys by way of initial public offer or further public offer  (including debt instruments).
In our opinion and according  to the information and explanations given to us, the term  loans have been applied by the Company during the year  for the purposes for which they were raised, other than  temporary deployment pending application of proceeds.
x. T o the best of our knowledge and according to the  information and explanations given to us, no fraud by the  Company and no material fraud on the Company by its  officers or employees has been noticed or reported during  the year.
xi.
In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, the Company has paid / provided  managerial remuneration in accordance with the requisite  approvals mandated by the provisions of Section 197  read with Schedule V to the Companies Act, 2013, except  that the commission of H 67.64 million to non-executive  directors is in excess by H 33.12 million, basis the lower  limits approved by the Shareholders of the Company.
As  informed, the Company would be seeking Shareholders’  approval for the said excess amount at the ensuing Annual  General Meeting.
xii.
The Company is not a Nidhi Company and hence reporting  under clause 3 (xii) of the Order is not applicable.
xiii.
In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us the Company is in compliance with  Section 177 and 188 of the Companies Act, 2013, where  applicable, for all transactions with the related parties and  the details of related party transactions have been disclosed  in the financial statements etc.
as required by the applicable  accounting standards.
xiv.
During the year the Company has not made any preferential  allotment or private placement of shares or fully or partly  convertible debentures and hence reporting under clause  3 (xiv) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
xv.
In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, during the year the Company has  not entered into any non-cash transactions with its directors  or directors of its holding company, directors of subsidiary  company or directors of associate company or persons  connected with them and hence provisions of section 192  of the Companies Act, 2013 are not applicable.
xvi.
The Company is not required to be registered under section  45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm’s Registration No.
117366W/W-100018)  Hemant M. Joshi Partner (Membership No.
38019) Place: New Delhi Date: April 24, 2018 Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 168 Balance Sheet As at 31st March 2018 (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees) Notes As of 31 March 2018 As of 31 March 2017 Assets  Non-current assets    Property, plant and equipment 6  476,911  381,176    Capital work-in-progress 6  27,387  11,818    Intangible assets 7  749,183  734,052    Intangible assets under development 7  28,040  84,184    Investment in subsidiaries and joint ventures 8  481,219  459,538    Financial assets     - Investments 8  63  52     - Derivative instruments 9  80  213     - Loans and security deposits 10  10,290  10,389     - Others 11  260  556    Income tax assets  19,595  16,164    Deferred tax assets  12  14,244  8,808    Other non-current assets 13  27,142  42,596   1,834,414  1,749,546   Current assets    Inventories  63  39   Financial assets    - Derivative instruments 9  195  634    - Trade receivables 14  43,196  32,118    - Cash and cash equivalents 15  4,626  1,087    - Other bank balances 15  825  647    - Loans 10  72,496  72,081    - Others 11  11,837  13,200   Other current assets 13  81,721  33,295   Assets-held-for-sale 5  -    13,729   214,959  166,830  T otal assets  2,049,373  1,916,376  Equity and liabilities   Equity      Share capital 16  19,987  19,987    Other equity  1,008,622  992,086   1,028,609  1,012,073   Non-current liabilities    Financial liabilities     - Borrowings 18  544,681  503,421     - Derivative instruments 9  124  186     - Others 19  19,354  21,881    Deferred revenue  18,371  18,321    Provisions 20  1,830  2,330   584,360  546,139   Current liabilities    Financial liabilities     - Borrowings 18  80,680  65,478     - Current maturities of long-term borrowings 18  28,797  32,048     - Derivative instruments 9  228  1,662     - Trade payables 22  176,990  149,698     - Others 19  92,529  62,149    Deferred revenue  30,242  30,311    Provisions 20  1,262  1,291    Current tax liabilities  2,447  3,885    Other current liabilities 21  23,229  11,642   436,404  358,164  T otal liabilities  1,020,764  904,303  T otal equity and liabilities  2,049,373  1,916,376  The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone financial statements.
As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited For  Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm’s Registration No: 117366W / W-100018) Hemant M. Joshi Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Partner  Chairman Managing Director & CEO  Membership No: 38019 DIN: 00042491 (India and South Asia)   DIN: 02291778 Place: New Delhi Nilanjan Roy Pankaj T ewari Date: April 24, 2018 Global Chief Financial Officer  Company Secretary Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 169 Financial Statements Balance Sheet / Statement of Profit and Loss Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended 31st March 2018 (All amounts are in millions of Indian millions Rupees; except per share data) Notes For the year ended  31 March 2018 For the year ended  31 March 2017 Income  Revenue from operations 24  536,630  622,763  Other income  2,356  1,843   538,986  624,606  Expenses  Network operating expenses 25  139,512  145,360  Access charges  78,944  80,505  License fee / spectrum charges (revenue share)  55,630  69,416  Employee benefits expense 26  17,209  17,385  Sales and Marketing expenses 27  30,519  32,320  Other expenses 28  36,171  38,524   357,985  383,510  Profit from operating activities before depreciation, amortisation  and exceptional items  181,001  241,096  Depreciation and amortisation 29  130,486  122,034  Finance costs 30  59,107  52,546  Finance income 30  (8,417)  (23,421) Non-operating expenses  596  2,324  (Loss) /profit before exceptional items and tax  (771)  87,613  Exceptional items 31  6,041  172,708  Loss before tax  (6,812)  (85,095) T ax expense / (credit)  Current tax 12  (2,204)  (45)  Deferred tax 12  (5,400)  14,206  Profit / (loss) for the year  792  (99,256) Other comprehensive income ('OCI')  Items not to be reclassified to profit or loss :   - Re-measurement gains / (losses) on defined benefit plans 26  87  (36)  - T ax (charge)  / credit 12  (30)  11  Other comprehensive income / (loss) for the year  57  (25) T otal comprehensive income / (loss) for the year  849  (99,281) Earnings per share (Face value : J5 each) (In Rupees)   Basic and Diluted 32  0.20  (24.84) The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone financial statements.
As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited For  Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm’s Registration No: 117366W / W-100018) Hemant M. Joshi Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Partner  Chairman Managing Director & CEO  Membership No: 38019 DIN: 00042491 (India and South Asia)   DIN: 02291778 Place: New Delhi Nilanjan Roy Pankaj T ewari Date: April 24, 2018 Global Chief Financial Officer  Company Secretary Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 170 (All amounts are in millions of Indian millions Rupees; except per share data) Share capital Other equity - Reserves and Surplus T otal  equity No of shares  (in ‘000) Amount Securities  premium  account Retained  earnings General  reserve Business  restructuring  reserve  Debenture  redemption  reserve Share - based  payment  reserve Capital  reserve T otal  As of April 1, 2016 3,997,400  19,987  106,650 934,735  27,030  16,313  -    3,825  8,751 1,097,304 1,117,291  Loss for the year  -    -    -    (99,256)  -    -    -    -    -    (99,256)  (99,256) Other comprehensive loss  -    -    -    (25)  -    -    -    -    -    (25)  (25) T otal comprehensive loss  -    -    -    (99,281)  -    -    -    -    -    (99,281)  (99,281) Transaction with owners of equity  Employee share-based payment expense  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    298  -    298  298  Exercise of share options  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (144)  -    (144)  (144) Dividend paid (including tax)   -    -    -    (5,456)  -    -    -    -    (5,456)  (5,456) Merger of subsidiary  -    -    530  (720)  (445)  -    -    -    -    (635)  (635) As of Marchch 31, 2017 3,997,400  19,987  107,180  829,278  26,585  16,313  -    3,979  8,751  992,086 1,012,073  Profit for the year  -    -    -    792  -    -    -    -    -    792  792  Other comprehensive income  -    -    -    57  -    -    -    -    -    57  57  T otal comprehensive profit  -    -    -    849  -    -    -    -    -    849  849  Transaction with owners of equity  Employee share-based payment expense  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    337  -    337  337  Exercise of share options  -    -    -    -    3,510  -    (3,646)  -    (136)  (136) Creation of  debenture redemption reserve  -    -    -    -    (7,500)  -    7,500  -    -    -    -    Dividend paid (including tax)  -    -    -    (15,350)  -    -    -    -    -    (15,350)  (15,350) Common control transactions*  -    -    -    30,836  -    -    30,836  30,836  As of March 31, 2018 3,997,400  19,987  107,180  845,613  22,595  16,313  7,500  670  8,751 1,008,622 1,028,609  *This includes gains of H2,335 due to regulatory changes in the funding arrangements as to previous year transactions The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone financial statements.
As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited For  Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm’s Registration No: 117366W / W-100018) Hemant M. Joshi Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Partner  Chairman Managing Director & CEO  Membership No: 38019 DIN: 00042491 (India and South Asia)   DIN: 02291778 Place: New Delhi Nilanjan Roy Pankaj T ewari Date: April 24, 2018 Global Chief Financial Officer  Company Secretary Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 171 Financial Statements Statement of Changes in Equity / Statement of Cash Flows Standalone Statement of Cash Flows (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees) For the year ended  31 March 2018 For the year ended  31 March 2017 Cash flows from operating activities Loss before tax  (6,812)  (85,095) Adjustments for:   Depreciation and amortisation  130,486  122,034   Finance costs  59,107  52,546   Finance income  (8,417)  (23,421)  Exceptional items  5,688  152,405   Employee share-based payment expenses  337  298   Other non-cash items 8,351 8,143 Operating cash flow before changes in working capital 188,740 226,910 Changes in working capital  Trade receivables  (19,814)  (7,500)  Trade payables  14,546  24,929   Inventories  (24)  14   Provisions  (95)  180   Other financial and non-financial liabilities  8,413  2,388   Other financial and non-financial assets  (29,819)  (20,827) Net cash generated from operations before tax  161,947  226,094   Income tax paid  (2,404)  (14,439) Net cash generated from operating activities (a)  159,543  211,655  Cash flows from investing activities  Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (193,180)  (156,143)  Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  4,886  3,053   Purchase of intangible assets  (28,855)  (170,135)  Payment towards Spectrum - Deferred payment liability * (9,909) (9,804)  Net proceeds from current investments  35  47   Proceeds from buyback of share by subsidiary  -    12,350   Proceeds from sale of investment of subsidiaries  65,933  146,223   Investment in subsidiaries  (41,814)  (74,283)  Loan given to subsidiaries  (72,135)  (98,797)  Loan repayment by subsidiaries  71,512  82,288   Dividend received  4,200  16,511   Interest received  4,911  5,858  Net cash used in investing activities (b)  (194,416)  (242,832) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 172 Standalone Statement of Cash Flows (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees) For the year ended  31 March 2018 For the year ended  31 March 2017 Cash flows from financing activities  Proceeds from borrowings  149,422  140,419   Repayment of borrowings  (57,313)  (122,391)  Net proceeds / repayment of short-term borrowings  (33,794)  32,832   Interest and other finance charges paid  (4,291)  (10,850)  Proceeds from exercise of share options  3  3   Dividend paid (including tax)  (15,350)  (5,456) Net cash generated from financing activities (c) 38,677  34,557  Net increase  in cash and cash equivalents during the year (a+b+c)  3,804  3,380  Add : Cash and cash equivalents as at the beginning of the year  822  (2,558) Cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the year (refer Note 15)  4,626  822  The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone financial statements.
As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited For  Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm’s Registration No: 117366W / W-100018) Hemant M. Joshi Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Partner  Chairman Managing Director & CEO  Membership No: 38019 DIN: 00042491 (India and South Asia)   DIN: 02291778 Place: New Delhi Nilanjan Roy Pankaj T ewari Date: April 24, 2018 Global Chief Financial Officer  Company Secretary *Cash flows towards spectrum acquisitions are based on the timing of payouts to DOT (viz.
upfront / deferred) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 173 1.
Corporate information  Bharti Airtel Limited (‘the Company’) is domiciled and incorporated in India as a limited liability company with its shares being  listed on the National Stock Exchange and the Bombay Stock Exchange.
The registered office of the Company is situated at  Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road, Vasant Kunj, Phase – II, New Delhi – 110070.
The Company is principally engaged in provision of telecommunication services in India.
The details as to the services provided  by the Company are further provided in note 33.
For details as to the group entities, refer note 34.
2.
Summary of significant accounting policies  2.1 Basis of preparation   These standalone financial statements (‘financial statements’) have been prepared to comply in all material respects with  the Indian Accounting Standard (‘Ind AS’) as notified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’) under section 133 of the  Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’), read together with Rule 3 of the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 (as  amended from time to time) and other relevant provisions of the Act.
The financial statements are authorised for issue by the Company’s Board of Directors on April 24, 2018.
The financial statements are based on the classification provisions contained in Ind AS 1, ‘Presentation of Financial  Statements’ and division II of schedule III of the Companies Act 2013.
Further, for the purpose of clarity, various items are  aggregated in the statement of profit and loss and balance sheet.
Nonetheless, these items are dis-aggregated separately in  the notes to the financial statements, where applicable or required.
All the amounts included in the financial statements are reported in millions of Indian Rupees (‘Rupees’ or ‘H’) and are rounded  to the nearest million, except per share data and unless stated otherwise.
Further, amounts which are less than a million are  appearing as ‘0’.
The preparation of the said financial statements requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and judgements.
It also requires the management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies.
The areas where estimates are significant to the financial statements, or areas involving a higher degree of judgement or  complexity, are disclosed in note 3.
The accounting policies, as set out in the following paragraphs of this note, have been consistently applied, by the Company,  to all the periods presented in the said financial statements.
Further, previous year figures have been re-grouped, wherever  necessary to conform to current year’s classification.
2.2 Basis of measurement   The financial statements have been prepared on the accrual and going concern basis, and the historical cost convention  except where the Ind AS requires a different accounting treatment.
The principal variations from the historical cost convention  relate to financial instruments classified as fair value through profit or loss and liability for cash-settled awards (refer note  2.16) - which are measured at fair value.
Fair value measurement   Fair value is the price at the measurement date, at which an asset can be sold or paid to transfer a liability, in an orderly  transaction between market participants.
The Company’s accounting policies require, measurement of certain financial /  non-financial assets and liabilities at fair values (either on a recurring or non-recurring basis).
Also, the fair values of financial  instruments measured at amortised cost are required to be disclosed in the said financial statements.
The Company is required to classify the fair valuation method of the financial / non-financial assets and liabilities, either  measured or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements, using a three level fair-value-hierarchy (which reflects the  significance of inputs used in the measurement).
Accordingly, the Company uses valuation techniques that are appropriate  in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant  observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 174   The three levels of the fair-value-hierarchy are described below:   Level 1: Quoted (unadjusted) prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets   Level 2:  Significant inputs to the fair value measurement are directly or indirectly observable   Level 3: Significant inputs to the fair value measurement are unobservable.
2.3 Foreign currency transactions   The financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees which is the functional and presentation currency of the Company.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the relevant functional currency at the rates prevailing at the date  of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the closing  exchange rate prevailing as at the reporting date with the resulting foreign exchange differences, on subsequent re- statement / settlement, recognised in the statement of profit and loss within finance costs / finance income.
Non-monetary  assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rate  prevalent, at the date of initial recognition (in case they are measured at historical cost) or at the date when the fair value is  determined (in case they are measured at fair value) – the resulting foreign exchange difference, on subsequent re-statement /  settlement, recognised in the statement of profit and loss, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in the other  comprehensive income or directly in equity.
The equity items denominated in foreign currencies are translated at historical cost.
2.4 Current versus non-current classification   The Company presents assets and liabilities in the balance sheet based on current / non-current classification.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities, and all assets and liabilities which are not current (as discussed in the below paragraphs)  are classified as non-current assets and liabilities.
An asset is classified as current when it is expected to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed in normal operating  cycle, held primarily for the purpose of trading, expected to be realised within twelve months after the reporting period, or  cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least twelve months after  the reporting period.
A liability is classified as current when it is expected to be settled in normal operating cycle, it is held primarily for the purpose  of trading, it is due to be settled within twelve months after the reporting period, or there is no unconditional right to defer the  settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the reporting period.
Separated embedded derivatives are classified basis the host contract.
2.5 Common control transactions   Business Combinations arising from transfers of interest in entities that are under the common control,  are accounted at  historical cost.
The difference between any consideration paid /received and the aggregate historical carrying amounts of  assets and liabilities of the interest acquired  / disposed is recorded in retained earnings.
2.6 Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’)   An item is recognised as an asset, if and only if, it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the item  will flow to the Company and its cost can be measured reliably.
PPE are initially recognised at cost.
The initial cost of PPE  comprises its purchase price (including non-refundable duties and taxes but excluding any trade discounts and rebates),  assets retirement obligations (refer note 2.17 (b)) and any directly attributable cost of bringing the asset to its working  condition and location for its intended use.
Subsequent to initial recognition, PPE are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
When  significant parts of PPE are required to be replaced at regular intervals, the Company recognises such parts as separate  component of assets.
When an item of PPE is replaced, then its carrying amount is de-recognised from the balance sheet  and cost of the new item of PPE is recognised.
Further, in case the replaced part was not being depreciated separately, the  cost of the replacement is used as an indication to determine the cost of the replaced part at the time it was acquired.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 175   The expenditures that are incurred after the item of PPE has been put to use, such as repairs and maintenance, are normally  charged to the statement of profit and loss in the period in which such costs are incurred.
However, in situations where the  said expenditure can be measured reliably, and is probable that future economic benefits associated with it will flow to the  Company, it is included in the asset’s carrying value or as a separate asset, as appropriate.
Depreciation on PPE is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives.
Freehold land is not  depreciated as it has an unlimited useful life.
The Company has established the estimated range of useful lives of different  categories of PPE as follows: Categories Years Leasehold land Period of lease Building 20 Building on leased land 20 Leasehold improvements Period of lease or 10 years, whichever is less Plant and Equipment Network Equipment (including passive infrastructure) 3 - 20 Computer 3 Office equipment 2 - 5  Furniture and fixtures 5 Vehicles 5   The useful lives, residual values and depreciation method of PPE are reviewed, and adjusted appropriately, at-least as at  each financial year so as to ensure that the method and period of depreciation are consistent with the expected pattern  of economic benefits from these assets.
The effect of any change in the estimated useful lives, residual values and / or  depreciation method are accounted prospectively, and accordingly the depreciation is calculated over the PPE’s remaining  revised useful life.
The cost and the accumulated depreciation for PPE sold, scrapped, retired or otherwise disposed off are  de-recognised from the balance sheet and the resulting gains / (losses) are included in the statement of profit and loss within  other expenses / other income.
The management basis its past experience and technical assessment has estimated the useful life, which is at variance with  the life prescribed  in Part C of Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013 and has accordingly, depreciated the assets over such  useful life.
The cost of capital work-in-progress (CWIP) is presented separately in the balance sheet.
2.7 Intangible assets   Identifiable intangible assets are recognised when the Company controls the asset, it is probable that future economic  benefits attributed to the asset will flow to the Company and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
The intangible assets are initially recognised at cost.
These assets having finite useful life are carried at cost less accumulated  amortisation and any impairment losses.
Amortisation is computed using the straight-line method over the expected useful  life of intangible assets.
The Company has established the estimated useful lives of different categories of intangible assets as follows:   a. Softwares    Softwares are amortised over the period of license, generally not exceeding three years.
b. Bandwidth    Bandwidth is amortised over the period of the agreement.
c. Licenses (including spectrum)    Acquired licenses and spectrum are amortised commencing from the date when the related network is available for  intended use in the relevant jurisdiction.
The useful lives range from two to twenty years.
The revenue-share based fee on licenses / spectrum is charged to the statement of profit and loss in the period such  cost is incurred.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 176   d. Other acquired intangible assets    Other acquired intangible assets include the following:    Rights acquired for unlimited license access: Over the period of the agreement which ranges upto five years.
Customer base: Over the estimated life of such relationships.
Non-compete fee: Over the period of the agreement which ranges upto five years.
The useful lives and amortisation method are reviewed, and adjusted appropriately, at least at each financial year end so  as to ensure that the method and period of amortisation are consistent with the expected pattern of economic benefits  from these assets.
The effect of any change in the estimated useful lives and / or amortisation method is accounted  prospectively, and accordingly the amortisation is calculated over the remaining revised useful life.
Further, the cost of intangible assets under development includes the amount of spectrum allotted to the Company  and related costs (including borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of qualifying  assets (refer note 7)), if any, for which services are yet to be rolled out and are presented separately in the balance sheet.
2.8 Impairment of non-financial assets   PPE, intangible assets and Intangible assets under development   PPE (including CWIP) and intangible assets with definite lives, are reviewed for impairment, whenever events or changes in  circumstances indicate that their carrying values may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets under development is tested for  impairment, at-least annually and whenever circumstances indicate that it may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount (that is, higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the  value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis, unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely  independent of those from other assets, in which case the recoverable amount is determined at the CGU level to which  the said asset belongs.
If such individual assets or CGU are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognised in  the statement of profit and loss is measured by the amount by which the carrying value of the asset / CGU exceeds their  estimated recoverable amount and allocated on pro-rata basis.
Reversal of impairment losses   Impairment losses are reversed in the statement of profit and loss and the carrying value is increased to its revised recoverable  amount provided that this amount does not exceed the carrying value that would have been determined had no impairment  loss been recognised for the said asset / CGU in previous years.
2.9 Financial instruments   a.
Recognition, classification and presentation    The financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual  provisions of the financial instrument.
The Company determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition.
The Company recognises its investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates at cost less any impairment losses.
The said investments are tested for impairment, at-least annually and whenever  circumstances indicate that their carring  values may exceed the recoverable amount (viz.
higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value-in-use).
The Company classifies its financial assets in the following categories: a) those to be measured subsequently at fair  value through profit or loss, and b) those to be measured at amortised cost.
The classification depends on the entity’s  business model for managing the financial assets and the contractual terms of the cash flows.
The Company has classified all the non-derivative financial liabilities as measured at amortised cost.
The entire hybrid contract, financial assets with embedded derivatives,  are considered in their entirety for determining  Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 177 the contractual terms of the cash flow and accordingly the embedded derivatives are not separated.
However, derivatives  embedded in non-financial instrument / financial liabilities (measured at amortised cost) host contracts are classified as  separate derivatives if their economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contracts.
Financial assets and liabilities arising from different transactions are off-set against each other and the resultant net amount  is presented in the balance sheet, if and only when, the Company currently has a legally enforceable right to set-off the related  recognised amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
b.
Measurement – Non-derivative financial instruments    I.
Initial measurement     At initial recognition, the Company measures the non-derivative financial instruments (except off-market financial  guarantee) at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs.
Otherwise transaction costs are expensed in the statement of profit and loss.
Any off market financial guarantees,  issued in relation to obligations of subsidiaries, are initially recognised at fair value (as part of the cost of the investment  in the subsidiary).
II.
Subsequent measurement - financial assets     The subsequent measurement of the non-derivative financial assets depends on their classification as follows:     i.
Financial assets measured at amortised cost      Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent solely payments  of principal and interest are measured at amortised cost using the effective-interest rate (‘EIR’) method  (if  the impact of discounting / any transaction costs is significant).
Interest income from these financial assets is  included in finance income.
ii.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (‘FVTPL’)      All financial assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost are measured at FVTPL.
Interest (basis EIR  method) and dividend income from financial assets at FVTPL is recognised in the statement of profit and loss  within finance income / finance costs separately from the other gains / losses arising from changes in the fair  value.
Impairment      The Company assesses on a forward looking basis the expected credit losses associated with its assets carried  at amortised cost.
The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant  increase in credit risk since initial recognition.
If credit risk has not increased significantly, twelve month,  expected credit loss (ECL) is used to provide for impairment loss, otherwise lifetime ECL is used.
However, only in case of trade receivables, the Company applies the simplified approach which requires  expected lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.
III.
Subsequent measurement - financial liabilities     Any off-market financial guarantees are amortised over the life of the guarantee and are measured at each reporting  date at the higher of (i) the remaining unamortised balance of the amount at initial recognition and (ii) the best  estimate of expenditure required to settle the obligation at the end of the reporting period.
Other financial liabilities  are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the EIR method (if the impact of discounting / any transaction  costs is significant).
c. Measurement – derivative financial instruments    Derivative financial instruments, including separated embedded derivatives are classified as financial instruments at fair  value through profit or loss - Held for trading.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value.
They are subsequently measured at their fair value, with changes in fair value being recognised in the statement of profit  and loss within finance income / finance costs.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 178   d. Derecognition    The financial liabilities are de-recognised from the balance sheet when the under-lying obligations are extinguished,  discharged, lapsed, cancelled, expires or legally released.
The financial assets are de-recognised from the balance sheet  when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired, or have been transferred and the Company  has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
The difference in the carrying amount is recognised in  the statement of profit and loss.
2.10 Leases   The determination of whether an arrangement is a lease is based on whether fulfillment of the arrangement is dependent on  the use of a specific asset and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset, even if that right is not explicitly specified  in an arrangement.
Leases where the lessor transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as  finance lease and other leases are classified as operating lease.
Operating lease receipts / payments are recognised as an income / expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term  unless the lease payments increase in line with expected general inflation.
a.
Company as a lessee    Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised at the lease inception at lower of the fair value of the leased asset  and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges  (recognised in the statement of profit and loss) and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant periodic  rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
b.
Company as a lessor    Assets leased to others under finance lease are recognised as receivables at an amount equal to the net investment  in the leased assets.
Finance lease income is aloocated to periods so as to reflect a constant rate of return on the net  investment outstanding in respect of the finance lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and  recognised in statement of profit and loss on a stratght-line basis over the lease term.
The Company enters into ‘Indefeasible right to use’ (‘IRU’) arrangement wherein the assets are given on lease over the  substantial part of the asset life.
However, the title to the assets and significant risk associated with the operation and  maintenance of these assets remains with the Company.
Hence, such arrangements are recognised as operating lease.
The contracted price is recognised as revenue during the tenure of the agreement.
Unearned IRU revenue received in  advance is presented as deferred revenue within liabilities in the balance sheet.
2.11 Taxes   The income tax expense comprises of current and deferred income tax.
Income tax is recognised in the statement of profit  and loss, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in the other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in  which case the related income tax is also recognised accordingly.
a.
Current tax    The current tax is calculated on the basis of the tax rates, laws and regulations, which have been enacted or substantively  enacted as at the reporting date.
The payment made in excess / (shortfall) of the Company’s income tax obligation for  the period are recognised in the balance sheet under non-current assets as income tax assets / under current liabilities  as current tax liabilities.
Any interest, related to accrued liabilities for potential tax assessments are not included in Income tax charge or (credit),  but are rather recognised within finance costs.
b.
Deferred tax    Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets  and liabilities and their carrying values in the financial statements.
However, deferred tax are not recognised if it arises  Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 179 from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the  transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against  which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The unrecognised deferred tax assets / carrying amount of deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date for  recoverability and adjusted appropriately.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting  date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability  is settled.
Income tax assets and liabilities are off-set against each other and the resultant net amount is presented in the balance  sheet, if and only when, (a) the Company currently has a legally enforceable right to set-off the current income tax assets  and liabilities, and (b) when it relate to income tax levied by the same taxation authority and where there is an intention  to settle the current income tax balances on net basis.
2.12  Inventories   Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (determined using the first-in-first-out method) and net realisable value.
The  costs comprise its purchase price and any directly attributable cost of bringing to its present location and condition.
Net  realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and  the estimated variable costs necessary to make the sale.
2.13  Cash and cash equivalents   Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank balances and any deposits with original maturities of three months or  less (that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and cash equivalents and subject to an insignificant risk of changes  in value).
However, for the purpose of the statement of cash flows, in addition to above items, any bank overdrafts / cash credits  that are integral part of the Company’s cash management, are also included as a component of cash and cash equivalents.
2.14  Non-current assets held for sale   Non-current assets are classified as assets-held-for-sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through  a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
The sale is considered highly probable only when the asset is  available for immediate sale in its present condition, it is unlikely that the sale will be withdrawn and sale is expected within  one year from the date of the classification.
Assets classified as held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and  fair value less costs to sell.
Assets classified as held for sale are presented separately in the balance sheet.
Loss is recognised for any initial or subsequent write-down of the asset to fair value less costs to sell.
A gain is recognised for any  subsequent increases in fair value less costs to sell of an asset, but not in excess of any cumulative loss previously recognised.
2.15  Share capital / securities premium account   Ordinary shares are classified as Equity when the Company has an un-conditional right to avoid delivery of cash or another  financial asset, that is, when the dividend and repayment of capital are at the sole and absolute discretion of the Company  and there is no contractual obligation whatsoever to that effect.
2.16  Employee benefits   The Company’s employee benefits mainly include wages, salaries, bonuses, defined contribution to plans, defined benefit  plans, compensated absences, deferred compensation and share-based payments.
The employee benefits are recognised  in the year in which the associated services are rendered by the Company employees.
a.
Defined contribution plans    The contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised in profit or loss as and when the services are rendered  by employees.
The Company has no further obligations under these plans beyond its periodic contributions.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 180   b.
Defined benefit plans    In accordance with the local laws and regulations, all the employees in India are entitled for the Gratuity plan.
The said  plan requires a lump-sum payment to eligible employees (meeting the required vesting service condition) at retirement  or termination of employment, based on a pre-defined formula.
The Company provides for the liability towards the said plans on the basis of actuarial valuation carried out quarterly as  at the reporting date, by an independent qualified actuary using the projected-unit-credit method.
The obligation towards the said benefits is recognised in the balance sheet, at the present value of the defined benefit  obligations.
The present value of the said obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows,  using interest rates of government bonds.
The interest expenses are calculated by applying the above mentioned discount rate to defined benefits obligations.
The  interest expenses on the net defined benefit liability is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
However, the related  re-measurements of the net defined benefit liability are recognised directly in the other comprehensive income in the  period in which they arise.
The said re-measurements comprise of actuarial gains and losses (arising from experience  adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions).
Re-measurements are not re-classified to the statement of profit and  loss in any of the subsequent periods.
c. Other long-term employee benefits    The employees of the Company are entitled to compensated absences as well as other long-term benefits.
Compensated  absences benefit comprises of encashment and availment of leave balances that were earned by the employees over  the period of past employment.
The Company provides for the liability towards the said benefit on the basis of actuarial valuation carried out quarterly  as at the reporting date, by an independent qualified actuary using the projected-unit-credit method.
The related re- measurements are recognised in the statement of profit and loss in the period in which they arise.
d. Share-based payments    The Company operates equity-settled and cash-settled, employee share-based compensation plans, under which the  Company receives services from employees as consideration for stock options either towards shares of the Company /  cash settled units.
In case of equity-settled awards, the fair value is recognised as an expense in the statement of profit and loss within  employee benefits as employee share-based payment expenses, with a corresponding increase in share-based payment  reserve (a component of equity).
However, in case of cash-settled awards, the credit is recognised as a liability within other non-financial liabilities.
Subsequently, at each reporting period, until the liability is settled, and at the date of settlement, liability is re-measured  at fair value through statement of profit and loss.
The total amount so expensed is determined by reference to the grant date fair value of the stock options granted, which  includes the impact of any market performance conditions and non-vesting conditions but excludes the impact of any  service and non-market performance vesting conditions.
However, the non-market performance vesting and service  conditions are considered in the assumption as to the number of options that are expected to vest.
The forfeitures are  estimated at the time of grant and reduce the said expense rateably over the vesting period.
The expense so determined is recognised over the requisite vesting period, which is the period over which all of the  speciﬁed vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
As at each reporting date, the Company revises its estimates of the  number of options that are expected to vest, if required.
It recognises the impact of any revision to original estimates in the period of change.
Accordingly, no expense is  recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for which vesting is conditional upon a market performance /  non-vesting condition.
These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market / non-vesting condition is  satisfied, provided that service conditions and all other non-market performance are satisfied.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 181    Where the terms of an award are modified, in addition to the expense pertaining to the original award, an incremental  expense is recognised for any modification that results in additional fair value, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee  as measured at the date of modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled (including due to non-vesting conditions not being met), it is treated as if it  is vested thereon, and any un-recognised expense for the award is recognised immediately.
2.17  Provisions   a.
General    Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of  a past event,  it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the said obligation, and the amounts of the said  obligation can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the relevant obligation,  using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money (if the impact of discounting  is significant) and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to un-winding of discount over  passage of time is recognised within finance costs.
b.
Asset retirement obligation (‘ARO’)    ARO are recognised for those operating lease arrangements where the Company has an obligation at the end of the  lease period to restore the leased premises in a condition similar to inception of lease.
ARO are provided at the present  value of expected costs to settle the obligation and are recognised as part of the cost of that particular asset.
The  estimated future costs of decommissioning are reviewed annually and any changes in the estimated future costs or in  the discount rate applied are adjusted from the cost of the asset.
2.18  Contingencies   A disclosure for a contingent liability is made when there is a possible obligation or a present obligation that may, but  probably will not, require an outflow of resources.
When there is a possible obligation or a present obligation in respect of  which the likelihood of outflow of resources is remote, no provision or disclosure is made.
2.19  Revenue recognition   Revenue is recognised when it is probable that the entity will receive the economic benefits associated with the transaction  and the related revenue can be measured reliably.
Revenue is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or  receivable, which is generally the transaction price, net of any taxes / duties, discounts and process waivers.
In order to determine if it is acting as a principal or as an agent, the Company assesses whether it has exposure to the  significant risks and rewards associated with the sale of goods or the rendering of services.
a.
Service revenues    Service revenues mainly pertain to usage, subscription and activation charges for voice, data, messaging and value  added services.
It also includes revenue towards interconnection/roaming charges for usage of the Company’s network  by other operators for voice, data, messaging and signalling services.
Usage charges are recognised based on actual usage.
Subscription charges are recognised over the estimated  customer relationship period or subscription pack validity period, whichever is lower.
Customer onboarding revenue and   associated cost is recognised upfront.
Activation revenue and related activation costs are amortised over the estimated  customer relationship period.
However, any excess of activation costs over activation revenue are expensed as incurred.
The billing / collection in excess of revenue recognised is presented as deferred revenue in the balance sheet whereas  unbilled revenue is recognised under other current financial assets.
Revenues from long distance operations comprise of voice services and bandwidth services (including installation),  which are recognised on provision of services and over the period of arrangement respectively.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 182   b.
Multiple element arrangements    The Company has entered into certain multiple-element revenue arrangements which involve the delivery or performance  of multiple products, services or rights to use assets.
At the inception of the arrangement, all the deliverables therein  are evaluated to determine whether they represent separately identifiable component basis it is perceived from the  customer perspective to have value on standalone basis.
T otal consideration related to the multiple element arrangements is allocated among the different components based  on their relative fair values (i.e., ratio of the fair value of each element to the aggregated fair value of the bundled  deliverables).
c. Equipment sales    Equipment sales mainly pertain to sale of telecommunication equipment and related accessories.
Such transactions  are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer.
However, in case of  equipment sale forming part of multiple-element revenue arrangements which is not separately identifiable component,  revenue is recognised over the customer relationship period.
d. Capacity swaps    The exchange of network capacity is recognised at fair value unless the transaction lacks commercial substance or the  fair value of neither the capacity received nor the capacity given is reliably measurable.
e. Interest income    The interest income is recognised using the EIR method.
For further details, refer note 2.9.   f. Dividend income    Dividend income is recognised when the Company’s right to receive the payment is established.
2.20  Borrowing costs   Borrowing costs consist of interest and other ancillary costs that the Company incurs in connection with the borrowing  of funds.
The borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of any asset that takes a substantial  period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised.
All the other borrowing costs are recognised in the  statement of profit and loss within finance costs of the period in which they are incurred.
2.21  Exceptional items   Exceptional items refer to items of income or expense within the statement of profit and loss from ordinary activities which  are non-recurring and are of such size, nature or incidence that their separate disclosure is considered necessary to explain  the performance of the Company.
2.22  Non-operating expense   Non-operating expense comprises regulatory levies applicable to finance income.
2.23  Dividends paid   Dividend to shareholders is recognised as a liability and deducted from equity, in the year in which the dividends are approved  by the shareholders.
However, interim dividends declared by the Board of directors, which does not need shareholders’  approval, are recognised as a liability and deducted from retained earnings, in the year in which the dividends are so declared.
2.24  Earnings per share (‘EPS’)   The Company presents the Basic and Diluted EPS data.
Basic EPS is computed by dividing the profit for the period attributable to the shareholders of the Company by the weighted  average number of shares outstanding during the period.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 183   Diluted EPS is computed by adjusting, the profit for the year attributable to the shareholders and the weighted average  number of shares considered for deriving Basic EPS, for the effects of all the shares that could have been issued upon  conversion of all dilutive potential shares.
The dilutive potential shares are adjusted for the proceeds receivable had the  shares been actually issued at fair value.
Further, the dilutive potential shares are deemed converted as at beginning of the  period, unless issued at a later date during the period.
3.
Critical accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements  The estimates and judgements used in the preparation of the said financial statements are continuously evaluated by the  Company, and are based on historical experience and various other assumptions and factors (including expectations of future  events), that the Company believes to be reasonable under the existing circumstances.
The said estimates and judgements  are based on the facts and events, that existed as at the reporting date, or that occurred after that date but provide additional  evidence about conditions existing as at the reporting date.
Although the Company regularly assesses these estimates, actual results could differ materially from these estimates - even if the  assumptions under-lying such estimates were reasonable when made, if these results differ from historical experience or other  assumptions do not turn out to be substantially accurate.
The changes in estimates are recognised in the financial statements in  the year in which they become known.
3.1 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions   The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying values of assets  and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
a. Impairment reviews    PPE (including CWIP) and intangible assets with definite lives, are reviewed for impairment, whenever events or  changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying values may not be recoverable.
Similarly, intangible assets under  development is tested for impairment, at-least annually and whenever circumstances indicate that it may be impaired.
For details as to the impairment policy, refer note 2.8.
Accordingly the Company has performed impairment reviews for  the above assets.
However, the said reviews did not result in any impairment charge.
In calculating the value in use, the Company is required to make significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  inter-alia concerning the growth in EBITDA, long-term growth rates and discount rates to reflect the risks involved.
The Company operates in developing market and in such market, the plan for shorter duration is not indicative of  the long-term future performance.
Considering this and the consistent use of such robust ten year information for  management reporting purpose, the Company uses ten year plans for the purpose of impairment testing.
b. T axes    Deferred tax assets are recognised for the unused tax losses and minimum alternative tax credits for which there is  probability of utilisation against the taxable profit.
Significant management judgement is required to determine the  amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and the level of future taxable profits,  future tax planning strategies and recent business performances and developments.
c. Property, plant and equipment    Refer note 2.6 and 6 for the estimated useful life and carrying value of property, plant and equipment respectively.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company had reassessed useful life of certain categories of network  assets due to technological developments and accordingly had revised the estimate of its useful life in respect of those  assets.
Out of those assets, the additional depreciation charge of H2,920 on assets for which the revised useful life had  expired by March 31, 2016 had been recognised and disclosed as ‘exceptional income / (expenses), net’ and additional  depreciation charge of H6,276 for other assets has been recognised within ‘Depreciation and amortisation’.
The impact  of above change on the depreciation charge for the future years after March 31, 2018 is as follows: 31 March,  2019 31 March,  2020 Future Period  till end of life Impact on future depreciation charge (2,646) (1,109) 15,715 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 184   d. Allowance for impairment of trade receivables    The expected credit loss is mainly based on the ageing of the receivable balances and historical experience.
The  receivables are assessed on an individual basis or grouped into homogeneous groups and assessed for impairment  collectively, depending on their significance.
Moreover, trade receivables are written off on a case-to-case basis if deemed  not to be collectible on the assessment of the underlying facts and circumstances   e. Contingent liability    Refer note 23 for details of contingent liability.
4.
Standards issued but not effective until the date of authorisation for issuance of the said financial  statements  The new significant standards, amendments to Standards that are issued but not yet effective until the date of authorisation  for issuance of the said financial statements are discussed below.
The Company has not early adopted these amendments and  intends to adopt when they become effective.
Ind AS 115, ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’  In March 2018, MCA has notified the Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contract with Customers.
As a consequence of issuance of Ind  AS 115, relevant paragraphs have been inserted / amended in various other standards.
The Standard establishes a new five-step model that will apply to revenue arising from contracts with customers.
Under this  standard, revenue is recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange  for transferring goods or services to a customer.
The principles in Ind AS 115 provide a more structured approach to measuring  and recognising revenue.
The new revenue standard is applicable to all entities and will supersede all current revenue recognition  requirements under Ind AS.
The effective date of Ind AS 115 is annual periods beginning on or after April 1, 2018.
The Company  does not expect that the adoption of the said standard and related amendments will have any significant impact on the financial  statements per se.
5.
Significant transactions / new developments  (i) During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Company has transferred its 100% equity stake in Bharti Airtel (Hong Kong)  Limited and 37.03% equity stake in Bharti Airtel (UK) Limited to Bharti International (Singapore) Pte.
Limited (‘BISPL’),  an indirect subsidiary of the Company against a consideration of H429 and H1,806 respectively and 44% stake in Bharti  T elemedia Limited, a subsidiary of the Company to Nettle Infrastructure Investments Limited, another subsidiary of the  Company, against a consideration of H47,632.
Accordingly the excess of cost of investments over the proceeds amounting  to H28,498 has been recognised in other equity.
(ii) During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Company has increased its equity investment in Indo T eleports Limited from  95% to 100% for a consideration of H23.
(iii) During the year ended March 31, 2018, an understanding for demerger of consumer mobile businesses of T ata T eleservices  Limited and T ata T eleservices Maharashtra Limited into the Company was entered into.
Further, the board of directors  have approved the scheme(s) of arrangement under section 230 to section 232 of the Companies Act, 2013 for the said  demerger.
The said transaction is subject to requisite regulatory approvals.
(iv) During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Board of Directors approved a scheme of arrangement, under section 230  to section 232 of the Companies Act, 2013, for the transfer of the optical fiber cable business to the T elesonic Networks  Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
The said transaction is subject to requisite regulatory approvals.
(v) During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Company has completed the acquisition of 100% equity stake and compulsorily  convertible debentures of Tikona Digital Networks Pvt Ltd (‘TDNPL’) as all necessary closing conditions have been fulfilled  and filed an application under section 230 to section 232 of the Companies Act, 2013 before the Delhi bench of the National  Company Law Tribunal for the merger of TDNPL with the Company.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 185  (vi) During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company had entered into an agreement to sell the investment in subsidiaries  Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) B. V .
(‘BAIN’), Bharti International (Singapore) Pte Ltd (‘BISPL’) and Bharti Airtel  International (Mauritius) Limited (‘BAIML’) to its wholly owned subsidiary Network i2i Limited.
However, sale of investment in  BISPL is subject to certain customary closing conditions, hence had not consummated.
The same was classified as assets- held-for-sale.
Accordingly, the excess of cost of investment over sales consideration, amounting to H118,582 and H14,906  pertaining to BAIN / BAIML and BISPL respectively was recognised as loss under exceptional items.
Further, during the year ended March 31, 2018, the transaction of BISPL stake transfer to Network i2i has been consummated.
(vii) During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company had entered into a scheme of amalgamation for the merger of T elenor  (India) Communication Private Limited with the Company.
The said transaction is subject to requisite regulatory approvals  and other closing conditions.
(viii) During the year ended March 31, 2017, Bharti T elemedia Limited, a subsidiary of the Company, had allotted 475 Mn shares  to the Company against a consideration of H4,750.
(ix) During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company had sold 400 Mn shares in BIL, against a consideration aggregating  to H130,000 and accordingly the excess of cost of investment over the proceeds (net of associated costs, taxes and  regulatory levies) amounting to H25,375 was recognised as loss under exceptional items.
Subsequent to the transaction, the  shareholding of the Company in BIL had reduced to 50.3%.
(x) During the year ended March 31, 2017, Bharti Infratel Limited (‘BIL’), a subsidiary of the Company had bought back approx.
47.05 Mn shares against a consideration of H425 per share.
Out of which the Company had tendered approx.
29.10 Mn  shares and received the consideration of H12,368 and accordingly, the excess of proceeds (net of associated costs, taxes  and levies) over the cost of investment amounting to H1,687 was recognised as gain and disclosed as other income.
(xi) During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company acquired rights to use spectrum in the   1800 MHz band for six circles  against a consideration of H46,530 from Videocon T elecommunications Limited.
(xii) During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company acquired rights to use spectrum in the 2300 MHz band for seven  circles against a consideration of H34,840 from Aircel Limited and its subsidiaries Dishnet Wireless Limited.
(xiii) During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company was allotted 155.60 MHz spectrum across 1800 / 2100 / 2300 MHz.
Consequently, the Company had paid amount of H67,764 upfront and opted the deferred payment option for H66,764.
(xiv)  During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company had acquired 100% equity stake of Augere Wireless Broadband India  Private Limited (‘AWBPL’).
Further, with effect from February 15, 2017, AWBPL had merged with the Company through the  scheme of arrangement under Sections 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956.
Accordingly, AWBPL had ceased to exist  and had merged with the Company.
Accordingly entire assets (mainly spectrum amounting to H899), liabilities and the  differential value of equity in the books of AWBPL; have been recognised by the Company as the date of the transaction at  same carrying values as in the books of AWBPL.
The difference of H445 between the share capital and the carrying values of  investment in AWBPL in the books of the Company had been adjusted with general reserve.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 186 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘H.’; unless stated otherwise) 6.
Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’) The following table presents the reconciliation of changes in the carrying value of PPE for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017: H in millions Leasehold  improvement Building Land Plant and  equipment Furniture  & fixture Vehicles Office  equipment Computer T otal Gross carrying value As of April 1, 2016  4,674  6,381 1,766  722,156  1,714  293  4,250  22,792  764,026  Additions / capitalisation  221  29  44  147,104  98  34  531  3,039  151,100  Acquisition through business combinations^  -    -    -    489 - - - -  489  Disposals / adjustments  (1)  (64)  -    (15,384)  (13)  (46)  (52)  173  (15,387) As of March 31, 2017  4,894  6,346  1,810  854,365  1,799  281  4,729  26,004  900,228  Balance as of April 1, 2017  4,894  6,346  1,810  854,365  1,799  281  4,729  26,004  900,228  Additions / capitalisation  242  46  66  172,815  209  40  315  7,252  180,985  Disposals / adjustments  (12)  (29)  (22)  (22,652)  (14)  (22)  (38)  (61)  (22,850) As of March 31, 2018  5,124  6,363 1,854 1,004,528  1,994  299  5,006  33,195 1,058,363  Accumulated depreciation As of April 1, 2016  3,624  2,463  42  420,196  1,430  234  2,898  20,466  451,353  Charge*  393  309  3  76,174  116  20  593  1,727  79,335  Disposals / adjustments  (3)  (26)  -    (11,784)  (4)  (30)  (46)  257  (11,636) As of March 31, 2017  4,014  2,746  45  484,586  1,542  224  3,445  22,450  519,052   -    Balance as of April 1, 2017  4,014  2,746  45  484,586  1,542  224  3,445  22,450  519,052  Charge*  286  248  4  77,148  124  21  565  2,843  81,239  Disposals / adjustments  (6)  (9)  (9)  (18,732)  (11)  (13)  (22)  (37)  (18,839) As of March 31, 2018  4,294  2,985  40  543,002  1,655  232  3,988  25,256  581,452   -    Net carrying value  -    As of March 31, 2017  880  3,600 1,765  369,779  257  57  1,284  3,554  381,176  As of March 31, 2018  830  3,378 1,814  461,526  339  67  1,018  7,939  476,911  * It includes exceptional item of H1,176 and H1,672 for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 with respect to plant and equipment (refer note 31 (i) a and (ii) a,b,c ^ Refer note 5 (xiv) Refer note 23(ii)(a) for assets given on operating lease.
The carrying value of capital work-in-progress as at March 31, 2018 and 2017 is H27,387 and H11,818, respectively, mainly pertains to plant and equipment.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 187 The following table summarises the detail of the significant assets taken on finance lease: H in millions As of 31 March, 2018 As of 31 March, 2017 Leasehold land  Grossing carrying Value 411 411 Accumulated depreciation 51 46 Net carrying value 360 365 7.
Intangible assets The following table presents the reconciliation of changes in the carrying value of intangible assets for the year ended March 31, 2018  and 2017: Software Bandwidth Licenses  (including  spectrum) Others T otal Gross carrying value As of April 1, 2016  13,814  25,811  650,864  2,172 692,661   Additions / capitalisation  2,657  2,687  160,346  5,366 171,056   Acquisition through business combinations  -    -    899  -    899   Disposals / adjustments  (138)  (85)  (8)  -    (231) As of March 31, 2017  16,333  28,413  812,101  7,538 864,385  Balance as of April 1, 2017  16,333  28,413  812,101  7,538 864,385  Additions / capitalisation  3,472  2,960  59,122  -    65,554   Disposals / adjustments  (21)  (962)  -    -    (983) As of March 31, 2018  19,784  30,411  871,223  7,538 928,956  Accumulated amortisation As of April 1, 2016  10,132  10,667  64,413  867  86,079   Charge  2,502  1,863  38,249  1,757  44,371   Disposals / adjustments  (138)  28  (7)  -    (117) As of March 31, 2017  12,496  12,558  102,655  2,624 130,333  Balance as of April 1, 2017  12,496  12,558  102,655  2,624 130,333   Charge  2,567  1,505  44,393  1,958  50,423   Disposals / adjustments  (21)  (962)  -    -    (983) As of March 31, 2018 15,042  13,101  147,048  4,582 179,773  Net carrying value As of March 31, 2017  3,837  15,855  709,446  4,914 734,052  As of March 31, 2018  4, 742  17,310  724,175  2,956 749,183  ^ Refer note 5(xiv) Weighted average remaining amortisation period of licenses as of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 is 16.03 and 16.85 years  respectively.
The carrying value of intangible assets under development as at March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 is H28,040 and H84,184  respectively, which pertains to spectrum.
During the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 the Company has capitalised borrowing cost of H2,992 and H2,748 respectively.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 188 8.
Investments  Detail of investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and other investments are as below: Detail of significant investments in subsidiaries are as below: 31 March, 2018 31 March, 2017 S. No.
Name of the Subsidiaries Place of  incorporation Principal activities % of shareholding 1 Bharti Hexacom Limited India T elecomunication Services 70.00 70.00 2 Bharti Infratel Limited India Infrastucture sharing services 50.30 50.30 3 Bharti T elemedia Limited India Direct T o Home services 51.00 95.00 4 Airtel Payment Bank Limited India Mobile Commerce services 80.10 80.10 5 Network i2i Limited Mauritius Submarine Cable System 100.00 100.00 6 Bharti Internatinal (Singapore) Pte.
LtdSingapore T elecommunication services - 100.00 7 Bharti Digital Networks Private  Limited (formerly known as Tikona  Digital Networks Limited) India T elecommunication services 100.00 - As of 31 March, 2018 As of 31 March, 2017 Investment in Subsidiaries Bharti Hexacom Limited : 175,000,000 equity shares of H10 each  5,718  5,718  Bharti Airtel Services Limited : 100,000 equity shares of H10 each  1  1  Bharti Airtel (USA) Limited : 300 equity shares of USD .0001 each  1,997  1,997  Bharti Airtel (UK) Limited : Nil equity shares of GBP 1 each   (March 31, 2017 -123,663 equity shares of GBP 1 each)  -    1,777  Bharti Airtel (Hongkong) Limited : Nil equity shares of HKD 1 each   (March 31, 2017 - 4,959,480 equity shares of HKD 1 each) -    454  Network i2i Limited : 1,267,427.896 equity  shares of USD 1 each   (March 31, 2017 - 817,427,896 equity  shares of USD 1 each) 87,909  58,750  Bharti Infratel Limited: 930,898,728 equity shares of H10 each*  341,111  341,111  Bharti T elemedia Limited : 260,202,000 equity shares of H10 each   (March 31, 2017 - 484,689,995 equity shares of H10 each) 22,183  41,320  Bharti Airtel Lanka (Private) Limited : 50,200,221,771 equity shares of SLR 10 each   (March 31, 2017  - 27,146,471,771 equity shares of SLR 10 each)-net of provision 4,527  -    Airtel Payments Bank Limited : 805,025,128 equity shares of H10 each   (March 31, 2017 - 796,499,995 equity shares of H10 each) 8,050  7,965  Bharti Airtel  International (Netherlands) B. V .
: 1 equity shares of EURO 1 each  0    0  T elesonic Networks Limited : 89,230,796 equity shares of H10 each  91  91  Nxtra Data Limited : 5,050,000 equity shares of H10 each  309  309  Indo T eleports Limited : 22,999,000 equity shares of H10 each   (March 31, 2017 - 21,850,000 equity shares of H10 each) 308  -    Wynk Limited : 50,000 equity shares of H10 each  1  1  Nettle Infrastructure Investments Limited : 45,000 equity shares of H10 each  0  0  Bharti Digital Networks Private Limited (formerly known as Tikona Digital Networks Ltd) :  2,103,023 equity share of H10  each (March 31, 2017 - Nil equity share of H10 each) 8,970  -    Investment in Subsidiaries (A)  481,175  459,494  Investment in joint Ventures Bridge Mobile PTE Limited : 800,000 equity shares of USD 1 each  34  34  Firefly Networks Limited : 1,000,000 equity shares of H10 each  10  10  Investment in Ventures (B)  44  44  Investment in subsidiarise and joint venture (A+B)  481,219  459,538  Other Investments (FVTPL) Equity instruments  61  50  National Savings Certificates  2  2   63  52  Aggregate book value of unquoted investments  140,171  118,479  Aggregate book value of quoted investments  341,111  341,111  Aggregate market value of quoted investments**  313,015  302,961  ** All the above investments are unquoted except Bharti Infratel Limited.
*Refer Note 5 (vi) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 189 9.
Derivative financial instruments The details of derivative financial instruments are as follows:- As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Assets Currency swaps, forward and option contracts 195 187 Interest swaps 80 106 Embedded derivatives - 554 275 847 Liabilities Currency swaps, forward and option contracts 352 1,848 352 1,848 Non-current derivative financial assets 80 213 Current derivative financial assets 195 634 Non-current derivative financial liabilities  (124)  (186) Current derivative financial liabilities  (228)  (1,662)  (77)  (1,001) Unsecured, considered good As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Non - Current Loan to related parties (refer note 34) 692 623 Security deposits* 9,598 9,766 10,290 10,389 Current Loans to related  parties (refer note 34) 72,496 72,081 As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Finance lease receivable 65 172 Rent Equalisation 55 49 Others 140 335 260 556 10.
Loans and security deposits *Security deposits primarily include deposits given towards rented premises, cell sites and interconnect ports.
11.
Financial assets – others Non-current As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Unbilled revenue 11,160 12,576 Claims recoverable 474 451 Interest accrued on investments 25 24 Finance lease receivable 178 149 11,837 13,200 Current Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 190 For the year ended 31 March, 2018 For the year ended 31 March, 2017 Current Income tax  For the Year 29 95  Adjustments for prior periods (2,233) (140) (2,204) (45) Deferred tax  Origination and reversal of temporary differences (4,737) 17,455  Effect of change in tax rate 425 -  Adjustments for prior periods (1,088) (3,249) (5,400) 14,206 Income tax (credit)/expense (7,604) 14,161 For the year ended 31 March, 2018 For the year ended 31 March, 2017 Loss before tax  (6,812)  (85,095) Enacted tax rates in India 34.61% 34.61% T ax expense @  34.608%  (2,358)  (29,450) Effect of: T ax holiday  (251)  (144) Effect of changes in tax rate  425  -    Adjustments in respect to previous years  (3,321)  (3,389) T ax for which no credit is allowed  472  469  (Income) / expense not (taxable) / deductible (net)  (2,600)  46,380  Others  29  295  Income tax (credit) / expense  (7,604)  14,161  As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Deferred tax asset / (liability) Provision for impairment of debtors / advances  13,669  10,520  Carry forward losses  20,301  1,575  Employee benefits  1,073  1,044  Minimum alternate tax ('MA T') credit  57,429  57,429  Lease rent equalisation  6,608  6,478  Fair valuation of financial instruments and exchange differences  6,647  5,791  Depreciation / amortisation on PPE / intangible assets  (92,961)  (76,574) Rates and taxes  1,431  1,527  Others 47  1,018  Net deferred tax asset  14,244  8,808  12.
Income taxes The major components of Income T ax (Credit)/expense are: The reconciliation between the amount computed by applying the statutory income tax rate to the (loss) / profit before tax and  income tax (credit) / expense in summarised below: The analysis of deferred tax assets / (liabilities) is as follow: Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 191 For the year ended 31 March, 2018 For the year ended 31 March, 2017 Deferred tax  income / (expense) Provision for impairment of debtors / advances  3,149  2,542  Carry forward losses  18,726  1,575  Employee benefits  58  204  MA T credit  (68)  1,218  Lease rent equalisation 130  289  Fair valuation of financial instruments and exchange differences  857  926  Depreciation / amortisation on PPE / intangible assets  (16,387)  (22,498) Rates and taxes  (96)  1,527  Others  (969)  11  Net deferred tax income / (expense)  5,400  (14,206) For the year ended 31 March, 2018 For the year ended 31 March, 2017 Opening balance 8,808 23,070 T ax (credit)/expense recognised in profit or loss 5,400 (14,206) T ax (credit)/expense recognised in OCI (30) 11 Others 66 (67) Closing balance 14,244 8,808 As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Advances (net) # 24,404 25,749 Prepaid expense 1,156 1,328 T axes recoverable - 14,139 Capital advances 600 1,033 Others* 982 347 27,142 42,596 Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible  temporary differences and carry forward of losses/credits (including capital losses) can be utilised.
Accordingly, the company has not  recognised deferred tax assets in respect of carry forward of capital tax losses/credits of H330,358 Mn and H317,344 Mn as of March  31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, respectively as it is not probable that capital taxable profits will be available in future.
Above balance of capital tax losses as of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 expires unutilised as follows: #Advances represent payments made to various Government authorities under protest and are disclosed net of provision (refer note 20).
*It mainly includes advances given to Bharti Airtel Welfare Trust.
The movement in deferred tax assets/(liabilities) during the year is as follows: 13.
Other non-financial assets Non-current Expiry date As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Above five years 330,358 317,344 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 192 As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Unsecured Considered good* 43,196 32,118 Considered doubtful 33,590 25,530 Less: Provision for doubtful receivables (33,590) (25,530) 43,196 32,118 As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Balances with banks  - On current accounts 2,491 1,030  - Bank deposits with original maturity of 3 month or less 2,000 - Cheques on hand 66 6 Cash on hand 69 51 4,626 1,087 As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Earmaked  bank balances - unpaid dividend 70 50 T erm deposits with bank 105 - Margin money deposits* 675 621 850 671 Interest accured but not due (refer note 11) (25) (24) 825 647 For the year ended 31 March, 2018 For the year ended 31 March, 2017 Opening balance 25,530 18,181 Additions 8,773 7,678 Write off (net of recovery) (713) (329) 33,590 25,530 14.
Trade receivables *It includes amount due from related parties (refer note 34).
Refer note 35 (iv) for credit risk The movement in allowances for doubtful debts is as follows: 15.
Cash and bank balance Cash and cash equivalents (‘C&CE’) Other bank balances T axes recoverable primarily pertains to goods & service tax (‘GST’), customs duty, excise duty, service tax and sales tax.
Advances to suppliers are disclosed net of provision of H1,683 and H1,092 as of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 respectively.
As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 T axes recoverable 65,218 20,404 Advances to suppliers (net) 12,200 9,579 Prepaid expenses 2,365 1,960 Others* 1,938 1,352 81,721 33,295 Current * It mainly includes security deposits given towards rented premises, cell sites, interconnect ports and other miscellaneous deposits.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 193 As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 No.
of  shares ‘000 % holding No.
of  shares ‘000 % holding Equity shares of J 5/- each fully paid up Bharti T elecome Limited 2,002,818 50.10% 1,871,987 45.48% Pastel Limited 591,319 14.79% 591,319 14.79% Indian Continent Investment Limited 81,151 2.03% 265,861 6.65% LIC of India Child Fortune Plus Balanced Fund 150,181 3.76% 211,832 5.30% Three Pillar Pte Limited - - 199,870 5.00% As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Shares’000 Amount Shares’000 Amount Opening balance 1,345 367 1,882 524 Purchased during the year 906 424 - - Excercise during the year (532) (149) (537) (157) 1,719 642 1,345 367 a. T erms / rights attached to equity shares The Company has only one class of equity shares having par value of H5/- per share.
Each holder of equity shares is entitled to cast  one vote per share.
b.
Details of shareholders (as per the register of shareholders) holding more than 5% share in the Company As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 C & CE as per balance sheet 4,626 1,087 Bank overdraft (refer note 18) - (265) 4,626 822 For the purpose of statement cash flows, C&CE comprise of following:- *Margin money deposits represents amount given as collateral for legal cases and / or bank guarantees for disputed matters.
As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Authorised shares   5,500,000,000 (March 31, 2017 - 5,500,000,000) equity Shares of H5/- each 27,500 27,500 Issued, Subscribed and fully paid-up shares  3,997,400,102 equity shares of H5/- each 19,987 19,987 19,987 19,987 16.
Share capital c. Shares held by Bharti Airtel Welfare Trust against employee share-based payment plans (face value : J5 each) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 194 17.
Reserve and surplus a) Retained earnings: Retained earnings represent the amount of accumulated earnings of the Company, and re-measurement  differences on defined benefit plans and gains / (losses) on common control transactions and any transfer from general reserve.
b) General reserve: The Company has transferred a portion of its profit before declaring dividend in respective prior years to  general reserve, as stipulated under the erstwhile Companies Act 1956.
Mandatory transfer to general reserve is not required  under the Companies Act 2013 (‘Act’).
Further, on exercise of the stock options, the difference between the consideration (i.e.
the exercise price and the related  amount of share-based payment reserve) and the cost (viz.
related amount of loan provided to Bharti Airtel Welfare Trust) of the  corresponding stock options, is transferred to general reserve.
The difference between the share capital and the carrying values of the investment pursuant to the scheme of arrangement  under sections 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956 with respect to the amalgamation of Augere Wireless Broadband Private  Limited has been recognised in general reserve.
c) Business restructuring reserve: It represents mainly the excess of the fair values over the original book values of the assets  transferred to one of its subsidiary Bharti Infratel Limited pursuant to the scheme of arrangement under sections 391 to 394 of  the Companies Act, 1956. d) Debenture redemption reserve: Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, the Company is required to create debenture redemption  reserve out of the profits and is to be utilised for the purpose of redemption of debentures.
On redemption of the debentures, the  related amount of this reserve gets transferred to retained earnings.
e) Capital reserve: It mainly includes capital reserve acquired pursuant to the scheme of arrangement under sections 391 to 394  of the Companies Act, 1956 with respect to the amalgamation (pooling of interest) of Airtel Broadband Services Private Limited.
Note: In absence of any specific provision under Ind AS with respect to court schemes, and the fact that the court schemes are  part of the law, accounting prescribed therein will continue to prevail.
The proposed dividend being subject to approval at respective annual general meeting, accordingly no corresponding liability has  been recognised in the respective financial year.
*However against this, the Company has availed credit of J3,125 and H1,087 during the year ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 respectively, on  account of dividend distribution tax on dividend received from subsidiary companies.
Dividend  As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 A Declared and paid during the year  Interim dividend for 2017-18 : H2.84  per share  (including dividend distribution tax @ 20.36% of H2,311)*  13,664  -     Final dividend for 2016-17 : H1.00  per share  (including dividend distribution tax @ 20.36% of H814)*  4,811  -     Final dividend for 2015-16 : H1.36  per share  (including dividend distribution tax @ 20.36% of H1,107)*  -    6,543   18,475  6,543  B Proposed dividend  Final dividend for 2017-18: H2.50  per share (2016-17 : H1.00  per share)  9,993  3,997   Dividend distribution tax @ 20.56% (2016-17 @ 20.36%)  2,034  814   12,027  4,811  Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 195 As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Secured  Vehicle loans*  29  31   29  31   Less: Current portion (A)  (15)  (15)  14  16  Unsecured  T erm loans  45,587  32,584   Non-convertible debentures**  30,069  -     Non-convertible bonds  65,413  64,082   Deferred payment liabilities ***  455,602  439,205   Finance lease obligations  391  2,097   597,062  537,968   Less : Interest accured but not due (refer note 19)  (23,613)  (2,530)  Less: Current portion (B)  (28,782)  (32,033)  544,667  503,405   544,681  503,421  Current maturities of long-term borrowings (A+B)  28,797  32,048  As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Unsecured  T erm loans 51,654 50,676  Commercial papers 29,094 14,820  Bank over draft - 265 80,748 65,761 Less: Interest accured but not due (refer note 19) (68) (283) 80,680 65,478 18.
Borrowings Non-current *These loans are secured by hypothecation of the vehicles.
**During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Company has issued 30,000 listed, unsecured, rated, redeemable, Non - Convertible Debentures (‘NCDs’), Series  I and series II of face value of H10 Lakhs each, at par aggregating to H30,000 on private placement basis, carrying interest rates 8.25% p.a.
and 8.35% p.a.
(payable annually) and principal repayable in year 2020 and 2021, respectively.
*** During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Government of India has provided one time option to elect higher number of annual instalments prospectively  (upto a maximum of 16 instalments) towards the repayment of spectrum liability viz-a-viz currently allowed 10 instalments.
Accordingly, the Company has  exercised the option, increasing the remaining number of instalments by 6 annual instalments for all its existing deferred payment liabilities.
18.1  Analysis of borrowings The details given below are gross of debt origination cost.
Current Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 196 18.1.1 Repayment terms of borrowings The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s borrowings based on contractual undiscounted payments.
As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Unsecured* 150,071 172,646 18.1.2 Interest rate and currency of borrowings Weighted  average rate  of interest T otal  borrowings Floating  rate  borrowing Fixed rate  borrowing INR 9.46% 564,407 71,600 492,807 USD 3.93% 91,055 26,226 64,829 March 31, 2018 655,462 97,826 557,636 INR 9.60% 502,918 46,765 456,153 USD 3.58% 101,021 36,555 64,466 March 31, 2017 603,939 83,320 520,619 18.1.3 Unused lines of credit * The below table provides the details of un-drawn credit facilities that are available to the Company.
* Excludes non-fund based facilities.
As of March 31, 2018 Interest rate  (range) Frequency of  installments Number of  installments  outstanding per  facility (range)* Within  one year Between  one and  two years Between  two and  five years Over five  years Vehicle loans 7.95% - 9.50% Monthly 6 - 33 15 11 3 T erm loans 2.56%-3.20% Half yearly 11 - 14 4,290 4,359 13,078 4,499 7.70% - 7.95% One time 1 51,600 - - - 8.40% Quarterly 15 - 5,336 14,664 - Commercial papers 8.05% One time 1 29,094 - - - Non-convertible bonds 4.38% One time 1 - - - 64,829 Non-convertible debentures 8.25% - 8.35% One time 1 - - 30,000 - Deferred payment liabilities 9.30% - 10.00% Annual 13 - 16 24,511 12,217 51,543 345,023 Finance lease obligations 10.25% Monthly / Annual 8 - 21 / 2 253 134 4 - 109,763 22,057 109,292 414,351 As of March 31, 2017 Interest rate  (range) Frequency of  installments Number of  installments  outstanding per  facility (range)* Within  one year Between  one and  two years Between  two and  five years Over five  years Vehicle loans 9.25% - 9.48% Monthly 2 - 35 15 12 5 - T erm loans 1.45% - 2.57% Half yearly 1 -16 6,055 4,850 13,013 8,744 0.63% One time 1 - 1 3,891 - - - 6.35% - 7.95% One time 1 - 1 46,538 - - - Commercial papers 6.35% One time 1 14,820 - - - Non-convertible bonds 4.38% One time 1 - - - 64,466 Deferred payment liabilities 9.30 - 10.00% Annual 7 - 10 26,814 35,991 78,331 298,032 Finance lease obligations 10.25% Monthly / Annual 7 - 25 / 3 934 977 186 - Bank Overdraft 7.60% - 8.15% On demand N /A 265 - - - 99,332 41,830 91,535 371,242 *The instalments amount due are equal / equated per se.
*The instalments amount due are equal / equated per se.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 197 As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Lease rent equalisation 19,288 19,541 Others 66 2,340 19,354 21,881 19.
Financial liabilities - others Non-current Current As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Payables against capital expenditures 53,197 44,304 Interest accrued but not due 23,681 2,812 Security deposit* 3,284 2,538 Employee payables 2,034 2,290 Payable against business / asset acquisitions@ 9,739 9,179 Others# 594 1,026 92,529 62,149 *It includes deposits received from subscriber / channel partners which are repayable on disconnection after adjusting the outstanding amount thereby, if any.
@It includes payable to Qualcomm Asia Pacific Pte.
Limited of H4,104 towards purchase of balance equity shares upon satisfaction of certain conditions as  per the share purchase agreement for acquisition and other acquisitions during the year.
#It mainly includes non-interest bearing advance received from customers / international operators and liability towards cash settled employee share based plan.
20.
Provisions Non-current As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Assets retirement obligations 410 921 Gratuity 1,344 1,329 Other employee benefit plans 76 80 1,830 2,330 As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Opening Balance 921 921 Net (reversal) / additions (362) 22 Net interest costs (149) (22) 410 921 As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Gratuity 513 498 Other employee benefit plans 749 793 1,262 1,291 Current The movement of provision towards asset retirement obligation is as below: Refer note 26 for movement of provision towards various employee benefits.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 198 The movement of provision towards subjudice matters is as below: As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Opening Balance 94,820 75,196 Net additions 21,248 19,624 116,068 94,820 The said provision has been disclosed under: As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Other non-financial assets - non - current (refer note 13) 45,539 40,985 Other non-financial liabilities - Current (refer note 21) 683 674 Trade payables (refer note 22) 69,846 53,161 116,068 94,820 The said provisions pertain to payable / paid under protest for spectrum usage charges / licence fees (trade payable / other non- financial assets) and payable for certain levies (other non-financial liabilities).
21.
Other non-financial liabilities As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Current T axes payable 23,200 11,501 Others 29 141 23,229 11,642 T axes payable mainly pertains to GST , service tax, sales tax and other taxes payable and provision towards sub judice matters (refer note 20).
22.
Trade payables As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Due to Micro and Small enterprises 16 10 Trade payables* 176,974 149,688 176,990 149,698 * It includes amount due to to related parties (refer note 34) and provision towards sub judice matters (refer note 20).
Micro, small & medium enterprises development act, 2006 (‘MSMED’) disclosure The dues to micro and small enterprises as required under MSMED Act, 2006, based on the information available with the Company,  is given below: Sr No.
For the year ended 31 March, 2018 For the year ended 31 March, 2017 1 Principal amount and the interest due thereon [H Nil (March 31, 2017 – H Nil)]  remaining unpaid to any supplier as at the end of each accounting year  16  10  2 Amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 16 of the MSMED Act,  2006, along with the amounts of the payment made  to the supplier beyond the  appointed day during each accounting year 140  96  3 Amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment  (which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but  without adding the interest specified under MSMED Act, 2006 -    -    4 Amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each accounting year  0  0  5 Amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding  years, until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the  small enterprise for the purpose of disallowance as  a deductible expenditure  under section 23 of the MSMED Act, 2006 -    -    Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 199 As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 (i) T axes, duties and other demands (under adjudication / appeal / dispute)  -Sales T ax and Service T ax  8,738  11,245   -Income T ax  9,951  12,527   -Customs Duty  4,883  4,317   -Entry T ax  6,010  5,509   -Stamp Duty  404  404   -Municipal T axes  121  121   -Department of T elecom ('DoT') demands  40,344  36,540   -Other miscellaneous demands  1,385  962  (ii) Claims under legal cases including arbitration matters  -Access charges / Port charges  10,021  8,733   -Others  599  599   82,456  80,957  23 Contingent liabilities and commitments (i) Contingent liabilities Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debt: Further, refer note f(iv), f(v) and f(vi) below for other DoT matter.
The category wise detail of the contingent liability has been given below:-  a) Sales and Service T ax   The claims for sales tax comprised of cases relating to the appropriateness of declarations made by the Company under  relevant sales tax legislations which were primarily procedural in nature and the applicable sales tax on disposals of certain  property and equipment items.
Pending final decisions, the Company has deposited amounts under protest with statutory  authorities for certain cases.
The service tax demands relate to cenvat claimed on tower and related material, levy of service tax on SIM cards and  employee talk time, cenvat credit disallowed for procedural lapses and usage in excess of 20% limit.
b) Income T ax demand   Income tax demands mainly include the appeals filed by the Company before various appellate authorities against the  disallowance by income tax authorities of certain expenses being claimed and non-deduction of tax at source with respect  to pre-paid dealers / distributor’s margin.
c) Access charges / Port charges   (i) Despite the interconnect usage charges (‘IUC’) rates being governed by the Regulations issued by T elecom Regulatory  Authority of India (‘TRAI’); BSNL had raised a demand for IUC at the rates contrary to the regulations issued by TRAI in  2009.
Accordingly, the Company filed a petition against the demand with the TDSA T which allowed payments by the  Company based on the existing regulations.
The matter was then challenged by BSNL and is currently pending with the  Hon’ble Supreme Court.
(ii) The Hon’ble TDSA T allowed BSNL to recover distance based carriage charges.
The private telecom operators have  jointly filed an appeal against the said order and the matter is currently pending before the Hon’ble Supreme Court.
(iii) BSNL challenged before TDSA T the port charges reduction contemplated by the regulations issued by TRAI in 2007  which passed its judgment in favour of BSNL.
The said judgment has been challenged by the private operators in  Hon’ble Supreme Court.
Pending disposal of the said appeal, in the interim, private operators were allowed to continue  paying BSNL as per the revised rates i.e.
TRAI regulation issued in 2007, subject to the bank guarantee being provided  for the disputed amount.
The rates were further reduced by TRAI in 2012 which was challenged by BSNL before the  Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 200 Hon’ble Delhi High Court.
The Hon’ble Delhi High Court, in the interim, without staying the rate revision, directed the  private operators to secure the difference between TRAI regulation of 2007 and 2012 rates by way of bank guarantee  pending final disposal of appeal.
d) Customs Duty   The custom authorities, in some states, demanded custom duty for the imports of special software on the ground that this  would form part of the hardware on which it was pre-loaded at the time of import.
The view of the Company is that such  imports should not be subject to any custom duty as it is operating software exempt from any custom duty.
In response to the  application filed by the Company, the Hon’ble Central Excise and Service T ax Appellate Tribunal (‘CEST A T’) has passed an order  in favour of the custom authorities.
The Company has filed an appeal with Hon’ble Supreme Court against the CEST A T order.
e) Entry T ax   In certain states, an entry tax is levied on receipt of material from outside the state.
This position has been challenged by  the Company in the respective states, on the grounds that the specific entry tax is ultra vires the Constitution.
Classification  issues has also been raised, whereby, in view of the Company, the material proposed to be taxed is not covered under the  specific category.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India upheld the constitutional validity of entry tax  levied by few States.
However, Supreme Court did not conclude certain aspects such as present levies in each State is  discriminatory in nature or not, leaving them open to be decided by regular benches of the Courts.
Pending disposition by  the regular benches, the Company has decided to maintain status-quo on its position and hence continues to disclose it as  contingent liability.
f) DoT demands   (i) Demand for license fees pertaining to computation of Adjusted Gross Revenue (‘AGR’) and the interest thereon, due  to difference in its interpretation.
The definition of AGR is sub-judice and under dispute since 2005 before the TDSA T .
TDSA T had pronounced its judgment in 2015, quashed all demands raised by DoT and directed DoT to rework the  demands basis the principles enunciated in its judgment.
Subsequently, the Union of India (‘UOI’) and the Company  along with various other operators have filed appeals / cross appeals before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India against  the TDSA T judgment.
In 2016, all the appeals were tagged together and Hon’ble Supreme Court has permitted DOT to  raise demands with a direction not to enforce any demand till the final adjudication of the matter by Hon’ble Supreme  Court.
Accordingly, DoT has raised the demand basis special audit done by DoT and Comptroller and Auditor General of  India.
The contingent liability includes such demand and interest thereto (excluding certain contentious matters, penalty  and interest thereto) for the financial year for which demands have been received by the Company.
(ii) Demands for the contentious matters in respect of subscriber verification norms and regulations including validity of  certain documents allowed as proof of address / identity.
(iii) Penalty for alleged failure to meet certain procedural requirements for EMF radiation self-certification compliance.
The matters stated above are being contested by the Company and based on legal advice, the Company believes that  it has complied with all license related regulations and does not expect any financial impact due to these matters.
In addition to the amounts disclosed in the table above, the contingent liability on DOT matters includes the following:   (iv) Post the Hon’ble Supreme Court judgment in 2011, on components of AGR for computation of license fee, based on  the legal advice, the Company believes that the foreign exchange gain should not be included in AGR for computation  of license fee thereon.
Further as per TDSA T judgement in 2015, foreign exchange fluctuation does not have any  bearing on the license fees.
Accordingly, the license fee on foreign exchange gain has not been provided in the financial  statements.
Also, due to ambiguity of interpretation of ‘foreign exchange differences’, the license fee impact on such  exchange differences is not quantifiable.
The matter is currently pending adjudication by Hon’ble Supreme Court.
(v) On January 8, 2013, DoT issued a demand on the Company for H51,353 towards levy of one time spectrum charge.
The demand includes a retrospective charge of H8,940 for holding GSM Spectrum beyond 6.2 MHz for the period from  July 1, 2008 to December 31, 2012 and also a prospective charge of H42,413 for GSM spectrum held beyond 4.4 MHz  for the period from January 1, 2013, till the expiry of the initial terms of the respective licenses.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 201    In the opinion of the Company, inter-alia, the above demand amounts to alteration of financial terms of the licenses  issued in the past.
Based on a petition filed by the Company, the Hon’ble High Court of Bombay, vide its order dated  January 28, 2013, has directed the DoT to respond and not to take any coercive action until the next date of hearing.
The DoT has filed its reply and the matter is currently pending with the Hon’ble High Court of Bombay.
The Company,  based on independent legal opinions, till date has not given any effect to the above demand.
(vi) DoT had issued notices to the Company (as well as other telecom service providers) to stop provision of services (under  3G Intra Circle Roaming (‘ICR’) arrangements) in the service areas where such service providers had not been allocated  3G Spectrum and levied a financial penalty of H3,500 on the Company.
The Company contested the notices in response  to which TDSA T in 2014 held 3G ICR arrangements to be competent and compliant with the licensing conditions and  quashed the notice imposing penalty.
The DoT has challenged the order of TDSA T before the Hon’ble Supreme Court  which is yet to be listed for hearing.
Guarantees:   Guarantees outstanding as of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 amounting to H123,796 and H123,614 respectively have  been issued by banks and financial institutions on behalf of the Company.
These guarantees include certain financial bank  guarantees which have been given for subjudice matters/compliance with licensing requirements, the amount with respect  to these have been disclosed under capital commitments, contingencies and liabilities, as applicable, in compliance with the  applicable accounting standards.
(ii) Commitments  Capital commitments  The Company has contractual commitments towards capital expenditure (net of related advances) of H105,618 and H69,623 as  of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 respectively.
Lease commitments  a) Operating lease   The future minimum lease payments (‘FMLP’) obligations are as follows:- As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Not later than one year 77,510 72,725 later than one year but not later than five years 273,717 277,273 Later than five years 58,971 90,895 410,198 440,893 Lease rentals (including lease equalisation adjustment) 66,386 70,638   The above lease arrangements are mainly pertaining to passive infrastructure.
Certain of these lease agreements have  escalation clause upto 25% and includes option of renewal from 1 to 15 years.
As lessor   (i) The Company has entered into non–cancellable lease arrangements to provide dark fiber on indefeasible right of use  (‘IRU’) basis.
Due to the nature of the transaction, it is not possible to compute gross carrying amount, depreciation for  the year and accumulated depreciation of the asset given on operating lease as of March 31, 2018 and accordingly, the  related disclosures are not provided.
As Lessee Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 202   (ii) The FMLP receivables against assets (other than above IRU assets) are as follows:    As Lessor As of  31 March, 2018 As of  31 March, 2017 Not later than one year 208 221 Later than one year but not later than five year 984 929 Lather than five years 114 430 1,306 1,580  b) Finance lease   As lessee   Finance lease obligation of the Company as of March 31, 2018 is as follows:- Future minimum  lease payments Interest Present value Not later than one year 282 29 253 Later than one year but not later than five years 148 10 138 430 39 391 Future minimum  lease payments Interest Present value Not later than one year 1,044 111 933 Later than one year but not later than five years 1,387 223 1,164 2,431 334 2,097  Finance lease obligation of the Company as of March 31, 2017 is as follows:  The above lease arrangements are mainly pertaining to various items of plant and equipment.
As lessor  The future minimum lease payments receivable of the Company as of March 31, 2018 is as follows:- Future minimum  lease payments Interest Present value  Not later than one year 176 16 160 Later than one year but not later than five years 89 6 83 265 22 243  The future minimum lease payments receivable of the Company as of March 31, 2017 is as follows:- Future minimum  lease payments Interest Present value Not later than one year 133 25 107 Later than one year but not later than five years 189 17 172 322 42 279  The above lease arrangements are mainly pertaining to various network equipments.
The above lease arrangements are mainly pertaining to premises given to group companies.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 203 24.
Revenue from operations 25.
Network operating expenses 26.
Employee benefits expense 26.1  Share-based payment plans The following table provides an overview of all existing share option plans of the Company: For the year ended 31 March, 2018 For the year ended 31 March, 2017 Service revenue 536,287 622,637 Sale of product 343 126 536,630 622,763 For the year ended 31 March, 2018 For the year ended 31 March, 2017 Passive infrastructure charges 64,410 68,451 Power and fuel 45,647 45,526 Repare and maintenance 16,227 21,240 Internet, bandwidth and leasedline charges 7,061 4,834 Others* 6,167 5,309 139,512 145,360 For the year ended 31 March, 2018 For the year ended 31 March, 2017 Salaries and bonus 14,844 14,731 Contribution to provident and other funds 668 672 Staff welfare expenses 542 611 Define benefit plan / other long-term benefits 448 557 Share base payment expense  Equity-settled plans 337 298  Cash-settled plans 12 157 Others* 358 359 17,209 17,385 *It includes charges towards managed services, installation, insurance and security.
*It includes recruitment expenses and training expenses.
Scheme Plan Vesting period  (years) Contractual term  (years) Equity settled Plans Scheme I 2006 Plan 1 - 5 7 Scheme 2005 2008 Plan & Annual   Grant Plan (AGP) 1 - 3 7 Scheme 2005 Performance Share Plan (PSP)  2009 Plan 3 - 4 7 Scheme 2005 Special ESOP & Restricted  Share Units (RSU) Plan 1 - 5 7 Scheme 2005 Long T erm Incentive (L TI) Plans 1 - 3 7 Cash settled Plans Performance Unit Plan (PUP) PUP 2013 - PUP 2015 1 - 4 3-5 The stock options vesting are subject to service and certain performance conditions mainly pertaining to certain financial parameters.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 204 The movement in the number of stock options and the related weighted average exercise prices are as follows: For the year ended March 31, 2018 For the year ended March 31, 2017 Number of    share options  (‘000) Weighted  average   exercise price  (J) Number of  share options  (‘000) Weighted  average   exercise price  (J) 2006 Plan Outstanding at beginning of year  205  5.00  305  5.00  Granted  -    -    -    -    Exercised  (90)  5.00  (100)  5.00  Forfeited / expired  -    -    -    -    Outstanding at end of year  115  5.00  205  5.00  Exercisable at end of year  2  5.00  36  5.00  2008 Plan & AGP Outstanding at beginning of year  -    -    639  402.50  Granted  -    -    -    -    Exercised  -    -    -    -    Forfeited / expired  -    -    (639)  402.50  Outstanding at end of year  -    -    -    -    Exercisable at end of year  -    -    -    -    PSP 2009 Plan Outstanding at beginning of year  6  5.00  53  5.00  Granted  -    -    -    -    Exercised  (3)  5.00  (37)  5.00  Forfeited / expired  (3)  5.00  (10)  5.00  Outstanding at end of year  -    -    6  5.00  Exercisable at end of year  -    -  5  5.00  Special ESOP & RSU Plan Outstanding at beginning of year  34  5.00  126  5.00  Granted  -    -    -    -    Exercised  (33)  5.00  (91)  5.00  Forfeited / expired  (1)  5.00  (1)  5.00  Outstanding at end of year  -    -    34  5.00  Exercisable at end of year  -    -    34  5.00  L TI Plans Outstanding at beginning of year  2,002  5.00  1,709  5.00  Granted  1,571  -    820  -    Exercised  (406)  5.00  (308)  5.00  Forfeited / expired  (189)  5.00  (219)  5.00  Outstanding at end of year  2,978  5.00  2,002  5.00  Exercisable at end of year  567  5.00  358  5.00  Performance Unit Plans Outstanding at beginning of year 1,401  -   3,118  -    Granted  (0)  -    9  -    Exercised  (966)  -    (1,257)  -    Forfeited / expired  (37)  -    (469)  -    Outstanding at end of year  398  -    1,401  -    Exercisable at end of year  -  -    -  -    Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 205 The details of weighted average remaining contractual life, weighted average fair value and weighted average share price for the  options are as follows: Weighted average For the year ended 31 March, 2018 For the year ended 31 March, 2017 Remaining contractual life for the options outstanding as of (years) 0.35 to 6.37 0.10 to 5.65 Fair value for the options granted during the year ended (H) 338.54 to 409.76 338.50 to 379.25 Share price for the options exrcised during the year ended (H) 367.14 to 457.41 296.90 to 466.38 For the year ended 31 March, 2018 For the year ended 31 March, 2017 Risk free interest rates 6.3% to 6.78% 5.79% to 6.86% Expected life 10 to 60 months 4 to 60 months Volatility 25.91% to 30.16% 27.08% to 27.59% Dividend yield 0.24% to 0.25% 0.39% to 0.63% Wtd average excercise price (H) 0-5 0-5 The carrying value of cash settled plans liability is H66 and H141 as of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, respectively.
The fair value of options is measured using Black-Scholes valuation model.
The key inputs used in the measurement of the grant date  fair valuation of equity settled plans and fair value of cash settled plans are given in the table below: The expected life of the stock options is based on the Company’s expectations and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns  that may actually occur.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility over a period similar to the expected  life of the options is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome.
Further, the expected volatility is  based on the weighted average volatility of the comparable benchmark companies.
26.2 Employee benefits The details of significant employee benefits are as follows: For the year ended 31 March, 2018 For the year ended 31 March, 2017 Gratuity Compensated  absences Gratuity Compensated  absences Obligation Balance as at beginning of the year 1827 789 1668 730 Current service cost 244 138 256 150 Interest cost 135 58 133 58 Benefits paid (241) (106) (273) (113) Transfers (21) (3) 7 4 Remeasurements (87) (127) 36 (40) Present value of obligation 1,857 749 1,827 789 Current portion 513 749 498 789 Non-current portion 1,344 - 1,329 - The expected contribution for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 for gratuity plan is H391 and H389 respectively.
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income For the year ended 31 March, 2018 For the year ended 31 March, 2017 Experience (gains) / losses (15) 15 Losses / (gains) from change in demographic assumptions 15 (20) (Gains) / losses from change in financial assumptions (87) 41 Remeasurements on liability (87) 36 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 206 Due to its defined benefit plans, the Company is exposed to the following significant risks: Changes in bond yields - A decrease in bond yields will increase plan liability.
Salary risk - The present value of the defined benefit plans liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of the plan  participants.
As such, an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability.
The financial (per annum rates) and demographic assumptions used to determine defined benefit obligations are as follows: As of 31 March, 2018 As of 31 March, 2017 Discount rate 7.85% 7.40% Rate of return on plan assets N.A.
N.A.
Rate of salary increase 9.00% 10.00% Rate of attrition 20% to 24% 21% to 29% Retirement age 58 58 Sensitivity analysis The Company regularly assesses these assumptions with the projected long-term plans and prevalent industry standards.
The impact of sensitivity due to changes in the significant actuarial assumptions on the defined benefits obligations is given in the  table below: As of 31 March, 2018 As of 31 March, 2017 Change in  assumption Gratuity Compensated  absences Gratuity Compensated  absences Discount Rate +1% (61) (32) (59) (33) -1% 67 34 64 36 Salary Growth Rate +1% 65 34 62 (33) -1% (61) (32) (59) 36 The above sensitivity analysis is determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on the net defined benefits obligations,  as a result of reasonable possible changes in the significant actuarial assumptions.
Further, the above sensitivity analysis is based on  a reasonably possible change in a particular under-lying actuarial assumption, while assuming all other assumptions to be constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
The table below summarises the maturity profile and duration of the gratuity liability: As of 31 March, 2018 As of 31 March, 2017 Within one year 513 498 Within one - three years 535 569 within three - five years 318 327 Above five Years 489 433 Weighted average duration (in years) 3.82 3.42 For the year ended 31 March, 2018 For the year ended 31 March, 2017 Sales commission and distribution 22,211 21,957 Advertisement and marketing 5,787 7,200 Business and promotion 1,516 1,706 Other ancillary expenses 1,005 1,457 30,519 32,320 27.
Sales and marketing expenses Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 207 28.
Other expenses For the year ended 31 March, 2018 For the year ended 31 March, 2017 Content costs  5,698  5,934  Customer care expenses  4,668  3,540  IT expenses  3,764  4,754  Collection and recovery expenses  3,690  3,955  Legal and professional fees^  2,653  3,171  Provision for doubtful debts 8,060 7,349 Travelling and conveyance  888  1,084  Bad debts written off 713  329 Cost of good sold  277  58  Charity and donation*  528  1,146  Others#  5,232  7,204   36,171  38,524  For the year ended 31 March, 2018 For the year ended 31 March, 2017 - Audit fee* 66 76 - Reimbursement of expenses 5 6 - Other services* 13 9 84 91 For the year ended 31 March, 2018 For the year ended 31 March, 2017 Depreciation 80,063 77,663 Amortisation 50,423 44,371 130,486 122,034 * As per the requirements of section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Company was required to spend an amount of H2,145 and H2,079 for the year ended  March 31, 2018 and 2017 on corporate social responsibility expenditure.
During the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company has spent in cash  an amount of H245 and H56 towards education and sanitation respectively.
Further, amount paid to Prudent Electoral Trust (formerly known as Satya Electoral  Trust) for political purpose amounting to H250 and H170 during the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively.
# It includes rent, printing and stationary, security, rent and communication expenses etc.
^ Details of Auditor’s remuneration which included in legal and professional fees: 29.
Depreciation and amortisation 30.
Finance costs and income For the year ended 31 March, 2018 For the year ended 31 March, 2017 Finance costs Interest expense  47,553  42,902  Net loss on derivative financial instruments  1,959  2,244  Other finance charges*  9,595  7,400   59,107  52,546  Finance income Dividend income  4,200  16,511  Interest income  3,360  1,731  Net gain on FVTPL investments  35  1,725  Net exchange gain  822  3,454   8,417  23,421  *It includes bank charges, trade finance charges, charges relating to derivative instruments and interest charges towards sub judice matters.
* Excluding service tax / goods and service tax Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 208 31.
Exceptional items  Exceptional items comprise of the following:  (i) For the year ended March 31, 2018:   a.
Charge of H1,572 towards operating costs on network re-farming and up-gradation program   b.
Provision of H720 towards one major delinquent receivable balance   c. Charge of H3,749 mainly due to levies and taxes pertaining to internal restructuring  (ii) For the year ended March 31, 2017:   a.
Charge of H2,396 towards operating costs (including accelerated depreciation) on network re-farming and up-gradation  program   b.
Charge of H2,920 resulting from reassessment of the useful life of certain categories of network assets of the Company  due to technological advancements   c. Net charge aggregating to H7,506 pertaining to regulatory levies related assessment / provisions, settlement of tax  related contingent liability and reconciliation of balances   d. Loss of H159,886 pertains to internal restructuring and divestment   T ax expense includes:   (a) T ax benefit of H2,129 and H5,864 for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively, on above exceptional items   (b) T ax benefit of Nil and H1,892 for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively, on account of re-assessment of  tax provisions for previous periods 32.
Earnings per share (‘EPS’) The details used in computation of basic and diluted EPS: As of 31 March, 2018 As of 31 March, 2017 Weighted average Shares outstanding (‘000) for basic / diluted EPS 3,997,400 3,997,400 Profit / (loss) for the year 792 (99,256) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 209 33.
Segment reporting The Company’s operating segments are organised and managed separately through the respective business managers, according  to the nature of products and services provided with each segment representing a strategic business unit.
These business units are  reviewed by the Chairman of the Company (Chief Operating Decision Maker - ‘CODM’).
The amounts reported to CODM are based on the accounting principles used in the preparation of financial statements as per Ind AS.
Segment’s performance is evaluated based on segment revenue and segment result viz.
profit or loss from operating activities before  exceptional items and tax.
Accordingly, finance costs / income, non – operating expenses and exceptional items are not allocated to  individual segment.
Inter-segment pricing and terms are reviewed and changed by the management to reflect changes in market conditions and changes  to such terms are reflected in the period in which the changes occur.
Inter-segment revenues are eliminated upon consolidation of  segments and reflected in the ‘Eliminations’ column.
Segment assets / liabilities comprise assets / liabilities directly managed by each segment.
Segment assets primarily includes  receivables, property, plant and equipment, capital work-in-progress, intangibles assets, intangible assets under development, non- current investments, inventories and cash and cash equivalents.
Segment liabilities primarily includes operating liabilities.
Segment  capital expenditure comprises of additions to PPE, CWIP , intangible assets, intangible assets under development, and capital advances.
The reporting segments of the Company are as below: Mobile Services: These services cover voice and data telecom services provided through wireless technology (2G / 3G / 4G) in India.
This includes the captive national long distance networks which primarily provide connectivity to the mobile services business in India.
This also includes intra-city fibre networks.
Airtel Business: These services cover end-to-end telecom solutions being provided to large Indian and global corporations by serving  as a single point of contact for all telecommunication needs across data and voice (domestic as well as international long distance),  network integration and managed services.
Homes Services: These services cover voice and data communications through fixed-line network and broadband technology.
Unallocated: Unallocated items include expenses / results, assets and liabilities of corporate headquarters of the Company, non- current investment, current taxes, deferred taxes, borrowings and certain financial assets and liabilities, not allocated to the operating  segments.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 210 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘H.’; unless stated otherwise) Summary of the segmental information for the year ended and as of March 31, 2018 is as follows: Particulars  Mobile Services  Airtel Business Homes Services  Unallocated Eliminations  T otal  Revenue from external customers  420,208  91,899  24,523  -  -  536,630  Inter-segment revenue  20,947  8,655  177  -  (29,779)  -    T otal revenues  441,155  100,554  24,700  -  (29,779)  536,630  Segment results  21,563  26,193  4,398  (1,639)  -  50,515  Less: Finance costs  59,107  Finance income  (8,417) Non-operating expenses  596  Exceptional items  6,041  Profit before tax  (6,812) Other segment items Capital expenditure  188,011  7,474  10,210  6,481  (7,457)  204,719  Depreciation and amortisation  121,385  10,041  6,939  12  (7,891)  130,486  As of March 31, 2018 Segment assets* 1,356,580  101,826  43,059  617,272  (69,364) 2,049,373  Segment liabilities*  303,670  38,625  20,276  727,557  (69,364) 1,020,764  * Effective April 1, 2017, individual segments exclude inter-segment balances and allocated borrowings.
This has no impact on total assets and liabilities.
Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 211 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘H.’; unless stated otherwise) Summary of the segmental information for the year ended and as of March 31, 2017 is as follows: Particulars  Mobile Services  Airtel Business Homes Services  Unallocated Eliminations  T otal  Revenue from external customers  505,670  90,421  26,672  -  -  622,763  Inter-segment revenue  21,075  7,979  198  -  (29,252)  -    T otal revenue  526,745  98,400  26,870  -  (29,252)  622,763  Segment result  94,680  19,469  6,331  (1,418)  -  119,062  Less: Finance costs  52,546  Finance income  (23,421) Non-operating expense  2,324  Exceptional items  172,708  Loss before tax  (85,095) Other segment items Capital expenditure  362,700  14,058  19,286  1,633  (20,862)  376,815  Depreciation and amortisation  113,230  9,737  5,951  12  (6,896)  122,034  As of March 31, 2017 Segment assets  1,541,193  233,317  296,014  625,502  (779,650)  1,916,376  Segment liabilities  736,333  151,419  231,935  564,266  (779,650)  904,303  Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 212 Geographical information*: (a) Revenue from external customers: For the year ended 31 March, 2018 For the year ended 31 March, 2017 India 492,486 575,319 Others 44,144 47,444 536,630 622,763 For the year ended 31 March, 2018 For the year ended 31 March, 2017 India 1,269,732 1,198,282 Others 12,389 13,981 1,282,121 1,212,263 (b) Non-current assets: *Basis location of the customers / assets Non-current assets for this purpose consist of PPE, CWIP , intangible assets, intangible assets under development and capital advances.
34 Related party disclosures i.
Subsidiaries  - Indian  Airtel Payments Bank Limited  Bharti Airtel Services Limited  Bharti Hexacom Limited  Bharti Infratel Limited  Bharti T elemedia Limited  Indo T eleports Limited  Nxtra Data Limited  Wynk Limited  Smartx Services Limited  T elesonic Networks Limited  Nettle Infrastructure Investments Limited  Bharti Digital Networks Private Limited (formerly known as Tikona Digital Networks Private Limited,subsidiary w.e.f  August 24,  2017)  - Foreign  Africa T owers N. V .
Africa T owers Services Limited ##  Airtel (Seychelles) Limited  Airtel Congo (RDC) S.A.  Airtel Congo S.A.  Airtel DTH Services Nigeria Limited #  Airtel Gabon S.A.  Airtel Ghana Limited (ceased to be subsidiary w.e.f.
October 12, 2017)  Airtel Madagascar S.A.  Airtel Malawi Limited  Airtel Mobile Commerce (Ghana) Limited (ceased to be subsidiary w.e.f.
October 12, 2017)  Airtel Mobile Commerce (Kenya) Limited  Airtel Mobile Commerce (Seychelles) Limited Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 213  Airtel Mobile Commerce (T anzania) Limited  Airtel Mobile Commerce B. V .
Airtel Mobile Commerce Holdings B. V .
Airtel Mobile Commerce Nigeria Limited (incorporated w.e.f August 31, 2017)  Airtel Mobile Commerce Limited, Malawi  Airtel Mobile Commerce Madagascar S.A.  Airtel Mobile Commerce Rwanda Limited  Airtel Mobile Commerce T chad S.a.r.l.
Airtel Mobile Commerce Uganda Limited  Airtel Mobile Commerce Zambia Limited  Airtel Money (RDC) S.A.  Airtel Money Niger S.A.  Airtel Money S.A. (Gabon)  Airtel Money Transfer Limited  Airtel Money T anzania Limited  Airtel Networks Kenya Limited  Airtel Networks Limited  Airtel Networks Zambia Plc  Airtel Rwanda Limited  Airtel T anzania Public Limited (formerly known as Airtel T anzania Limited)  Airtel T chad S.A.  Airtel Uganda Limited  Bangladesh Infratel Networks Limited #  Bharti Airtel (France) SAS  Bharti Airtel (Hong Kong) Limited  Bharti Airtel (Japan) Private Limited  Bharti Airtel (UK) Limited  Bharti Airtel (USA) Limited  Bharti Airtel Africa B. V .
Bharti Airtel Burkina Faso Holdings B. V .
Bharti Airtel Chad Holdings B. V .
Bharti Airtel Congo Holdings B. V .
Bharti Airtel Developers Forum Limited  Bharti Airtel DTH Holdings B. V .#  Bharti Airtel Gabon Holdings B. V .
Bharti Airtel Ghana Holdings B. V .
(ceased to be subsidiary w.e.f.
October 12, 2017)  Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Limited  Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Investment Limited ( incorporated on March 26, 2018)  Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) B. V .
Bharti Airtel Kenya B. V .
Bharti Airtel Kenya Holdings B. V .
Bharti Airtel Lanka (Private) Limited  Bharti Infratel Lanka (Private) Limited #  Bharti Airtel Madagascar Holdings B. V .
Bharti Airtel Malawi Holdings B. V .
Bharti Airtel Mali Holdings B. V .
Bharti Airtel Niger Holdings B. V .
Bharti Airtel Nigeria B. V .
Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings B. V .
#  Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings II B. V .
Bharti Airtel RDC Holdings B. V .
Bharti Airtel Rwanda Holdings Limited  Bharti Airtel Services B. V .
Bharti Airtel T anzania B. V .
Bharti Airtel Uganda Holdings B. V .
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 214  Bharti Airtel Zambia Holdings B. V .
Bharti International (Singapore) Pte.
Ltd  Celtel (Mauritius) Holdings Limited  Celtel Niger S.A.  Channel Sea Management Company (Mauritius) Limited  Congo RDC T owers S.A.  Gabon T owers S.A. ##  Indian Ocean T elecom Limited  Madagascar T owers S.A.  Malawi T owers Limited  Mobile Commerce Congo S.A.  Montana International  MSI-Celtel Nigeria Limited #  Network i2i Limited  Partnership Investment S.a.r.l.
Société Malgache de T éléphone Cellulaire S.A.  T anzania T owers Limited  T owers Support Nigeria Limited #  Zap Trust Company Nigeria Limited #  Tigo Rwanda Limited ( w.e.f January 31, 2018) ii.
Ultimate controlling entity (w.e.f.
November 3, 2017)*  Bharti Enterprises (Holding) Private Limited.
It is held by private trusts of Bharti family with Mr. Sunil Mittal’s family  trust effectively  controlling the same company  iii.
Entities having control over the Company (w.e.f.
November 3, 2017)*  -Indian  Bharti T elecom Limited  *Significant influence until November 2, 2017 iv.
Entities having significant influence over the Company   - Foreign  Singapore T elecommunications Limited  Pastel Limited v. Associates  - Indian  Seynse T echnologies Private Limited  Juggernaut Books Private Limited (acquired on November 29, 2017)  - Foreign  Seychelles Cable Systems Company Limited  Robi Axiata Limited vi.
Joint Ventures  - Indian  Indus T owers Limited  FireFly Networks Limited  - Foreign  Bridge Mobile Pte Limited  Bharti Airtel Ghana Holdings B. V (w.e.f October 12, 2017) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 215  Airtel Ghana Limited (w.e.f October 12, 2017)  Airtel Mobile Commerce (Ghana) Limited (w.e.f October 12, 2017)  Milicom Ghana Company Limited (w.e.f October 12, 2017)  Mobile Financial Services Limited (w.e.f October 12, 2017) vii.
Other entities with whom transactions have taken place during the reporting periods a.
Fellow companies (subsidiaries / joint ventures / associates other than that of the Company)  Subsidiaries  - Indian  Bharti Enterprises Limited  Cedar Support Services Limited  Bharti Insurance Holding Private Limited   Bharti Axa General Insurance Company Limited  Bharti Axa Life Insurance Company Limited  Associates  - Indian  Bharti Life Ventures Private Limited  Bharti General Private Limited b.
Others related parties *  Entities where Key Management Personnel and their relatives exercise significant influence  - Indian  Bharti Foundation  Bharti Airtel Employees Welfare Trust  Hike Private Limited (formerly known as Hike Limited)  Others  - Indian  Brightstar T elecommunication India Limited  Bharti Realty Holdings Limited  Bharti Realty Limited  Deber T echnologies Private Limited  Hike Messenger Limited  Centum Learning Limited  Fieldfresh Foods Private Limited  Indian Continent Investment Limited  Jersey Airtel Limited  Nile T ech Limited  Bharti Support Services Private Limited (formerly known as Atrium Restaurants India Private Limited)  Bharti Land Limited  Centum Work skills India Limited  Oak Infrastructure Developers Limited  Gourmet Investments Private Limited  * ‘Other related parties’ though not ‘Related Parties’ as per the definition under Ind AS 24, ‘Related party disclosures’, have been  included by way of a voluntary disclosure, following the best corporate governance practices.
viii.
Key Management Personnel (‘KMP’)  Sunil Bharti Mittal  Gopal Vittal  # Liquidated during the financial year 2017-18  ## Under liquidation.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 216 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘H.’; unless stated otherwise) # Other related parties / fellow companies * It includes loan converted into equity investments.
For the year ended March 31, 2018 For the year ended March 31, 2017 Subsidiaries Joint  ventures Associates Entitys having  significant  influence ORP / FC# Subsidiaries Joint  ventures Associates Entitys having  significant  influence ORP / FC# Purchase of fixed assets / bandwidth  4,951  -    -    -    2,476  4,119  -    -    -    2,705  Sale of fixed assets / IRU given  1,237  -    -    -    -    799  -    -    -    -    Investments*  42,912  -    -    -    -    85,425  -    -    -    -    Sale of investments  47,632  -    -    -    -    96,809  -    -    -    -    Rendering of services  30,643  37  2  993  296  22,680  49  3  1,383  285  Receiving of services  56,019  38,142  50 -  3,263  48,818  40,423  12  211  2,729  Fund transferred / expenses incurred on  behalf of others  2,451  8  -    -    -    2,647  11  -    -    0  Donation  -    -    -    -    202  -    -    -    -    921  Loans given  71,993  3  -    -    273  98,566  -    -    -    -    Repayment of loans given  71,512  -    -    -    -    91,562  -    -    -    156  Reimbursement of energy expenses  13,680  25,317  -    -    -    13,742  24,614  -    -    -    Guarantees and collaterals given  24,767  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Dividend paid  -    -    -    9,809  501  -    -    -    3,255  364  Dividend income  4,200  -    -    -    -    16,512  -    -    -    -    The summary of significant transactions with the above mentioned parties is as follows: Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 217 The significant related party transactions are summarized below: For the year ended 31 March, 2018 For the year ended 31 March, 2017 (i) Rendering of services   Subsidiaries  Bharti Hexacom Limited 17,414 9,802   Bharti Airtel (UK) Ltd.  9,559  9,597  (ii) Receiving of services   Subsidiaries  Bharti Hexacom Limited  8,709  4,526   Bharti Infratel Limited  20,404  20,543   Bharti Airtel (UK) Limited  11,481  9,366   T elesonic Networks Limited  3,781  4,408   Joint venture  Indus T owers Limited  38,046  40,369  (iii) Reimbursement of energy expenses  Subsidiary  Bharti Infratel Limited  13,680  13,742   Joint Venture  Indus T owers Limited  25,317  24,614  (iv) Fund transferred / expenses incurred on behalf of others  Subsidiary  Bharti Hexacom Limited 1,292 1,458  (v) Loans given  Subsidiaries  Bharti T elemedia Limited  -    23,357   Nettle Infrastructure Investments Limited  50,604  68,140   Tikona Digital Networks Private Limited  10,538  -     Bharti Airtel (Services) Limited  5,658  3,292  (vi) Repayment of loans given  Subsidiaries  Bharti T elemedia Limited  -    42,563   Bharti Airtel International (netherlands) B. V .
-    33,788   Bharti International (Singapore) Pte Limited*  -    9,357   Bharti Airtel (Services) Limited  4,883  3,034   Nettel Infrastructure Investments Limited  62,087  -     * loan conversion into equity (vii) Purchase of investments  Subsidiaries  Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Limited  -    14,620   Network i2i Limited  29,159  50,825  (viii)  Sale of investment  Subsidiaries  Bharti T elemedia Ltd.  47,632  -     Nettle Infrastructure Investments Limited  -    68,060  (ix) Dividend income  Subsidiaries  Bharti Hexacom Limited  476  1,348   Bharti Infratel Limited  3,724  15,164  (x) Dividend paid  Entities having control over the Company/entities having significant  influence over the Company  Bharti T elecom Limited  7,506  2,451   Pastel Limited  2,271 804  (xi)  Guarantees and collaterals given    Subsidiary   Network i2i Limited 24,767 - Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 218 The outstanding balances of the above mentioned related parties are as follows: Subsidiaries Joint ventures Associates Entitys having  significant influence ORP / FC# As of March 31, 2018 Trade payables (10,108) (10,353) (22) 0 (194) Trade receivables 1,592 0 0 31 77  Loans (including accrued interest) 73,180 8 0 0 625  Security deposit 2,606 3,746 0 0 944  Guarantees and collaterals given  (including performance guarantees)  729,881  -    -    -    -    As of March 31, 2017 Trade payables (5,342) (10,563) (10) (223) (410) Trade receivables 748 1 0 0 69  Loans (including accrued interest) 72,699 5 0 0 352  Security deposit 2,602 3,717 0 0 931  Guarantees and collaterals given  (including performance guarantees)  709,615  -    -    -    -    Outstanding balances at period end are un-secured and settlement occurs in cash.
KMP are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Company, directly  or indirectly, including any director, whether executive or otherwise.
Remuneration to key management personnel were as follows: For the year ended 31 March, 2018 For the year ended 31 March, 2017 Short-term employee benefits 263 250 Performance linked incentive (‘PLI’)# 138 118 Post-employment benefit 28 26 Share-based payment 62 62 491 456 # Value of PLI considered above represents incentive at 100% performance level.
However, same will be paid on the basis of actual performance parameters  in next year.
Additional provision of H21 and H28 has been recorded in the books towards PLI for the year ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017  respectively.
During the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, PLI of H143 and H116 respectively, pertaining to previous year has been paid.
As the liabilities for the gratuity and compensated absences are provided on an actuarial basis, and calculated for the Company as  a whole rather than each of the individual employees, the said liabilities pertaining specifically to KMP are not known and hence, not  included in the above table.
In addition to above, H1,122 thousand and H313 thousand have been paid as dividend to key management personnel during the year  ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 respectively.
The Company has agreed to ensure appropriate financial support only if and to the extent required by its subsidiaries (namely, Bharti  Airtel Services Limited, Bharti T elemedia Limited, Airtel Payments Bank Limited, Bharti T eleports Limited, Bharti Airtel Lanka (Private)  Limited and Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) B. V .
including its subsidiaries).
# Other related parties / fellow companies Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 219 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Name of the Company Outstanding  balance Maximum amount  outstanding  during the year Outstanding  balance Maximum amount  outstanding  during the year Subsidiaries Bharti T elemedia Limited  -    -    -    21,033  Bharti International (Netherlands) B. V .
-    -    -    34,797  Bharti T eleports Limited  692  730  623  623  Bharti International (Singapore) Pte Limited  -    -    -    9,476  Nxtra Data Limited  3,941  4,323  3,160  3,270  Bharti Airtel Services limited  1,320  1,717  545  811  Wynk Limited  33  525  231  321  Augere Wireless Broadband India Private Limited  -    -    -    997  Nettle Infrastructure Investment Limited  56,657 68,140  68,140  68,140  Bharti Digital Networks Private Limited (formerly  known as Tikona Digital Networks Private Limited)  10,538  10,538  -    -    Joint Venture FireFly Networks Limited  8  8  5  5   73,189 85,981  72,704  139,473  The details of loans and advances as required by schedule V of SEBI (listing obligation and disclosure requirement Regulation, 2015  are given in the table below.
35.
Financial and capital risk 1.
Financial risk  The business activities of the Company expose it to a variety of financial risks, namely market risks (that is, foreign exchange  risk, interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Company’s risk management strategies focus on the un- predictability of these elements and seek to minimise the potential adverse effects on its financial performance.
Further, the  Company uses certain derivative financial instruments to mitigate some of these risk exposures (as discussed below in this note).
The financial risk management for the Company is driven by the Company’s senior management (‘CSM’), in close co-ordination  with the operating entities and internal / external experts subject to necessary supervision.
The Company does not undertake any  speculative transactions either through derivatives or otherwise.
The CSM are accountable to the Board of Directors and Audit  Committee.
They ensure that the Company’s financial risk-taking activities are governed by appropriate financial risk governance  frame work, policies and procedures.
The BoD of the respective operating entities periodically reviews the exposures to financial  risks, and the measures taken for risk mitigation and the results thereof.
(i) Foreign currency risk   Foreign exchange risk arises on all recognised monetary assets and liabilities, and any highly probable forecasted transactions,  which are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the Company.
The Company has foreign currency  trade payables, receivables and borrowings.
However, foreign exchange exposure mainly arises from borrowings and trade  payables denominated in foreign currencies.
The foreign exchange risk management policy of the Company requires it to manage the foreign exchange risk by transacting  as far as possible in the functional currency.
Moreover, the Company monitors the movements in currencies in which the  borrowings / capex vendors are payable and manage any related foreign exchange risk, which inter-alia include entering into  foreign exchange derivative contracts - as considered appropriate and whenever necessary.
For further details as to foreign  currency borrowings, refer note 18.
Further, for the details as to the fair value of various outstanding derivative financial  instruments, refer note 36.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 220 Change in currency  exchange rate Effect on profit before tax Effect on equity (OCI) For the year ended March 31, 2018 US Dollars +5% (5,013) - -5% 5,013 - Others +5% 15 - -5% (15) - For the year ended March 31, 2017 US Dollars +5% (5,244) - -5% 5,244 - Others +5% (2) - -5% 2 -   The sensitivity disclosed in the above table is mainly attributable to, in case of to foreign exchange gains / (losses) on  translation of USD denominated borrowings, derivative financial instruments, trade payables, and trade receivables.
The above sensitivity analysis is based on a reasonably possible change in the under-lying foreign currency against the  respective functional currency while assuming all other variables to be constant.
Based on the movements in the foreign exchange rates historically and the prevailing market conditions as at the reporting  date, the Company’s management has concluded that the above mentioned rates used for sensitivity are reasonable  benchmarks.
(ii) Interest rate risk   As the Company does not have exposure to any floating-interest bearing assets, or any significant long-term fixed-interest  bearing assets, its interest income and related cash inflows are not affected by changes in market interest rates.
Consequently,  the Company’s interest rate risk arises mainly from borrowings.
Borrowings   Borrowings with floating and fixed interest rates expose the Company to cash flow and fair value interest rate risk respectively.
However, the short-term borrowings of the Company do not have a significant fair value or cash flow interest rate risk due to  their short tenure.
Accordingly, the components of the debt portfolio are determined by the CSM in a manner which enables  the Company to achieve an optimum debt-mix basis its overall objectives and future market expectations.
The Company monitors the interest rate movement and manages the interest rate risk based on its risk management  policies, which inter-alia include entering into interest swaps contracts - as considered appropriate and whenever necessary.
Foreign currency sensitivity   The impact of foreign exchange sensitivity on profit for the year and other comprehensive income is given in the table below: Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 221   Interest rate sensitivity of borrowings   The impact of the interest rate sensitivity on profit before tax is given in the table below: Interest rate sensitivity Increase /  decrease  (basis points) Effect on profit  before tax For the year ended March 31, 2018 INR - borrowings +100 (716) -100 716 US Dollar - borrowings +25 (66) -25 66 For the year ended March 31, 2017 INR - borrowings +100 (468) -100 468 US Dollar - borrowings +25 (57) -25 57   The sensitivity disclosed in the above table is attributable to floating-interest rate borrowings and the interest swaps.
The above sensitivity analysis is based on a reasonably possible change in the under-lying interest rate of the Company’s  borrowings in INR, USD (being the significant currencies in which it has borrowed funds), while assuming all other variables  (in particular foreign currency rates) to be constant.
Based on the movements in the interest rates historically and the prevailing market conditions as at the reporting date, the  Company’s management has concluded that the above mentioned rates used for sensitivity are reasonable benchmarks.
(iii) Price risk   The Company invests its surplus funds in various mutual funds (debt fund, equity fund, liquid schemes and income funds etc.
),  short term debt funds, government securities and fixed deposits.
In order to manage its price risk arising from investments,  the Company diversifies its portfolio in accordance with the limits set by the risk management policies.
(iv) Credit risk   Credit risk refers to the risk of default on its obligation by the counter-party, the risk of deterioration of credit-worthiness of  the counter-party as well as concentration risks of financial assets, and thereby exposing the Company to potential financial  losses.
The Company is exposed to credit risk mainly with respect to trade receivables, investment in bank deposits / debt securities  / mutual funds and derivative financial instruments.
Trade receivables   The Trade receivables of the Company are typically non-interest bearing un-secured and derived from sales made to a large  number of independent customers.
As the customer base is widely distributed both economically and geographically, there  is no concentration of credit risk.
As there is no independent credit rating of the customers available with the Company, the management reviews the credit- worthiness of its customers based on their financial position, past experience and other factors.
The credit risk related to the  trade receivables is managed / mitigated by each business unit, basis the Company’s established policy and procedures,  by  setting appropriate payment terms and credit period, and by setting and monitoring internal limits on exposure to individual  customers.
The credit period provided by the Company to its customers generally ranges from 14-30 days except Airtel  business segment wherein it ranges from 7-90 days.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 222   The Company uses a provision matrix to measure the expected credit loss of trade receivables, which comprise a very large  numbers of small balances.
Refer note 14 for details on the impairment of trade receivables.
Based on the industry practices  and the business environment in which the entity operates, management considers that the trade receivables are credit  impaired if the payments are more than 90 days past due.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables as of the reporting date is as follows: Neither past  due nor  impaired Past due but not impaired T otal Less than 30  days 30 to 60 days 60 to 90 days Above 90 days March 31, 2018 18,320 14,119 5,207 4,052 1,498 43,196 March 31, 2017 15,997 8,624 3,970 3,203 324 32,118   The Company performs on-going credit evaluations of its customers’ financial condition and monitors the credit-worthiness  of its customers to which it grants credit in its ordinary course of business.
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is  written off (either partially or in full) to the extent that there is no realistic prospect of recovery.
This is generally the case when  the Company determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash flows  to repay the amount due.
Where the financial asset has been written-off, the Company continues to engage in enforcement  activity to attempt to recover the receivable due.
Where recoveries are made, these are recognised in profit and loss.
Financial instruments and cash deposits   The Company’s treasury, in accordance with the board approved policy, maintains its cash and cash equivalents, deposits  and investment in mutual funds and enters into derivative financial instruments - with banks, financial and other institutions,  having good reputation and past track record, and high credit rating.
Similarly, counter-parties of the Company’s other  receivables carry either no or very minimal credit risk.
Further, the Company reviews the credit-worthiness of the counter- parties (on the basis of its ratings, credit spreads and financial strength) of all the above assets on an on-going basis, and if  required, takes necessary mitigation measures.
(v) Liquidity risk   Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they become due.
Accordingly,  as a prudent liquidity risk management measure, the Company closely monitors its liquidity position and deploys a robust  cash management system.
It maintains adequate sources of financing including bilateral loans, debt, and overdraft from both  domestic and international banks at an optimised cost.
It also enjoys strong access to domestic and international capital  markets across debt and equity.
Moreover, the Company’s senior management regularly monitors the rolling forecasts of the entities’ liquidity reserve  (comprising of the amount of available un-drawn credit facilities and Cash and cash equivalents) and the related requirements,  to ensure they have sufficient cash on an on-going basis to meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom  at all times on its available un-drawn committed credit facilities, so that there is no breach of borrowing limits or relevant  covenants on any of its borrowings.
For details as to the Borrowings, refer note 18.
Based on past performance and current expectations, the Company believes that the Cash and cash equivalents, cash  generated from operations and available un-drawn credit facilities, will satisfy its working capital needs, capital expenditure,  investment requirements, commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations, through at  least the next twelve months.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 223   The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted  payments:- As of March 31, 2018 Carrying  amount On  Demand Less than   6 months 6 to 12  months 1 to 2   years > 2   years T otal Interest bearing borrowings*#  677,839  0  111,946  55,395 72,856 910,420  1,150,617  Other financial liabilities*  88,202  3,284  65,564  -    -    19,354  88,202  Trade payables#  176,990  -    176,990  -    -    -    176,990  Financial liabilities (excluding derivatives)  943,031  3,284  354,500  55,395 72,856 929,774  1,415,809  Derivative assets  275  -    152  43  80  -    275  Derivative liabilities  (352)  -    (83)  (145)  (107)  (17)  (352) Net derivatives  (77)  -    69  (102)  (27)  (17)  (77) As of March 31, 2017 Carrying  amount On  Demand Less than   6 months 6 to 12  months 1 to 2   years > 2   years T otal Interest bearing borrowings*#  600,947  265  72,941  31,725 70,808 732,139  907,878  Other financial liabilities*  84,030  2,538  51,724  5,075  -    21,881  81,218  Trade payables#  149,698  -    149,698  -    -    -    149,698  Financial liabilities (excluding derivatives)  834,675  2,803  274,363  36,800 70,808 754,020  1,138,794  Derivative assets  847  -    536  98  44  169  847  Derivative liabilities  (1,848)  -    (1,319)  (343)  (58)  (128)  (1,848) Net derivatives  (1,001)  -    (783)  (245)  (14)  41  (1,001)  * It includes contractual interest payment based on interest rate prevailing at the end of the reporting period after adjustment for the impact of  interest swaps, over the tenor of the borrowings.
# Interest accrued but not due has been included in interest bearing borrowings and excluded from other financial liabilities.
The Company from time to time in its usual course of business guarantees certain indebtedness of its subsidiaries.
Accordingly, as of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 Company has issued corporate guarantee for debt / advance  aaggregating to H353,114 and H340,855, respectively.
The outflow in respect of these guarantees arises only on any default/ non-performance of the subsidiary with respect to the guaranteed debt / advance and substantial amount of such loans are  due for payment after two years from the reporting date.
(vi) Reconciliation of liabilities whose cash flow movements are disclosed as part of financing activities in the statement  of cash flows: Balance Sheet caption Statement of cash  flows line item  April 1, 2017 Cash  flows Interest  expense Foreign  exchange  movement Others March  31, 2018 Borrowings* Proceeds / repayments  of borrowings (Including  Short term) 160,783 58,315 -  298  1,077 220,473 Interest accrued but not due  / derivative instruments Interest and other finance  charges paid  3,813 (4,291) 34,204  -   (9,968) 23,758   * It does not include deferred payment liabilities, finance lease obligation and bank overdraft.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 224 As of 31 March, 2018 As of 31 March, 2017 Borrowing 654,158 600,947 Less: Cash and cash equivalents 4,626 1,087 Less: T erm deposits with bank 105 - Net debt 649,427 599,860 Equity 1,028,609 1,012,073 T otal capital 1,028,609 1,012,073 Capital and Net debt 1,678,036 1,611,933 Gearing Ratio 38.7% 37.2% 36.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities The category wise details as to the carrying value and fair value of the Company’s financial instruments are as follows:  The Company monitors capital using a gearing ratio calculated as below: 2.
Capital risk  The Company’s objective while managing capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern (so that it is enabled to  provide returns and create value for its shareholders, and benefits for other stakeholders), support business stability and growth,  ensure adherence to the covenants and restrictions imposed by lenders and / or relevant laws and regulations, and maintain an  optimal and efficient capital structure so as to reduce the cost of capital.
However, the key objective of the Company’s capital  management is to, ensure that it maintains a stable capital structure with the focus on total equity, uphold investor; creditor and  customer confidence, and ensure future development of its business activities.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure,  the Company may issue new shares, declare dividends, return capital to shareholders, etc.
The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions or its  business requirements.
Level Carrying Value as of Fair Value as of  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Financial Assets FVTPL Derivatives  - Currency swaps, forward and option contracts Level 2  195  187  195  187  - Interest rate swaps Level 2  80  106  80  106  - Embedded derivatives Level 2  -    554  -    554  Investments Level 2  63  52  63  52  Amortised cost Loans and security deposits Level 2  82,786  82,470  82,786  82,470  Trade receivables Level 2  43,196  32,118  43,196  32,118  Cash and cash equivalents Level 1  4,626  1,087  4,626  1,087  Other bank balances Level 1  825  647  825  647  Other financial assets Level 2  12,097  13,756  12,097  13,756  143,868  130,977 143,868  130,977  Financial Liabilities FVTPL Derivatives  - Currency swaps, forward and option contracts Level 2  352  1,848  352  1,848  Amortised cost Borrowings- fixed rate Level 1  94,423  64,082  92,984  65,008  Borrowings- fixed rate Level 2  433,714  454,750  473,800  488,848  Borrowings- floating rate Level 2  126,021  82,115  126,021  82,115  Trade payables Level 2  176,990  149,698  176,990  149,698  Other financial liabilities Level 2  111,883  84,030  111,883  84,030   943,383  836,523  982,030  871,547  Notes to Standalone Financial Statements  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – H; unless stated otherwise) Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 225 The following methods / assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: i.
The carrying value of trade receivables, trade payables, short-term borrowings, floating-rate long-term borrowings, other current  financial assets and liabilities approximate their fair value mainly due to the short-term maturities of these instruments being  subject to floating-rates.
ii.
Fair value of quoted financial instruments is based on quoted market price at the reporting date.
iii.
The fair value of other long-term borrowings and non-current financial assets / liabilities is estimated by discounting future cash  flows using current rates applicable to instruments with similar terms, currency, credit risk and remaining maturities.
iv.
The fair values of derivatives are estimated by using pricing models, wherein the inputs to those models are based on readily  observable market parameters.
The valuation models used by the Company reflect the contractual terms of the derivatives  (including the period to maturity), and market-based parameters such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, volatility etc.
These models do not contain a high level of subjectivity as the valuation techniques used do not require significant judgement  and inputs thereto are readily observable.
During the year ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value  measurements.
None of the financial assets and financial liabilities are in Level 3.
The following table describes the key inputs used in the valuation (basis discounted cash flow technique) of the Level 2 financial  assets / liabilities as of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017: Financial assets / liabilities Inputs used Derivatives - Currency swaps, forward and option contracts Forward currency exchange rates, interest rates  - Interest swaps Prevailing / forward interest rates in market, interest rates  - Embedded derivatives Forward currency exchange rates, interest rates  - Investments Prevailing interest rates in market, interest rates  - Other financial assets /  Other fixed rate borrowings / Other  financial liabilities Prevailing interest rates in market, future payouts, interest rates  37 Other matters (i) In 1996, the Company had obtained the permission from DoT to operate its Punjab license through one of its wholly owned  subsidiary.
However DoT cancelled the permission to operate in April, 1996 and subsequently reinstated in March, 1998.
Accordingly, for the period from April 1996 to March, 1998 (‘blackout period’) the license fee was disputed and not paid by the  Company.
Subsequently, basis the demand from DoT in 2001, the Company paid the disputed license fee of H4,856 for blackout period under  protest.
Consequently, the license was restored subject to arbitrator’s adjudication on the dispute.
The arbitrator adjudicated the  matter in favour of DoT , which was challenged by the Company before Hon’ble Delhi High Court.
In 2012, Hon’ble Delhi High  Court passed an order setting aside the arbitrator’s award, which was challenged by DoT and is pending before its division bench.
Meanwhile, the Company had filed a writ petition for recovery of the disputed license fee and interest thereto.
However, the single  bench, despite taking the view that the Company is entitled to refund, dismissed the writ petition on the ground that the case  is still pending with the larger bench.
The Company therefore has filed appeal against the said order with division bench and is  currently pending.
DoT had also filed an appeal against the single judge order.
Both these appeals are tagged together and are  listed for final hearing.
The Hon’ble court has directed both the parties to file comprehensive written submission.
(ii) TRAI vide T elecom Interconnect Usages Charges Regulation (Eleventh Amendment) 2015 has reduced the IUC charges for  mobile termination charges to 14 paisa from 20 paisa and abolished the fixed-line termination charges.
The Company has  challenged the said Regulation before the Hon’ble Delhi High Court and the matter is currently pending.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 226 Consolidated  Financial Statements 227 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Independent Auditor’s Report TO THE MEMBERS OF BHARTI AIRTEL LIMITED Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Financial  Statements of BHARTI AIRTEL LIMITED (“the Company”) and  its subsidiaries (the Company and its subsidiaries together  referred to as “the Group”),which includes the Group’s share of  profit/loss in its associates and joint ventures, which comprise  the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2018, the  Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other  Comprehensive Income), the Consolidated Statement of Cash  Flows and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity  for the year ended on that date and a summary of significant  accounting policies and other explanatory notes (hereinafter  referred to as “Consolidated Financial Statements”).
Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated  Financial Statements The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the  preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements  in terms of the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013  (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”) that give a true and  fair view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated  financial performance including other comprehensive income,  consolidated cash flows and consolidated changes in equity  of the Group including its Associates and Joint ventures in  accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS)  prescribed under section133 of the Companies Act, 2013, read  with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015,  as amended and other accounting principles generally accepted  in India.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included  in the Group and of its associates and joint ventures are  responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in  accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the  assets of the Group and its associates and joint ventures and  for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; the  selection and application of appropriate accounting policies;  making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and  prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance  of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating  effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the  accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation  of the Consolidated Financial Statements that give a true and  fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether  due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of  the consolidated financial statements by the directors of the  company, as aforesaid.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these Consolidated  Financial Statements based on our audit.
In conducting our audit, we have taken into account the  provisions of the Act ,the accounting and auditing standards  and matters which are required to be included in the audit report  under the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on  Auditing specified under Section 143(10) of the Act.
Those  Standards require that we comply with ethical requirements  and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance  about whether the Consolidated Financial Statements are free  from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence  about the amounts and the disclosures in the Consolidated  Financial Statements.
The procedures selected depend on the  auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of  material misstatement of the Consolidated Financial Statements,  whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments,  the auditor considers internal financial control relevant to the  Company’s preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements  that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures  that are appropriate in the circumstances.
An audit also includes  evaluating the appropriateness of the accounting policies used  and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates made by  the Company’s Board of Directors, as well as evaluating the  overall presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us and the  audit evidence obtained by the other auditor in terms of their  report referred to in Other Matters paragraph below, is sufficient  and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the  Consolidated Financial Statements.
Opinion In our opinion and to the best of our information and according  to the explanations given to us, and based on the consideration  of report of the other auditor on separate financial statements  Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 228 of the joint venture referred to below in the Other Matters  paragraph, the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements give  the information required by the Act in the manner so required  and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Ind AS and  other accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the  consolidated state of affairs of the Group, its associates and  joint ventures as at March 31, 2018, their consolidated profit,  consolidated total comprehensive income, their consolidated  cash flows and consolidated changes in equity for the year  ended on that date.
Emphasis of Matter  We draw attention to Note 24(i)(f)(v) to the Consolidated  Financial Statements which describes the uncertainties related  to the legal outcome of Department of T elecommunications  demand with respect to one time spectrum charges.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
Other Matters i.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the Group’s  share of profit of H11,816 Million and total comprehensive  income of H11,817 Million for the year ended March  31, 2018, as considered in the Consolidated Financial  Statements, in respect of Indus T owers Limited ( joint  venture), whose financial statements have not been audited  by us.
These financial statements have been audited by  the other auditor whose report has been furnished to us  by the management and our opinion on the Consolidated  Financial Statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts  and disclosures included in respect of this joint venture is  based solely on the report of the other auditor.
Our opinion  on the statement is not modified in respect of the above  matter with respect to our reliance on the work done and  the report of the other auditor.
ii.
The comparative financial information of the Group, its  associates and joint ventures for the year ended and as  at March 31, 2017 prepared in accordance with Ind AS  included in these Consolidated Financial Statements have  been audited by the predecessor auditor.
The report of the  predecessor auditor on comparative financial statements  for the year ended and as at March 31, 2017 dated May 9,  2017 expressed an unqualified opinion.
Our opinion is not  modified in respect of this matter.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory  Requirements As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and  on the consideration of the report of other auditor on separate  financial statements of joint venture company incorporated in  India, referred in the Other Matter paragraph above we report, to  the extent applicable, that: a) We have sought and obtained all the information and  explanations which to the best of our knowledge and  belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit of the  aforesaid consolidated financial statements.
b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by  law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated  financial statements have been kept so far as it appears  from our examination of those books, returns and the  reports of the other auditors.
c) The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated  Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other  Comprehensive Income), the Consolidated Cash Flow  Statement and Consolidated Statement of Changes in  Equity dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the  books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation  of the consolidated financial statements.
d) In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial  statements comply with the Indian Accounting Standards  prescribed under Section 133 of the Act.
e) On the basis of the written representations received from  the directors of the Company as on 31st March, 2018  taken on record by the Board of Directors of the Company  and the reports of the statutory auditors of its subsidiary  companies, associate companies and joint venture  companies incorporated in India, none of the directors of  the Group companies, its associate companies and joint  venture companies incorporated in India is disqualified as  on 31st March 2018 from being appointed as a director in  terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act.
f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial  controls over financial reporting and the operating  effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report  in “Annexure A”, which is based on the auditors’ reports of  the Company, subsidiary companies, associate companies  229 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report and joint venture companies incorporated in India.
Our  report expresses an unmodified opinion on the adequacy  and operating effectiveness of internal financial controls  over financial reporting of those companies.
g) With respect to the other matters to be included in  the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the  Companies (Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, as amended,  in our opinion and to the best of our information and  according to the explanations given to us:  i.
The consolidated financial statements disclose the  impact of pending litigations on the consolidated financial  position of the Group, its associates and joint ventures.
ii.
Provision has been made in the consolidated financial  statements, as required under the applicable law or  accounting standards, for material foreseeable losses, if  any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts.
iii.
There has been no delay in transferring amounts  required to be transferred, to the Investor Education  and Protection Fund by the Company, its subsidiary  companies, associate companies and joint venture  companies incorporated in India.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm’s Registration No.
117366W/W-100018) Hemant M. Joshi Partner (Membership No.
38019) Place: New Delhi Date: April 24, 2018 Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 230 Annexure “A” to the   Independent Auditor’s Report (Referred to in paragraph (f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our  report of even date) Report on the Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the  Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial  statements of the Company as of and for the year ended March  31, 2018, we have audited the internal financial controls over  financial reporting of Bharti Airtel Limited (“the Company”) and  its subsidiary companies, its associates companies and joint  venture companies, which are companies incorporated in India,  as of that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial  Controls The respective Board of Directors of the Company , its  subsidiary companies, its associate companies and joint  venture companies, which are companies incorporated in  India, are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal  financial controls based on the internal control over financial  reporting criteria established by the respective Companies  considering the essential components of internal control stated  in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls  Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered  Accountants of India.
These responsibilities include the design,  implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial  controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly  and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the  respective company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets,  the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy  and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely  preparation of reliable financial information, as required under  the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal  financial controls over financial reporting of the Company, its  subsidiary companies, its associate companies and its joint  venture companies, which are companies incorporated in India,  based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with  the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over  Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute  of Chartered Accountants of India and the Standards on Auditing,  prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013,  to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls.
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply  with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to  obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal  financial controls over financial reporting was established  and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all  material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit  evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls  system over financial reporting and their operating effectiveness.
Our audit of internal financial controls over financial reporting  included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls  over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material  weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and  operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed  risk.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement,  including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of  the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the  audit evidence obtained by the auditor of the joint venture  company which is company incorporated in India, in terms of  their report referred to in the Other Matters paragraph below,  is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit  opinion on the internal financial controls system over financial  reporting of the Company, its subsidiary companies, its  associate companies and its joint venture companies, which are  companies incorporated in India.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls Over  Financial Reporting A company’s internal financial control over financial reporting is  a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding  the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of  financial statements for external purposes in accordance with  generally accepted accounting principles.
A company’s internal  financial control over financial reporting includes those policies  and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records  that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the  transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)  provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded  as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in  accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and  that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made  only in accordance with authorisations of management and  directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance  regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised  acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that  could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls  Over Financial Reporting Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls  over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion  or improper management override of controls, material  231 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Annexure “A” to the Independent Auditor’s Report misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be  detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal  financial controls over financial reporting to future periods are  subject to the risk that the internal financial control over financial  reporting may become inadequate because of changes in  conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or  procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion In our opinion, to the best of our information and according to  the explanations given to us and based on the consideration of  the reports of the other auditors referred to in the Other Matters  paragraph below the Company, its subsidiary companies, its  associate companies and joint venture companies , which are  companies incorporated in India, have, in all material respects, an  adequate internal financial controls system over financial reporting  and such internal financial controls over financial reporting were  operating effectively as at March 31, 2018, based on the criteria  for internal financial control over financial reporting established by  the respective companies considering the essential components  of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal  Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute  of Chartered Accountants of India.
Other Matters Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the  adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial  controls over financial reporting in so far as it relates to joint  venture, which is a company incorporated in India, is based solely  on the corresponding report of the auditor of the joint venture  company.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of the above matter.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm‘s Registration No.117366W/W-100018) Hemant M. Joshi Partner (Membership No.
38019) Place: New Delhi Date: April 24, 2018 Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 232 Consolidated Balance Sheet   As at March 31, 2018 (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees) Notes As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Assets  Non-current assets    Property, plant and equipment 6  706,079  620,088    Capital work-in-progress 6  52,089  23,942    Goodwill 7  328,070  338,082    Other intangible assets 7  837,855  824,181    Intangible assets under development 7  45,423  84,443    Investment in joint ventures and associates 8  86,839  82,277   Financial assets    - Investments 10  5,769  44,187    - Derivative instruments 11  2,031  4,732    - Security deposits 12  9,703  9,630    - Others 13  5,814  16,653   Income tax assets (net)  25,505  22,716   Deferred tax assets (net) 14  29,330  26,195   Other non-current assets 15  36,319  53,488   2,170,826  2,150,614   Current assets   Inventories  693  488   Financial assets    - Investments 10  68,978  16,923    - Derivative instruments 11  8,941  2,060    - Trade receivables 16  58,830  47,402    - Cash and cash equivalents 17  47,886  12,817    - Other bank balances 17  18,820  38,166    - Others 13  27,462  19,737   Other current assets 15  103,380  44,445   334,990  182,038  T otal assets  2,505,816  2,332,652  Equity and Liabilities   Equity    Share capital 18  19,987  19,987    Other equity  675,357  654,576    Equity attributable to owners of the Parent  695,344  674,563    Non-controlling interests ('NCI')  88,139  68,750   783,483  743,313   Non-current liabilities   Financial liabilities    - Borrowings 20  849,420  896,373    - Derivative instruments 11  5,409  2,726    - Others  21  44,547  15,681   Deferred revenue  22,117  22,335   Provisions 22  7,212  7,471   Deferred tax liabilities (net) 14  10,606  9,429   Other non-current liabilities 23  623  727   939,934  954,742   Current liabilities   Financial liabilities    - Borrowings 20  129,569  129,442    - Current maturities of long-term borrowings 20  134,346  47,062    - Derivative instruments 11  283  2,335    - Trade payables  277,675  268,537    - Others 21  140,605  90,212   Deferred revenue  48,666  48,785   Provisions 22  2,384  2,215   Current tax liabilities (net)  11,058  11,239   Other current liabilities 23  37,813  34,770   782,399  634,597  T otal liabilities  1,722,333  1,589,339  T otal equity and liabilities  2,505,816  2,332,652  The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited For  Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm’s Registration No: 117366W / W-100018) Hemant M. Joshi Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Partner  Chairman Managing Director & CEO  Membership No: 38019 DIN: 00042491 (India and South Asia)   DIN: 02291778 Place: New Delhi Nilanjan Roy Pankaj T ewari Date: April 24, 2018 Global Chief Financial Officer  Company Secretary 233 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Balance Sheet / Statement of Profit and Loss Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss  for the year ended March 31, 2018 (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees; except per share data) Notes For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Income  Revenue 25  836,879  954,683  Other income  2,488  1,206   839,367  955,889  Expenses  Network operating expenses 26  197,520  209,154  Access charges  90,446  102,786  License fee / spectrum charges (revenue share)  75,558  92,760  Employee benefits expense 27  39,771  43,032  Sales and marketing expenses 28  55,766  66,732  Other expenses 29  77,027  86,921   536,088  601,385  Profit from operating activities before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items  303,279  354,504  Depreciation and amortisation 30  192,431  197,730  Finance costs 31  93,255  95,466  Finance income 31  (12,540)  (18,492) Non-operating expenses (net)  141  1,319  Share of results of joint ventures and associates 8  (10,609)  (10,449) Profit before exceptional items and tax  40,601  88,930  Exceptional items 32  7,931  11,697  Profit before tax  32,670  77,233  T ax expense / (credit)  Current tax 14  18,230  21,240  Deferred tax 14  (7,395)  13,579  Profit for the year  21,835  42,414  Other comprehensive income ('OCI')  Items to be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss :  Net losses due to foreign currency translation differences  (7,181)  (41,424)  Net losses on net investment hedge  (8,024)  (10,330)  Net gains on cash flow hedge  809  857   Net gains on fair value through OCI investments  129  107   T ax charge  14  (122)  (16)  (14,389)  (50,806) Items to be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss :  Re-measurement gains / (losses) on defined benefit plans  205  (73)  Share of OCI of joint ventures and associates  8  18  (9)  T ax (charge) / credit  (29)  20   194  (62) Other comprehensive loss for the year  (14,195)  (50,868) T otal comprehensive income / (loss) for the year  7,640  (8,454) Profit for the year attributable to :  21,835  42,414   Owners of the Parent  10,990  37,998   Non-controlling interests  10,845  4,416  Other comprehensive loss for the year attributable to :  (14,195)  (50,868)  Owners of the Parent  (13,445)  (48,655)  Non-controlling interests  (750)  (2,213) T otal comprehensive income / (loss) for the year attributable to :  7,640  (8,454)  Owners of the Parent  (2,455)  (10,657)  Non-controlling interests  10,095  2,203  Earnings per share (Face value : J5 each) (In Rupees)   Basic 33  2.75  9.51   Diluted 33  2.75  9.51  The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm’s Registration No: 117366W / W-100018) Hemant M. Joshi Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Partner Chairman Managing Director & CEO  Membership No: 38019 DIN: 00042491 (India and South Asia)   DIN: 02291778 Place: New Delhi Nilanjan Roy Pankaj T ewari Date: April 24, 2018 Global Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 234 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity   The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited For  Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm’s Registration No: 117366W / W-100018) Hemant M. Joshi Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Partner  Chairman Managing Director & CEO  Membership No: 38019 DIN: 00042491 (India and South Asia)   DIN: 02291778 Place: New Delhi Nilanjan Roy Pankaj T ewari Date: April 24, 2018 Global Chief Financial Officer  Company Secretary (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees; except per share data) Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Particulars Share capital Other equity Non- controlling  interests T otal  equityNo of  shares   (in ‘000) Amount Reserves and surplus Other  components  of equity  (Note 19) T otal Securities  premium  account Retained  earnings General  reserves Debenture  redemption  reserve Share-based  payment  reserve NCI  reserve As of April 1, 2016 3,997,400 19,987  123,456  453,279  27,030  -  5,169  51,165  (12,393) 647,706  54,981 722,674  Profit for the year  -  -  -  37,998  -  -  -  -  -  37,998  4,416  42,414  Other comprehensive loss  -  -  -  (62)  -  -  -  -  (48,593)  (48,655)  (2,213)  (50,868) T otal comprehensive  income / (loss)  -  -  -  37,936  -  -  -  -  (48,593) (10,657)  2,203  (8,454) Transaction with owners  of equity  Employee share-based  payment expense  -  -  -  -  -  -  328  -  -  328  10  338  Exercise of share options  -  -  -  -  -  -  (1,432)  -  157  (1,275)  (1,236)  (2,511) Transaction with NCI  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  26,051  -  26,051  26,303  52,354  Dividend paid (including tax)  to Company's shareholders -  -  -  (6,543)  -  -  -  -  -  (6,543)  -  (6,543) Dividend paid (including  tax) to NCI  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (12,869)  (12,869) Movement on account of  court approved schemes -  -  -  (1,034)  -  -  -  -  -  (1,034)  (642)  (1,676) As of March 31, 2017 3,997,400 19,987  123,456  483,638  27,030  -  4,065  77,216  (60,829) 654,576  68,750 743,313  Profit for the year  -  -  -  10,990  -  -  -  -  -  10,990  10,845  21,835  Other comprehensive  income / (loss)  -  -  -  194  -  -  -  -  (13,639)  (13,445)  (750)  (14,195) T otal comprehensive  income / (loss)  -  -  -  11,184  -  -  -  -  (13,639)  (2,455)  10,095  7,640  Transaction with owners  of equity  Employee share-based  payment expense  -  -  -  -  -  -  392  -  -  392  21  413  Purchase of treasury shares  -  -  -  -  -  -  (424)  (424)  -  (424) Exercise of share options  -  -  -  -  3,510  -  (3,675)  -  149  (16)  (13)  (29) Transaction with NCI  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  42,625  -  42,625  13,812  56,437  Creation of debenture  redemption reserve  -  -  -  -  (7,500)  7,500  -  -  -  -  -  -  Dividend paid (including tax)  to Company's shareholders -  -  -  (18,475)  -  -  -  -  -  (18,475)  -  (18,475) Dividend paid (including  tax) to NCI  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (3,933)  (3,933) Movement on account of  court approved schemes -  -  -  (866)  -  -  -  -  -  (866)  (593)  (1,459)  As of March 31, 2018 3,997,400 19,987  123,456  475,481  23,040  7,500  782 119,841  (74,743) 675,357  88,139 783,483  235 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Financial Statements Statement of Changes in Equity / Statement of Cash Flows Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees) For the year ended March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax  32,670  77,233  Adjustments for :  Depreciation and amortisation  192,431  197,730   Finance costs  93,255  95,466   Finance income  (12,540)  (18,492)  Share of results of joint ventures and associates  (10,609)  (10,449)  Exceptional items  325  (276)  Employee share-based payment expense  413  338   Other non-cash items  10,410  7,910  Operating cash flow before changes in working capital  306,355  349,450  Changes in working capital  Trade receivables  (24,474)  5,366   Trade payables  15,122  7,640   Inventories  (202)  948   Provisions  154  (26)  Other financial and non financial liabilities  51,205  3,558   Other financial and non financial assets  (35,899)  (52,550) Net cash generated from operations before tax  312,261  314,386   Income tax paid  (13,723)  (31,587) Net cash generated from operating activities (a)  298,538  282,799  Cash flows from investing activities  Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (245,259)  (223,030)  Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  5,655  4,462   Purchase of intangible assets *  (17,749)  (1,55,673)  Payment towards Spectrum - Deferred payment liability *  (9,909)  (9,804)  Net movement in current investments  (50,259)  5,785   Purchase of non-current investments  -  (89,073)  Sale of non-current investments  36,495  82,557   Investment in subsidiary, net of cash acquired / associate  (19,498)  (283)  Sale of subsidiaries  -  59,604   Sale of tower assets  4,869  7,120   Investment in associate  (60)  (250)  Proceeds from sale of interest in associate / joint venture  -  447   Dividend received  10,377  9,789   Interest received  5,662  2,305  Net cash used in investing activities (b)  (279,676)  (306,044) Cash flows from financing activities  Proceeds from borrowings  197,664  258,584   Repayment of borrowings  (130,717)  (274,608)  Net proceeds from short-term borrowings  (26,874)  25,377   Proceeds from sale and finance leaseback of towers  2,958  6,277   Repayment of finance lease liabilities  (3,932)  (3,899)  Purchase of treasury shares  (424)  -   Interest and other finance charges paid  (44,041)  (58,566)  Proceeds from exercise of share options  13  65   Dividend paid (including tax)  (32,652)  (9,168)  Proceeds from issuance of equity shares to NCI (refer note 5)  21  1,245   Sale of interest in a subsidiary (refer Note 5)  57,189  61,863   Purchase of shares from NCI (refer note 5)  -  (10,684) Net cash generated from / (used in) financing activities (c)  19,205  (3,514) Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents during the year (a+b+c)  38,067  (26,759) Effect of exchange rate on cash and cash equivalents  281  (756) Cash and cash equivalents as at beginning of the year  (9,880)  17,635  Cash and cash equivalents as at end of the year (Note 17)  28,468  (9,880) *Cash flows towards spectrum acquisition are based on the timing of payouts to DoT (viz.
upfront / deferred).
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm’s Registration No: 117366W / W-100018) Hemant M. Joshi Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Partner Chairman Managing Director & CEO  Membership No: 38019 DIN: 00042491 (India and South Asia)   DIN: 02291778 Place: New Delhi Nilanjan Roy Pankaj T ewari Date: April 24, 2018 Global Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 236 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) 1.
Corporate information  Bharti Airtel Limited (‘the Company’ or ‘the Parent’) is  domiciled and incorporated in India as a limited liability  company with its shares being listed on the National Stock  Exchange and the Bombay Stock Exchange.
The registered  office of the Company is situated at Bharti Crescent, 1,  Nelson Mandela Road, Vasant Kunj, Phase – II, New Delhi –  110070.
The Company together with its subsidiaries (hereinafter  referred to as ‘the Group’) has presence in India, Africa  and South Asia.
The principal activities of the Group,  its joint ventures and associates consist of provision of  telecommunication services, tower infrastructure services  and direct-to-home digital television services.
The details as  to the services provided by the Group are further provided  in note 36.
For details as to the Group structure, refer note  39.
2.
Summary of significant accounting policies 2.1 Basis of preparation  These consolidated financial statements (‘financial  statements’) have been prepared to comply in all material  respects with the Indian Accounting Standard (‘Ind AS’) as  notified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs(‘MCA’) under  section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’), read  together with Rule 3 of the Companies (Indian Accounting  Standards) Rules, 2015 (as amended from time to time)  and other relevant provisions of the Act.
The financial statements are authorised for issue by the  Company’s Board of Directors on April 24, 2018.
The financial statements are based on the classification  provisions contained in Ind AS 1, ‘Presentation of Financial  Statements’ and division II of schedule III of the Companies  Act 2013.
Further, for the purpose of clarity, various items  are aggregated in the statement of profit and loss and  balance sheet.
Nonetheless, these items are dis-aggregated  separately in the notes to the financial statements, where  applicable or required.
All the amounts included in the financial statements are  reported in millions of Indian Rupees (‘Rupees’ or ‘H’) and  are rounded to the nearest million, except per share data  and unless stated otherwise.
Further, amounts which are  less than a million are appearing as ‘0’.
The preparation of the said financial statements requires the  use of certain critical accounting estimates and judgements.
It also requires the management to exercise judgement in  the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies.
The areas where estimates are significant to the financial  statements, or areas involving a higher degree of judgement  or complexity, are disclosed in note 3.
The accounting policies, as set out in the following  paragraphs of this note, have been consistently applied,  by all the group entities, to all the periods presented in the  said financial statements.
Further, previous year figures  have been re-grouped, wherever necessary to conform to  current year’s classification.
2.2 Basis of measurement  The financial statements have been prepared on the  accrual and going concern basis, and the historical cost  convention except where the Ind AS requires a different  accounting treatment.
The principal variations from the  historical cost convention relate to financial instruments  classified as fair value through profit or loss or through  other comprehensive income (refer note 2.10 (b)), liability  for cash-settled awards (refer note 2.17), the component of  carrying values of recognised liabilities that are designated  in fair value hedges (refer note 2.10 (d)) - which are  measured at fair value.
Fair value measurement  Fair value is the price at the measurement date, at which an  asset can be sold or paid to transfer a liability, in an orderly  transaction between market participants.
The Group’s  accounting policies require, measurement of certain  financial / non-financial assets and liabilities at fair values  (either on a recurring or non-recurring basis).
Also, the fair  values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost  are required to be disclosed in the said financial statements.
The Group is required to classify the fair valuation method  of the financial / non-financial assets and liabilities,  either measured or disclosed at fair value in the financial  statements, using a three level fair-value-hierarchy (which  reflects the significance of inputs used in the measurement).
Accordingly, the Group uses valuation techniques that are  appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient  data are available to measure fair value, maximising the  use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use  of unobservable inputs.
The three levels of the fair-value-hierarchy are described  below:  Level 1: Quoted (unadjusted) prices for identical assets or  liabilities in active markets  Level 2: Significant inputs to the fair value measurement  are directly or indirectly observable   Level 3: Significant inputs to the fair value measurement  are unobservable Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 237 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) 2.3 Basis of consolidation  a.
Subsidiaries   Subsidiaries include all the entities over which the  Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when  it is exposed or has right to variable return from its  involvement with the entity, and has the ability to affect  those returns through its power (that is, existing rights  that give it the current ability to direct the relevant  activities) over the entity.
The Group re-assesses  whether or not it controls the entity, in case the under- lying facts and circumstances indicate that there  are changes to above mentioned parameters that  determine the existence of control.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on  which control is transferred to the Group, and they are  de-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Non- controlling interests is the equity in a subsidiary not  attributable to a parent and presented separately from  the Group’s equity.
Non-controlling interests consist of  the amount at the date of the business combination  and its share of changes in equity since that date.
Profit or loss and other comprehensive income are  attributed to the controlling and non-controlling  interests in proportion to their ownership interests,  even if this results in the non-controlling interests  having a deficit balance.
However, in case where there  are binding contractual arrangements that determine  the attribution of the earnings, the attribution specified  by such arrangement is considered.
The profit or loss on disposal (associated with loss of  control) is recognised in the statement of profit and loss  being the difference between (i) the aggregate of the  fair value of consideration received and the fair value  of any retained interest, and (ii) the previous carrying  amount of the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities  of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests.
In  addition, any amounts previously recognised in the  other comprehensive income in respect of that de- consolidated entity, are accounted for as if the Group  had directly disposed off the related assets or liabilities.
This may mean that amounts previously recognised in  the other comprehensive income are re-classified to  the statement of profit and loss.
Any retained interest  in the entity is remeasured to its fair value with the  resultant change in carrying value being recognised in  statement of profit and loss.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary,  without a change of control, is accounted for as  a transaction with equity holders.
Any difference  between the amount of the adjustment to non- controlling interests and any consideration exchanged  is recognised in ‘NCI reserve’, a component of equity.
b.
Joint ventures and associates   A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby  the parties that have joint control of the arrangement  have rights to the net assets of the joint venture.
Joint  control is the contractually agreed sharing of control  of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions  about the relevant activities require unanimous  consent of the parties sharing control.
An associate is an entity over which the Group has  significant influence.
Significant influence is the power  to participate in the financial and operating policy  decisions of the investee but is not control or joint  control over those policies.
Investment in joint ventures and associates are  accounted for using equity method; from the date  on which Group obtains joint control over the joint  venture / starts exercising significant influence over  the associate.
The said investments are tested at- least annually and whenever circumstances indicate  that their carrying values may exceed the recoverable  amount (viz.
higher of the fair value less costs to sell  and the value-in-use).
c.  Method of consolidation    Accounting policies of the respective individual  subsidiary, joint venture and associate are aligned  wherever necessary, so as to ensure consistency with  the accounting policies that are adopted by the Group  under Ind AS.
The standalone financial statements of subsidiaries  are fully consolidated on a line-by-line basis after  adjusting for business combination adjustments (refer  note 2.4).
Intra-group balances and transactions,  and income and expenses arising from intra-group  transactions, are eliminated while preparing the said  financial statements.
The un-realised gains resulting  from intra-group transactions are also eliminated.
Similarly, the un-realised losses are eliminated, unless  the transaction provides evidence as to impairment of  the asset transferred.
The Group’s investments in its joint ventures and  associates are accounted for using the equity method.
Accordingly, the investments are carried at cost less  any impairment losses, as adjusted for post-acquisition  changes in the Group’s share of the net assets of  Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 238 investees.
Any excess of the cost over the Group’s  share of net assets in its joint ventures / associates at  the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The  goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the  investment.
The un-realised gains / losses resulting  from transactions with joint ventures and associates  are eliminated against the investment to the extent  of the Group’s interest in the investee.
However, un- realised losses are eliminated only to the extent that  there is no evidence of impairment.
At each reporting date, the Group determines whether  there is objective evidence that the investment is  impaired.
If there is such evidence, the Group calculates  the amount of impairment as the difference between  the recoverable amount of investment and its carrying  value.
2.4 Business combinations  The Group accounts for business combinations using the  acquisition method of accounting, and accordingly, the  identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in  the acquiree are recorded at their acquisition date fair values  (except certain assets and liabilities which are required  to be measured as per the applicable standard) and the  non-controlling interest is initially recognised at the non- controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s  net identifiable assets.
The consideration transferred for  the acquisition of a subsidiary is aggregation of the fair  values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and  the equity interests issued by the Group in exchange for  control of the acquiree.
The consideration transferred also includes the fair  value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent  consideration arrangement.
Any contingent consideration  to be transferred by the acquirer is recognised at fair value  at the acquisition date.
Contingent consideration classified  as an asset or liability is subsequently measured at fair  value with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not  re-measured and its subsequent settlement is accounted  for within equity.
The excess of the consideration transferred, along with the  amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and  the acquisition-date fair value (with the resulting difference  being recognised in statement of profit and loss) of any  previous equity interest in the acquiree, over the fair value  of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired  is recorded as goodwill.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed in the period in  which the costs are incurred.
If the initial accounting for a business combination  is incomplete as at the reporting date in which the  combination occurs, the identifiable assets and liabilities  acquired in a business combination are measured at  their provisional fair values at the date of acquisition.
Subsequently adjustments to the provisional values are  made within the measurement period, if new information  is obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as  of the acquisition date and, if known, would have resulted  in the recognition of those assets and liabilities as of that  date; otherwise the adjustments are recorded in the period  in which they occur.
A contingent liability recognised in a business combination  is initially measured at its fair value.
Subsequently, it is  measured at the higher of the amount that would be  recognised in accordance with Ind AS 37, ‘Provisions,  Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’, or amount  initially recognised less, when appropriate, cumulative  amortisation recognised in accordance with Ind AS 18  ‘Revenue’.
2.5 Foreign currency transactions  a. Functional and presentation currency   The items included in financial statements of each of  the Group’s entities are measured using the currency  of primary economic environment in which the entity  operates (i.e.
‘functional currency’).
The financial statements are presented in Indian  Rupees which is the functional and presentation  currency of the Company.
b.
Transactions and balances   Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded  in the relevant functional currency at the rates prevailing  at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign  currencies are translated into the functional currency at  the closing exchange rate prevailing as at the reporting  date with the resulting foreign exchange differences,  on subsequent re-statement / settlement, recognised  in the statement of profit and loss within finance costs/  finance income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities  denominated in foreign currencies are translated  into the functional currency using the exchange rate  prevalent, at the date of initial recognition (in case they  are measured at historical cost) or at the date when the  fair value is determined (in case they are measured at  fair value) – the resulting foreign exchange difference,  on subsequent re-statement / settlement, recognised  in the statement of profit and loss, except to the  extent that it relates to items recognised in the other  comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 239 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159   The equity items denominated in foreign currencies are  translated at historical cost.
c. Foreign operations   The assets and liabilities of foreign operations (including  the goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on  the acquisition of foreign entities) are translated into  Rupees at the exchange rates prevailing at the reporting  date whereas their statements of profit and loss are  translated into Rupees at monthly average exchange  rates and the equity is recorded at the historical rate.
The resulting exchange differences arising on the  translation are recognised in other comprehensive  income and held in foreign currency translation reserve  (‘FCTR’), a component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign  operation (that is, disposal involving loss of control), the  component of other comprehensive income relating to  that particular foreign operation is reclassified to profit  or loss.
2.6 Current versus non-current classification   The Group presents assets and liabilities in the balance  sheet based on current / non-current classification.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities, and all assets and  liabilities which are not current (as discussed in the below  paragraphs) are classified as non-current assets and  liabilities.
An asset is classified as current when it is expected to be  realised or intended to be sold or consumed in normal  operating cycle, held primarily for the purpose of trading,  expected to be realised within twelve months after the  reporting period, or cash and cash equivalent unless  restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability  for at least twelve months after the reporting period.
A liability is classified as current when it is expected to  be settled in normal operating cycle, it is held primarily  for the purpose of trading, it is due to be settled within  twelve months after the reporting period, or there is no  unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability for  at least twelve months after the reporting period.
The derivatives designated in hedging relationship and  separated embedded derivatives are classified basis the  hedged item and host contract respectively.
2.7 Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’)  An item is recognised as an asset, if and only if, it is probable  that the future economic benefits associated with the item  will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
PPE are initially recognised at cost.
The initial cost of PPE  comprises its purchase price (including non-refundable  duties and taxes but excluding any trade discounts and  rebates), assets retirement obligations (refer note 2.18 (b))  and any directly attributable cost of bringing the asset to its  working condition and location for its intended use.
Further, it  includes assets installed on the premises of customers as the  associated risks, rewards and control remain with the Group.
Subsequent to initial recognition, PPE are stated at cost  less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
When significant parts of PPE are required to be replaced  at regular intervals, the Group recognises such parts as  separate component of assets.
When an item of PPE is  replaced, then its carrying amount is de-recognised from  the balance sheet and cost of the new item of PPE is  recognised.
Further, in case the replaced part was not being  depreciated separately, the cost of the replacement is used  as an indication to determine the cost of the replaced part  at the time it was acquired.
The expenditures that are incurred after the item of PPE  has been put to use, such as repairs and maintenance,  are normally charged to the statement of profit and loss  in the period in which such costs are incurred.
However, in  situations where the said expenditure can be measured  reliably, and is probable that future economic benefits  associated with it will flow to the Group, it is included in the  asset’s carrying value or as a separate asset, as appropriate.
Depreciation on PPE is computed using the straight-line  method over the estimated useful lives.
Freehold land is not  depreciated as it has an unlimited useful life.
The Group has  established the estimated range of useful lives for different  categories of PPE as follows:   Categories Years Leasehold improvement Period of lease or 10-20  years, as applicable,  whichever is less Leasehold land Period of lease  Buildings 20 Plant and equipment - Network equipment  (inclusive passive  infrastructure) 3 - 20 - Customer premise  equipment  5 - 6 - Assets taken on finance  lease Period of lease or 10 years,  as applicable, whichever  is less Other equipment, operating  and office equipment Computer equipment 3 Furniture & fixture and  Office equipment 2 - 5 Vehicles 3 - 5 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 240   The useful lives, residual values and depreciation method  of PPE are reviewed, and adjusted appropriately, at-least as  at each financial year end so as to ensure that the method  and period of depreciation are consistent with the expected  pattern of economic benefits from these assets.
The effect  of any change in the estimated useful lives, residual values  and / or depreciation method are accounted prospectively,  and accordingly, the depreciation is calculated over the PPE’s  remaining revised useful life.
The cost and the accumulated  depreciation for PPE sold, scrapped, retired or otherwise  disposed off are de-recognised from the balance sheet and  the resulting gains / (losses) are included in the statement of  profit and loss within other expenses / other income.
The cost of capital work-in-progress (‘CWIP’) is presented  separately in the balance sheet.
2.8 Intangible assets  Identifiable intangible assets are recognised when the  Group controls the asset, it is probable that future economic  benefits attributed to the asset will flow to the Group and  the cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Goodwill represents the cost of the acquired businesses in  excess of the fair value of identifiable net assets purchased  (refer note 2.4).
Goodwill is not amortised; however it is  tested annually for impairment (refer note 2.9) and carried  at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
The gains  / (losses) on the disposal of a cash-generating-unit (‘CGU’)  include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the CGU  sold (in case goodwill has been allocated to group of CGUs;  it is determined on the basis of the relative fair value of the  operations sold).
The intangible assets that are acquired in a business  combination are recognised at its fair value thereat.
Other  intangible assets are recognised at cost.
These assets  having finite useful life are carried at cost less accumulated  amortisation and any impairment losses.
Amortisation is  computed using the straight-line method over the expected  useful life of intangible assets.
The Group has established the estimated useful lives of  different categories of intangible assets as follows:  a.
Software   Software are amortised over the period of license,  generally not exceeding three years.
b. Bandwidth   Bandwidth is amortised over the period of the  agreement.
c. Licenses (including spectrum)   Acquired licenses and spectrum are amortised  commencing from the date when the related network  is available for intended use in the relevant jurisdiction.
The useful lives range from two to twenty five years.
The revenue-share based fee on licenses / spectrum  is charged to the statement of profit and loss in the  period such cost is incurred.
d. Other acquired intangible assets    Other acquired intangible assets include the following:    Rights acquired for unlimited license access: Over  the period of the agreement which ranges upto five  years.
Distribution network: One year to two years   Customer base: Over the estimated life of such  relationships which ranges from one year to five years.
Non-compete fee: Over the period of the agreement  which ranges upto five years.
The useful lives and amortisation method are reviewed, and  adjusted appropriately, at least at each financial year end  so as to ensure that the method and period of amortisation  are consistent with the expected pattern of economic  benefits from these assets.
The effect of any change in  the estimated useful lives and / or amortisation method is  accounted prospectively, and accordingly, the amortisation  is calculated over the remaining revised useful life.
Further, the cost of intangible assets under development  includes the amount of spectrum allotted to the Group  and related costs (including borrowing costs that are  directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of   qualifying assets) (refer note 2.21), if any, for which services  are yet to be rolled out and are presented separately in the  balance sheet.
2.9 Impairment of non-financial assets  a.
Goodwill   Goodwill is tested for impairment, at-least annually  and whenever circumstances indicate that it may be  impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, the  goodwill is allocated to a cash-generating-unit (‘CGU’)  or group of CGUs (‘CGU’), which are expected to benefit  from the acquisition-related synergies and represent  the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill  is monitored for internal management purposes,  within an operating segment.
A CGU is the smallest  identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows  that are largely independent of the cash inflows from  other assets or group of assets.
Impairment occurs when the carrying value of a  CGU / CGUs including the goodwill, exceeds the  estimated recoverable amount of the CGU / CGUs.
The  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 241 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 recoverable amount of a CGU / CGUs is the higher of its  fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Value-in- use is the present value of future cash flows expected  to be derived from the CGU / CGUs.
The total impairment loss of a CGU / CGUs is allocated  first to reduce the carrying value of Goodwill allocated  to that CGU / CGUs and then to the other assets of that  CGU / CGUs - on pro-rata basis of the carrying value of  each asset.
b. PPE, Intangible assets and Intangible assets under  development    PPE, (including CWIP) and intangible assets with  definite lives, are reviewed for impairment, whenever  events or changes in circumstances indicate that their  carrying values may not be recoverable.
Intangible  assets under development is tested for impairment,  at-least annually and whenever circumstances indicate  that it may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable  amount (that is, higher of the fair value less costs to  sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an individual  asset basis, unless the asset does not generate cash  flows that are largely independent of those from  other assets, in which case the recoverable amount is  determined at the CGU level to which the said asset  belongs.
If such individual assets or CGU are considered  to be impaired, the impairment to be recognised in the  statement of profit and loss is measured by the amount  by which the carrying value of the asset / CGU exceeds  their estimated recoverable amount and allocated on  pro-rata basis.
Reversal of impairment losses   Impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
Other impairment losses are reversed in the statement  of profit and loss and the carrying value is increased  to its revised recoverable amount provided that this  amount does not exceed the carrying value that would  have been determined had no impairment loss been  recognised for the said asset / CGU in previous years.
2.10 Financial instruments  a.
Recognition, classification and presentation   The financial instruments are recognised in the  balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the  contractual provisions of the financial instrument.
The Group determines the classification of its financial  instruments at initial recognition.
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following  categories: a) those to be measured subsequently at  fair value (either through other comprehensive income,  or through profit or loss), and b) those to be measured  at amortised cost.
The classification depends on the  entity’s business model for managing the financial  assets and the contractual terms of the cash flows.
The Group has classified all the non-derivative financial  liabilities as measured at amortised cost.
The entire hybrid contract, financial assets with  embedded derivatives, are considered in their entirety  for determining the contractual terms of the cash flow  and accordingly, the embedded derivatives are not  separated.
However, derivatives embedded in non- financial instrument / financial liabilities (measured  at amortised cost) host contracts are classified as  separate derivatives if their economic characteristics  and risks are not closely related to those of the host  contracts.
Financial assets and liabilities arising from different  transactions are off-set against each other and the  resultant net amount is presented in the balance sheet,  if and only when, the Group currently has a legally  enforceable right to set-off the related recognised  amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis  or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities  simultaneously.
b.
Measurement - Non-derivative financial instruments   I.
Initial measurement     At initial recognition, the Group measures the non- derivative financial instruments at its fair value  plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value  through profit or loss, transaction costs.
Otherwise  transaction costs are expensed in the statement of  profit and loss.
II.
Subsequent measurement - financial assets    The subsequent measurement of the non- derivative financial assets depends on their  classification as follows:    i.
Financial assets measured at amortised  cost     Assets that are held for collection of  contractual cash flows where those cash  flows represent solely payments of principal  and interest are measured at amortised cost  using the effective interest rate (‘EIR’) method  (if the impact of discounting / any transaction  costs is significant).
Interest income from  these financial assets is included in finance  income.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 242    ii.
Financial assets at fair value through other  comprehensive income (‘FVTOCI’)     Equity investments which are not held for  trading and for which the Group has elected  to present the change in the fair value in other  comprehensive income and debt instruments  that are held for collection of contractual  cash flows and for selling the financial  assets, where the assets’ cash flow represent  solely payment of principal and interest, are  measured at FVTOCI.
The changes in fair value are taken through  OCI, except for the impairment (on debt  instruments), interest (basis EIR method),  dividend and foreign exchange differences  which are recognised in the statement of  profit and loss.
When the financial asset is derecognised, the  related accumulated fair value adjustments  in OCI as at the date of derecognition are  reclassified from equity and recognised in the  statement of profit and loss.
However, there  is no subsequent reclassification of fair value  gains and losses to statement of profit and  loss in case of equity instruments.
iii.
Financial assets at fair value through profit  or loss (‘FVTPL’)     All equity instruments and financial assets that  do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or  FVTOCI are measured at FVTPL.
Interest (basis  EIR method) and dividend income from financial  assets at FVTPL is recognised in the statement  of profit and loss within finance income / finance  costs separately from the other gains/losses  arising from changes in the fair value.
Impairment     The Company assesses on a forward looking  basis the expected credit losses associated with  its assets carried at amortised cost and debt  instrument carried at FVTOCI.
The impairment  methodology applied depends on whether there  has been a significant increase in credit risk since  initial recognition.
If credit risk has not increased  significantly, twelve month expected credit loss  (‘ECL’) is used to provide for impairment loss,  otherwise lifetime ECL is used.
However, only in case of trade receivables, the  Company applies the simplified approach which  requires expected lifetime losses to be recognised  from initial recognition of the receivables.
III.
Subsequent measurement - financial liabilities    Financial liabilities are subsequently measured  at amortised cost using the EIR method (if the  impact of discounting / any transaction costs is  significant).
c. Measurement - derivative financial instruments   Derivative financial instruments, including separated  embedded derivatives, that are not designated as  hedging instruments in a hedging relationship are  classified as financial instruments at fair value through  profit or loss - Held for trading.
Such derivative financial  instruments are initially recognised at fair value.
They  are subsequently measured at their fair value, with  changes in fair value being recognised in the statement  of profit and loss within finance income / finance costs.
d. Hedging activities   I.
Fair value hedge    Some of the group entities use certain type of  derivative financial instruments (viz.
interest rate  / currency swaps) to manage / mitigate their  exposure to the risk of change in fair value of the  borrowings.
The Group designates certain interest  swaps to hedge the risk of changes in fair value of  recognised borrowings attributable to the hedged  interest rate risk.
The effective portion of changes  in the fair value of derivatives that are designated  and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in  the statement of profit and loss within finance  income / finance costs, together with any changes  in the fair value of the hedged liability that are  attributable to the hedged risk.
If the hedge no  longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the  adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged  item is amortised to profit or loss over the period to  remaining maturity of the hedged item.
II.
Cash flow hedge    Some of the group entities use certain types  of derivative financial instruments (viz.
foreign  currency forwards, options, swaps) to manage  / mitigate their exposure to foreign exchange  and price risk.
Further, the Group designates  certain such derivative financial instruments  (or its components) as hedging instruments  for hedging the exchange rate fluctuation risk  attributable to is either to an recognised item or  a highly probable forecast transaction (‘Cash  flow hedge’).
The effective portion of changes in  the fair value of Derivative financial instruments  (or its components) that are designated and  qualify as Cash flow hedges, are recognised in  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 243 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 the Other comprehensive income and held in  Cash flow hedge reserve (‘CFHR’) - a component  of Equity.
Any gains / (losses) relating to the  ineffective portion, are recognised immediately  in the statement of profit and loss within finance  income / finance costs.
The amounts accumulated  in Equity are re-classified to the statement of profit  and loss in the periods when the hedged item  affects profit / (loss).
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or  when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for  hedge accounting, any cumulative gains / (losses)  existing in equity at that time remains in equity  and is recognised (on the basis as discussed in the  above paragraph) when the forecast transaction is  ultimately recognised in the statement of profit and  loss.
However, at any point of time, when a forecast  transaction is no longer expected to occur, the  cumulative gains / (losses) that were reported in  equity is immediately transferred to the statement  of profit and loss within finance income / finance  costs.
III.
Net investment hedge    The Group hedges its certain net investment in  foreign subsidiaries which are accounted for similar  to cash flow hedges.
Accordingly, any foreign  exchange differences on the hedging instrument  (viz.
borrowings) relating to the effective portion of  the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive  income and held in foreign currency translation  reserve (‘FCTR’) - a component of equity, so  as to offset the change in the value of the net  investment being hedged.
The ineffective portion  of the gain or loss on these hedges is immediately  recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
The  amounts accumulated in equity are included in  the statement of profit and loss when the foreign  operation is disposed or partially disposed.
e. Derecognition   The financial liabilities are de-recognised from the  balance sheet when the under-lying obligations are  extinguished, discharged, lapsed, cancelled, expires or  legally released.
The financial assets are de-recognised  from the balance sheet when the rights to receive  cash flows from the financial assets have expired, or  have been transferred and the Group has transferred  substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
The  difference in the carrying amount is recognised in the  statement of profit and loss.
2.11 Leases  The determination of whether an arrangement is a lease  is based on whether fulfillment of the arrangement  is dependent on the use of a specific asset and the  arrangement conveys a right to use the asset, even if that  right is not explicitly specified in an arrangement.
Leases where the lessor transfers substantially all the  risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are  classified as finance lease and other leases are classified as   operating lease.
Operating lease receipts / payments are recognised as an  income / expense on a straight-line basis over the lease  term unless the lease payments increase in line with  expected general inflation.
Contingent rents are recognised as income / expense in  the period in which they are earned / incurred.
a.
Group as a lessee   Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised  at the lease inception at lower of the fair value of the  leased asset and the present value of the minimum  lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned  between finance charges (recognised in the statement  of profit and loss) and reduction of the lease liability so  as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the  remaining balance of the liability for each period.
Sale and leaseback transaction involves the sale and  the leasing back of the same asset.
In case it results  in a finance lease, any profit or loss is not recognised,  instead the asset leased back is retained at its carrying  value.
However, in case it results in an operating lease,  any profit or loss is recognised immediately provided  the transaction occurs at fair value.
b.
Group as a lessor   Assets leased to others under finance lease are  recognised as receivables at an amount equal to  the net investment in the leased assets.
Finance  lease income is allocated to periods so as to reflect a  constant periodic rate of return on the net investment  outstanding in respect of the finance lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating  lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased  asset and recognised in statement of profit and loss on  a stratght-line basis over the lease term.
The Group enters into ‘Indefeasible right to use’ (‘IRU’)  arrangement wherein the assets are given on lease  over the substantial part of the asset life.
However,  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 244 the title to the assets and significant risk associated  with the operation and maintenance of these assets  remains with the Group.
Hence, such arrangements  are recognised as operating lease.
The contracted  price is recognised as revenue during the tenure of the  agreement.
Unearned IRU revenue received in advance  is presented as deferred revenue within liabilities in the  balance sheet.
2.12 T axes  The income tax expense comprises of current and deferred  income tax.
Income tax is recognised in the statement of  profit and loss, except to the extent that it relates to items  recognised in the other comprehensive income or directly  in equity, in which case the related income tax is also  recognised accordingly.
a.
Current tax   The current tax is calculated on the basis of the tax  rates, laws and regulations, which have been enacted  or substantively enacted as at the reporting date in the  respective countries where the group entities operate  and generate taxable income.
The payment made in  excess / (shortfall) of the respective group entities’  income tax obligation for the period are recognised in  the balance sheet under non-current income tax assets  / liabilities.
Any interest, related to accrued liabilities for potential  tax assessments are not included in Income tax charge  or (credit), but are rather recognised within finance  costs.
The Group periodically evaluates positions taken in  the tax returns with respect to situations in which  applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation  and establishes provisions where appropriate on  the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax  authorities.
b.
Deferred tax   Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method,  on temporary differences arising between the tax  bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying values  in the financial statements.
However, deferred tax are  not recognised if it arises from initial recognition of an  asset or liability in a transaction other than a business  combination that at the time of the transaction affects  neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Further,  deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise  from the initial recognition of goodwill.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent  that it is probable that future taxable profit will be  available against which the temporary differences  can be utilised.
Moreover, deferred tax is recognised  on temporary differences arising on investments in  subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates - unless the  timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can  be controlled and it is probable that the temporary  difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The unrecognised deferred tax assets / carrying  amount of deferred tax assets are reviewed at  each reporting date for recoverability and adjusted  appropriately.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates (and laws)  that have been enacted or substantively enacted by  the reporting date and are expected to apply when  the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the  deferred income tax liability is settled.
Income tax assets and liabilities are off-set against each  other and the resultant net amount is presented in the  balance sheet, if and only when, (a) the Group currently  has a legally enforceable right to set-off the current  income tax assets and liabilities, and (b) when it relate  to income tax levied by the same taxation authority and  where there is an intention to settle the current income  tax balances on net basis.
2.13 Inventories  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (determined  using the first-in-first-out method) and net realisable value.
The costs comprise its purchase price and any directly  attributable cost of bringing to its present location and  condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price  in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs  of completion and the estimated variable costs necessary  to make the sale.
2.14 Cash and cash equivalents   Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank  balances and any deposits with original maturities of  three months or less (that are readily convertible to known  amounts of cash and cash equivalents and subject to an  insignificant risk of changes in value).
However, for the  purpose of the statement of cash flows, in addition to above  items, any bank overdrafts / cash credits that are integral  part of the Group’s cash management, are also included as  a component of cash and cash equivalents.
2.15 Non-current assets (or disposal groups) held for sale   Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as  assets-held-for-sale when their carrying amount is to be  recovered principally through a sale transaction and a  sale is considered highly probable.
The sale is considered  highly probable only when the asset or disposal group is  available for immediate sale in its present condition, it is  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 245 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 unlikely that the sale will be withdrawn and sale is expected  within one year from the date of the classification.
Disposal  groups classified as held for sale are stated at the lower of  carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell except for  assets such as deferred tax assets, financial assets that are  carried at fair value.
Non-current assets are not depreciated  or amortised while they are classified as held for sale.
Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale are presented  separately in the balance sheet.
Loss is recognised for any initial or subsequent write-down  of the asset (or disposal group) to fair value less costs to sell.
A gain is recognised for any subsequent increases in fair  value less costs to sell of an asset (or disposal group), but  not in excess of any cumulative loss previously recognised.
If the criteria for the held for sale are no longer met, it  ceases to be classified as held for sale and are measured  at the lower of (i) its carrying amount before the asset was  classified as held for sale, adjusted for any depreciation  / amortisation that would have been recognised had  that asset not been classified as held for sale, and (ii) its  recoverable amount at the date when the disposal group  ceases to be classified as held for sale.
2.16 Share capital / Securities premium account / Treasury  shares  Ordinary shares are classified as Equity when the Company  has an un-conditional right to avoid delivery of cash or  another financial asset, that is, when the dividend and  repayment of capital are at the sole and absolute discretion  of the Company and there is no contractual obligation  whatsoever to that effect.
When the Company purchases its ordinary shares through  Bharti Airtel Employees’ Welfare Trust, they are treated as  treasury shares, and the consideration paid is deducted  from the Equity.
When the treasury shares are subsequently  re-issued, any difference between its carrying amount  and consideration received is recognised in share-based- payment reserve.
2.17 Employee benefits  The Group’s employee benefits mainly include wages,  salaries, bonuses, defined contribution to plans, defined  benefit plans, compensated absences, deferred  compensation and share-based payments.
The employee  benefits are recognised in the year in which the associated  services are rendered by the group employees.
a.
Defined contribution plans   The contributions to defined contribution plans are  recognised in profit or loss as and when the services  are rendered by employees.
The Group has no further  obligations under these plans beyond its periodic  contributions.
b.
Defined benefit plans   In accordance with the local laws and regulations, all  the employees in India are entitled for the Gratuity plan.
The said plan requires a lump-sum payment to eligible  employees (meeting the required vesting service  condition) at retirement or termination of employment,  based on a pre-defined formula.
The Group provides for the liability towards the said  plans on the basis of actuarial valuation carried out  quarterly as at the reporting date, by an independent  qualified actuary using the projected-unit-credit  method.
The obligation towards the said benefits is recognised  in the balance sheet, at the present value of the  defined benefit obligations less the fair value of plan  assets (being the funded portion).
The present value  of the said obligation is determined by discounting the  estimated future cash outflows, using interest rates of  government bonds.
The interest income / (expense) are calculated by  applying the above mentioned discount rate to the  plan assets and defined benefit obligations.
The net  interest income / (expense) on the net defined benefit  obligations is recognised in the statement of profit and  loss.
However, the related re-measurements of the net  defined benefit obligations are recognised directly  in the other comprehensive income in the period in  which they arise.
The said re-measurements comprise  of actuarial gains and losses (arising from experience  adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions),  the return on plan assets (excluding interest).
Re- measurements are not re-classified to the statement of  profit and loss in any of the subsequent periods.
c. Other long-term employee benefits   The employees of the Group are entitled to  compensated absences as well as other long-term  benefits.
Compensated absences benefit comprises  of encashment and availment of leave balances that  were earned by the employees over the period of past  employment.
The Group provides for the liability towards the said  benefit on the basis of actuarial valuation carried out  quarterly as at the reporting date, by an independent  qualified actuary using the projected-unit-credit  method.
The related re-measurements are recognised  in the statement of profit and loss in the period in which  they arise.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 246  d. Share-based payments    The Group operates equity-settled and cash-settled,  employee share-based compensation plans, under  which the Group receives services from employees as  consideration for stock options either towards shares  of the Company / cash settled units.
In case of equity-settled awards, the fair value is  recognised as an expense in the statement of profit and  loss within employee benefits as employee share-based  payment expenses, with a corresponding increase in  share-based payment reserve (a component of equity).
However, in case of cash-settled awards, the credit  is recognised as a liability within other non-financial  liabilities.
Subsequently, at each reporting period, until  the liability is settled, and at the date of settlement,  liability is re-measured at fair value through statement  of profit and loss.
The total amount so expensed is determined by  reference to the grant date fair value of the stock options  granted, which includes the impact of any market  performance conditions and non-vesting conditions  but excludes the impact of any service and non-market  performance vesting conditions.
However, the non- market performance vesting and service conditions  are considered in the assumption as to the number of  options that are expected to vest.
The forfeitures are  estimated at the time of grant and reduce the said  expense rateably over the vesting period.
The expense so determined is recognised over the  requisite vesting period, which is the period over which  all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
As at each reporting date, the Group revises its  estimates of the number of options that are expected  to vest, if required.
It recognises the impact of any revision to original  estimates in the period of change.
Accordingly, no  expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately  vest, except for which vesting is conditional upon a  market performance / non-vesting condition.
These  are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the  market / non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided  that service conditions and all other non-market  performance are satisfied.
Where the terms of an award are modified, in addition  to the expense pertaining to the original award, an  incremental expense is recognised for any modification  that results in additional fair value, or is otherwise  beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of  modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled (including  due to non-vesting conditions not being met), it is  treated as if it is vested thereon, and any un-recognised  expense for the award is recognised immediately.
2.18 Provisions   a.
General   Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present  obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past  event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be  required to settle the said obligation, and the amounts  of the said obligation can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the  expenditures expected to be required to settle the  relevant obligation, using a pre-tax rate that reflects  current market assessments of the time value of money  (if the impact of discounting is significant) and the risks  specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision  due to un-winding of discount over passage of time is  recognised within finance costs.
b.
Asset retirement obligations (‘ARO’)   ARO are recognised for those operating lease  arrangements where the Group has an obligation  at the end of the lease period to restore the leased  premises in a condition similar to inception of lease.
ARO are provided at the present value of expected  costs to settle the obligation and are recognised as  part of the cost of that particular asset.
The estimated  future costs of decommissioning are reviewed annually  and any changes in the estimated future costs or in the  discount rate applied are adjusted from the cost of the  asset.
2.19 Contingencies  A disclosure for a contingent liability is made when there  is a possible obligation or a present obligation that may,  but probably will not, require an outflow of resources.
When there is a possible obligation or a present obligation  in respect of which the likelihood of outflow of resources  is remote, no provision or disclosure is made.
Contingent  assets are not recognised and disclosed only where an  inflow of economic benefits is probable.
2.20 Revenue recognition  Revenue is recognised when it is probable that the entity  will receive the economic benefits associated with the  transaction and the related revenue can be measured  reliably.
Revenue is recognised at the fair value of the  consideration received or receivable, which is generally the  transaction price, net of any taxes, duties, discounts and  process waivers.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 247 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159  In order to determine if it is acting as a principal or as an  agent, the Group assesses whether it has exposure to the  significant risks and rewards associated with the sale of  goods or the rendering of services.
a.
Service revenues   Service revenues mainly pertain to usage, subscription  and activation charges for voice, data, messaging,  value added services and broadcasting.
It also includes  revenue towards interconnection / roaming charges  for usage of the Group’s network by other operators for  voice, data, messaging and signalling services.
Usage charges are recognised based on actual  usage.
Subscription charges are recognised over the  estimated customer relationship period or subscription  pack validity period, whichever is lower.
Customer  onboarding revenue and associate cost is recognised  upfront.
Activation revenue and related activation costs  are amortised over the estimated customer relationship  period.
However, any excess of activation costs over  activation revenue are expensed as incurred.
The billing / collection in excess of revenue recognised  is presented as deferred revenue in the balance sheet  whereas unbilled revenue is recognised under other  current financial assets.
Certain business’ service revenues include income from  registration and installation, which are amortised over  the period of agreement since the date of activation of  services.
Revenues from long distance operations comprise  of voice services and bandwidth services (including  installation), which are recognised on provision  of services and over the period of arrangement  respectively.
b.
Multiple element arrangements   The Group has entered into certain multiple-element  revenue arrangements which involve the delivery or  performance of multiple products, services or rights to  use assets.
At the inception of the arrangement, all the  deliverables therein are evaluated to determine whether  they represent separately identifiable component basis  it is perceived from the customer perspective to have  value on standalone basis.
T otal consideration related to the multiple element  arrangements is allocated among the different  components based on their relative fair values  (i.e., ratio of the fair value of each element to the  aggregated fair value of the bundled deliverables).
In  case the relative fair value of different components  cannot be determined on a reasonable basis, the total  consideration is allocated to the different components  on a residual value method.
c. Equipment sales   Equipment sales mainly pertain to sale of  telecommunication equipment and related accessories.
Such transactions are recognised when the significant  risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the  customer.
However, in case of equipment sale forming  part of multiple-element revenue arrangements which  is not separately identifiable component, revenue is  recognised over the customer relationship period.
d. Capacity swaps   The exchange of network capacity is recognised at  fair value unless the transaction lacks commercial  substance or the fair value of neither the capacity  received nor the capacity given is reliably measurable.
e. Interest income   The interest income is recognised using the EIR  method.
For further details, refer note 2.10.   f. Dividend income   Dividend income is recognised when the Group’s right  to receive the payment is established.
For further  details, refer note 2.10 2.21 Borrowing costs  Borrowing costs consist of interest and other ancillary costs  that the Group incurs in connection with the borrowing  of funds.
The borrowing costs directly attributable to  the acquisition or construction of any asset that takes  a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended  use or sale are capitalised.
All the other borrowing costs  are recognised in the statement of profit and loss within  finance costs of the period in which they are incurred.
2.22 Exceptional items  Exceptional items refer to items of income or expense within  the statement of profit and loss from ordinary activities  which are non-recurring and are of such size, nature or  incidence that their separate disclosure is considered  necessary to explain the performance of the Group.
2.23 Non-operating expense / income  Non-operating expense comprises regulatory levies  applicable to finance income in some of the geographies  whereas non-operating income pertains to certain fee  income in one of the group entities.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 248 2.24 Dividends paid  Dividend to shareholders is recognised as a liability and  deducted from equity, in the year in which the dividends are  approved by the shareholders.
However, interim dividends  declared by the Board of directors, which does not need  shareholders’ approval, are recognised as a liability and  deducted from retained earnings, in the year in which the  dividends are so declared.
2.25 Earnings per share (‘EPS’)  The Company presents the Basic and Diluted EPS data.
Basic EPS is computed by dividing the profit for the period  attributable to the shareholders of the Company by the  weighted average number of shares outstanding during  the period excluding the treasury shares.
Diluted EPS is computed by adjusting, the profit for the  year attributable to the shareholders and the weighted  average number of shares considered for deriving Basic  EPS, for the effects of all the shares that could have been  issued upon conversion of all dilutive potential shares.
The  dilutive potential shares are adjusted for the proceeds   receivable had the shares been actually issued at fair value.
Further, the dilutive potential shares are deemed converted  as at beginning of the period, unless issued at a later date  during the period.
3.
Critical accounting estimates, assumptions  and judgements  The estimates and judgements used in the preparation of  the said financial statements are continuously evaluated  by the Group, and are based on historical experience  and various other assumptions and factors (including  expectations of future events), that the Group believes  to be reasonable under the existing circumstances.
The  said estimates and judgements are based on the facts  and events, that existed as at the reporting date, or that  occurred after that date but provide additional evidence  about conditions existing as at the reporting date.
Although the Group regularly assesses these estimates,  actual results could differ materially from these estimates-  even if the assumptions under-lying such estimates  were reasonable when made, if these results differ from  historical experience or other assumptions do not turn out  to be substantially accurate.
The changes in estimates are  recognised in the financial statements in the year in which  they become known.
3.1 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions  The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk  of causing a material adjustment to the carrying values  of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are  discussed below.
a. Impairment reviews    PPE (including CWIP) and intangible assets with  definite lives, are reviewed for impairment, whenever  events or changes in circumstances indicate that  their carrying values may not be recoverable.
Similarly,  goodwill and intangible assets under development is  tested for impairment, at-least annually and whenever  circumstances indicate that it may be impaired.
For  details as to the impairment policy, refer note 2.9.
Accordingly the Company has performed impairment  reviews for the above assets.
However, the said reviews  did not result in any impairment charge.
In calculating the value in use, the Group is required  to make significant judgements, estimates and  assumptions inter-alia concerning the growth in  EBITDA, long-term growth rates and discount rates to  reflect the risks involved.
Also, judgement is involved in  determining the CGU /grouping of CGUs for allocation  of the goodwill.
The Group mainly operates in developing markets  and in such markets, the plan for shorter duration is  not indicative of the long-term future performance.
Considering this and the consistent use of such  robust ten year information for management reporting  purpose, the Group uses ten year plans for the purpose  of impairment testing.
b. T axes   Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation  of complex tax regulations and the amount and  timing of future taxable income.
Given the wide range  of international business relationships and the long- term nature and complexity of existing contractual  agreements, differences arising between the actual  results and the assumptions made, or future changes  to such assumptions, could necessitate future  adjustments to tax income and expense already  recorded.
The Group establishes provisions, based  on reasonable estimates, for possible consequences  of audits by the tax authorities of the respective  countries in which it operates.
The amount of such   provisions is based on various factors, such as  experience of previous tax audits and differing  interpretations of tax regulations by the taxable entity  and the relevant tax authority.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for the unused tax  losses and minimum alternate tax credits for which  there is probability of utilisation against the future  taxable profit.
Significant management judgement  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 249 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 is required to determine the amount of deferred tax  assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely  timing and the level of future taxable profits, future tax  planning strategies and recent business performances  and developments.
c. Property, plant and equipment   Refer note 2.7 and 6 for the estimated useful life and carrying  value of property, plant and equipment respectively.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group  had reassessed useful life of certain categories of  network assets due to technological developments  and accordingly, had revised the estimate of its useful  life in respect of those assets.
Out of those assets, the  additional depreciation charge of H3,258 on assets  for which the revised useful life had expired by March  31, 2016 has been recognised and disclosed as  ‘exceptional items’ and additional depreciation charge  of H6,969 for other assets has been recognised within  ‘Depreciation and amortisation’ during the year ended  March 31, 2017.
The impact of above change on the  depreciation charge for the future years after March 31,  2018 is as follows: Year Ended Future  period till  end of life March  31, 2019 March  31, 2020 Impact  on future  depreciation  charge   (2,765)  (1,133)  16,988   d. Allowance for impairment of trade receivables   The expected credit loss is mainly based on the ageing  of the receivable balances and historical experience.
The receivables are assessed on an individual basis or  grouped into homogeneous groups and assessed for  impairment collectively, depending on their significance.
Moreover, trade receivables are written off on a case- to-case basis if deemed not to be collectible on the  assessment of the underlying facts and circumstances.
e. Contingent liability   Refer note 24 (i) for details of contingent liability.
3.2 Critical judgement’s in applying the Group’s accounting  policies  The critical judgement’s, which the management has made in  the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies and  has the most significant impact on the amounts recognised  in the said financial statements, is discussed below:  a.
Revenue recognition and presentation   The Group assesses its revenue arrangements in order  to determine if it is acting as a principal or as an agent  by determining whether it has primary obligation basis  pricing latitude and exposure to credit / inventory risks  associated with the sale of goods / rendering of services.
In the said assessment, both the legal form and  substance of the agreement are reviewed to determine  each party’s role in the transaction.
b.
Determination of functional currency   The Group has determined the functional currency of  the group entities by identifying the primary economic  environment in which the entity operates - based on  under-lying facts / circumstances.
However, in respect  of certain intermediary foreign operations of the Group,  the determination of functional currency is not very  obvious due to mixed indicators and the extent of  autonomy enjoyed by the foreign operation.
In such  cases management uses its judgement to determine  the functional currency that most faithfully represents  the economic effects of the underlying transactions,  events and conditions.
c. T axes   The identification of temporary differences pertaining  to the investment in subsidiaries that are expected to  reverse in the foreseeable future and the determination  of the related deferred income tax liabilities after  considering the requisite tax credits require the Group  to make significant judgements.
4.
Standards issued but not effective until the  date of authorisation for issuance of the said  financial statements   The new significant standards, amendments to Standards that  are issued but not yet effective until the date of authorisation  for issuance of the said financial statements are discussed  below.
The Group has not early adopted these amendments  and intends to adopt when they become effective.
Ind AS 115, ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’  In March 2018, MCA has notified the Ind AS 115, Revenue  from Contract with Customers.
As a consequence of  issuance of Ind AS 115, relevant paragraphs have been  inserted / amended in various other standards.
The Standard establishes a new five-step model that will  apply to revenue arising from contracts with customers.
Under this standard, revenue is recognised at an amount  that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to  be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services  to a customer.
The principles in Ind AS 115 provide a more  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 250 structured approach to measure and recognise revenue.
The new revenue standard is applicable to all entities and  will supersede all current revenue recognition requirements  under Ind AS.
The effective date of Ind AS 115 is annual  periods beginning on or after April 1, 2018.
The Group  does not expect that the adoption of the said standard and  related amendments will have any significant impact on  the consolidated financial statements per se.
5.
Significant transactions / new developments  a) During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Group has  entered into an agreement to sell 15% equity stake in  Bharti T elemedia Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
The said transaction is subject to requisite regulatory  approvals and other closing conditions.
b) i.
During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Group  had entered into a share purchase agreement  with Millicom International Cellular S.A. to acquire  100% equity interest in Tigo Rwanda Limited.
The  acquisition will make the Group the second largest  mobile operator in Rwanda.
The difference of H362  between the purchase consideration (including  contingent consideration) aggregating to H3,200  and provisional fair value of net assets has been  recognised as goodwill.
The said goodwill is mainly  attributable to the acquired customer base and  economies of scale expected from combining the  operations of the Group.
The contingent consideration arrangement requires  the Group to pay between Nil to H 554 (undiscounted  basis) which is contingent on the achievement of  meeting a target performance and is essentially an  earn out condition.
As at the acquisition date, the fair  value of the said consideration was H 339 determined  using the discounted cash flow and estimated  probability of payout.
The initial accounting for the acquisition has only  been provisionally determined at the end of the  reporting period.
At the date of finalisation of these  consolidated financial statements, the necessary  deferred tax related implications and calculations  thereto had not been finalised and they have  therefore only been provisionally determined  based on the management’s best estimate.
From the date of acquisition, the acquired entities  have contributed for the year ended March 31,  2018, revenue of H473 and loss of H85 to the  revenue and profit of the Group respectively,  Management estimates if the said business  combination had taken place at the beginning of  the year, the statement of profit and loss would  show pro-forma revenue of H839,816 and the  profit of H20,209.
ii.
During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Group  had entered into a share purchase agreement with  seller of Tikona Digital Networks Private Limited  (‘TDNPL’) to acquire 100% equity interest in  TDNPL.
The difference of H739 Mn between the  purchase consideration and fair value of net assets  has been recognised as goodwill.
The said goodwill  is mainly attributable to synergies expected from  the combined operation of the Group and TDNPL.
iii.
The fair value of the assets and liabilities recognised  at the date of acquisition for the above acquisitions  are as follows: Tigo Tikona T otal Non-current assets   Property, plant  and equipment  (including CWIP)   4,634  206  4,840   Intangible assets  945 17,258 18,203  Non-current  liabilities   Borrowings  1,786 10,538 12,324   Defferred tax  liabilities  -  1,709  1,709   Working capital  (955)  3,014  2,059  Net assets acquired  2,838  8,231 11,069   c) During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group  signed a definitive agreement to enter into 50-50 joint  venture between Bharti Airtel Ghana Holdings B. V .
and  MIC Africa B. V .
against consideration of their respective  ownership interest of operations in Ghana.
Further  during the year ended March 31, 2018, as the closing  conditions for consummation of the transaction have  been fulfilled, the Group and Millicom International  Cellular have formed a joint venture to combine their  telecommunication operations in Ghana.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 251 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159  d) During the year ended March 31, 2018, an  understanding for demerger of consumer mobile  businesses of T ata T eleservices Limited and T ata  T eleservices Maharashtra Limited into the Company /  Bharti Hexacom Limited (subsidiary of the Company)  was entered into.
Further, the board of directors have  approved the scheme(s) of arrangement under section  230 to section 232 of the Companies Act, 2013 for  the said demerger.
The said transaction is subject to  requisite regulatory approvals.
e) During the year ended March 31, 2017, Bharti Infratel  Limited (‘BIL’), a subsidiary of the Company had bought  back its approx.
47 Mn shares against a consideration  of H425 per share aggregating to H20,000, wherein the  Company and other shareholders had tendered the  shares in the ratio of 62% and 38% approximately.
Accordingly, the shareholding of the Company in BIL  had increased by 0.25%, and hence the consideration  paid to NCI over and above the reduction in their  carrying value amounting H1,514 had been recognised  in NCI reserve, a component of equity.
Further, the Group has sold approx.
150.5 Mn equity  shares and 190.6 Mn equity shares of BIL during the year  ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 respectively.
The excess of proceeds (net of associated transaction  costs, taxes and regulatory levies) over the change in  NCI amounting to H 42,598 and H 39,241 during the year  ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 has been  recognised directly in NCI reserve, a component of equity.
f) During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group had  entered into a scheme of amalgamation for the merger  of T elenor (India) Communication Private Limited  with the Company.
The said transaction is subject  to requisite regulatory approvals and other closing  conditions.
g) During the year ended March 31, 2017, Bharti  T elemedia Limited (‘BTL’), a subsidiary of the Company  allotted 500 Mn shares, against a consideration of H10  per share aggregating to H5,000, to the Company and  Bharti Enterprises Limited (‘BEL’) in the ratio of their  existing shareholding (viz.
95:5).
Accordingly, the Group    *Gain on disposal has been computed after adjusting FCTR reclassified to Statement of profit and loss and provision towards future contractual  settlements.
(J millions) As of   October 12, 2017 A.
Consideration received Fair value of consideration received  7,663  B.
Net assets disposed off Non-current assets   Property, plant and equipment  5,776   Goodwill and other intangible assets  7,962   Others  47  Current Assets  Cash and cash equivalents  135   Trade receivables  640   Other current assets  570  T otal Assets (a)  15,130  Non-current liabilities   Others  862  Current liabilities   Borrowings  4,278   Trade payable  2,065   Others  895  T otal Liabilities (b)  8,100  Net assets disposed off (a-b)  7,030  C. Gain on disposal*  312  D. Net cash inflow on disposal Consideration received in cash and cash equivalent  -  Less: cash and cash equivalents held by the entity  (135)  (135)   The details of consideration received (determined on provisional basis), assets and liabilities over which control was lost and  gain on disposal (recorded as exceptional item) is as follows: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 252 had allocated BEL’s share of accumulated losses in BTL  to the extent of capital contribution received from BEL.
h) During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group  acquired rights to use spectrum in the 1800 MHz band  for six circles against a consideration of H46,530 from  Videocon T elecommunications Limited.
i) During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group  acquired rights to use spectrum in the 2300 MHz band  for eight circles against a consideration of H35,000 from  Aircel Limited and its subsidiaries Dishnet Wireless  Limited.
j) During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group  acquired 24.89% of shares in Airtel Ghana Limited by  subscribing to the right issue through the conversion  of existing shareholder loans hereby, increasing its  shareholding to 99.89%.
The excess of consideration  over the carrying value of the interest acquired, H9,130,  had been recognised in transaction with NCI reserve, a  component of equity.
k) During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group  acquired 4.20% equity stake in Airtel Networks  Limited, thereby, increasing its shareholding to 83.25%.
The excess of consideration paid to NCI over the  carrying value of the interest acquired, H3,923, had  been recognised in transaction with NCI reserve, a  component of equity.
l) (i) During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group  merged its business operations in Bangladesh with  Robi Axiata Limited and accordingly lost control  over Airtel Bangladesh Limited and acquired  25% stake in the merged entity (viz.
Robi Axiata  Limited) as an associate of the Group.
(ii) During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group  had sold Group’s operations in Burkina Faso and  Sierra Leone.
The details of consideration received, assets and  liabilities over which control was lost and gain on  disposals (recorded as exceptional item) is as  follows: As of June 22, 2016 July 19, 2016 November 16, 2016 Burkina Faso Sierra Leone Bangladesh  A.
Consideration received Fair value of consideration received  39,554  22,185  25,956  B.
Net assets disposed off Non-current assets   Property, plant and equipment  6,922  4,110  18,661   Goodwill and other intangible assets  25,232  8,972  16,765   Others  1,203  1,014  720  Current Assets  Cash and cash equivalents  1,017  402  426   Trade receivables  1,153  132  689   Other current assets  3,953  629  1,752  T otal Assets (a)  39,480  15,259  39,013  Non-current liabilities   Others  1,018  153  961  Current liabilities   Borrowings  1,074  73  7,445   Trade payable  9,090  904  4,681   Others  1,096  69  2,812  T otal Liabilities (b)  12,278  1,199  15,899  Net assets disposed off (a-b)  27,202  14,060  23,114  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 253 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 As of June 22, 2016 July 19, 2016 November 16, 2016 Burkina Faso Sierra Leone Bangladesh  C. Gain on disposal *  8,404  1,778  2,038  D. Net cash inflow on disposal Consideration received in cash and cash  equivalent (net of transaction tax)  39,554  20,820  -  Less: cash and cash equivalents held by the entity  58  (402)  (426)  39,612  20,418  (426)    *Gain on disposal has been computed after adjusting FCTR reclassified to statement of profit and loss, transactional taxes, deferred gains on  account of transaction with associate and provision towards future contractual settlements.
m) During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group has been allotted 172 MHz spectrum across 1800 / 2100 / 2300 MHz.
Consequently, the Group had paid amount of H74,018 upfront and opted the deferred payment option for H66,764.
n) During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group had sold its entire stake in its African associate, T anzania T elecommunications  Company Limited and recognised gain of H443 on disposal as exceptional item.
o) During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group had acquired 100% equity stake of Augere Wireless Broadband India  Private Limited (‘AWBPL’).
On June 7, 2016, on fulfillment of the relevant conditions the transactions has been consummated  and goodwill of H150 has been recognised.
Subsequently, with effect from February 15, 2017, AWBIPL had merged with the  Company through the scheme of arrangement under Sections 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 254 Leasehold  improvement Building Land Plant and  equipment Furniture  & fixture Vehicles Office  equipment Computer T otal Gross carrying value As of April 1, 2016  9,163  11,873  3,687  1,230,511  3,661  2,414  9,212  85,745  1,356,266  Additions / capitalisation  378  86  351  202,705  710  157  981  4,309  209,677  Disposals / adjustments  (471)  (153)  (241)  (28,714)  (361)  (151)  (1,496)  (3,136)  (34,723) Sale of subsidiaries /  toweco operation^  (130)  (610)  (97)  (69,400)  (970)  (115)  (328)  (4,777)  (76,427) Net transfers to / from  assets-held-for-sale  -  -  -  4,990  -  -  -  -  4,990  Exchange differences  (537)  (788)  (262)  (53,624)  (317)  (131)  (942)  (10,635)  (67,236) As of March 31, 2017  8,403  10,408  3,438  1,286,468  2,723  2,174  7,427  71,506  1,392,547  Additions / capitalisation  318  147  123  220,354  389  57  798  7,688  229,874  Acquisition through  business combinations^  15  157  -  3,996  -  19  -  510  4,697  Disposals / adjustments  229  (498)  520  (38,517)  (29)  (52)  (547)  119  (38,775) Sale of subsidiaries^  (82)  (66)  -  (9,184)  (145)  (4)  (114)  (1,345)  (10,940) Exchange differences  127  9  131  (4,665)  59  88  (54)  (141)  (4,446) As of March 31, 2018  9,010  10,157  4,212  1,458,452  2,997  2,282  7,510  78,337  1,572,957  Accumulated depreciation As of April 1, 2016  6,674  2,841  127  651,301  2,493  1,977  6,791  73,554  745,758  Charge#  804  570  5  136,400  561  177  1,040  6,474  146,031  Disposals / adjustments  (503)  677  5  (26,576)  688  (151)  (2,278)  (3,332)  (31,470) Sale of subsidiaries /  towerco operation^  (98)  (152)  -  (38,421)  (900)  (96)  (268)  (3,949)  (43,884) Net transfers to / from  assets-held-for-sale  -  -  -  1,374  -  -  -  -  1,374  Exchange differences  (392)  (245)  (9)  (33,975)  (491)  (94)  (621)  (9,523)  (45,350) As of March 31, 2017  6,485  3,691  128  690,103  2,351  1,813  4,664  63,224  772,459  Charge#  533  495  18  128,189  429  176  1,028  6,154  137,022  Disposals / adjustments  228  (384)  (33)  (32,400)  (3)  (28)  (170)  119  (32,671) Sale of subsidiaries^  (60)  (27)  -  (4,168)  (134)  (3)  (90)  (1,222)  (5,704) Exchange differences  122  5  11  (4,318)  13  72  (42)  (91)  (4,228) As of March 31, 2018  7,308  3,780  124  777,406  2,656  2,030  5,390  68,184  866,878  Net carrying value As of March 31, 2017  1,918  6,717  3,310  596,365  372  361  2,763  8,282  620,088  As of March 31, 2018  1,702  6,377  4,088  681,046  341  252  2,120  10,153  706,079  6.
Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’)  The following table presents the reconciliation of changes in the carrying value of PPE for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017:  ^Refer note 5 (e), (i) & (o).
#It includes H3,672 (March 31, 2017 H2,936) on account of exceptional item with respect to plant and equipment (refer note 32 (i) a & (ii) b, c, d) and  H387 (March 31, 2017 H510) on account of court approved scheme / arrangements.
@Refer note 24 (ii) (a) for assets given on operating lease The carrying value of CWIP as at March 31, 2018 and 2017 is H52,089 and H23,942 respectively, which mainly pertains to plant and  equipment.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 255 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 The following table summarises the detail of the significant assets taken on finance lease: @During the year ended March 31, 2017, sale and lease back of 1,510 towers in two of the African countries was completed for a consideration of H13,193.
The portion leased back which have been classified as finance lease, has been retained at the carrying value of H5,430 and the finance lease obligation has  been recorded at H5,855, being the fair value of the leased back portion.
For details towards pledge of the above assets refer note 20.
#Net carrying value of goodwill includes accumulated impairment of H2,640.
^Refer note 5 (b), (c), (i) & (o)  @Mainly pertains to gross block and accumulated amortisation of license (including spectrum), bandwidth and software whose useful life has expired.
7.
Intangible assets  The following table presents the reconciliation of changes in the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets for the  year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017: As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Plant and equipment Gross carrying value@ 36,453  37,165  Accumulated depreciation 19,898  18,757  Net carrying value  16,555  18,408  Other intangible assets Goodwill # Software Bandwidth Licenses  (including  spectrum) Other  acquired  intangibles T otal Gross carrying value As of April 1, 2016  431,018  16,218  19,901  771,197  4,405  811,721  Additions / capitalisation  -  2,783  4,903  205,372  5,463  2,18,521  Acquisition through business  combinations^  150  -  -  1,250  -  1,250  Disposals / adjustments@  -  (92)  (86)  (1,095)  -  (1,273) Sale of subsidiaries / towerco  operation^  (44,066)  (944)  (182)  (19,015)  -  (20,141) Exchange differences  (46,383)  17  (954)  (24,497)  (91)  (25,525) As of March 31, 2017  340,719  17,982  23,582  933,212  9,777  984,553  Additions / capitalisation  -  3,637 7,451  64,352  6  75,446  Acquisition through business  combinations^  1,084  -  -  321  632  953  Disposals / adjustment@  -  (140)  (824)  (10,362)  (389)  (11,715) Sale of subsidiaries^  (6,310)  -  (463)  (16,112)  -  (16,575) Exchange differences  (4,783)  2  (71)  (2,830)  102  (2,797) As of March 31, 2018  330,710  21,481  29,675  968,581  10,128  1,029,865  Accumulated amortisation As of April 1, 2016  -  12,027  5,342  108,011  2,302  127,682  Charge  -  2,780  1,507  48,611  2,247  55,145  Disposals / adjustments@  -  36  (82)  (1,127)  (100)  (1,273) Sale of subsidiaries / towerco  operation^  -  (792)  (68)  (8,849)  -  (9,709) Exchange differences  -  13  (79)  (11,344)  (63)  (11,473) As of March 31, 2017  -  14,064  6,620  135,302  4,386  160,372  Charge  -  2,731  1,663  52,612  2,462  59,468  Disposals / adjustments  (140)  (824)  (10,362)  (389)  (11,667) Sale of subsidiaries^  -  -  (53)  (14,868)  -  (14,921) Exchange differences  - 2  (9)  (1,295)  108  (1,194) As of March 31, 2018  -  16,657  7,397  161,389  6,567  192,010  Net carrying value As of March 31, 2017  3,38,082  3,918  16,962  7,97,910  5,391  8,24,181  As of March 31, 2018  328,070  4,824  22,278  807,192  3,561  837,855  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 256 The carrying value of Intangible assets under development as at March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 is H45,423 and H84,443  respectively, which pertains to spectrum.
During the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 the Group has capitalised borrowing cost of H3,037 and H2,750 respectively.
Weighted average remaining amortization period of licenses as of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 is 15.88 years and 16.60  years respectively.
For details towards pledge of the above assets refer note 20.
Impairment review  The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually on December 31.
During the year ended March 31, 2018, the testing did not result  in any impairment in the carrying amount of goodwill.
The carrying amount of goodwill is attributable to the following CGU / group of CGUs: The recoverable amount of the above CGUs are based on value-in-use, which is determined based on ten year business plans that  have been approved by management for internal purposes.
The said planning horizon reflects the assumptions for short-to-mid term  market developments.
The cash flows beyond the planning period are extrapolated using appropriate terminal growth rates.
The  terminal growth rates used do not exceed the long term average growth rates of the respective industry and country in which the  entity operates and are consistent with the internal / external sources of information.
The key assumptions used in value-in-use calculations are as follows: • Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation (‘EBITDA’) margins • Discount rate • Growth rates • Capital expenditures EBITDA margins: The margins have been estimated based on past experience after considering incremental revenue arising out of  adoption of valued added and data services from the existing and new customers, though these benefits are partially offset by decline  in tariffs in competitive scenario.
Margins will be positively impacted from the efficiencies and cost rationalisation / others initiatives  driven by the Company; whereas, factors like higher churn, increased cost of operations may impact the margins negatively.
Discount rate: Discount rate reflects the current market assessment of the risks specific to a CGU or group of CGUs and estimated  based on the weighted average cost of capital for respective CGU / group of CGUs.
Post-tax discount rates used are 18.20% / 10.60%  for Mobile Services – Africa / other CGUs respectively, for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 17.55% / 9.13% for Mobile Services –  Africa / other CGUs respectively, for the year ended March 31, 2017.
The post-tax discount rates as grossed up for tax impact during  the projection period (marginal tax rates are mainly in the range of 30% to 40%) are the pre-tax discount rates used for discounting  the cash flows.
Growth rates: The growth rates used are in line with the long-term average growth rates of the respective industry and country in  which the entity operates and are consistent with the internal / external sources of information.
The average growth rates used in  extrapolating cash flows beyond the planning period ranged from 3.5% to 4.0% for March 31, 2018 and ranged from 3.5% to 4.0%  for March 31, 2017.
Capital expenditures: The cash flow forecasts of capital expenditure are based on past experience after considering the additional  capital expenditure required for roll out of incremental coverage requirements and to provide enhanced voice and data services.
As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Mobile Services - Africa  281,182  291,959  Mobile Services - India  40,413  39,676  Airtel business  6,131  6,103  Homes services  344  344   328,070  338,082  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 257 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Sensitivity to changes in assumptions With regard to the assessment of value-in-use for Homes Services, Mobile Services - India CGU group (as of December 31, 2016) and  Airtel Business, no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would have caused the carrying amount of these  units to exceed their recoverable amount.
In case of Mobile Services - India CGU group, the recoverable amount exceeds the carrying amount by H3,49,671 (25.5%) as of  December 31, 2017.
An increase of 1.78% in discount rate shall equate the recoverable amount with the carrying amount of the  Mobile Services – India CGU group as of December 31, 2017.
Further, no reasonably possible change in the terminal growth rate  beyond the planning horizon would cause the carrying amount to exceed the recoverable amount.
In case of Mobile Services - Africa CGU group, the recoverable amount exceeds the carrying amount by H54,087 (15.2%) as of  December 31, 2017 and H33,103 (8.1%) as of December 31, 2016.
An increase of 2.4% (December 31, 2016: 0.9%) in pre-tax  discount rate shall equate the recoverable amount with the carrying amount of the Mobile Services – Africa CGU group as of December  31, 2017.
Further, no reasonably possible change in the terminal growth rate beyond the planning horizon would cause the carrying  amount to exceed the recoverable amount.
8.
Investment in joint ventures and associates  Details of joint ventures:  Details of associates: S.  no.
Name of joint ventures Principal place  of business Principal activities Ownership interest  % As of  March 31, 2018 % As of March 31, 2017 1 Indus T owers Limited* India Passive infrastructure services  22.49  25.91  2 Airtel Ghana Limited$ Ghana T elecommunication services  49.95  -  3 Milicom Ghana Company  Limited$ Ghana T elecommunication services  49.95  -  4 Airtel Mobile Commerce  Ghana Limited$ Ghana Mobile commerce services  49.95  -  5 Mobile Financial Services  Limited$ Ghana Mobile commerce services  49.95  -  6 Bharti Airtel Ghana  Holdings B. V .$ Netherlands Investment company  50  -  7 Bridge Mobile Pte Limited Singapore Provision of regional mobile services  10  10  8 FireFly Networks Limited India T elecommunication services  50  50  S.  no.
Name of associates Principal place  of business Principal activities Ownership interest  % As of  March 31, 2018 % As of March 31, 2017 1 Seychelles Cable  Systems Company  Limited Seychelles Submarine cable system  26  26  2 Robi Axiata Limited (refer  note 5 (l)) Bangladesh T elecommunication services  25  25  3 Seynse T echnologies  Private Limited India Financial services  22.54  22.54  4 Juggernaut Books  Private Limited  (w.e.f.
November 29,  2017) India Digital books publishing services  10.71 -  *Bharti Infratel Limited, in which the Group has 53.54% equity interest (61.68% as of March 31, 2017), owns 42% of Indus T owers Limited.
$ w.e.f.
October 12, 2017, refer note 5 (C) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 258  The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:  The amounts recognised in the statement of profit and loss are as follows:  The summarised financial information of joint venture and associate that are material to the Group are as follows:  Summarised balance sheet As of  March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2017 Joint ventures  64,714  59,461  Associates  22,125  22,816   86,839  82,277  For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Recognised in profit and loss Joint ventures  10,715  11,091  Associates  (106)  (642)  10,609  10,449  Recognised in other comprehensive income Joint ventures  1  (9) Associates  17  -   18  (9) As of  Joint ventures Associate March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Indus T owers Limited Bharti Airtel  Ghana Holdings  B .V.
* Robi Axiata Limited Assets Non current assets  201,576  207,357 12,102  104,308  95,480  Current assets  Cash and cash equivalents  (‘C&CE’)  1,063  1,121  1,759  1,111  1,507   Other current assets  (excluding ‘C&CE’)  33,534  17,182  2,120  8,899  6,904  T otal current assets  34,597  18,303  3,879 10,010  8,411  Liabilities Non current liabilities  Borrowings  9,556  10,589  4,122  6,078  8,578   Other liabilities  31,751  30,294  716  2,836  2,706  T otal non current liabilities  41,307  40,883  4,838  8,914  11,284  Current liabilities  Borrowings  30,683  24,090  869  22,177  11,620   Other liabilities  32,233  28,522  12,283  37,396  33,521  T otal current liabilities  62,916  52,612  13,152  59,573  45,141  Equity  131,950  132,165  (2,009)  45,831  47,466  Percentage of Group’s  ownership interest 42% 42% 50% 25% 25% Interest in joint venture /  associate  55,419  55,509  (1,005)  11,458  11,867  Consolidation adjustment  (inlcuding goodwill) /  accounting policy alignment*  2,691  3,900 7,548  10,162  10,700  Carrying amount of  investment  58,110  59,409  6,543  21,620  22,567   *Based on Consolidated financial statements of the entity Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 259 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159  *Based on Consolidated financial statements of the entity  Summarised information on statement of profit and loss For the year / period ended Joint ventures Associate March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Indus T owers Limited Bharti Airtel  Ghana Holdings  B .V.
* Robi Axiata Limited Revenue  187,424  174,817  5,612  52,635  19,901  Depreciation and amortisation  27,766  26,116  1,388  11,574  7,958  Finance income  995  376  -  66  52  Finance cost  5,053  5,440  789  1,343  479  Income tax expense  16,593  15,273  3  1,385  (1,814) Profit / (loss) for the year /  period  31,013  28,451  (1,092)  (1,668)  (4,932) OCI / loss for the year / period  3  (22)  -  76  -  Percentage of Group's  ownership interest 42% 42% 50% 25% 25% Group's share in profit / (loss)  for the year  13,025  11,949  (546)  (417)  (1,233) Group's share in OCI / (loss) for  the year / period 1  (9)  -  19  -  Consolidation adjustments /  accounting policy alignment (1,209)  (867)  (564)  135  51  Group's share in profit / (loss)  recognised@  11,816  11,083  (1,110)  (282)  (1,182) Dividend received from joint  venture / associate  10,010  9,510  -  -  -   @ During the year ended March 31, 2017 loss of H540 has been recognised as exceptional item for Robi Axiata Limited (refer note 32 (ii) (f)).
The aggregate information of joint ventures that are individually immaterial is as follows: As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Carrying amount of investments  61  52  As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Carrying amount of investments  505  249  Cumulative unrecognised losses  -  90  Group's share in joint ventures For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Net profit  9  8  T otal comprehensive income  9  8  Group's share in associates' For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Net profit  176  0  T otal comprehensive income  176  0  Unrecognised losses  -  46   The aggregate information of associates that are individually immaterial is as follows:  Refer note 24 for Group’s share of joint venture’s and associate’s commitments and contingencies.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 260 9.
Investments in subsidiaries  Information as to the subsidiaries which are part of the Group is as follows: S. no.
Principal activity Principal place of  business Number of wholly-owned subsidiaries As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 1 T elecommunication services India  4  3  2 T elecommunication services Africa  8  7  3 T elecommunication services South Asia  1  1  4 T elecommunication services Others  6  6  5 Mobile commerce services India  -  -  6 Mobile commerce services Africa  13  14  7 Infrastructure services Africa  4  4  8 Infrastructure services South Asia  -  2  9 Direct to home services Africa  -  1  10 Submarine cable Mauritius  1  1  11 Investment company Netherlands  22  25  12 Investment company Mauritius  7  6  13 Investment company Others  3  4  14 Others India  2  1   71  75  S. no.
Principal activity Principal place of  business Number of non-wholly-owned subsidiaries As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 1 T elecommunication services India  2  2  2 T elecommunication services Africa  7  8  3 Mobile commerce services India  1  1  4 Mobile commerce services Africa  3  3  5 Infrastructure services India  1  1  6 Infrastructure services Africa  2  3  7 Direct to home services India  1  1  8 Investment company Africa  1  1  9 Others India  -  1   18  21  S. no.
Name of trust Principal place of business 1 Bharti Airtel Employees' Welfare Trust India 2 Bharti Infratel Employees' Welfare Trust India  Additionally, the Group also controls the employee stock option plan trusts as mentioned herebelow: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 261 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159  The summarised financial information of subsidiaries (including acquisition date fair valuation and adjustments thereto, and accounting policies alignment) having material non-controlling  interests is as follows:-  Summarised balance sheet Bharti Infratel Limited* Bharti Hexacom Limited Airtel Networks Limited As of    March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 As of    March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 As of    March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Assets Non current assets  135,827  178,274  94,539  89,157  53,692  63,174  Current assets  76,121  47,118  8,931  6,984  465  5,343  Liabilities Non current liabilities  14,613  14,705  2,628  3,560  32,288  37,798  Current liabilities  18,159  43,952  35,949  25,753  37,573  43,049  Equity  179,176  166,735  64,893  66,828  (15,704)  (12,330) % of ownership interest held by NCI 46.46% 38.32% 30.00% 30.00% 16.75% 16.75% Accumulated NCI  83,245  63,893  19,468  20,049  (2,630)  (2,064) Bharti Infratel Limited* Bharti Hexacom Limited Airtel Networks Limited For the year ended   March 31, 2018 For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended   March 31, 2018 For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended   March 31, 2018 For the year ended   March 31, 2017 Revenue  64,751  60,178  44,181  51,313  66,781  69,543  Net profit / (loss)  22,651  25,624  (1,119)  6,601  (2,927)  (22,173) Other comprehensive income / (loss)  24  84  2  (1)  (450)  (2,010) T otal comprehensive income / (loss)  22,675  25,708  (1,117)  6,600  (3,377)  (24,183) Profit / (loss) allocated to NCI  9,530  7,242  (335)  2,007  (566)  (4,810) Bharti Infratel Limited* Bharti Hexacom Limited Airtel Networks Limited For the year ended   March 31, 2018 For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended   March 31, 2018 For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended   March 31, 2018 For the year ended   March 31, 2017 Net cash inflow from operating activities  34,694  28,662  9,882  15,162  20,141  13,605  Net cash outflow from investing activities  (18,551)  (2,434)  (14,884)  (16,443)  (9,213)  (10,291) Net cash (outflow) / inflow from  financing activities  (35,548)  (26,648)  2,883  49  (13,270)  (6,497) Net cash outflow  (19,405)  (420)  (2,119)  (1,232)  (2,342)  (3,183) Dividend paid to NCI (including tax)  3,411  1,873  246  695  -  -   Summarised statement of profit and loss  Summarised statement of cash flows  *Based on consolidated financial statements of the entity (refer note 5 (e)).
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 262 10 Investments  Non-current As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Investment at FVTPL Government securities  292  38,783  Equity instruments  2,672  2,648  Mutual funds  334  308  Preference shares  318  316   3,616  42,055  Investment at FVTOCI  Bonds  2,153  2,132   2,153  2,132   5,769  44,187  As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Investment at FVTPL Mutual funds  51,038  221  Government securities  11,798  13,089  Corporate deposits  -  1,425  Bonds  1,001  -  Non-convertible debenture  997  -   64,834  14,735  Investment at FVTOCI  Government securities  3,904  1,711  Commercial paper  240  477   4,144  2,188   68,978  16,923  Aggregate book / market value of quoted investments Non-current  2,777  41,222  Current  65,074  15,466  Aggregate book value of unquoted investments Non-current  2,992  2,965  Current  3,904  1,457   Current Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 263 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 11 Derivative financial instruments 12  Security deposits As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Assets Currency swaps, forward and option contracts  8,541  814  Interest swaps  2,101  4,963  Embedded derivatives  330  1,015   10,972  6,792  Liabilities Currency swaps, forward and option contracts  474  3,412  Interest swaps  5,210  880  Embedded derivatives  8  769   5,692  5,061  Non-current derivative financial assets  2,031  4,732  Current derivative financial assets  8,941  2,060  Non-current derivative financial liabilities  (5,409)  (2,726) Current derivative financial liabilities  (283)  (2,335)  5,280  1,731  As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Rent equalisation  4,164  4,183  T ower sale receivable  - 10,323 Bank deposits  950  744  Margin money deposits  419  554  Claims recoverable  74  73  Others  207 776  5,814  16,653  As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Bank deposits  30  25  Margin money depostis  8  0  T ower sale receivable  -  474   38  499  As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Considered good*  9,703  9,630  Considered doubtful  1,357  1,464  Less: provision for doubtful deposits  (1,357)  (1,464)  9,703  9,630   Security deposits primarily include deposits given towards rented premises, cell sites and interconnect ports.
*It includes amount due from related party refer note 35.
For details towards pledge of the above assets refer note 20.
13 Financial assets – others  Non-current  The details of interest accrued on above items (which is included within ‘interest accrued on deposits’ under current  other financial assets) is provided in the table given below: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 264 As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Unbilled revenue  16,136  15,880  Claims recoverable  1,180  2,007  Receivable on sale of business / tower assets*  8,736  -  Interest accrued on investments / deposits  870  1,447  Others#  540  403   27,462  19,737  14 Income tax  The major components of the income tax expense are:  Current  *Interest accrued on tower sale receivable amount to H150 and is included within ‘interest accrued on deposits’ above.
#It includes finance lease receivables and amounts due from related party (refer note 35).
For details towards pledge of the above assets refer note 20 For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Current income tax  - For the year  21,082  21,332   - Adjustments for prior periods  (2,852)  (92)  18,230  21,240  Deferred tax  - Origination and reversal of temporary differences  (4,536)  18,436   - Effect of change in tax rate  411  -   - Adjustments for prior periods  (3,270)  (4,857)  (7,395)  13,579  Income tax expense  10,835  34,819  For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Profit before tax  32,672  77,233  T ax expense @ company's domestic tax rate of 34.608%  11,307  26,728  Effect of: Share of profits in associates and joint ventures  (3,985)  (3,618) T ax holiday  303  778  Adjustments in respect of previous years (6,125) (4,967) Effect of changes in tax rate  411  -  Additional taxes / taxes for which no credit is allowed  2,339  4,466  Difference in overseas tax rates  (77)  (465) Items subject to different tax rate  452  (4,311) (Income) / expense (net) not taxable / deductible  (551)  1,065  T ax on undistributed retained earnings 2,434 2,184 Items for which no deferred tax asset was recognised 4,662 12,311 Settlements of various disputes (395) 369 Others  60  279  Income tax expense  10,835  34,819   The reconciliation between the amount computed by applying the statutory income tax rate to the profit before tax and  the income tax charge is summarised below: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 265 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159  The analysis of deferred tax assets and liabilities is as follows:  Deferred tax assets (net) As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 a) Deferred tax liability due to  Depreciation / amortisation on PPE / intangible assets  (86,565)  (66,798) b) Deferred tax asset arising out of  Provision for impairment of debtors / advances  16,291  13,004   Carry forward losses  23,424  3,382   Unearned income  576  385   Employee benefits  1,285  1,133   Minimum alternative tax ('MA T') credit  57,484  57,465   Lease rent equalisation  7,093  6,983   Fair valuation of financial instruments and exchange differences  8,210  7,748   Rates and taxes 1,431 1,527  Others 101 1,366  29,330  26,195 As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 a) Deferred tax liability due to  Lease rent equalisation (net)  3,639  4,076   Fair valuation of financial instruments and exchange differences (569)  691   Depreciation / amortisation on PPE / intangible assets  6,242  4,112   Undistributed retained earnings  3,541  2,987  Others  115  187  b) Deferred tax asset arising out of  Provision for impairment of debtors / advances  (1,652)  (1,389)  Carry forward losses  (498)  (720)  Unearned income  7  (301)  Employee benefits  (219)  (214)  10,606  9,430  For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Provision for impairment of debtors / advances  2,604  2,858  Carry forward losses  19,575  (99) Unearned income  (497)  23  Employee benefits  162  235  MA T credit  (47)  1,223  Lease rent equalisation (net)  658  789  Fair valuation of financial instruments & exchange difference 864 2,377 Rates and taxes  (96)  1,527  Depreciation / amortisation on property, plant and equipment / intangible assets  (16,178)  (22,496) Undistributed retained earnings  (549)  (259) Others 899 243 Net deferred tax expense 7,395  (13,579)  Deferred tax liabilities (net)  Deferred tax expense Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 266 For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Opening balance  16,766  34,226  T ax expense / (credit) recognised in statement of profit or loss  7,395  (13,579) T ax income recognised in equity -  1,426  T ax expense on Business combination (1,709)  -  T ax expense recognised in OCI:  - on net investments hedge  (122)  (10)  - on fair value through OCI investments  (29)  (6) Exchange differences and others  (3,577)  (5,291) Closing balance  18,724  16,766   The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year is as follows:  The deferred tax assets are recognised for carry-forward losses and credits, to the extent that the realisation of the related tax  benefit is probable.
Accordingly, deferred tax assets are recognised for the entire credits and certain carry-forward losses, since  the Group estimates that the realisation of the related tax benefit in future, through adjustment against future taxable profits  and reversal of deferred tax liabilities in the relevant tax jurisdictions, is probable.
Further, the Group has not recognised deferred  tax assets in respect of deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unabsorbed depreciation and unused tax losses of  H509,731 and H484,266 as of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 respectively as it is not probable that taxable profits will  be available in future.
The tax rates applicable to these unused tax losses, unabsorbed depreciation and deductible temporary  differences vary from 3% to 45% depending on the jurisdiction in which the respective group entity operates.
Of the above  balance as of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, tax losses, unabsorbed depreciation and deductible temporary differences  to the extent of H70,508 and H58,861 respectively have an indefinite carry forward period and the balance amount expires  unutilised as follows: As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Expiry Date Within one-three years 52,694  38,289  Within three-five years 31,265  44,242  Above Five years 355,264  342,874   439,223  425,405   Moreover, deferred tax liability has not been recognised in respect of temporary differences pertaining to the investment in  its certain subsidiaries, as where Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and  it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences associated  with respect to such investment in subsidiaries are represented by their retained earnings and other reserves (on the basis  of their standalone financial statements), aggregating to H130,715 and H129,808 as of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017  respectively.
In case of distribution of the same as dividend, it is expected to attract tax in the range of 10% to 21% depending  on the tax rates applicable as of March 31, 2018 in the relevant jurisdiction.
Further, the Group has been substantially availing the  tax credit and believes that it would continue to avail the tax credit, for the dividend distribution tax payable by the subsidiaries  on its dividend distribution.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 267 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 15 Other non-financial assets  Non-current 16 Trade receivables  Current As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Advances (net)#  32,267  32,980  Capital advances  1,147  2,961  Prepaid expenses  1,600  1,783  T axes recoverable  -  15,092  Others  1,305  672   36,319  53,488  As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Unsecured Considered good*  58,830  47,402  Considered doubtful  51,579  42,258  Less: provision for doubtful receivables  (51,579)  (42,258)  58,830  47,402  As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 T axes recoverable  74,004  13,524  Advances to suppliers (net)  17,642  17,054  Prepaid expenses  9,275  11,490  Others*  2,459  2,377   103,380  44,445   #Advances represent payments made to various government authorities under protest and are disclosed net of provision (refer note 22).
Capital advances includes advance payment of Nil and H1,720 towards spectrum as at March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 respectively.
*It mainly includes security deposits given towards rented premises, cell sites, interconnect ports and other miscellaneous deposits.
T axes recoverable primarily include Goods and service tax (‘GST’), customs duty, excise duty, service tax and sales tax.
Advance to suppliers are disclosed net of provision of H2,680 and H2,128 as of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 respectively  *It includes amount due from related party refer note 35.
Refer note 36 (iv) for credit risk.
The movement in allowances for doubtful debts is as follows: For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Opening balance  42,258  35,080  Additions*  11,257  8,509  Write off (net of recovery)  (1,156)  (873) Exchange differences  (780)  (458) Closing balance  51,579  42,258   *Includes exceptional item of H1,094 (refer note 32 (i) (c)) for the year ended March 31, 2018.
For details towards pledge of the above assets refer note 20.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 268 17 Cash and bank balances  Cash and cash equivalents (‘C&CE’)  Other bank balances As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Balances with banks  - On current accounts  8,218  9,871   - Bank deposits with original maturity of 3 months or less  37,862  2,532  Cheques on hand  986  16  Cash on hand  820  398   47,886  12,817  As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Restricted cash*  15,289  11,408  Earmarked bank balances - unpaid dividend  70  22,250  T erm deposits with bank  2,119  3,360  Margin money deposits  1,342  1,148   18,820  38,166  As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017  C&CE as per balance sheet  47,886  12,817   Bank overdraft  (19,418)  (22,697)  28,468  (9,880) As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Cash and cash equivalents  - Bank deposits with original maturity 3 months or less  1  2   1  2  Other bank balance  - Margin money depostis  33  31   - T erm deposits with bank  124  69   157  100   158  102   *It represents cash received from subscriber of mobile commerce services.
Margin money deposits represents amount given as collateral for legal cases and / or bank guarantees for disputed matters.
The details of interest accrued on above items (which is included within ‘interest accrued on deposits’ under current other  financial assets) is as below: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) 18 Share capital As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up shares 3,997,400,102 equity shares of H5 each  19,987  19,987   19,987  19,987   For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, C&CE are as following: Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 269 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159  a. T erms / rights attached to equity shares   The Company has only one class of equity shares having par value of H5 per share.
Each holder of equity shares is entitled to  cast one vote per share.
b.
Treasury shares For the year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  No.
of shares  ('000')   Amount  No.
of shares  ('000')   Amount  Opening balance  1,345  367  1,882  524  Purchased during the year  906  424  -  -  Excercised during the year  (532)  (149)  (537)  (157) Closing balance  1,719  642  1,345  367   c. Dividend For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 A.
Declared and paid during the year:  Interim dividend for 2017-18 : H2.84 per share*  13,658  -   Dividend on treasury shares*  6  -   *(including dividend distribution tax @ 20.36% of H2,311 )   Final dividend for 2016-17 : Re.
1 per share#  4,810  -   Dividend on treasury shares#  1  -   #(including dividend distribution tax of H814 @ 20.36%)  Final dividend for 2015-16 : H1.36 per share^  -  6,541   Dividend on treasury shares^  -  2   ^(including dividend distribution tax H1,107 @ 20.36%)   18,475  6,543  B.
Proposed dividend   Final dividend for 2017-18: H 2.50 per share (2016-17 : H 1 per share)  9,993  3,997   Dividend distribution tax for 2017-18 @ 20.56% (for 2016-17 @ 20.36%)  2,054  814   12,047  4,811    The proposed dividend being subject to approval at respective annual general meetings, no related corresponding liability  has been recognised in the respective financial years.
19 Other equity   a.
Retained earnings: Retained earnings represent the amount of accumulated earnings of the Group, re-measurement  differences on defined benefit plans, any transfer from general reserve and the reserves arising due to court scheme  accounting and adjustments thereto (as explained below for significant Scheme of Arrangements).
The Scheme of Arrangement under Section 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956 for transfer of all assets and liabilities  at their respective fair values from Bharti Infratel Ventures Limited (erstwhile subsidiary company), Vodafone Infrastructure  Limited, Idea Cellular T ower Infrastructure Limited to its joint venture Indus T owers Limited, was approved by the Hon’ble High  Court of Delhi vide order dated April 18, 2013 and filed with the Registrar of Companies on June 11, 2013 with appointed date  April 1, 2009 and hence was accounted retrospectively with effect from April 01, 2009.
Similarly, pursuant to the Scheme of  Arrangement of the Company under sections 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956, the telecom infrastructure undertaking  of the Company was transferred to one of its subsidiary Bharti Infratel Limited during the year ended March 31, 2008.
Further, pursuant to the said schemes, mainly the excess of the fair values over the original book values of the assets  transferred to them and the periodic depreciation thereto is adjusted in retained earnings.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 270   In absence of any specific provision under Ind AS with respect to court schemes, and the fact that the court schemes are part  of the law, accounting prescribed therein (as explained above) will continue to prevail even in the Ind AS financial statements  of the Group after being adjusted for intra-group eliminations / equity accounting, as required.
b.
General reserve: The Company has transferred a portion of its profit before declaring dividend in respective prior years  to general reserve, as stipulated under the erstwhile Companies Act 1956.
Mandatory transfer to general reserve is not  required under the Companies Act 2013 (‘Act’).
Further, on exercise of the stock options, the difference between the consideration (i.e.
the exercise price and the related  amount of share-based payment reserve) and the cost of the related treasury shares, is transferred to general reserve.
c. Debenture redemption reserve: Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, the Company is required to create debenture  redemption reserve out of the profits and is to be utilised for the purpose of redemption of debentures.
On redemption of the  debentures, the related amount of this reserve gets transferred to retained earnings.
Other components of equity FCTR* CFHR FVTOCI  reserve Treasury  shares T otal As of April 1, 2016  (11,149)  (724)  4  (524)  (12,393) Net losses due to foreign currency  translation differences  (42,134)  -  -  -  (42,134) Net losses on net investment hedge  (7,402)  -  -  -  (7,402) Net gains on cash flow hedge  -  857  -  -  857  Net gains on fair value through OCI  investments  -  -  86  -  86  Exercise of share options  -  -  -  157  157  As of March 31, 2017  (60,685)  133  90  (367)  (60,829) Net losses due to foreign currency  translation differences  (7,056)  -  -  -  (7,056) Net losses on net investment hedge  (7,508)  -  -  -  (7,508) Net gains on cash flow hedge  -  810  -  -  810  Net gains on fair value through OCI  investments  -  -  115  -  115  Purchase of treasury shares  -  -  -  (424)  (424) Exercise of share options  -  -  -  149  149  As of March 31, 2018  (75,249)  943  205  (642)  (74,743)  *During the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Group has reclassified gain of H60 and loss H2,073 respectively, from FCTR to statement of profit  and loss on sale of foreign subsidiaries (refer note 5).
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 271 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 20 Borrowings  Non-current  Current As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Secured  T erm loans  16,836  11,474   Vehicle loans*  29  31   16,865  11,505   Less: Current portion (A)  (14,498)  (4,322)  Less: Interest accrued but not due (refer note 21)  (111)  (130)  2,256  7,053  Unsecured  T erm loans#  71,011  69,067   Non-convertible bonds@  389,558  373,765   Non-convertible debentures^  30,068  -   Deferred payment liabilities**  455,602  439,204   Finance lease obligations  48,831  57,089   995,070  939,125   Less: Current portion (B)  (119,848)  (42,740)  Less: Interest accrued but not due (refer note 21)  (28,058)  (7,065)  847,164  889,320   849,420  896,373  Current maturities of long-term borrowings (A + B)  134,346  47,062  As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Secured  Bank overdraft  5,060  663   5,060  663  Unsecured  T erm loans  76,816  92,084   Comercial papers 33,507 14,820  Bank overdraft  14,358  22,034   124,681  128,948   Less: Interest accrued but not due(refer note 21)  (172)  (169)  129,569  129,442   *These loans are secured by hypothecation of the vehicles.
#It includes re-borrowable term loans of H3,331 and H9,810 as of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 respectively which have daily prepayment  flexibility.
@It includes impact of fair value hedge refers note 36 (ii).
^During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Group has issued 30,000 listed, unsecured, rated, redeemable, Non - Convertible Debentures (‘NCDs’),  Series I and series II of face value of H10 Lakhs each, at par aggregating to H30,000 on private placement basis, carrying interest rates 8.25% p.a.
and  8.35% p.a.
(payable annually) and principal repayable in year 2020 and 2021 respectively.
**During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Government of India has provided one time option to elect higher number of annual instalments  prospectively (upto a maximum of 16 instalments) towards the repayment of spectrum liability viz-a-viz currently allowed 10 instalments.
Accordingly,  the Company has exercised the option, increasing the remaining number of instalments by 6 annual instalments for all its existing deferred payment  liabilities.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 272 20.1 Analysis of borrowings  The details given below are gross of debt origination cost and fair valuation adjustments with respect to the hedged risk.
20.1.2 Repayment terms of borrowings   The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s borrowings:  As of March 31, 2018: Interest rate  (range) Frequency of  installments Number of  installments  outstanding  per facility  (range)* Within  one year Between  one and  two years Between  two and  five years Over five  years Vehicle loans 7.95% - 9.50% Monthly 6 - 33  15  11  3  -  T erm loans 3.38% Monthly 10  2,716  -  -  -  4.95% - 5.00% Quaterly 10 - 11  472  472  264  -  2.56% - 5.02% Half yearly 1 - 14  8,181  6,465  13,078  4,424  2.72% - 4.32% Annual 1  19,625  -  -  -   6.00% - 8.98% Quaterly 3 - 15  5,263  7,363  15,763  -  7.85% - 8.40% Half yearly 3 - 9  863  2,725  11,743  -  7.90% Annual 2  880  880  -  -  7.70% - 8.35% One time 1  63,800  -  -  -  Commercial papers  7.05% - 8.05% One time 1  33,507  -  -  -  Non-convertible bonds  3.00% - 5.35% One time 1  80,144  23,842  157,688  129,978  Non-convertible debentures  8.25% - 8.35% One time 1  -  -  30,000  -  Deferred payment liabilities 9.30% - 10.00% Annual 13 - 16  24,511  12,217  51,543  345,023  Finance lease obligations 8.05% - 10.30% Monthly / Annual 8 - 119 / 2  4,858  5,194  18,573  20,151  Bank overdraft 3.88% - 10.65% Payable on demand N /A  16,684  -  -  -  14.00% - 19.00% Payable on demand N /A  2,734  -  -  -   264,253  59,169  298,655  499,576  Interst rate  (range) Frequency of  installments Number of  installments  outstanding per  facility (range)* Within  one year Between  one and  two years Between  two and  five years Over five  years Vehicle loans 9.25% - 9.48% Monthly 2 - 35  15  12  5  -  T erm loans 0.63% One time 1  3,891  -  -  -   1.68% - 1.97% On demand N /A  28,372  -  -  -   4.26% - 4.28% Quarterly 14 - 15  1,029  1,029  1,573  1.45% - 4.52% Half yearly 1 - 16  10,810  9,069  15,327  8,746  2.30% Annual 1  3,243  -  -  -  7.00% - 8.00% Quarterly 3 - 12  2,525  2,554  2,450  -  6.25% - 8.35% Half yearly 1 - 9  983  3,513  15,988  1,750  8.00% Annual 3  1,630  880  880  -  7.85% - 8.75% One time 1  55,250  -  -  -  11.25% - 12.20% One time 1  1,209  -  -  -  16.90% Quarterly 14  182  182  272  -  23.11% Half yearly 1  97  -  -  -  Commercial papers 6.35% One time 1  14,820  -  -  -  Non-convertible bonds  3.00% - 5.35% One time 1  -  69,328  74,414  226,691  Deferred payment liabilities 9.30 - 10.00% Annual 7 - 10  26,814  35,991  78,331  298,031  Finance lease obligations 9.77% - 10.25% Monthly / Annual 7 - 119 / 3  5,360  5,835  17,828  27,524  Bank overdraft 1.54% - 8.80% Payable on demand N /A  17,851  -  -  -  9.90% - 16.50% Payable on demand N /A  4,582  -  -  -  26.70% Payable on demand N /A  265  -  -  -   178,928  128,393  207,068  562,742   As of March 31, 2017: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise)  *The installments amount due are equal / equated per se .
*The installments amount due are equal / equated per se.
Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 273 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 20.1.3 Interest rate and currency of borrowings Currency Average rate  of Interest T otal  borrowings Floating rate  borrowings Fixed rate  borrowings INR 9.27%  603,522  106,298  497,223  USD 3.93%  337,319  58,572  278,747  Euro 3.73%  139,954  -  139,954  CHF 3.00%  23,843  -  23,843  XAF 6.61%  4,691  -  4,691  XOF 6.80%  7,047  1,421  5,626  Others 8.48% to 19.00%  5,278  2,799  2,479  March 31, 2018  1,121,654  169,090  952,564  INR 9.48%  542,731  86,577  456,154  USD 5.05%  372,361  88,598  283,763  Euro 3.73%  121,037  -  121,037  CHF 3.00%  22,705  -  22,705  XAF 6.56%  5,893  -  5,893  XOF 7.10%  5,180  -  5,180  Others 11.06% to 25.74%  7,224  4,886  2,338  March 31, 2017  1,077,131  180,061  897,070  20.2 Security details  The Group has taken borrowings in various countries mainly for working capital, capital expenditure and refinancing of existing  borrowings.
The details of security provided by the Group in various countries are as follows: Entity Outstanding loan amount As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Security detail Bharti Airtel Ltd.  29  31  Hypothecation of vehicles Bharti Airtel Africa BV and its  subsidiaries  21,838  12,128 Pledge of all fixed and floating assets -  Kenya, Nigeria, T anzania, Uganda and DRC.
21,867  12,159   Africa operations acquisition related borrowing:  Borrowings include certain loans which have been taken to refinance the Africa acquisition related borrowing.
These loan  agreements prevents the Group (excluding Bharti Airtel Africa B. V , Bharti Infratel Limited, and their respective subsidiaries) to  pledge any of its assets without prior written consent of the majority lenders except in certain agreed circumstances.
The Euro bonds due in 2018 and USD bonds due in 2023 issued by BAIN contain certain covenants relating to limitation on  indebtedness.
All notes carry a restriction on incurrence of any lien on its assets other than as permitted under the agreement,  unless the bonds and guarantee are ranked pari-pasu with such indebtedness.
The limitation on indebtedness covenant on Euro  bonds due in 2018 and USD bonds due in 2023 gets suspended on notes meeting certain agreed criteria.
The debt covenants  remained suspended as of the date of the authorisation of the financial statements.
20.3 Unused lines of credit*  The below table provides the details of un-drawn credit facilities that are available to the Group.
As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Secured  1,542  57  Unsecured  171,531  194,592   173,073  194,649   *Excludes non-fund based facilities Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 274 21 Financial liabilities - others  Non-current 22 Provisions  Non-current  Current  Current As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Lease rent equalisation  14,496  13,377  Payable towards acquisition  @  1,440 - Security deposits  1,294  1,237  Others* 27,317  1,067   44,547  15,681  As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Asset retirement obligations 4,523  5,359  Gratuity  2,006  1,956  Other employee benefit plans  683  156   7,212  7,471  As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Payables against capital expenditure  80,940  65,860  Interest accrued but not due  28,341  7,364  Payable against business / asset acquisition  @  13,523  4,104  Employees payables  5,879  5,364  Security deposit^  4,372  4,148  Others #  7,550  3,373   140,605  90,212  As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Gratuity  662  616  Other employee benefit plans  1,722  1,599   2,384  2,215   *It includes advance amounting to H26,077 as on March 31, 2018, received against an agreement to sell certain investment, at a future date and is  subject to certain customary closing conditions.
@Refer note 5 (b)  @It includes payable to Qualcomm Asia Pacific Pte.
Limited for H4,104 (towards purchase of balance equity shares upon satisfaction of certain  conditions as per the share purchase agreement for acquisition of erstwhile Airtel Broadband Services Private Limited) and other acquisitions during  the year.
^It pertains to deposits received from subscriber / channel partners which are repayable on demand after adjusting the outstanding amount, if any.
#It includes account balances of customers and distributors of payments bank, non-interest bearing advance received from customers / international  operators and liability towards cash settled employee share based payment plans.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 275 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159  The movement of provision towards asset retirement obligations is as below: For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Opening balance  5,359  5,064  Net (reversal) / additions  (868)  823  Interest cost  37  248  Disposal of subsidiries / tower operations (refer note 5)  (5)  (776) Closing balance  4,523  5,359  For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Opening balance  131,061  113,436  Net Additions 20,738 17,625 Closing Balance  151,799  131,061  For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Other non-financial assets (refer note 15)  53,910  48,915  Other non-financial liabilities (refer note 23)  4,685  4,619  Trade payables  93,204  77,527   151,799  131,061   Refer note 27 for movement of provision towards various employee benefits.
The movement of provision towards subjudice matters is as below:  The said provision has been disclosed under:  The said provisions pertain to payable / paid under protest spectrum usage charges / licenses fees (trade payable / other non- financial assets) and payable for certain levies (other non-financial liabilities).
23 Other non - financial liabilities  Non-current  Current As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Deferred rent  623  727   623  727  As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 T axes payable  37,376  25,961  Others#  437  8,809   37,813  34,770   #As of March 31, 2017 it includes dividend payable by one of the subsidiary to its NCI amounting to H8,512.
T axes payable mainly pertains to GST , service tax, sales tax, other taxes payable and provision towards subjudice matters (refer  note 22).
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 276 24 Contingent liabilities and commitments  (i) Contingent liabilities   Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debt As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 (i) T axes, duties and other demands  (under adjudication / appeal / dispute)  -Sales T ax and Service T ax  31,560  39,085   -Income T ax  15,712  20,150   -Customs Duty  7,646  5,899   -Entry T ax  9,878  9,252   -Stamp Duty  596  596   -Municipal T axes  1,488  1,276   -Department of T elecom ('DoT') demands  40,778  37,560   -Other miscellaneous demands  5,164  8,000  (ii) Claims under legal cases including arbitration matters  -Access charges / Port charges  10,733  9,371   -Others  2,708  3,631   126,263  134,820    Further, refer note f (iv), (v), (vi) and g below for other DoT matter.
In addition to the above, the Group’s share of joint ventures and associates contingent liabilities is H21,816 and H17,507 as  of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 respectively.
The category wise detail of the contingent liability has been given below:-  a) Sales and Service T ax  The claims for sales tax comprised of cases relating to the appropriateness of declarations made by the Group under relevant sales  tax legislations which were primarily procedural in nature and the applicable sales tax on disposals of certain property and equipment  items.
Pending final decisions, the Group has deposited amounts under protest with statutory authorities for certain cases.
The service tax demands relate to cenvat claimed on tower and related material, levy of service tax on SIM cards and employee  talk time, cenvat credit disallowed for procedural lapses and usage in excess of 20% limit.
b) Income T ax demand  Income tax demands mainly include the appeals filed by the Group before various appellate authorities against the disallowance  by income tax authorities of certain expenses being claimed and non-deduction of tax at source with respect to pre-paid dealers/ distributor’s margin.
c) Access charges / Port charges  (i)  Despite the interconnect usage charges (‘IUC’) rates being governed by the Regulations issued by T elecom Regulatory Authority  of India (‘TRAI’); BSNL had raised a demand for IUC at the rates contrary to the regulations issued by TRAI in 2009.
Accordingly,  the Company and one of its subsidiaries filed a petition against the demand with the TDSA T which allowed payments to be on  the existing regulations.
The matter was then challenged by BSNL and is currently pending with the Hon’ble Supreme Court.
(ii) The Hon’ble TDSA T allowed BSNL to recover distance based carriage charges.
The private telecom operators have jointly  filed an appeal against the said order and the matter is currently pending before the Hon’ble Supreme Court.
(iii) BSNL challenged before TDSA T the port charges reduction contemplated by the regulations issued by TRAI in 2007 which  passed its judgment in favour of BSNL.
The said judgment has been challenged by the private operators in Hon’ble Supreme  Court.
Pending disposal of the said appeal, in the interim, private operators were allowed to continue paying BSNL as per the  revised rates i.e.
TRAI regulation issued in 2007, subject to the bank guarantee being provided for the disputed amount.
The  rates were further reduced by TRAI in 2012 which was challenged by BSNL before the Hon’ble Delhi High Court.
The Hon’ble  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 277 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Delhi High Court, in the interim, without staying the rate revision, directed the private operators to secure the difference  between TRAI regulation of 2007 and 2012 rates by way of bank guarantee pending final disposal of appeal.
d) Customs Duty  The custom authorities, in some states, demanded custom duty for the imports of special software on the ground that this would  form part of the hardware on which it was pre-loaded at the time of import.
The view of the Group is that such imports should not  be subject to any custom duty as it is operating software exempt from any custom duty.
In response to the application filed by  the Group, the Hon’ble Central Excise and Service T ax Appellate Tribunal (‘CEST A T’) has passed an order in favour of the custom  authorities.
The Group has filed an appeal with Hon’ble Supreme Court against the CEST A T order.
e) Entry T ax   In certain states, an entry tax is levied on receipt of material from outside the state.
This position has been challenged by the  Group in the respective states, on the grounds that the specific entry tax is ultra vires the Constitution.
Classification issues have  also been raised, whereby, in view of the Group, the material proposed to be taxed is not covered under the specific category.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India upheld the constitutional validity of entry tax levied  by few States.
However, Supreme Court did not conclude certain aspects such as present levies in each State is discriminatory  in nature or not, leaving them open to be decided by regular benches of the Courts.
Pending disposition by the regular benches,  the Group has decided to maintain status-quo on its position and hence continues to disclose it as contingent liability.
f) DoT demands (i) Demand for license fees pertaining to computation of Adjusted Gross Revenue (‘AGR’) and the interest thereon, due to difference  in its interpretation.
The definition of AGR is sub-judice and under dispute since 2005 before the TDSA T .
TDSA T had pronounced its  judgment in 2015, quashed all demands raised by DoT and directed DoT to rework the demands basis the principles enunciated  in its judgment.
Subsequently, the Union of India (‘UOI’) and the Company and one of its subsidiaries along with various other  operators have filed appeals / cross appeals before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India against the TDSA T judgment.
In 2016,  all the appeals were tagged together and Hon’ble Supreme Court has permitted DOT to raise demands with a direction not to  enforce any demand till the final adjudication of the matter by Hon’ble Supreme Court.
Accordingly, DoT has raised the demand  basis special audit done by DoT and Comptroller and Auditor General of India.
The contingent liability includes such demand and  interest thereto (excluding certain contentious matters, penalty and interest thereto) for the financial years for which demand  have been received.
(ii) Demands for the contentious matters in respect of subscriber verification norms and regulations including validity of certain  documents allowed as proof of address / identity.
(iii) Penalty for alleged failure to meet certain procedural requirements for EMF radiation self-certification compliance.
The matters stated above are being contested by the Company and one of its subsidiaries and based on legal advice, the  Company and one of its subsidiaries believes that it has complied with all license related regulations and does not expect any  financial impact due to these matters.
In addition to the amounts disclosed in the table above, the contingent liability on DOT matters includes the following: (iv) Post the Hon’ble Supreme Court judgment in 2011, on components of AGR for computation of license fee, based on the legal  advice, the Company believes that the foreign exchange gain should not be included in AGR for computation of license fee  thereon.
Further as per TDSA T judgement in 2015, foreign exchange fluctuation does not have any bearing on the license fees.
Accordingly, the license fee on foreign exchange gain has not been provided in the financial statements.
Also, due to ambiguity  of interpretation of ‘foreign exchange differences’, the license fee impact on such exchange differences is not quantifiable.
The  matter is currently pending adjudication by Hon’ble Supreme Court.
(v) On January 8, 2013, DoT issued a demand on the Company and one of its subsidiaries for H52,013 towards levy of one time  spectrum charge.
The demand includes a retrospective charge of H9,090 for holding GSM spectrum beyond 6.2 MHz for the  period from July 1, 2008 to December 31, 2012 and also a prospective charge of H42,923 for GSM spectrum held beyond 4.4  MHz for the period from January 1, 2013, till the expiry of the initial terms of the respective licenses.
In the opinion of the Company and one of its subsidiaries, inter-alia, the above demand amounts to alteration of financial terms  of the licenses issued in the past.
Based on a petition filed by the Company and one of its subsidiaries, the Hon’ble High Court  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 278 of Bombay, vide its order dated January 28, 2013, has directed the DoT to respond and not to take any coercive action until  the next date of hearing.
The DoT has filed its reply and matter is currently pending with Hon’ble High Court of Bombay,.
The  Company, based on independent legal opinions, till date has not given any effect to the above demand.
(vi) DoT had issued notices to the Company (as well as other telecom service providers) to stop provision of services (under 3G Intra  Circle Roaming (‘ICR’) arrangements) in the service areas where such service providers had not been allocated 3G spectrum  and levied a financial penalty of H3,500 on the Company.
The Company contested the notices, in response to which TDSA T in  2014 held 3G ICR arrangements to be competent and compliant with the licensing conditions and quashed the notice imposing  penalty.
The DoT has challenged the order of TDSA T before the Hon’ble Supreme Court which is yet to be listed for hearing.
g) Airtel Networks Limited – Ownership  Airtel Networks Limited (‘Airtel Networks’) (formerly known as Celtel Nigeria Limited) was incorporated on December 21, 2000  as Econet Wireless Nigeria Limited and since 2010 been a subsidiary of Bharti Airtel Nigeria B. V .
(‘BANBV’), which is an indirect  subsidiary of Bharti Airtel Limited.
Airtel Networks and / or BANBV have since 2010 been defending cases filed by Econet  Wireless Limited (‘EWL’) where EWL was claiming, amongst others, a breach of its alleged pre-emption rights against erstwhile  and current shareholders.
EWL inter alia commenced arbitral proceedings in Nigeria contesting the acquisition by Celtel Nigeria B. V .
(now, Bharti Airtel  Nigeria B. V .
– ‘BANBV’) of the controlling stake in Airtel Networks Limited in 2006, wherein BANBV was one of the defendants.
The  Final Award (‘FA’) by the Arbitral Tribunal as to the same was pronounced in 2014.
Subsequently, various applications were filed  to challenge / enforce the FA in the High Court and the Supreme Court of Nigeria by BANBV and Econet respectively.
Further,  EWL had filed conservatory attachment proceedings in the Netherlands against BANBV for enforcement of the Final Award,  and also pursuing a claim for compensation against BANBV’s parent (Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings II B. V .)
and Grandparent  (Bharti Airtel Africa B. V .)
alleging that these entities acted unlawfully and induced breach of contract by the selling shareholders.
Separately, Airtel Networks Limited was a defendant in an action where EWL was claiming entitlement to 5% of the issued share  capital of Airtel Networks Limited.
Under the 2010 share purchase agreement, the Group had certain indemnities from Zain BV in relation to these proceedings.
In  2016, the Group had initiated arbitration against Zain B. V .
and its guarantor, Mobile T elecommunications Company in relation to  the said indemnities under the share purchase agreement.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, Zain and Company has entered into an agreement to settle these matters along with  other tax cases covered under indemnities.
Separately, the Company and EWL have entered into an agreement to settle all  these disputes and consequent withdrawal of all the proceedings in all courts across all jurisdictions.
The net settlement amount  as adjusted for the related indemnification assets and provisions resulted in a loss of H732 which has been recognised and  disclosed as an exceptional item.
Guarantees:  Guarantees outstanding as of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 amounting to H129,565 and H129,131 respectively,  have been issued by banks and financial institutions on behalf of the Group.
These guarantees include certain financial bank  guarantees which have been given for subjudice matters / compliance with licensing requirementies, the amount with respect  to these have been disclosed under capital commitments, contingencies and liabilities, as applicable, in compliance with the  applicable accounting standards.
In addition to the above the Group’s share of guarantees of joint ventures and associates is H891 and H396 as of March 31, 2018  and March 31, 2017 respectively.
(ii) Commitments  Capital commitments  The Group has contractual commitments towards capital expenditure (net of related advance) of H137,280 and H102,008 as of  March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 respectively.
In addition to the above, the Group’s share of capital commitments of joint ventures and associates is H4,126 and H4,684 as of  March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 respectively.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 279 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Lease commitments a) Operating lease   The future minimum lease payments (‘FMLP’) are as follows:-  As lessee As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Not later than one year  70,692  65,945  Later than one year but not later than five years  244,153  244,475  Later than five years  70,652  92,978   385,497  403,398  Lease rentals (including lease equalisation adjustments)  70,875  70,833  As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Not later than one year  45,156  41,639  Later than one year but not later than five years  149,465  159,691  Later than five years  15,253  31,677   209,874  233,007  As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Not later than one year 21,933 21,574 Later than one year but not later than five years 68,228 86,447 Later than five years 37,574 38,430 127,735  146,451  The above lease arrangements are mainly pertaining to passive infrastructure and premises / land.
Certain of these lease  agreements have escalation clause upto 25% and include option of renewal from 1 to 15 years.
The FMLP obligation disclosed above include the below FMLP obligations payable to joint ventures, which mainly pertain to  amounts payable under the agreement entered by the parent and its subsidiaries, with a joint venture of the Group.
As lessor  (i) The Group has entered into non-cancellable lease arrangements to provide dark fiber on indefeasible right to use (‘IRU’)  basis.
Due to the nature of the transaction, it is not possible to compute gross carrying amount, depreciation for the year  and accumulated depreciation of the asset given on operating lease as of March 31, 2018 and accordingly, the related  disclosures are not provided.
(ii) The FMLP receivables against assets (other than above IRU assets) are as follows:  The above lease arrangements are mainly pertaining to passive infrastructure.
Certain of these lease agreements have escalation  clause upto 2.5%.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 280 b) Finance lease  As lessee  Finance lease obligation of the Group as of March 31, 2018 is as follows: Future minimum  lease payments   Interest  Present value  Not later than one year  9,930  5,053  4,877  Later than one year but not later than five years  38,989  14,702  24,287  Later than five years  23,335  3,723  19,612   72,254  23,478  48,776  Future minimum  lease payments   Interest  Present value  Not later than one year  10,792  5,446  5,346  Later than one year but not later than five years  40,117  16,449  23,668  Later than five years  33,221  5,689  27,533   84,130  27,584  56,547   Finance lease obligation of the Group as of March 31, 2017 is as follows: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Future minimum  lease payments   Interest  Present value  Not later than one year  176  16  160  Later than one year but not later than five years  89  6  83  Later than five years  -  -  -   265  22  243  Future minimum  lease payments   Interest  Present value  Not later than one year  133  25  107  Later than one year but not later than five years  189  17  172  Later than five years  -  -  -   322  42  279   The FMLP receivable of the Group as of March 31, 2018 is as follows:  The FMLP receivable of the Group as of March 31, 2017 is as follows:  The above lease arrangements are mainly pertaining to various network equipments.
25 Revenue For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Service revenue  833,019  951,213  Sale of products  3,860  3,470   836,879  954,683   The above lease arrangements are mainly pertaining to passive infrastructure.
As lessor Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 281 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 26 Network operating expenses 27 Employee benefits expense For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Passive infrastructure charges  79,636  78,490  Power and fuel  69,082  72,946  Repair and maintenance  34,667  45,612  Internet, bandwidth and leasedline charges  9,932  7,785  Others*  4,203  4,321   197,520  209,154  For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Salaries  34,185  37,300  Contribution to provident and other funds  2,104  1,746  Staff welfare expenses  1,313  1,617  Defined benefit plan / other long term benefits  693  887  Employee share-based payment expense  - Equity-settled plans  630  337   - Cash-settled plans  (36)  61  Others*  882  1,084   39,771  43,032   *It includes charges towards managed service, installation, insurance and security.
*It includes recruitment and training expenses.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) 27.1 Share based payment plans  The following table provides an overview of all existing share option plans of the Group: Scheme Plan Vesting period  (years) Contractual term  (years) Equity settled Plans Scheme I 2006 Plan 1 - 5 7 Scheme 2005 2008 Plan & Annual Grant Plan (AGP) 1 - 3 7 Scheme 2005 Performance Share Plan (PSP) 2009 Plan 3 - 4 7 Scheme 2005 Special ESOP & Restricted Share Units (RSU) Plan 1 - 5 7 Infratel plan Infratel 2008 Plan 1 - 5 7 Scheme 2005 Long T erm Incentive (L TI) Plan 1 - 3 7 Infratel plan Infratel L TI plans 1 - 3 7 Airtel Payments Bank Limited  (‘APBL’) Plan APBL Plan 1 - 4 8 Cash settled Plans Performance Unit Plan (PUP) PUP 2013 - PUP 2017 1 - 5 3-5 Infratel plan PUP 1 - 3 7  The stock options vesting is subject to service and certain performance conditions mainly pertaining to certain financial  parameters.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 282  The movement in the number of stock options and the related weighted average exercise prices are given in the table  below: For the year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Number of    share options  (‘000) Weighted  average   exercise price  (J) Number of    share options  (‘000) Weighted  average   exercise price  (J) 2006 Plan Outstanding at beginning of year  205  5.00  305  5.00  Granted  -  -  -  -  Exercised  (90)  5.00  (100)  5.00  Forfeited / expired  -  -  -  -  Outstanding at end of year  115  5.00  205  5.00  Exercisable at end of year 2  5.00  36  5.00  2008 Plan & AGP Outstanding at beginning of year  -  -  639  402.50  Granted  -  -  -  -  Exercised  -  -  -  -  Forfeited / expired  -  -  (639)  402.50  Outstanding at end of year  -  -  -  -  Exercisable at end of year  -  -  -  -  PSP 2009 Plan Outstanding at beginning of year  6  5.00  53  5.00  Granted  -  -  -  -  Exercised  (3)  5.00  (37)  5.00  Forfeited / expired  (3)  5.00  (10)  5.00  Outstanding at end of year  -  -  6  5.00  Exercisable at end of year  -  5.00  6  5.00  Special ESOP & RSU Plan Outstanding at beginning of year  34  5.00  126  5.00  Granted  -  -  -  -  Exercised  (33)  5.00  (91)  5.00  Forfeited / expired  (1)  5.00  (1)  5.00  Outstanding at end of year  -  -  34  5.00  Exercisable at end of year  -  -  34  5.00  Infratel 2008 Plan  Outstanding at beginning of year  158  109.67  732  109.67  Granted  -  -  -  -  Exercised  (49)  109.67  (564)  109.67  Forfeited / expired  (1)  109.67  (10)  109.67  Outstanding at end of year  108  109.67  158  109.67  Exercisable at end of year  108  109.67  158  109.67  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 283 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 For the year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Number of    share options  (‘000) Weighted  average   exercise price  (J) Number of    share options  (‘000) Weighted  average   exercise price  (J) L TI Plans Outstanding at beginning of year  2,002  5.00  1,709  5.00  Granted  1,571  -  820  -  Exercised  (406)  5.00  (308)  5.00  Forfeited / expired  (189)  5.00  (219)  5.00  Outstanding at end of year  2,977  5.00  2,002  5.00  Exercisable at end of year  567  5.00  358  5.00  Infratel L TI plans Outstanding at beginning of year  175  10.00  94  10.00  Granted  115  10.00  105  10.00  Exercised  (36)  10.00  (19)  10.00  Expired  -  -  -  -  Forfeited / expired  (15)  10.00  (5)  10.00  Outstanding at end of year  238  10.00  175  10.00  Exercisable at end of year  31  10.00  11  10.00  Airtel Payment Bank Limited Plan* Outstanding at beginning of year  - -  -  -  Granted  14,063 -  -  -  Exercised  - -  -  -  Forfeited / expired  (3,359) -  -  -  Outstanding at end of year  10,704 -  -  -  Exercisable at end of year  - -  -  -  Performance Unit Plans Outstanding at beginning of year  2,369  -  5,231  -  Granted  690  -  366  -  Exercised  (1,336)  -  (1,442)  -  Expired  -  -  -  Forfeited / expired  (322)  -  (1,786)  -  Outstanding at end of year  1,401  -  2,369  -  Exercisable at end of year  23  -  25  -   *The exercise period is 3 years from vesting date or 1 year from IPO listing (whichever is later).
Eligible employees will be able to exercise  the option at a price of 50% of fair market value (determined at the end of previous financial year) or H10 whichever, is higher.
Employee can  exercise the unexercised options within 3 months / 1 month from the date of retirement / resignation from the Group.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 284  The fair value of options is measured using Black-Scholes / Binomial valuation model.
The key inputs used in the  measurement of the grant date fair valuation of equity settled plans and fair value of cash settled plans are given in the  table below: Weighted average For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Remaining contractual life for the options outstanding as of (years)  0.35 to 8.44  0.10 to 5.90  Fair value for the options granted during the year ended (H)  4.36 to 409.76  304.34 to 338.50  Share price for the options exercised during the year ended (H )  367.14 to 457.41  316.50 to 486.77  For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Risk free interest rates  6.17% to 7.18%  5.79% to 7.1%  Expected life  10 to 96 months  4 to 76 months  Volatility  25.91% to 40%  27.08% to 38.94%  Dividend yield  0.24% to 3.99%  0.39% to 1.83%   The expected life of the stock options is based on the Group’s expectations and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns  that may actually occur.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility over a period similar to the  expected life of the options is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome.
Further, the expected  volatility is based on the weighted average volatility of the comparable benchmark companies.
For details as to exercise price, refer table above.
The details of weighted average remaining contractual life, weighted average fair value and weighted average share  price for the options are as follows:-  The carrying value of cash settled plans liability is H235 and H752 as of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 respectively.
27.2 Employee benefits  The details of significant employee benefits are as follows: For the year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Gratuity Compensated  absences Gratuity Compensated  absences Obligation: Balance as at beginning of the year  2,618  1,158  2,656  1,127  Current service cost  377  218  412  234  Interest cost  194  86  207  84  Benefits paid  (424)  (169)  (541)  (163) Transfers  5  2  (189)  (79) Remeasurements  (86)  (180)  73  (45) Present value of funded obligation  2,684  1,115  2,618  1,158  Assets: Balance as at beginning of year  46  -  66  -  Interest income  3  -  5  -  Benefits paid  (32)  -  (25)  -  Remeasurements  (1)  -  (0)  -  Fair value of plan assets  16  -  46  -  Liability recognised in the balance sheet  2,668  1,115  2,572  1,158  Current portion  662  1,115  616  1,158  Non-current portion  2,006  -  1,956  -   The expected contribution for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 for Gratuity plan is H588 and H583 respectively Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 285 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Experience losses  18  41  Gains from change in demographic assumptions  26  (31) Losses from change in financial assumptions  (130)  63  Remeasurements on liability  (86)  73  Return on plan assets, excluding interest income  (1)  (0) Remeasurements on plan assets  (1)  (0) Net remeasurements recognised in OCI  (85)  73  As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2017 Change in  assumption Gratuity Compensated  absence Gratuity Compensated  absence Discount rate +1% (96) (51) (89) (49) -1% 105 55 96 54  Salary growth rate +1% 103 54 93 52  -1% (96) (50) (88) (48)  Amount recognised in other comprehensive income for the above plans  The above mentioned plan assets are entirely represented by funds invested with LIC.
Due to its defined benefit plans, the Group is exposed to the following significant risks:  Changes in bond yields - A decrease in bond yields will increase plan liability.
Salary risk - The present value of the defined benefit plans liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of the plan  participants.
As such, an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability.
The financial (per annum rates) and demographic assumptions used to determine defined benefit obligations are as  follows: As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Discount rate 7.85% 7.40% Rate of return on plan assets 7.85% 7.40% Rate of salary increase 10.00% 10.00% Rate of attrition 20% to 24% 21% to 29% Retirement age 58 58  The Group regularly assesses these assumptions with the projected long-term plans and prevalent industry standards.
The impact of sensitivity due to changes in the significant actuarial assumptions on the defined benefit obligations is  given in the table below:  The above sensitivity analysis is determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on the net defined benefit  obligations, as a result of reasonable possible changes in the significant actuarial assumptions.
Further, the above sensitivity  analysis is based on a reasonably possible change in a particular under-lying actuarial assumption, while assuming all other  assumptions to be constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 286  The table below summarises the maturity profile and duration of the gratuity liability: 28 Sales and marketing expenses 29 Other expenses 30 Depreciation and amortisation As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Within one year  678  662  Within one-three years  736  709  Within three-five years  456  413  above five years  814  834   2,684  2,618  Weighted average duration (in years) 3.61 3.42 For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Sales commission and distribution  40,434  43,920  Advertisement and marketing  10,682  14,440  Business promotion  2,587  4,812  Other ancilliary expenses  2,063  3,560   55,766  66,732  For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Depreciation  132,963  142,585  Amortisation  59,468  55,145   192,431  197,730  For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Content cost  21,067  21,507  Cost of good sold  9,994  9,073  IT expenses  7,771  10,012  Customer care expenses  6,797  7,357  Legal and professional fees  5,072  6,535  Provision for doubtful debts  9,007  7,635  Collection and recovery expenses  3,607  3,987  Travelling and conveyance  2,113  2,989  Bad debts written off  1,156  873  Charity and donation*  1,204  1,702  (Reversal of earlier provision) / provision for diminution in value of inventory  (282)  170  Others#  9,521  15,081   77,027  86,921   *It includes H330 and H220 paid to Prudent Electoral Trust (formerly known as Satya Electoral Trust) for political purpose for the year ended  March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively.
#It includes printing and stationary, security, rent and communication expenses etc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 287 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 31 Finance costs and income For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Finance costs Interest expense  64,692  67,131  Net loss on derivative financial instruments  8,506  13,231  Net loss on FVTPL investments*  1,416  -  Net exchange loss  1,882  3,624  Other finance charges#  16,759  11,480   93,255  95,466  Finance income Dividend from mutual funds  367  279  Interest income @  6,150  3,207  Net gains on FVTPL investments*  -  5,154  Net fair value gain on financial instruments (fair value hedges)  6,023  9,852   12,540  18,492   *Net loss / gain on fair value changes on FVTPL investments includes loss / gains of H1,709 and H5,962 pertaining to investments sold during the year  ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively.
#It includes bank charges, trade finance charges, charges relating to derivative instruments and interest charges towards subjudice matters.
Further it  includes H143 and H110 for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively, towards unwinding of discount on other financial liabilities (carried  at amortised cost).
@It includes H43 and H46 towards unwinding of discount on security deposits (carried at amortised cost) and H415 and H309 from investment measured  at FVTOCI for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively.
32 Exceptional items  Exceptional items comprise of the following:  (i) For the year ended March 31, 2018:   a.
Charge of H4,372 mainly towards operating costs on network re-farming and up-gradation program   b.
Net charge of H3,457 relating to the translation impact in Nigeria due to transition from the administered to market  based exchange rate given the underlying economic changes and other developments    c. Provision of H1,094 taken against one major delinquent receivable   d. Charge of H3,535 due to levies and taxes pertaining to internal restructuring and litigation related assessment   e. Gain of H4,527 mainly pertaining to one of the earlier divestments  (ii) For the year ended March 31, 2017:   a.
Net gain of H10,157 pertaining to the divestment of Group’s operations in Burkina Faso and Sierra Leone, telecom  towers in DRC and Niger and an African associate (viz.
T anzania T elecommunications Company Limited) (refer note 5 (l)  and (n))   b.
Net charge of H6,881 due to settlement of past litigations, regulatory levies, vendor claims, reconciliation of balances,  restructuring activities and tax related contingent liability   c. Charge of H3,356 towards operating costs (including accelerated depreciation) on network re-farming and up-gradation  program   d. Charge of H3,258 resulting from reassessment of the useful life of certain categories of network assets of the Group due  to technological advancements (refer note 3.1.c.)
e. Net charge of H9,460 relating to the translation impact in Nigeria due to the new flexible exchange rate regime   f. Net gain of H1,641 (net of related expenses) pertaining to the divestment of stake in Bangladesh and charge of H540  due to share in the post-merger restructuring activities (refer note 5 (l) (i)) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 288  T ax expenses include:   (a) T ax benefit of H2,305 and H5,163 during the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively on above exceptional  items   (b) T ax benefit of H1,779 on account of re-assessment of tax provisions for previous periods during the year ended March  31, 2018   (c) T ax benefit of H4,248 during the year ended March 31, 2017 on account of recognition of deferred tax on earlier business  combination and re-assessment of tax provisions for previous periods  Profit / (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests include benefit of H878 and H2,147 during the year ended March 31, 2018  and 2017 respectively, relating to the above exceptional items.
33 Earnings per share (‘EPS’)  The following is a reconciliation of the equity shares used in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per equity  share: As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Weighted average shares outstanding for basic EPS  3,996,067  3,995,817  Effect of dilution due to employee share options  1,721  1,359  Weighted average shares outstanding for diluted EPS  3,997,788  3,997,176   Profit attributable to equity holders for basic and diluted EPS is H10,990 and H37,998 for the year ended March 31, 2018 and  2017 respectively.
34 Segment reporting  The Group’s operating segments are organised and managed separately through the respective business managers, according  to the nature of products and services provided and geographies in which services are provided, with each segment representing  a strategic business unit.
These business units are reviewed by the Chairman of the Group (Chief Operating Decision Maker -  ‘CODM’).
The amounts reported to CODM are based on the accounting principles used in the preparation of financial statements as per  Ind AS.
Segment’s performance is evaluated based on segment revenue and segment result viz.
profit or loss from operating  activities before exceptional items and tax but including share of result of joint ventures and associates.
Accordingly, finance  costs / income, non-operating (income) / expenses and exceptional items are not allocated to individual segment.
Inter-segment pricing and terms are reviewed and changed by the management to reflect changes in market conditions  and changes to such terms are reflected in the period in which the changes occur.
Inter-segment revenues eliminated upon  consolidation of segments / accounting policy alignments are reflected in the ‘Eliminations / Adjustment’ column.
Segment assets / liabilities comprise assets / liabilities directly managed by each segment.
Segment assets primarily include  receivables, PPE, CWIP , intangibles assets, intangible assets under development, inventories, cash and cash equivalents.
Segment  liabilities primarily include operating liabilities.
Segment capital expenditure comprises additions to PPE, CWIP intangible assets,  intangible assets under development and capital advances.
The reporting segments of the Group are as below:  Mobile Services India: These services cover voice and data telecom services provided through wireless technology (2G / 3G /  4G) in India.
This includes the captive national long distance networks which primarily provide connectivity to the mobile services  business in India.
This also includes intra-city fibre networks.
Mobile Services South Asia: These services cover voice and data telecom services provided through wireless technology (2G/  3G) in Sri Lanka and Bangladesh.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 289 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159  Mobile Services Africa: These services cover provision of voice and data telecom services provided through wireless technology  (2G / 3G / 4G) offered to customers in Africa.
This also includes corporate headquarter costs of the Group’s Africa operations.
Airtel Business: These services cover end-to-end telecom solutions being provided to large Indian and global corporations by  serving as a single point of contact for all telecommunication needs across data and voice (domestic as well as international long  distance), network integration and managed services.
T ower Infrastructure Services: These services include setting up, operating and maintaining wireless communication towers  in India.
Homes Services: These services cover voice and data communications through fixed-line network and broadband technology.
Digital TV Services: This includes digital broadcasting services provided under the direct-to-home platform.
Others: It includes administrative and support services provided to other segments and also include Airtel payment bank  Operations.
Unallocated items include expenses / results, assets and liabilities primarily of corporate headquarters of the Group, current  taxes, deferred taxes, borrowings and certain financial assets and liabilities, not allocated to the operating segments.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 290  Summary of the segmental information for the year ended and as of March 31, 2018 is as follows: Mobile  Services  India Mobile  Services  Africa Mobile  Services  South Asia  Airtel  Business  T ower  Infrastructure  Services Homes  Services Digital TV  Services  Others  Unallocated Eliminations/  Adjustments  T otal  Revenue from external customers  441,295  196,565  3,783  98,244  33,221  25,056  37,505  1,199  -  11  836,879  Inter-segment revenue  21,344  4,999  262  14,974  33,063  209  65  2,810  -  (77,726)  -  T otal revenue  462,639  201,564  4,045  113,218  66,284  25,265  37,570  4,009  -  (77,715)  836,879  Share of results of joint ventures  and associates  6  (905)  (282)  -  13,025  3  -  (29)  -  (1,209)  10,609  Segment results  20,835  34,758  (1,550)  31,044  33,477  4,720  5,306  (2,706)  (1,678)  (2,749)  121,457  Less: Finance costs  93,255  Finance income  (12,540) Non-operating income, (net)  141  Exceptional items (refer Note 32)  7,931  Profit before tax  32,670  Other segment items Capital expenditure  198,280  29,954  2,066  12,675  11,307  11,129  10,277  267  6,257  (7,498)  274,714  Depreciation and amortisation  129,545  30,672  1,276  11,179  11,801  7,057  8,915  55  1  (8,070)  192,431  As of March 31, 2018Segment assets*  1,515,169  516,476  28,459  153,051  199,273  44,251  26,120  11,082  88,578  (76,643)  2,505,816  Segment liabilities*  317,043  115,149  2,622  76,284  22,400  19,866  33,964  8,312  1,210,172  (83,479)  1,722,333  Investment in joint ventures and  associates (included in segment  assets above)  57  6,769  21,620  -  58,110  3  -  280  -  -  86,839   *Effective April 1, 2017, individual segments exclude inter-segment balances and allocated borrowings.
This has no impact on total assets and liabilities.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 291 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Mobile  Services  India Mobile  Services  Africa Mobile  Services  South Asia  Airtel  Business  T ower  Infrastructure  Services Homes  Services Digital TV  Services  Others  Unallocated  Eliminations/  Adjustments  T otal  Revenue from external customers  543,901  214,093  11,198  94,855  28,384  27,223  34,240  718  -  71  954,683  Inter-segment revenue  21,610  5,475  545  14,574  32,445  295  66  3,018  -  (78,028)  -  T otal revenue  565,511  219,568  11,743  109,429  60,829  27,518  34,306  3,736  -  (77,957)  954,683  Share of results of joint ventures  and associates  9  -  (642)  -  11,949  -  -  -  -  (867)  10,449  Segment results  105,494  10,189  (4,660)  22,737  29,195  6,868  3,577  (2,481)  (1,433)  (2,263)  167,223  Less: Finance costs  95,466  Finance income  (18,492) Non-operating income, (net)  1,319  Exceptional items (refer Note 32)  11,697  Profit before tax  77,233  Other segment itemsCapital expenditure  380,011  25,235  1,801  17,142  9,829  19,649  8,608  19  1,597  (21,204)  442,687  Depreciation and amortisation  121,189  41,894  4,256  11,024  11,658  6,080  8,642  49  0  (7,062)  197,730  As of March 31, 2017Segment assets  1,642,949  556,281  29,048  331,833  210,023  311,890  22,935  9,327  120,032  (901,666)  2,332,652  Segment liabilities  722,363  226,314  7,968  180,624  47,535  246,864  28,341  5,083  1,044,215  (919,968)  1,589,339  Investment in joint ventures and  associates (included in segment  assets above)  52  -  22,567  -  59,409  -  -  249  -  -  82,277   Summary of the segmental information for the year ended and as of March 31, 2017 is as follows: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 292  Geographical information*:  (a) Revenue from external customers:  (b) Non-current assets:  For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 India  619,000  708,462  Africa  196,565  214,093  Others  21,314  32,128   836,879  954,683  For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 India  1,503,452  1,411,798  Africa  448,314  466,775  Others  18,897  15,123   1,970,663  1,893,696    *Basis location of entity.
Non-current operating assets for this purpose consist of PPE, CWIP , intangible assets, intangible assets under development and  capital advances.
35 Related party disclosures (a)  List of related parties  i.
Ultimate controlling entity (w.e.f.
November 3, 2017)   Bharti Enterprises (Holding) Private Limited.
It is held by private trusts of Bharti family, with Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal’s family trust  effectively controlling the said company.
ii.
Entities having control over the Company (w.e.f.
November 3, 2017)*   Bharti T elecom Limited   *significant influence untill November 2, 2017  iii.
For list of subsidiaries, joint venture and associates refer note no.
39.  iv.
Other entities with whom transactions have taken place during the reporting periods   -  Entities having significant influence over the Company    Singapore T elecommunications Limited    Pastel Limited   - Fellow companies (subsidiaries / joint ventures / associates other than that of the Company)    a) Subsidiaries     Bharti Enterprises Limited     Cedar support Services Limited     Bharti Insurance Holdings Private Limited     Bharti Axa General Insurance Company Limited     Bharti Axa Life Insurance Company Limited Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 293 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159    b) Associates     Bharti Life Ventures Private Limited     Bharti General Private Limited  - Other related parties*   (a) Entities where Key Management Personnel and their relatives exercise significant influence    Bharti Foundation    Bharti Airtel Employees Welfare Trust    Hike Private Limited (formerly known as Hike Limited)   (b) Others    Brightstar T elecommunication India Limited     Bharti Realty Holdings Limited    Bharti Realty Limited    Deber T echnologies Private Limited     Hike Messenger Limited     Centum Learning Limited    Fieldfresh Foods Private Limited    Indian Continent Investment Limited    Jersey Airtel Limited     Nile T ech Limited    Bharti Support Services Private Limited (formerly known as Atrium Restaurants India Private Limited)    Bharti Land Limited    Centum Work Skills India Limited    Oak Infrastructure Developers Limited    Gourmet Investments Private Limited  - Key Management Personnel (‘KMP’)   Sunil Bharti Mittal   Gopal Vittal   Christian D. Faria (until December 31, 2016)   Raghunath Mandava (w.e.f.
January 1, 2017)  *‘Other related parties’ though not ‘Related Parties’ as per the definition under Ind AS 24, Related party disclosures have been included by way of a  voluntary disclosure, following the best corporate governance practices.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 294 (c) The outstanding balances of the above mentioned related parties are as follows: Significant  influence  entities Associates Joint ventures ORP/FC* As of March 31, 2018 Trade payables  (117)  (31)  (11,193)  (139) Trade receivables  -  -  -  102  Security deposit  -  -  3,934  1,070  As of March 31, 2017 Trade payables  (490)  (4)  (11,310)  (532) Trade receivables  129  -  1  216  Security deposit  -  -  3,903  1,050  (1) Outstanding balances at period end are un-secured and settlement occurs in cash.
There have been no guarantees provided or  received for any related party receivables or payables.
(2) In addition to the above, H410 and H1,227 donation has been given to Bharti Foundation during the year ended March 31, 2018  and 2017 respectively.
KMP are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group,  directly or indirectly, including any director, whether executive or otherwise.
Remuneration to key management personnel were  as follows: For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Short-term employee benefits  317  305  Performance linked incentive ('PLI')#  160  168  Post-employment benefits  28  26  Share-based payment  62  62   567  561    #Value of PLI considered above represents incentive at 100% performance level.
However, same will be paid on the basis of actual performance  parameters in next year.
Additional provision of H21 and H28 has been recorded in the books towards PLI for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017  respectively.
During the year ended March 31, 2018, PLI of H164 (March 31, 2017: H150) pertaining to previous year has been paid.
In addition to above H1,122 thousand and H313 thousand for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively have been  paid as dividend to key management personnel.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise)  *Other related parties / fellow companies  In the ordinary course of business, there are some transactions among the group entities.
However, the intra-group transactions  and balances, and the income and expenses arising from such transactions, are eliminated on consolidation.
The significant  transactions with balance related parties for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively, are described below: For the year ended March 31, 2018 For the year ended March 31, 2017 Relationship Significant  influence  entities Associates Joint  ventures ORP/ FC* Significant  influence  entities Associates Joint  ventures ORP/ FC* Purchase of assets  -  -  -  (2,761)  -  -  -  (3,329) Sale / rendering of services  1,022  -  44  343  1,433  6  77  294  Purchase of goods /  receiving of services   (217)  (50)  (39,977)  (3,504)  (496)  (9)  (42,385)  (3,220) Reimbursement of energy  expenses  -  -  (26,869)  -  -  -  (26,090)  (3) Dividend paid  (9,777)  -  (496)  (3,255)  -  -  (362) Dividend received  -  -  10,010  -  -  -  9,510  -  (b)  The summary of significant transactions with the above mentioned parties is as follows:  *Other related parties / fellow companies Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 295 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise)  As the liabilities for the gratuity and compensated absences are provided on an actuarial basis, and calculated for the Company  as a whole rather than each of the individual employees, the said liabilities pertaining specifically to KMP are not known and  hence, not included in the above table 36 Financial and Capital risk  1.
Financial risk  The business activities of the Group expose it to a variety of financial risks, namely market risks (that is, foreign exchange  risk, interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group’s risk management strategies focus on the un- predictability of these elements and seek to minimise the potential adverse effects on its financial performance.
Further, the  Group uses certain derivative financial instruments to mitigate some of these risk exposures (as discussed below in this note).
The financial risk management for the Group is driven by the Group’s senior management (‘GSM’), in close co-ordination with  the operating entities and internal / external experts subject to necessary supervision.
The Group does not undertake any  speculative transactions either through derivatives or otherwise.
The GSM are accountable to the Board of Directors and Audit  Committee.
They ensure that the Group’s financial risk-taking activities are governed by appropriate financial risk governance  frame work, policies and procedures.
The BoD of the respective operating entities periodically reviews the exposures to financial  risks, and the measures taken for risk mitigation and the results thereof.
The Group policy requires for material items to be established under effective hedge relationships by ensuring that the critical  terms of the hedging instruments match with the terms of the hedged item so as maintain the hedge ratio to be 1:1.
The  Group uses prospective effectiveness assessment (dollar offset / hypothetical derivative method) to ensure that an economic  relationship exists between the hedged item and hedging instrument.
(i) Foreign currency risk  Foreign exchange risk arises on all recognised monetary assets and liabilities, and any highly probable forecasted transactions,  which are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the transacting group entity.
The Group, through  its parent entity, several intermediary entities and subsidiaries; operates across multiple geographies in the Africa and Asia  continent.
Accordingly, the Group is exposed to translation risk on the net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
The Group has  foreign currency trade payables, receivables and borrowings (internal as well as external).
However, foreign exchange exposure  mainly arises from borrowings and trade payables denominated in foreign currencies and certain net investment in foreign  currency.
Consequently, the Group is mainly exposed to foreign exchange risks related to USD / Euro vis-à-vis the functional  currencies and the translation risk related to USD to H and USD to XAF-XOF (pegged to Euro).
The foreign exchange risk management policy of the Group requires it to manage the foreign exchange risk by transacting as  far as possible in the functional currency.
Moreover, the Group monitors the movements in currencies in which the borrowings /  capex vendors are payable and manage any related foreign exchange risk, which inter-alia include entering into foreign exchange  derivative contracts - as considered appropriate and whenever necessary.
For further details as to foreign currency borrowings,  refer note 20.
Further, for the details as to the fair value of various outstanding derivative financial instruments designated in a  hedge relationship or otherwise refer note 11.
As per the Group’s hedging policy certain foreign currency liability, highly probable forecast transactions and material net  investment of the Group in foreign subsidiaries have been designated under cash flow hedge and net investment hedge  respectively.
The following table analyses the movement in the cash flow hedge reserve / net investment hedging in FCTR due  to said hedges and details thereto.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 296 b) Net investment hedge March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Currency exchange risk hedged Euro to USD USD to INR Euro to USD USD to INR Nominal amount of hedging instruments  Euro 460 Mn  USD 1453 Mn  Euro 400 Mn  USD 1578 Mn  Carrying value of hedging instruments (borrowings)  36,870  94,721  27,738  102,308  Maturity date May 2021 June 2025 -   February 2028 May 2021 June 2025 -   September 2026 Change in fair value during the year  Hedged item  4,231  3,793  (2,232)  12,562   Hedging instrument  (4,231)  (3,793)  2,232  (12,562) FCTR (loss) / gain for continuing Hedge (net of  tax and NCI)  (5,109)  (15,869)  (878)  (12,596) Hedging gain/ (loss) recognised during the year  (4,231)  (3,793)  2,232  (12,562) Loss reclassification during the year to P&L under   exceptional items  -  -  581  -  Change in currency  exchange rate Effect on profit  before tax Effect on equity  (OCI) For the year ended March 31, 2018 US Dollar +5%  (8,823)  (8,796) -5%  8,823  8,796  Euro +5%  (1,712)  (1,844) -5%  1,712  1,844  Others +5%  1  -  -5%  (1)  -  For the year ended March 31, 2017 US Dollar +5%  (8,955)  (8,375) -5%  8,955  8,375  Euro +5%  (1,716)  (1,387) -5%  1,716  1,387  Others +5%  (26)  -  -5%  26  -   Foreign currency sensitivity   The impact of foreign exchange sensitivity on profit for the year and other comprehensive income is given in the table below: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Currency exchange risk hedged Euro to USD CHF to USD Euro to USD CHF to USD Nominal amount of hedging instruments  Euro 870 Mn  CHF 350 Mn  Euro 870 Mn  CHF 350 Mn  Maturity date December 2018 March 2020 December 2018 March 2020 Weighted average forward price 1 Euro: 1.12 USD 1 CHF: 1.12 USD 1 Euro: 1.12 USD 1 CHF: 1.12 USD Carrying value of derivative instruments (assets)  7,377  399  131  -  Carrying value of derivative instruments (liabilities)  -  60  908  620  Change in fair value during the year  Hedged item  (6,928)  (677)  3,534  1,141   Hedging instrument  6,928  677  (3,534)  (1,141) CFHR for continuing Hedge  410  533  214  (82) Hedging gain / (loss) recognised during the year  6,928  677  (3,534)  (1,141) (Loss) / Gain reclassification during the year to P&L  (6,732)  (62)  4,079  1,453  a) Cash flow hedge Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 297 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159  The sensitivity disclosed in the above table is mainly attributable to, in case of foreign exchange gains / (losses) on translation of  USD / Euro / CHF denominated borrowings, derivative financial instruments, trade and other payables, and trade receivables.
The above sensitivity analysis is based on a reasonably possible change in the under-lying foreign currency against the respective  functional currency while assuming all other variables to be constant.
Based on the movements in the foreign exchange rates historically and the prevailing market conditions as at the reporting date,  the Group’s Management has concluded that the above mentioned rates used for sensitivity are reasonable benchmarks.
(ii) Interest rate risk   As the Group does not have exposure to any floating-interest bearing assets, or any significant long-term fixed-interest bearing  assets, its interest income and related cash inflows are not affected by changes in market interest rates.
Consequently, the  Group’s interest rate risk arises mainly from borrowings.
Borrowings  Borrowings with floating and fixed interest rates expose the Group to cash flow and fair value interest rate risk respectively.
However, the short-term borrowings of the Group do not have a significant fair value or cash flow interest rate risk due to their  short tenure.
Accordingly, the components of the debt portfolio are determined by the GSM in a manner which enables the  Group to achieve an optimum debt-mix basis its overall objectives and future market expectations.
The Group monitors the interest rate movement and manages the interest rate risk based on its risk management policies, which  inter-alia include entering into interest swaps contracts - as considered appropriate and whenever necessary.
The Group has designated the interest rate components (which is separately identifiable from other components) of certain  fixed interest rate bonds under the hedge relationship since historically it accounts for substantial portions of the total fair value  change of the bonds.
The following table analyses the financial impact of fair value hedge and details thereto.
March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Interest rate risk covered for currency USD Euro USD Euro Nominal amount of Hedging instruments  USD 2900 Mn  USD 2900 Mn  Carrying value of hedging instruments (derivative  assets)  19  1,568  Carrying value of hedging instruments (derivative  liabilities)  4,258  851  Maturity date March 2023   - June 2025  March 2023   - June 2025  Carrying value of hedged item (borrowings)  189,008  188,065  Change in fair value during the year  Hedged item  5,802  9,768   Hedging instrument  (5,025)  (11,118) Hedge ineffectiveness recognised in finance  Income/cost during the year  777  (1,349) Cumulative change in fair value of hedged Item  6,366  476  Unamortised potion of fair value hedge adjustment  (175)  (396) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 298  The sensitivity disclosed in the above table is attributable to floating-interest rate borrowings and the interest swaps.
The above sensitivity analysis is based on a reasonably possible change in the under-lying interest rate of the Group’s borrowings  in INR, USD, Euro and NGN (being the significant currencies in which it has borrowed funds), while assuming all other variables  (in particular foreign currency rates) to be constant.
Based on the movements in the interest rates historically and the prevailing market conditions as at the reporting date, the  Group’s management has concluded that the above mentioned rates used for sensitivity are reasonable benchmarks.
(iii) Price risk  The Group invests its surplus funds in various fixed income products, including but not limited to debt mutual funds, short term  debt funds, corporate debt, government securities and fixed deposits.
In order to manage its price risk arising from investments,  the Group diversifies its portfolio in accordance with the limits set by the risk management policies.
The Group has exposure  across debt securities, mutual fund and money market instruments.
Debt investments are susceptible to market price risk, mainly arising from changes in the interest rates or market yields which  may impact the return and value of such investments.
However due to the very short tenor of money market instruments and  the underlying portfolio in liquid schemes, these do not pose any significant price risk.
On the duration investment balance, an  increase / decrease of 25 basis points in market yields (parallel shift of the yield curves), will result in decrease / increase in the  marked to market value of the investments by H176 and H808 as on March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 respectively.
(iv) Credit risk  Credit risk refers to the risk of default on its obligation by the counter-party, the risk of deterioration of credit-worthiness of the  counter-party as well as concentration risks of financial assets, and thereby exposing the Group to potential financial losses.
The Group is exposed to credit risk mainly with respect to trade receivables, investment in bank deposits, debt securities, mutual  funds and derivative financial instruments.
Trade receivables  The Trade receivables of the Group are typically non-interest bearing unsecured and derived from sales made to a large number  of independent customers.
As the customer base is widely distributed both economically and geographically, there is no  concentration of credit risk.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise)  Interest rate sensitivity of borrowings  The impact of the interest rate sensitivity on profit before tax is given in the table below: Interest rate sensitivity Increase /  decrease in basis  points Effect on profit  before tax For the year ended March 31, 2018 INR - borrowings +100  (1,063) -100  1,063  USD -borrowings +25  (654) -25  654  Other Currency -borrowings +100  (42) -100  42  For the year ended March 31, 2017 INR - borrowings +100  (866) -100  866  USD -borrowings +25  (657) -25  657  Other Currency -borrowings +100  (49) -100  49  Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 299 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Neither  past due   nor  impaired Past due but not impaired T otal Less than  30 days 30 to 60  days 60 to 90  days Above 90  days March 31, 2018  21,182  17,294  7,835  6,201  6,318  58,830  March 31, 2017  17,115  11,653  6,612  5,966  6,056  47,402   The ageing analysis of trade receivables as of the reporting date is as follows:  The Group performs on-going credit evaluations of its customers’ financial condition and monitors the credit-worthiness of its  customers to which it grants credit in its ordinary course of business.
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off  (either partially or in full) to the extent that there is no realistic prospect of recovery.
This is generally the case when the Group  determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash flows to repay the  amount due.
Where the financial asset has been written-off, the Group continues to engage in enforcement activity to attempt  to recover the receivable due.
Where recoveries are made, these are recognised in profit and loss.
Financial instruments and cash deposits  The Group’s treasury, in accordance with the board approved policy, maintains its cash and cash equivalents, deposits and  investment in mutual funds & debt securities, and enters into derivative financial instruments - with banks, financial and other  institutions, having good reputation and past track record, and high / sovereign credit rating.
Similarly, counter-parties of the  Group’s other receivables carry either no or very minimal credit risk.
Further, the Group reviews the credit-worthiness of the  counter-parties (on the basis of its ratings, credit spreads and financial strength) of all the above assets on an on-going basis,  and if required, takes necessary mitigation measures.
(v) Liquidity risk  Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they become due.
Accordingly, as  a prudent liquidity risk management measure, the Group closely monitors its liquidity position and deploys a robust cash  management system.
It maintains adequate sources of financing including bilateral loans, debt, and overdraft from both domestic  and international banks at an optimised cost.
It also enjoys strong access to domestic and international capital markets across  debt and equity.
Moreover, the GSM regularly monitors the rolling forecasts of the entities’ liquidity reserve (comprising of the amount of available  un-drawn credit facilities and cash and cash equivalents) and the related requirements, to ensure they have sufficient cash on an  on-going basis to meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom at all times on its available un-drawn committed  credit facilities, so that there is no breach of borrowing limits or relevant covenants on any of its borrowings.
For details as to the  borrowings, refer note 20.
Based on past performance and current expectations, the Group believes that the cash and cash equivalents, cash generated  from operations and available un-drawn credit facilities, will satisfy its working capital needs, capital expenditure, investment  requirements, commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations, through at least the next  twelve months.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise)  As there is no independent credit rating of the customers available with the Group, the management reviews the credit- worthiness of its customers based on their financial position, past experience and other factors.
The credit risk related to the  trade receivables is managed / mitigated by each business unit, basis the Group’s established policy and procedures, by setting  appropriate payment terms and credit period, and by setting and monitoring internal limits on exposure to individual customers.
The credit period provided by the Group to its customers generally ranges from 14-30 days except Airtel business segment  wherein it ranges from 7-90 days.
The Group uses a provision matrix to measure the expected credit loss of trade receivables, which comprise a very large numbers  of small balances.
Refer note 16 for details on the impairment of trade receivables.
Based on the industry practices and the  business environment in which the entity operates, management considers that the trade receivables are credit impaired if the  payments are more than 90 days past due.
Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 300  The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments:- As of March 31 , 2018 Carrying  amount On  Demand Less than   6 months 6 to 12   months 1 to 2  years > 2 years T otal Interest bearing borrowings*#  1,141,676  19,419  152,197  176,076  126,576  1,231,162  1,705,430  Other financial liabilities#  156,811  4,874  108,656  - 161 43,120  156,811  Trade payables  277,675  -  277,675  -  -  -  277,675  Financial liabilities (excluding derivatives)  1,576,162  24,293  538,528  176,076  129,737  1,274,282  2,139,916  Derivative assets  10,972  -  1,333 7,608 968 1,063  10,972  Derivative liabilities  (5,692)  -  (117)  (168)  (203)  (5,204)  (5,692) Net derivatives  5,280  -  1,216  7,440  765  (4,141)  5,280  As of March 31 , 2017 Carrying  amount On  Demand Less than   6 months 6 to 12   months 1 to 2  years > 2 years T otal Interest bearing borrowings*#  1,078,384  22,697  135,951  50,646  176,532  1,100,524  1,486,350  Other financial liabilities#  100,386  4,148  80,557  -  540  15,141  100,386  Trade payables  268,537  -  268,537  -  -  -  268,537  Financial liabilities (excluding derivatives)  1,447,307  26,845  485,045  50,646  177,072  1,115,665  1,855,273  Derivative assets  6,792  -  1,010  1,050  1,743  2,989  6,792  Derivative liabilities  (5,061)  -  (1,992)  (343)  (1,092)  (1,634)  (5,061) Net derivatives  1,731  -  (982)  707  651  1,355  1,731   *It includes contractual interest payment based on interest rate prevailing at the end of the reporting period after adjustment for the impact  of interest swaps, over the tenor of the borrowings.
#Interest accrued but not due has been included in interest bearing borrowings and excluded from other financial liabilities.
vi) Reconciliation of liabilities whose cash flow movements are disclosed as part of financing activities in the statement of cash  flows: Statement of cash  flow line item April 1,  2017 Cash  flows Non-cash movements Interest  expense Foreign  exchange Fair value  changes FCTR Others March 31,  2018 Borrowings* Proceeds / repayment  of borrowing  (including short term) 610,282 36,141 -  11,480 - 883  1,420  660,206  Interest accrued but not due  and derivative instruments Interest and other  finance charges paid 5,633 (44,041)  29,470 -  8,506 2,588  20,905 23,061  *It does not include deferred payment liabilities, finance lease obligations and bank overdraft but include obligations towards Africa tower sale and lease  back transaction.
2.
Capital risk  The Group’s objective while managing capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern (so that it is enabled to  provide returns and create value for its shareholders, and benefits for other stakeholders), support business stability and growth,  ensure adherence to the covenants and restrictions imposed by lenders and / or relevant laws and regulations, and maintain  an optimal and efficient capital structure so as to reduce the cost of capital.
However, the key objective of the Group’s capital  management is to, ensure that it maintains a stable capital structure with the focus on total equity, uphold investor; creditor and  customer confidence, and ensure future development of its business activities.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure,  the Group may issue new shares, declare dividends, return capital to shareholders, etc.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions or its business  requirements.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 301 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159  The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio calculated as below: As of   March 31, 2018 As of   March 31, 2017 Borrowings  1,113,335  1,072,877  Less: cash and cash equivalents  47,886  12,817  Less: term deposits with bank  2,119  3,360  Net debt  1,063,330  1,056,700  Equity  695,344  674,563  T otal capital  695,344  674,563  Capital and net debt  1,758,674  1,731,263  Gearing ratio 60.5% 61.0% 37 Fair value of financial assets and liabilities  The category wise details as to the carrying value, fair value and the level of fair value measurement hierarchy of the Group’s  financial instruments are as follows: Carrying value as of Fair value as of Level March 31,  2018 March 31,  2017 March 31,  2018 March 31,  2017 Financial assets FVTPL Derivatives  - Currency swaps, forward    and option contracts Level 2  8,541  814  8,541  814   - Interest swaps Level 2  2,101  4,963  2,101  4,963   - Embedded derivatives Level 2  330  1,005  330  1,005   - Embedded derivatives Level 3  -  10  -  10  Investments - quoted Level 1  65,460  52,402  65,460  52,402  Investments - unquoted Level 2  2,992  4,389  2,992  4,389  FVTOCI Investments - quoted Level 1  2,391  2,609  2,391  2,609  Investments - unquoted Level 2  3,904  1,711  3,904  1,711  Amortised cost Security deposits Level 2  9,703  9,630  9,703  9,630  Trade receivables Level 2  58,830  47,402  58,830  47,402  Cash and cash equivalents Level 1  47,886  12,817  47,886  12,817  Bank deposits Level 1  18,820  38,166  18,820  38,166  Other financial assets Level 2  33,276  36,390  33,276  36,390   254,234  212,308  254,234  212,308  Financial liabilities FVTPL Derivatives  - Currency swaps, forward    and option contracts Level 2  474  3,412  474  3,412   - Interest rate swaps Level 2  5,210  880  5,210  880   - Embedded derivatives Level 2  8  571  8  571   - Embedded derivatives Level 3  -  198  -  198  Amortised cost Borrowings - fixed rate Level 1  414,407  368,913  427,293  386,739  Borrowings - fixed rate Level 2  512,404  526,542  555,413  562,306  Borrowings - floating rate Level 2  186,525  178,826  186,525  178,826  Trade payables Level 2  277,675  268,537  277,675  268,537  Other financial liabilities Level 2  185,152  105,893  185,152  105,893   1,581,855  1,453,772  1,637,750  1,507,362  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 302  The following methods / assumptions were used to estimate the fair values:  i.
The carrying value of bank deposits, trade receivables, trade payables, short-term borrowings, floating-rate long-term borrowings  other current financial assets and liabilities approximate their fair value mainly due to the short-term maturities of these  instruments / buying subject to floating-rate.
ii.
Fair value of quoted financial instruments is based on quoted market price at the reporting date.
iii.
The fair value of non-current financial assets, other long term borrowings and other financial liabilities is estimated by discounting  future cash flows using current rates applicable to instruments with similar terms, currency, credit risk and remaining maturities.
iv.
The fair values of derivatives are estimated by using pricing models, wherein the inputs to those models are based on readily  observable market parameters.
The valuation models used by the Group reflect the contractual terms of the derivatives (including  the period to maturity), and market-based parameters such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, volatility etc.
These models  do not contain a high level of subjectivity as the valuation techniques used do not require significant judgement and inputs  thereto are readily observable.
During the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements,  and no transfer into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
Following table describes the key input in the valuation (basis discounted cash flow technique) of level 2 financial assets /  liabilities as of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017: Financial assets / liabilities Inputs used - Currency swaps, forward and option contracts  Forward currency exchange rates, Interest rates  - Interest swaps  Prevailing / forward interest rates in market, Interest rates  - Embedded derivatives  Forward currency exchange rates, Interest rates  - Investments  Prevailing interest rates in market, Interest rates  - Other financial assets / fixed rate borrowings /    other financial liabilities  Prevailing interest rates in market, Future payouts, Interest  rates   Level 3 financial instruments  The following table provides the details as to changes in value of financial instruments categorised within level 3 of the fair value  hierarchy: For the year ended  March 31, 2018 For the year ended  March 31, 2017 Opening balance  (188)  51  Gain recognised in consolidated statement of   profit and loss (including settlements)  -Recognised in finance costs / finance income*  276  (215) Transferred on account of sale of subsidiary  -  (22) Exchange difference recognised in OCI  (88)  (2) Closing balance  -  (188)  *Out of these gains / (losses), Nil and loss of H213 year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively relates to assets/liabilities held at the end of  respective periods.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 303 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159  Valuation process, techniques and inputs used: The Group has entered into certain contracts under which payouts are linked  to revenue of the period to which payout relates.
The portion of the payout are payable at predetermined fixed foreign exchange  rate and results in an embedded derivative.
The significant inputs to the valuation model of these embedded derivatives are  future revenue projections and foreign exchange forward rates over the contract period.
The revenue projections, being based  on the rolling ten year financial plan approved by management, constitute a significant unobservable input to the valuation,  thereby resulting in the embedded derivative being classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
The Group either engages external, independent and qualified valuers or internally values the embedded derivative categorised  within level 3.
Discounted cash flow model is used to value the embedded derivative wherein major inputs are expected future  payouts to vendors, forward foreign currency exchange rates and relevant interest rates.
The value of embedded derivative is  the present value of the differential of future payouts on the reporting date, over that determined based on the forward rates  prevailing at the inception of the contract.
Sensitivity to changes in unobservable inputs: The fair value of embedded derivative is directly proportional to the expected  future payouts to vendor (considered for the purpose of valuation of the embedded derivative).
If future payouts to vendor were  to increase / decrease by 5% with all the other variables held constant, the fair value of embedded derivative would increase /  decrease by 5%.
Expected future payouts to vendor ranging from Nil and USD 12 to USD 17 per quarter as of March 31, 2018  and March 31, 2017 respectively.
38 Other matters (i) In 1996, the Company had obtained the permission from DoT to operate its Punjab license through one of its wholly owned  subsidiary.
However DoT cancelled the permission to operate in April, 1996 and subsequently reinstated in March, 1998.
Accordingly, for the period from April 1996 to March, 1998 (‘blackout period’) the license fee was disputed and not paid by the  Company.
Subsequently, basis the demand from DoT in 2001, the Company paid the disputed license fee of H4,856 for blackout period under  protest.
Consequently, the license was restored subject to arbitrator’s adjudication on the dispute.
The arbitrator adjudicated the  matter in favour of DoT , which was challenged by the Company before Hon’ble Delhi High Court.
In 2012, Hon’ble Delhi High  Court passed an order setting aside the arbitrator’s award, which was challenged by DoT and is pending before its division  bench.
Meanwhile, the Company had filed a writ petition for recovery of the disputed license fee and interest thereto.
However,  the single bench, despite taking the view that the Company is entitled to refund, dismissed the writ petition on the ground that  the case is still pending with the larger bench.
The Company therefore has filed appeal against the said order with division bench  and is currently pending.
DoT had also filed an appeal against the single judge order.
Both these appeals are tagged together  and are listed for final hearing.
The Hon’ble court has directed both the parties to file comprehensive written submission.
(ii) TRAI vide T elecom Interconnect Usages Charges Regulation (Eleventh Amendment) 2015 has reduced the IUC charges for  mobile termination charges to 14 paisa from 20 paisa and abolished the fixed-line termination charges.
The Company has  challenged the said Regulation before the Hon’ble Delhi High Court and the matter is currently pending.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 304 39 Additional information as required under Schedule III of the Companies Act 2013 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) T able 1 - Details pertaining to share in net assets, profit or loss and total comprehensive income  S.  No.
Name of the entity / Principal activities % of  shareholding  as at March 31,  2018 and 2017  (Refer note 1  and 2) Principal  place of  operation /  country of  incorporation For the year ended March 31, 2018 Net Assets ('N A'), i.e., total  assets minus total liabilities Share in profit or loss  ('P&L') Share in total   comprehensive income ('TCI') As % of  consolidated N A  Amount As % of  consolidated P&L  Amount As % of TCI  Amount  Parent  -T elecommunication services 1 Bharti Airtel Limited 100% India 131.29% 1,028,609 7.21%  792 -34.58%  849  Subsidiaries A. Indian-T elecommunication services 1 Bharti Hexacom Limited 70%  India 8.28%  64,893 -10.18%  (1,119) 45.51%  (1,117) 2 Nxtra Data Limited 100%  India 0.02%  183 2.14%  235 -9.65%  237  3 Smartx Services Limited 53.5% ^  India 0.00%  19 0.03%  3 -0.12%  3  4 T elesonic Networks Limited 100%  India 0.08%  617 2.13%  234 -9.05%  222  5 Wynk Limited 100%  India 0.07%  551 1.29%  141 -5.76%  141  6 Bharti Digital Networks Private  Limited (Formerly known as Tikona  Digital Networks Private Limited;  subsidiary w.e.f.
August 24, 2017) 100% India -1.76%  (13,808) -1.44%  (158) 6.44%  (158) - Direct T o Home services  1 Bharti T elemedia Limited 95%  India -3.19%  (24,995) 25.74%  2,829 -115.36%  2,832   - Infrastructure sharing services 1 Bharti Infratel Limited 53.5% ^  India 14.23%  111,515 119.36%  13,118 -535.32%  13,142   - Investment Company 1 Nettle Infrastructure Investments Limited  100%  India -2.19%  (17,145) 7.61%  837 -355.57%  8,729   - Mobile commerce services 1 Airtel Payments Bank Limited 80.10%  India 0.29%  2,306 -24.81%  (2,726) 111.05%  (2,726)  - Other 1 Bharti Airtel Services Limited 100%  India -0.04%  (312) 6.26%  688 -28.32%  695  Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 305 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 T able 1 - Details pertaining to share in net assets, profit or loss and total comprehensive income  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) S.  No.
Name of the entity / Principal activities % of  shareholding  as at March 31,  2018 and 2017  (Refer note 1  and 2) Principal  place of  operation /  country of  incorporation For the year ended March 31, 2018 Net Assets ('N A'), i.e., total  assets minus total liabilities Share in profit or loss  ('P&L') Share in total   comprehensive income ('TCI') As % of  consolidated N A  Amount As % of  consolidated P&L  Amount As % of TCI  Amount   - Uplinking channels for  broadcasters 1 Indo T eleports Limited 100% ^^  India -0.07%  (560) -1.01%  (111) 4.54%  (111) B.
Foreign  - Direct T o Home services 1 Airtel DTH Services Nigeria Limited # 100%  Nigeria  -  -  -  -  -  -   - Infrastructure sharing services 1 Africa T owers Services Limited ## 100%  Kenya 0.00%  1 0.00%  0 -0.02%  0  2 Bangladesh Infratel Networks  Limited # 100%  Bangladesh  -  -  -  -  -  -  3 Bharti Infratel Lanka (Private) Limited # 100%  Sri Lanka  -  -  -  -  -  -  4 Congo RDC T owers S.A. 100%  Democratic  Republic of  Congo  -0.07%  (565) -2.74%  (301) 12.25%  (301) 5 Gabon T owers S.A. ## 90%  Gabon 0.00%  (1) 0.02%  2 -0.10%  2  6 Madagascar T owers S.A. 100%  Madagascar 0.04%  320 0.71%  78 -3.20%  78  7 Malawi T owers Limited 100%  Malawi -0.25%  (1,920) -4.45%  (489) 19.92%  (489) 8 T anzania T owers Limited 60%  T anzania 0.00%  (31) 0.00%  (0) 0.01%  (0) 9 T owers Support Nigeria Limited # 83.25%  Nigeria  -  - 0.01%  1 -0.02%  1   - Investment Company 1 Africa T owers N. V .
100%  Netherlands -0.06%  (445) -0.45%  (49) 2.01%  (49) 2 Airtel Mobile Commerce B. V .
100%  Netherlands -0.01%  (77) -0.09%  (10) 0.40%  (10) 3 Airtel Mobile Commerce Holdings B .V.
100%  Netherlands 0.00%  1  -  -  -  -  4 Bharti Airtel Africa B. V .
100%  Netherlands 11.20%  87,717 18.95%  2,083 -84.84%  2,083  5 Bharti Airtel Burkina Faso Holdings B .V.
100%  Netherlands 5.81%  45,513 0.00%  (0) 0.00%  (0) 6 Bharti Airtel Chad Holdings B. V .
100%  Netherlands -0.06%  (462) -3.09%  (340) 13.83%  (340) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 306 S.  No.
Name of the entity / Principal activities % of  shareholding  as at March 31,  2018 and 2017  (Refer note 1  and 2) Principal  place of  operation /  country of  incorporation For the year ended March 31, 2018 Net Assets ('N A'), i.e., total  assets minus total liabilities Share in profit or loss  ('P&L') Share in total   comprehensive income ('TCI') As % of  consolidated N A  Amount As % of  consolidated P&L  Amount As % of TCI  Amount  7 Bharti Airtel Congo Holdings B. V .
100%  Netherlands 0.79%  6,171 0.84%  92 -3.74%  92  8 Bharti Airtel Developers Forum  Limited 96.36%  Zambia  -  -  -  -  -  -  9 Bharti Airtel DTH Holdings B. V .
# 100%  Netherlands  -  -  -  -  -  -  10 Bharti Airtel Gabon Holdings B. V .
100%  Netherlands 1.09%  8,574 0.46%  50 -2.04%  50  11 Bharti Airtel Ghana Holdings B. V .
(Refer note 5 (c)) 100%  Netherlands  -  - -8.93%  (981) 39.97%  (981) 12 Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Limited 100%  Mauritius 1.97%  15,449 1.76%  193 -9.77%  240  13 Bharti Airtel International  (Netherlands) B. V .
100%  Netherlands 24.65%  193,134 -171.27% (18,823) 766.73% (18,823) 14 Bharti Airtel Kenya B. V .
100%  Netherlands -1.80%  (14,087) -15.88%  (1,745) 71.09%  (1,745) 15 Bharti Airtel Kenya Holdings B. V .
100%  Netherlands -0.34%  (2,671) -0.86%  (95) 3.86%  (95) 16 Bharti Airtel Madagascar Holdings  B .V.
100%  Netherlands -0.31%  (2,421) -2.19%  (240) 9.78%  (240) 17 Bharti Airtel Malawi Holdings B. V .
100%  Netherlands 0.05%  410 0.69%  76 -3.09%  76  18 Bharti Airtel Mali Holdings B. V .
100%  Netherlands 0.01%  100 -0.14%  (16) 0.64%  (16) 19 Bharti Airtel Niger Holdings B. V .
100%  Netherlands 1.47%  11,555 14.00%  1,539 -62.68%  1,539  20 Bharti Airtel Nigeria B. V .
100%  Netherlands -7.78%  (60,964) -40.46%  (4,446) 181.11%  (4,446) 21 Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings B. V .
# 100%  Netherlands  -  -  -  -  -  -  22 Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings II B. V .
100%  Netherlands -0.01%  (107) 0.09%  10 -0.42%  10  23 Bharti Airtel RDC Holdings B. V .
100%  Netherlands 0.23%  1,780 -17.73%  (1,949) 79.38%  (1,949) 24 Bharti Airtel Rwanda Holdings Limited  100%  Mauritius 0.02%  187 -0.02%  (2) 0.09%  (2) 25 Bharti Airtel Services B. V .
100%  Netherlands -0.06%  (443) -0.48%  (53) 2.16%  (53) 26 Bharti Airtel T anzania B. V .
100%  Netherlands -0.60%  (4,697) -8.15%  (896) 36.48%  (896) 27 Bharti Airtel Uganda Holdings B. V .
100%  Netherlands -1.26%  (9,900) -33.71%  (3,705) 150.92%  (3,705) 28 Bharti Airtel Zambia Holdings B. V .
100%  Netherlands 3.81%  29,834 25.14%  2,763 -112.55%  2,763  29 Celtel (Mauritius) Holdings Limited 100%  Mauritius 0.30%  2,346 -1.36%  (150) 6.09%  (150) T able 1 - Details pertaining to share in net assets, profit or loss and total comprehensive income Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 307 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 S.  No.
Name of the entity / Principal activities % of  shareholding  as at March 31,  2018 and 2017  (Refer note 1  and 2) Principal  place of  operation /  country of  incorporation For the year ended March 31, 2018 Net Assets ('N A'), i.e., total  assets minus total liabilities Share in profit or loss  ('P&L') Share in total   comprehensive income ('TCI') As % of  consolidated N A  Amount As % of  consolidated P&L  Amount As % of TCI  Amount  30 Channel Sea Management  Company (Mauritius) Limited 100%  Mauritius 0.00%  33 -0.01%  (1) 0.06%  (1) 31 Indian Ocean T elecom Limited 100%  Jersey 0.10%  798 -0.03%  (3) 0.14%  (3) 32 Montana International 100%  Mauritius 0.00%  (14) -0.01%  (1) 0.04%  (1) 33 MSI-Celtel Nigeria Limited # 100%  Nigeria  -  -  -  -  -  -  34 Partnership Investments Sprl 100%  Democratic  Republic of  Congo   -  -  -  -  -  -  35 Société Malgache de T éléphone  Cellulaire S.A. 100%  Mauritius 0.02%  121 -0.02%  (2) 0.07%  (2) 36 Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius)  Investments Limited  (incorporated on March 26, 2018) 100%  Mauritius 0.00%  (1) -0.01%  (1) 0.02%  (1)  - Mobile commerce services 1 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Ghana) Limited (Refer note 5 (c)) 99.89%  Ghana  -  -  -  -  -  -  2 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Kenya) Limited 100%  Kenya 0.00%  0  -  -  -  -  3 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Seychelles) Limited 100%  Seychelles 0.00%  (29) -0.01%  (1) 0.06%  (1) 4 Airtel Mobile Commerce (T anzania)  Limited 100%  T anzania 0.00%  0  -  -  -  -  5 Airtel Mobile Commerce Limited 100%  Malawi 0.00%  0 0.00%  - 0.00%  -  6 Airtel Mobile Commerce  Madagascar S.A. 100%  Madagascar -0.06%  (499) -0.14%  (15) 0.61%  (15) 7 Airtel Mobile Commerce Rwanda  Limited 100%  Rwanda 0.00%  1  -  -  -  -  8 Airtel Mobile Commerce T chad S.a.r.l.
100%  Chad 0.00%  0  -  -  -  -  9 Airtel Mobile Commerce Uganda Limited 100%  Uganda 0.00%  0  -  -  -  -  T able 1 - Details pertaining to share in net assets, profit or loss and total comprehensive income  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 308 S.  No.
Name of the entity / Principal activities % of  shareholding  as at March 31,  2018 and 2017  (Refer note 1  and 2) Principal  place of  operation /  country of  incorporation For the year ended March 31, 2018 Net Assets ('N A'), i.e., total  assets minus total liabilities Share in profit or loss  ('P&L') Share in total   comprehensive income ('TCI') As % of  consolidated N A  Amount As % of  consolidated P&L  Amount As % of TCI  Amount  10 Airtel Mobile Commerce Zambia  Limited 100%  Zambia -0.07%  (551) -0.02%  (3) 0.11%  (3) 11 Airtel Money (RDC) S.A. 100%  Democratic  Republic of  Congo  0.02%  168 1.23%  135 -5.50%  135  12 Airtel Money Niger S.A. 90%  Niger  -  -  -  -  -  -  13 Airtel Money S.A. (Gabon) 100%  Gabon 0.04%  335 3.14%  345 -14.06%  345  14 Airtel Money Transfer Limited 100%  Kenya  -  -  -  -  -  -  15 Mobile Commerce Congo S.A. 100%  Congo  Brazzaville  0.00%  1  -  -  -  -  16 Zap Trust Company Nigeria Limited  # 100%  Nigeria  -  -  -  -  -  -  17 Airtel Money T anzania Limited 60.04%  T anzania 0.00%  (1) -0.01%  (1) 0.03%  (1) 18 Airtel Mobile Commerce Nigeria  Limited (incorporated on August 31, 2017) 83.25%  Nigeria  -  -  -  -  -  -   - Submarine Cable System 1 Network i2i Limited 100%  Mauritius 13.90%  108,870 25.71%  2,826 -115.11%  2,826  -T elecommunication services 1 Airtel (Seychelles) Limited 100%  Seychelles 0.10%  793 2.20%  242 -9.85%  242  2 Airtel Congo (RDC) S.A. 98.50%  Democratic  Republic of  Congo  -7.11%  (55,695) -27.37%  (3,008) 122.51%  (3,008) 3 Airtel Congo S.A. 90%  Congo  Brazzaville  -1.14%  (8,898) 11.36%  1,248 -50.85%  1,248  4 Airtel Gabon S.A. 90%  Gabon -0.69%  (5,431) 29.75%  3,270 -133.18%  3,270  5 Airtel Ghana Limited (Refer note 5 (c)) 99.89%  Ghana  -  - -5.05%  (555) 22.61%  (555) 6 Airtel Madagascar S.A. 100%  Madagascar -0.84%  (6,555) -9.12%  (1,002) 40.83%  (1,002) 7 Airtel Malawi Limited 100%  Malawi 0.24%  1,902 14.82%  1,629 -66.36%  1,629  T able 1 - Details pertaining to share in net assets, profit or loss and total comprehensive income Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 309 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 S.  No.
Name of the entity / Principal activities % of  shareholding  as at March 31,  2018 and 2017  (Refer note 1  and 2) Principal  place of  operation /  country of  incorporation For the year ended March 31, 2018 Net Assets ('N A'), i.e., total  assets minus total liabilities Share in profit or loss  ('P&L') Share in total   comprehensive income ('TCI') As % of  consolidated N A  Amount As % of  consolidated P&L  Amount As % of TCI  Amount  8 Airtel Networks Kenya Limited @ 100%  Kenya -3.33%  (26,094) -17.80%  (1,956) 79.67%  (1,956) 9 Airtel Networks Limited 83.25%  Nigeria -2.07%  (16,195) -22.95%  (2,522) 102.73%  (2,522) 10 Airtel Rwanda Limited 100%  Rwanda -1.56%  (12,234) -16.86%  (1,853) 75.47%  (1,853) 11 Airtel T anzania Public Limited  Company   (Formerly known as Airtel T anzania  Limited) 60%  T anzania -3.44%  (26,931) -14.58%  (1,602) 65.27%  (1,602) 12 Airtel T chad S.A. 100%  Chad -0.65%  (5,124) 13.82%  1,519 -61.87%  1,519  13 Airtel Uganda Limited 100%  Uganda 0.11%  859 41.78%  4,591 -187.03%  4,591  14 Bharti Airtel (France) SAS 100%  France 0.04%  340 1.51%  166 -6.78%  166  15 Bharti Airtel (Hong Kong) Limited 100%  Hong Kong 0.00%  14 1.23%  135 -5.50%  135  16 Bharti Airtel (Japan) Private Limited 100%  Japan 0.00%  6 0.01%  1 -0.05%  1  17 Bharti Airtel (UK) Limited 100%  United  Kingdom  0.07%  543 0.58%  63 -2.63%  64  18 Bharti Airtel (USA) Limited 100%  United States  of America  0.09%  674 1.97%  217 -8.83%  217  19 Bharti Airtel Lanka (Private) Limited 100%  Sri Lanka 0.17%  1,295 -18.14%  (1,993) 81.20%  (1,993) 20 Bharti International (Singapore) Pte.
Ltd. 100%  Singapore 2.08%  16,298 4.77%  525 -21.37%  525  21 Celtel Niger S.A. 90% Niger 0.40%  3,168 20.69%  2,274 -92.64%  2,274  22 Airtel Networks Zambia Plc 96.36% Zambia 0.22%  1,717 29.69%  3,263 -132.93%  3,263  23 Tigo Rwanda Limited (Subsidiary  w.e.f.
January 31, 2018) 100% Rwanda -0.16%  (1,276) -0.83%  (92) 3.73%  (92) Minority Interests in all  subsidiaries  11.25%  88,139 -98.67% (10,845) 411.19% (10,095) T able 1 - Details pertaining to share in net assets, profit or loss and total comprehensive income  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 310 S.  No.
Name of the entity / Principal activities % of  shareholding  as at March 31,  2018 and 2017  (Refer note 1  and 2) Principal  place of  operation /  country of  incorporation For the year ended March 31, 2018 Net Assets ('N A'), i.e., total  assets minus total liabilities Share in profit or loss  ('P&L') Share in total   comprehensive income ('TCI') As % of  consolidated N A  Amount As % of  consolidated P&L  Amount As % of TCI  Amount  Associates (Investment  as per  the equity method)  A. Indian - Financial Services 1 Seynse T echnologies Private Limited 22.54%  India 0.03%  222 -0.25%  (27) 1.12%  (27) - Others 1 Juggernaut Books Private Limited  (acquired on November 29, 2017) 10.71%  India 0.01%  58 -0.02%  (2) 0.08%  (2) B.
Foreign - Submarine cable system 1 Seychelles Cable Systems Company  Limited 26%  Seychelles 0.03%  226 1.87%  205 -8.37%  205  - T elecommunication services 1 Robi Axiata Limited 25%  Bangladesh 2.76%  21,620 -2.57%  (282) 10.72%  (263) Joint Ventures (Investment  as per the equity method)  A. Indian - Passive infrastructure services 1 Indus T owers Limited 22.5% ^^^  India 7.42%  58,110 107.51%  11,816 -481.35%  11,817  - T elecommunication services 1 FireFly Networks Limited 50%  India 0.00%  3 0.03%  3 -0.13%  3  B. Foreign- Provision of regional mobile  services 1 Bridge Mobile Pte Limited 10%  Singapore 0.01%  58 0.06%  6 -0.26%  6  T able 1 - Details pertaining to share in net assets, profit or loss and total comprehensive income Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 311 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 S.  No.
Name of the entity / Principal activities % of  shareholding  as at March 31,  2018 and 2017  (Refer note 1  and 2) Principal  place of  operation /  country of  incorporation For the year ended March 31, 2018 Net Assets ('N A'), i.e., total  assets minus total liabilities Share in profit or loss  ('P&L') Share in total   comprehensive income ('TCI') As % of  consolidated N A  Amount As % of  consolidated P&L  Amount As % of TCI  Amount  - Investment Company 1 Bharti Airtel Ghana Holdings B. V .
(Refer note 5 (c)) 50%  Netherlands 0.48%  3,756  -  -  -  -  - Mobile commerce services 1 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Ghana)  Limited (Refer note 5 (c)) 49.95%  Ghana -0.02%  (145) -0.61%  (67) 2.74%  (67) 2 Mobile Financial Services Limited (Refer note 5 (c)) 50%  Ghana 0.01%  54 -0.02%  (3) 0.11%  (3) - T elecommunication services 1 Airtel Ghana Limited (Refer note 5 (c)) 49.95%  Ghana -0.17%  (1,362) -2.83%  (311) 12.66%  (311) 2 Millicom Ghana Company Limited  (Refer note 5 (c)) 49.95%  Ghana -0.12%  (952) -1.96%  (216) 8.79%  (216) Inter-company eliminations / adjustments on consolidation (814,885)  15,515  (6,723) T otal 100%  783,483 100%  10,990 100%  (2,455) T able 1 - Details pertaining to share in net assets, profit or loss and total comprehensive income  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘ H’; unless stated otherwise) Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 312 S.  No.
Name of the entity % of shareholding  as at March 31, 2018  and 2017  (Refer note 1 and 2) Principal place  of operation  / country of  incorporation For the year ended March 31, 2018 Share in other comprehensive income  (‘OCI’) As % of OCI  Amount  Parent  T elecommunication services 1 Bharti Airtel Limited 100% India -0.42%  57  Subsidiaries  - Indian - T elecommunication services 1 Bharti Hexacom Limited 70%  India -0.01%  2  2 Nxtra Data Limited 100%  India -0.01%  2  3 T elesonic Networks Limited 100%  India 0.09%  (12) 4 Wynk Limited 100%  India 0.00%  (0) - Direct T o Home services 1 Bharti T elemedia Limited 95%  India -0.02%  3  - Infrastructure sharing services 1 Bharti Infratel Limited 53.5% ^  India -0.18%  24  - Investment Company 1 Nettle Infrastructure Investments Limited 100%  India -58.70%  7,892  - Other 1 Bharti Airtel Services Limited 100%  India -0.05%  7  - Foreign - T elecommunication services 1 Bharti Airtel (Japan) Private Limited 100%  Japan 0.00%  0  2 Bharti Airtel (UK) Limited 100%  United Kingdom -0.01%  1  3 Bharti Airtel (Hong Kong) Limited 100%  Hong Kong 0.00%  (0) - Investment Company 1 Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Limited 100% Mauritius -0.35%  47  Minority Interests in all subsidiaries  -5.58%  750  Associates (Investment   as per the  equity method)  A.
Foreign - T elecommunication services 1 Robi Axiata Limited 25%  Bangladesh -0.14%  19  Joint Ventures (Investment  as per the  equity method)  A. Indian - Passive infrastructure services 1 Indus T owers Limited 22.5% ^^^ India -0.01%  1  Inter-company eliminations / adjustments  on consolidation  (22,238) T otal 100%  (13,445) Notes: 1 - Changes in shareholding during the year ended March 31, 2018: ^ The Company has reduced its shareholding to 53.5% (61.68% in March 31, 2017) during the year ended March 31, 2018.
^^ The Company has increased its shareholding to 100% (95% in March 31, 2017) during the year ended March 31, 2018.
^^^ The Company has reduced its shareholding to 22.5% (25.91% in March 31, 2017) during the year ended March 31, 2018.
2 - Others # Liquidated during the year ended March 31, 2018 ## Under liquidation @ The Group also holds 100% preference shareholding in the Company.
The preference shares do not carry any voting rights.
The figures which are appearing as ‘0’ are result of rounding off T able 2 - Details pertaining to share in other comprehensive income Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees - ‘H’; unless stated otherwise) Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 313 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 Salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures for the year ended March 31, 2018, pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act 2013 Part A - Subsidiaries H in Millions S  No.
Name of the Subsidiary  Date on which subsidiary was acquired / incorporated   Country of Registration  Reporting Currency  Reporting  Period  Financial  Year End  Exchange  Rate as    of March   31, 2018   Share  Capital    Reserves   T otal  Assets   T otal  Liabilities  Investments* T urnover  Profit/  (Loss)  Before  T axation  Provision  for  T axation  Profit/  (Loss)  After  T axation   Proposed  Dividend **  Capital  Expenditure  during the  reporting  period @   Community  Contribution  @ ^  % of  shareholding 1 Airtel Payments Bank Limited April 1, 2010 India INR Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  1.000  10,050  (7,744)  9,362  7,056  3,905  1591^^  (2,726)  -    (2,726)  -    260  -   80.10% 2 Bharti Airtel (France) SAS June 9, 2010 France EUR Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  80.153  1  340  1,309  968  -    1,878  195  42  153  -    605  -   100% 3 Bharti Airtel (Hong Kong) Limited October 12, 2006 Hong Kong HKD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  8.306  41  (27)  399  385  -    619  142  6  136  -    33  -   100% 4 Bharti Airtel (Japan) Private Limited April 5, 2010 Japan JPY Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  0.613  0  6  33  27  -    28  (1)  (3)  2  -    -    -   100% 5 Bharti Airtel Services Limited March 26, 2001 India INR Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  1.000  1  (313)  5,307  5,619  -    4,877  596  (92)  688  -    125  -   100% 6 Bharti Airtel (UK) Limited August 29, 2006 United Kingdom GBP Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  91.459  31  512  4,199  3,656  -    23,844  67  7  60  -    171  -   100% 7 Bharti Airtel (USA) Limited September 12, 2006 United States of America USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  0*  674  1,282  608  -    1,472  300  80  220  -    122  -   100% 8 Bharti International (Singapore) Pte Ltd  March 18, 2010 Singapore USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  127,985 (112,738)  38,140  22,893  24,972  6,024  644  116  528  -    1,045  -   100% 9 Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Limited  April 6, 2010 Mauritius INR Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  234,954 (219,505)  15,454  5  -    123  121  3  118  -    -    -   100% 10 Bharti Airtel Lanka (Private) Limited March 29, 2007 Sri Lanka LKR Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  0.419  22,937  (21,642)  6,737  5,442  -    4,032  (1,964)  20  (1,984)  -    -    -   100% 11 Bharti Hexacom Limited May 18, 2004 India INR Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  1.000  2,500  62,393  103,470  38,577  0  44,083  (1,761)  (642)  (1,119)  -    13,198  100 70% 12 Indo T eleports Limited March 4, 2009 India INR Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  1.000  230  (790)  453  1,013  -    296  (111)  -    (111)  -    3  -   100% 13 Bharti Infratel Limited November 30, 2006 India INR Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  1.000  18,496  158,758  202,040  24,786  63,226  66,180  32,270  8,131  24,139  31,166  11,223  294 53.5% 14 Smatrx Services Limited September 21, 2015 India INR Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  1.000  30  5  226  191  -    32  7  2  5  -    139  -   53.5% 15 Bharti T elemedia Limited June 5, 2007 India INR Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  1.000  5,102  (30,097)  26,460  51,455  -    37,570  2,829  -    2,829  -    10,345  5 95% 16 Network i2i Limited September 28, 2007 Mauritius USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  82,605  26,417  161,639  52,617  -    4,327  2,964  89  2,875  -    2,220  -   100% 17 T elesonic Networks Limited  February 5, 2013 India INR Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  1.000  939  (322)  4,490  3,873  -    7,161  357  123  234  -    36  7 100% 18 Nxtra Data Limited July 2, 2013 India INR Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  1.000  90  93  5,531  5,348  4  3,202  365  130  235  -    1,133  -   100% 19 Wynk Limited January 13, 2015 India INR Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  1.000  1  550  1,810  1,259  -    2,812  216  75  141  -    23  -   100% 20 Nettle Infrastructure Investments Limited (formerly known as Nettle Developers  Limited) March 14, 2017 India INR Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  1.000  1  (17,146)  39,652  56,797  310  838  837  -    837  -    -    -   100% 21 Bharti Airtel International  (Mauritius) Investments Limited March 26, 2018 Mauritius USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  0  (1)  -    1  -    -    1  -    1  -    -    -   100% 22 Bharti Digital Networks Private Limited (Formerly known as Tikona Digitel Networks Private  Limited) August 24,  2017 India INR Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  1.000  21  6,035  17,099  11,043  -    798  (1,084) 0  (1,084)  -    550  -   100% 23 Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) B. V .
March 19, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  142,773 (138,282)  408,346  403,855  2,925  2,062 (19,135)  (4,814)  (14,321)  -    26  -   100% Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 314 H in Millions S  No.
Name of the Subsidiary  Date on which subsidiary was acquired / incorporated   Country of Registration  Reporting Currency  Reporting  Period  Financial  Year End  Exchange  Rate as    of March   31, 2018   Share  Capital    Reserves   T otal  Assets   T otal  Liabilities  Investments* T urnover  Profit/  (Loss)  Before  T axation  Provision  for  T axation  Profit/  (Loss)  After  T axation   Proposed  Dividend **  Capital  Expenditure  during the  reporting  period @   Community  Contribution  @ ^  % of  shareholding 24 Bharti Airtel Africa B. V .
June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  44  52,400  391,024  338,580  10,441  -   (41,567)  -    (41,567)  -    -    -   100% 25 Bharti Airtel Burkina Faso Holdings B. V .
June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  1  45,524 45,525 -  -    -   10  -   10  -    -    -   100% 26 Bharti Airtel Chad Holdings B. V .
June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  1  594  14,188  13,593  -    -    (343)  -    (343)  -    -    -   100% 27 Airtel T chad S.A. June 8, 2010 Chad XAF Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.122  3,397  (9,561)  25,888  32,052  -    8,823  (415)  132  (547)  -    1,350  21 100% 28 Bharti Airtel Gabon Holdings B. V .
June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  1  8,773  10,653  1,879  -    -    51  -    51  -    -    -   100% 29 Airtel Gabon S.A. June 8, 2010 Gabon XAF Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.122  733  (9,695)  10,081  19,043  -    9,771  1,006  98  908  -    249  -   90% 30 Bharti Airtel Congo Holdings B. V .
June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  1  6,464  13,090  6,625  -    -    94  -    94  -    -    -   100% 31 Airtel Congo S.A. June 8, 2010 Congo Brazzavile XAF Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017 0.122  635  (9,168) 11,382 19,915  -    11,038 603  124 479  -   981  -   90% 32 Bharti Airtel RDC Holdings B. V .
June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  1  3,413  58,639  55,225  -    -    (1,971)  -    (1,971)  -    -    -   100% 33 Airtel Congo (RDC) S.A. June 8, 2010 Democratic Republic of Congo CDF Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017     0.040        4 (49,220) 53,988 1,03,204                      -  13,929 (22,295) 141 (22,436)                -  1,525 -  98.50% 34 Bharti Airtel Mali Holdings B. V .
June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  1  200  647  446  -    -    (16)  -    (16)  -    -    -   100% 35 Bharti Airtel Kenya Holdings B. V .
June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  1  (2,640)  70,514  73,153  -    -    (96)  -    (96)  -    -    -   100% 36 Bharti Airtel Kenya B. V .
June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  1  (8,013)  62,503  70,515  -    -    (1,765)  -    (1,765)  -    -    -   100% 37 Airtel Networks Kenya Limited # June 8, 2010 Kenya KES Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.645  16,283  (39,171)  17,022  39,910  -    10,813  (3,839)  -    (3,839)  -    588  2 100% 38 Bharti Airtel Malawi Holdings B. V .
June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  1   502  5,036  4,533  -    -    77  -    77  -    -    -   100% 39 Airtel Malawi Limited June 8, 2010 Malawi MWK Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.090  0  1,571  13,314  11,743  -    7,610  1,775  648  1,127  -    1,182  -   100% 40 Bharti Airtel Niger Holdings B. V .
June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  1  11,876  12,416  539  -    -    1,542  -    1,542  -    -    -   100% 41 Celtel Niger S.A. June 8, 2010 Niger XOF Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.122  183  4,457  21,505  16,865  -    12,225  2,339  911  1,428  -   374  7 90% 42 Airtel Networks Zambia Plc  June 8, 2010 Zambia ZMW Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  6.877  7  3,185  15,368  12,176  -    15,100  3,126  623  2,503  -    2,168  -   96.36% 43 Bharti Airtel Uganda Holdings B. V .
June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  1  (9,691)  1,554  11,244  -    -    (3,720)  -    (3,720)  -    -    -   100% 44 Airtel Uganda Limited June 8, 2010 Uganda UGS Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.018  222  4,024  23,023  18,777  -    20,398  6,667  2,340  4,327  -    1,631  0 100% 45 Bharti Airtel T anzania B. V .June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  1  (4,145)  33,349  37,493  -    -    (906)  -    (906)  -    -    -   100% 46 Airtel T anzania Public Limited Company (formerly known as Airtel T anzania Limited) June 8, 2010 T anzania TZS Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.029  1,183  (27,666)  15,436  41,919  -    14,151  (3,125)  42  (3,167)  -    482  -   60% 47 Bharti Airtel Madagascar Holdings B. V .
June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  1 (1,630)  14,385 16,014  -    -    (468)  -    (468)  -    -    -   100% 48 Channel Sea Management Company (Mauritius) Limited June 8, 2010 Mauritius USD Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  65.175  1  33  35  1  -    -    (2)  -    (2)  -    -    -   100% Salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures for the year ended March 31, 2018, pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act 2013 Part A - Subsidiaries Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 315 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 H in Millions S  No.
Name of the Subsidiary  Date on which subsidiary was acquired / incorporated   Country of Registration  Reporting Currency  Reporting  Period  Financial  Year End  Exchange  Rate as    of March   31, 2018   Share  Capital    Reserves   T otal  Assets   T otal  Liabilities  Investments* T urnover  Profit/  (Loss)  Before  T axation  Provision  for  T axation  Profit/  (Loss)  After  T axation   Proposed  Dividend **  Capital  Expenditure  during the  reporting  period @   Community  Contribution  @ ^  % of  shareholding 49 Bharti Airtel Rwanda Holdings Limited  June 8, 2010 Mauritius USD Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  65.175  3  178  14,253  14,072  -    -    (2)  -    (2)  -    -    -   100% 50 Montana International June 8, 2010 Mauritius USD Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  65.175  0  (13)  3  16  -    -    (1)  -    (1)  -    -    -   100% 51 Airtel Madagascar S.A. June 8, 2010 Madagascar MGA Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.020  60  (5,908)  9,453  15,301  -    3,488  727  18  709  -    380  2 100% 52 Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings II B. V .
June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  1  (108)  138,876  138,983  -    -    10  -    10  -    -    -   100% 53 Bharti Airtel Nigeria B. V .
June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  1  (48,685)  90,333  139,017  -    -    (4,497)  -    (4,497)  -    -    -   100% 54 Bharti Airtel Services B. V .
June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  1  322  708  385  -    54  -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 55 Airtel Networks Limited June 8, 2010 Nigeria NGN Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.181  36  (16,233)  51,448  67,645  -    57,112  (27)  1,034  (1,061)  -    7,889  11 83.25% 56 Bharti Airtel Zambia Holdings B. V .
June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  1  31,945  31,946  -    -    -    2,794  -    2,794  -    -    -   100% 57 Airtel Mobile Commerce Limited  June 8, 2010 Malawi MWK Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.090  0  20  635  615  -    -    18  -    18  -    -    -   100% 58 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Kenya) Limited June 8, 2010 Kenya KES Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.645  0  -    811  811  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 59 Celtel (Mauritius) Holdings Limited June 8, 2010 Mauritius USD Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  65.175  1 2,622  10,558 7,935  -    -   180 33 147  -    -    -   100% 60 Airtel Mobile Commerce Zambia Limited  June 8, 2010 Zambia ZMW Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  6.877  14  (555)  543  1,084  -    174  3  1  2  -    5  -   100% 61 Airtel Mobile Commerce T chad S.a.r.l.
June 8, 2010 Chad XAF Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.122  0  1  101  100  -    2  1  1  -    -    -    -   100% 62 Airtel Mobile Commerce B .V.
June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  1  (47)  257  303  -    -    (10)  -    (10)  -    -    -   100% 63 Airtel Money S.A. (Gabon) October 26, 2010 Gabon XAF Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.122  1  33   2,523  2,489  -    1,360  422  97  325  -    -    -   100% 64 Malawi T owers Limited December 15, 2010 Malawi MWK Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.090  1  (1,798)  4,931  6,728  -    685  (372)  (107)  (265)  -    95  -   100% 65 Airtel Money Niger S.A. June 8, 2010 Niger XOF Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.122  160  (181)  1,336  1,357  -    93  (21)  1  (22)  -    -    -   90% 66 Société Malgache de T éléphone Cellulaire S.A. June 8, 2010 Mauritius USD Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  65.175  3  (19)  3  19  -    -    (164)  -    (164)  -    -    -   100% 67 Airtel Mobile Commerce Holdings B. V .
June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  1  (0)  1  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 68 Indian Ocean T elecom Limited October 19, 2010 Jersey USD Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  65.175  163  786  959  10  -    -    (3)  -    (3)  -    -    -   100% 69 Airtel (Seychelles) Limited August 27, 2010 Seychelles SCR Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  4.835  174  517  1,951  1,260  242  1,551  343  167  176  -    83  1 100% 70 Airtel Mobile Commerce (T anzania) Limited November 11, 2010 T anzania TZS Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.029  0  -    3,221  3,221  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 71 Airtel Mobile Commerce Uganda Limited October 7, 2010 Uganda UGS Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.018  0  -    4,361  4,361  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 72 Africa T owers N. V .
October 5, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'17 to  Mar'18 March 31,  2018  65.175  4  (449)  1,663  2,108  -    -    (51)  -    (51)  -    -    -   100% 73 Madagascar T owers S.A. March 15, 2011 Madagascar MGA Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.020  0  474  4,120  3,646  -    1,360  147  70  77  -    2  -   100% 74 Mobile Commerce Congo S.A. June 8, 2010 Congo Brazzaville XAF Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.122  1  -    277  276  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 75 T anzania T owers Limited March 15, 2011 T anzania TZS Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.029  0  (31)  -    31  -    -    (1)  -    (1)  -    -    -   60% Salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures for the year ended March 31, 2018, pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act 2013 Part A - Subsidiaries Bharti Airtel Limited Integrated Report and Annual Accounts 2017-18 316 H in Millions S  No.
Name of the Subsidiary  Date on which subsidiary was acquired / incorporated   Country of Registration  Reporting Currency  Reporting  Period  Financial  Year End  Exchange  Rate as    of March   31, 2018   Share  Capital    Reserves   T otal  Assets   T otal  Liabilities  Investments* T urnover  Profit/  (Loss)  Before  T axation  Provision  for  T axation  Profit/  (Loss)  After  T axation   Proposed  Dividend **  Capital  Expenditure  during the  reporting  period @   Community  Contribution  @ ^  % of  shareholding 76 Airtel Money (RDC) S.A. June 8, 2010 Democratic Republic of Congo CDF Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.040  91  (1,575)  1,909  3,393  -    737  (347)  36  (383)  -    19  -   100% 77 Congo RDC T owers S.A. April 5, 2011 Democratic Republic of Congo CDF Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017 0.040 4 (463) 3,051 3,510  -   - (385) 4  (397)  -    -    -   100% 78 Gabon T owers S.A. ## May 17, 2011 Gabon XAF Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.122  1  (6)  1  6  -    1  0  (0)  0  -    -    -   90% 79 Airtel Mobile Commerce Madagascar S.A. April 5, 2011 Madagascar MGA Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.020  0  (495)  1,067  1,562  -    88  75  33  42  -    -    -   100% 80 Airtel Rwanda Limited September 2, 2011 Rwanda RWF Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.076  8  (12,284)  3,910  16,186  -    1,226  (1,619)  -    (1,619)  -    69  0 100% 81 Africa T owers Services Limited ## September 8, 2011 Kenya KES Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.645  0  (0)  126  126  -    -    (1)  -    (1)  -    -    -   100% 82 Airtel Mobile Commerce Rwanda Limited February 22, 2013 Rwanda RWF Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.076  1  -    96  95  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 83 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Seychelles) Limited August 9, 2013 Seychelles SCR Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  4.835  5  (34)  10  39  -    0  (2)  -    (2)  -    -    -   100% 84 Airtel Money T anzania Limited  June 10, 2016 T anzania TZS Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.029  0  (1)  0  1  -    -    (0)  -    -    -    -    -   60.04% 85 Tigo Rwanda Limited ### January 31, 2018 Rwanda RWF Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.076  2,474  (17,021)  5,570  20,117  -    3,436  (1,237)  -    (1,237)  -    752  -   100% 86 Airtel Mobile Commerce Nigeria Limited  August 31, 2017 Nigeria NGN Jan'17 to  Dec'17 December  31, 2017  0.181  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   83.25% Notes: 1.
The above financial information is basis audited / unaudited financial statements / financial information considered for the purpose of consolidated audited Ind AS financial statements.
2.
The figures which are appearing as ‘0’ are result of rounding off.
^ Financial information has been extracted from the submission considered for the purpose of consolidated audited Ind AS financial statements.
^^ It includes INR 1,109 Mn of Commission income for the year ended March 31, 2018 (INR 680 Mn for March 31, 2017).
# Share capital includes preference share capital.
## The subsidiary is under liquidation as at March 31, 2018.
### The group has acquired the subsidiary on January 31, 2018.
However, the financial information is pertaining to the period prior to the acquisition date.
* Investments exclude investments in subsidiaries.
** Proposed dividend includes dividend distribution tax.
@ Voluntary disclosure.
Other details:  Subsidiaries yet to commence operations 1 Partnership investments Sprl   2 Bharti Airtel Developers Forum Limited   3 Airtel Money Transfer Limited Subsidiaries have been liquidated / sold during the year1 Bharti Airtel DTH Holdings B. V .
2 Airtel DTH Services Nigeria Limited  3 Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings B. V .
4 MSI-Celtel Nigeria Limited  5 T owers Support Nigeria Limited  6 Zap Trust Company Nigeria Limited 7 Bharti Airtel Ghana Holdings B. V .
@@ 8 Airtel Ghana Limited @@ 9 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Ghana) Limited @@ 10 Bangladesh Infratel Networks Limited 11 Bharti Infratel Lanka (Private) Limited  @@ Refer note 5 (c) of the consolidated financial statements included in the Annual Report.
Salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures for the year ended March 31, 2018, pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act 2013 Part A - Subsidiaries Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 317 Integrated Report 006-056 Statutory Reports 057-159 H in Millions  S  No.
Name of the Associate / Joint Venture Date on which Associate / Joint Venture was associated or acquired Latest audited Balance Sheet date Share of Associates / Joint Ventures held by the  company as of March 31, 2018 Description  of how there  is significant  influence / joint  control Net Worth  attributable to  shareholders  as per latest  audited Balance  Sheet Profit / (loss) for the year  ended March 31, 2018 Number of  shares Amount of  Investment in  Associate / Joint  Venture Extent of  holding  % Considered in  consolidation Not  Considered in  consolidation Associates 1 Robi Axiata Limited November 16, 2016 December 31, 2017  1,178,535,001  21,620 25% by virtue of  shareholding  11,491  (282)  -    2 Seynse T echnologies Private Limited February 21, 2017 March 31, 2017  6,824  222 22.54% 72  (27)  -    3 Seychelles Cable Systems Company Limited June 8, 2010 June 30, 2017  260  226 26% 252  205  -    4 Juggernaut Books Private Limited * November 26, 2017 March 31, 2017  1,039,649  58 10.71% by virtue of  shareholder  agreement  NA*  (2)  -    Joint Ventures 1 Bridge Mobile Pte Limited November 3, 2004 March 31, 2017  800,000  58 10% by virtue of  shareholding 52  6  -    2 Indus T owers Limited ** December 7, 2007 March 31, 2018  500,504  58,110 22.5% 29,676  11,816  -    3 FireFly Networks Limited February 4, 2014 March 31, 2017  1,000,000  3 50%  (0)  3  -    4 Bharti Airtel Ghana Holdings B. V .
# October 12, 2017 March 31, 2017  18,000  8,948 50%  NA#  -    -    5 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Ghana) Limited # October 12, 2017 December 31, 2016  2,497,500  (145) 49.95%  NA#  (67)  -    6 Mobile Financial Services Limited * October 12, 2017 December 31, 2016  2,500,000  54 50%  NA*  (3)  -    7 Airtel Ghana Limited # October 12, 2017 December 31, 2016  440,709,862  (1,362) 49.95%  NA#  (311)  -    8 Miliicom Ghana Company Limited * October 12, 2017 December 31, 2016  249,750  (952) 49.95%  NA*  (216)  -    * The group has acquired the stake in the entity during the year ended March 31, 2018.
However, the latest audited balance sheet is pertaining to the period prior to the acquisition date.
** Profit / (loss) considered for consolidation is based on direct shareholding of Bharti Infratel Limited as against effective shareholding of the Company.
# Refer note 5 (c) of the consolidated financial statements included in the Annual report.
Notes : Amount of investment in joint venture / associate is based on the carrying value of investments in the consolidated financial statements of Bharti Airtel Limited.
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited  Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal  Chairman Managing Director   DIN: 00042491 & CEO (India & South Asia)   DIN: 02291778 Place : New Delhi Nilanjan Roy Pankaj T ewari Date : April 24, 2018 Global Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary  Salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures for the year ended March 31, 2018, pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act 2013 Part B - Associates and Joint Ventures Notes Notes Notes Circle Offices 6th & 7th Floor, Interface Building No.
7, Mindspace, Malad Link Road, Malad (W), Mumbai - 400064, Maharashtra Mumbai K-21, Sunny House, Malviya Marg, C-Scheme, Jaipur - 302001, Rajasthan Rajasthan Plot No.
16, NH-8 Udyog Vihar, Phase-IV , Gurgaon - 122015, Haryana  Delhi NCR Vega Centre, A - Building, 2nd Floor, Shankarsheth Road, Next to Income tax office Swargate, Pune - 411037, Maharashtra Maharashtra & Goa Plot No.
21, Rajiv Gandhi Chandigarh T echnology Park, Chandigarh - 160101 Haryana, Punjab, Himachal  and J&K TCG - 7/7 Vibhuti Khand, Gomti Nagar, Lucknow - 226010, Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh & Uttaranchal 3rd & 4th Floor, Scheme No.
54, Metro T ower, AB Road, Indore - 452010, Madhya Pradesh  Madhya Pradesh & Chhattisgarh Bharti House, Six Mile, Khanapara, Srimanta Sankardev Path, Guwahati - 781022, Assam Assam & North East States 1-8-437, 438&445, Splendid T owers Opp begumpet Police Station,   Huda Road, Begumpet, Hyderabad- 500016, T elangana  Andhra Pradesh Airtel Campus, Plot no 18, Patliputra Industrial Area, Patna - 800013, Bihar Bihar & Jharkhand 1st, 5th, 6th & 7th Floor, Infinity Building,  Salt Lake Electronics Complex,   Block GP , Sector V , Kolkata-700091 West Bengal West Bengal & Odisha Divyasree T owers, No.55,   Bannerghatta Main Road,   Opp Jayadeva Hospital,  Bangalore - 560029, Karnataka  Karnataka Oceanic T ower, 101, Santhome High Road, Santhome, Chennai - 600028, T amil Nadu  Kerala & T amil Nadu 2nd Floor, Zodiac Square, Opp.
Gurudwara, S. G. Highway, Ahmedabad - 380054 Gujarat  Gujarat Registered & Corporate Office Bharti Airtel Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road, Vasant Kunj, Phase II, New Delhi - 110 070, India.
CIN No.
: L74899DL1995PLC070609 T elephone No.
: +91 11 46666100 Fax No.
: +91 11 46666137 Email: compliance.officer@bharti.in Website: www.airtel.com a K&A creation  |  www.kalolwala.co.in