Inside this  Report 36 Business Responsibility Report  48 Board’s Report  78  Management Discussion  and Analysis 96 Report on Corporate Governance  03 Enriching Lives in the Digital Era 04 Strategic Framework 05  Intrinsic Strengths to Deliver Value 06 Our Performance 08 A Life-enrichment Network  09 Product Performance  Pg-5Pg-3 Pg-6 10 Revisiting an Exciting Year 12 Message from Chairman 14  Message from MD & CEO (India &  South Asia) 15  Message from MD & CEO (Africa) 16 Digital for all 22 Board of Directors 24 Awards & Accolades 26  Corporate Social Responsibility   & Sustainability 119  Standalone Financial Statements  with Auditors’ Report  186  Consolidated Financial Statements  with Auditors’ Report  273  Statement Pursuant to Section 129  of the Companies Act, 2013 278 Circle Oﬃces Enriching lives in the  digital era %%%%%% ooff tttthhee aaaaddddddrereesssabble pppooppuullattioionn n  (inn 22200 cccoooouuntnttriies)) is cccononnnneectteeed  tthhrrrooough h AAiirrrteel neeetwwworrk MMoooobbileeee ooppeerratooor ggglooobaaallylyy (in tteerrmmmmsss oofoff subssccribbeerr bbaasee)) Intrinsic strengths to  deliver value %%%%% TToToottatall ssspsppeececctrrummm   mmaaaarrkkeeettt sshhharre  MMMnnn+++ CCoonsnsoolllliiddatattedd suuubsssccrrribbeerss  aaccrrorosssss vvvvaararrioous bbusssinnnesssseesss innn  Inndddid aa, SSSSooouuuttth Assiia aaanndd AAAfririccaaa Our Performance %%%%%% YY---ooo---YYY PAPAAATTTT ggrrroooowwwttth `` BBnnn RReeevvvennnuuuuee iin 2201115  (bbaaasassed oooonn ccconsooolidddatteedd  inncccooommeeee ssttataateemeent)) Digital for all Annual Report 2014-152 Digital for All 2 DDiDigggiggigigigii l  g f r r AlA l iiiiitatatatttal fofor r alalll iiiiitatatatttal fofor r alalll AnAnnun al RRepeporo t 20114-1155 2 We believe, this is a key moment in human  history, when the digital landscape is shaping all  aspects of life.
From global trade and commerce  to education, entertainment, healthcare and  governance; and so on.
As the digital universe continues to expand  with the help of intuitive and all-pervasive  technology, telecommunication is witnessing  an unprecedented transformation.
This is hoow we  respondeed to this  tectonic sshift duringg  the year.
Our journey in the digital era  has only just begun.
It will  take us to the next level of  value creation, as we help  propel one of the most   deﬁning trajectories of the  twenty-ﬁrst century.
WWe ddevvotedd ourr asssetss  annd ttallentt tto caateer to  thhe eemeergiinng neeeeds of  coounntriies aaccrosss AAsiaa   annd AAfrricaa.
WWe reefreeshedd oour ooﬀﬀeringgs  annd rreacchedd oout too  mmoree peooplee aacrosss  geeogrrapphiess wwith a uuniform  coommmunnicattioon prrottocol.
WWe allignned oouur  suustaainaabilittyy straateegy  wiith oourr innoovvatioonss in thhe  diigitaal sspherree.
Bharti Airtel Limited 33 Enriching lives in  the Digital Era Teeleccomm operratoor in Inddia Coountriees prressencce aacrosss  thhe gllobbe `` BBn Cuumuulaativee ccontrribbutionn too thee exxcheeqquer in Indiaa  inn thee laast 55 yyearss UUSSD BBn Tootal Airrtel MMooney  traansaaction vvaalue iin AAfricaa in  FYY 20014--15 (QQ44 annnuaalisedd) Teeleccomm opeerratorr inn Africca   MMMHz Sppectrrumm wonn inn aucctioons in  Inddia ((Febbruarry 20144 annd Marrch  20015),, vallid foor 20 yeearrs Mobile ooperaattor gglooballyy (in termms off subsccriber baase) BBnn++ Adddreesssablee ppopuulaation  gllobaallyy, connssiderring thee  geeogrrapphiess in whhich Airttel  haas ppressencee  PPbb*  DDatta usaagee ooverr  FFY 200144--155 * Pb: Peetabyytte %%% off the adddresssabble poopuulatioon  (inn 20 couuntrieess) is coonnnectedd  througgh AAirtell nnetwoorkk  MMnn++ Mobille ssubsccrriberrs aacrosss  Assia ((Inddia, BBaanglladdesh  annd SSri LLankkaa) and AAfricaa TTn Minuttess of vvooice ttraﬃﬃc inn  FYY 200144-15 ggllobaallyy `` BBn Gllobaal rrevennuues inn FYY 200144-15 MMMn WWirellesss dattaa custtommers  accrosss AAsia aannd AAfriica `` Bnn off speectrrum innvesstmment iin  auuctiionss as oonn datte Digital for all Annual Report 2014-154 Strategic  Framework HHoww WWee Will  WWinn CCusstommers  FForr Liffe RReessuullt MMMaarrkkeett  SShhaareee GGroowwwthhh RReevveennuee GGroowwtthh CCoostt EEﬃﬃccienncycyy Win Customers For Life  Postpaid and sticky user base  Company owned retail stores   Enterprise and DTH solutions  through service excellence WWin wwith   vvaluaable cusstommers  Cosst eﬃciencncies   Subscriber aacquisisition and  rettention coostss annd reduce churn WWinn withh a wwarr  oon wwasstee  High performance culture  Employee centricity WWinn wwithh peeopplee We are consistently ﬁne-tuning our strategies and  strengthening our innovative core to anticipate and  lead change in the global digital landscape.
Grow revenue   Grow market share   Grow margins   Our vision is to enrich the lives of our  customers   Our focus is to win customers for life  by oﬀering an exceptional experience  Alive and optimistic  Inclusive culture  Respectful to all stakeholders WWin thhroughh go--to-mmarkett  exxcelleence  Quality customer additions  Revenue market share proﬁle   Multiple oﬀerings opening up new  opportunities WWin wwithh datta annd  ddigittal seerviices   Prime spectrum to yield data growth   Data and digital revenue growth with  industry-ﬁrst initiatives  3G/4G network rollout  Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 5 Intrinsic Strengths to  Deliver Value Over 324 Mn people repose their trust in  our brand everyday across Asia and Africa.
These continents have vast potential with  huge aspirational population, growing  economic strength and demographic  advantage.
India, one of Asia’s major  economies, has 73% mobile penetration  while that of Africa is 63%, leaving  signiﬁcant headroom for growth.
Sri Lanka  and Bangladesh also have considerable  opportunities for market penetration.
We are well positioned to capture future growth through strong spectrum position, wide  network and brand recall.
India, Africa and South Asia (Sri Lanka and Bangladesh) are  witnessing some of the fastest growth rates in the data segment globally.
We are catering to a diverse customer cross-section across geographies, providing a range of  solutions and emerging as an end-to-end global telecom company.
Well  positioned in  key growth  markets Large customer base with  segmented focus Large residual opportunity with  bulk investments in place 16.1% Largest 2x T otal spectrum market  share, 40% 900 MHz  spectrum market share  amongst private players  - wide spectrum presence  Optical ﬁbre network  among private players Yield/MHz compare to  cost/MHz - Industry  leading Leadership in India Leadership in Africa In 17 circles of the total 22 circles (rank  1 or 2) in India with average RMS of  36.4% in these circles Through organic as well as in-country  acquisitions we are #1 or #2 in 14  markets in Africa  Customers in India Customers in Africa 239.5 Mn+ 76.3 Mn+  Customers in South  Asia (Sri Lanka and  Bangladesh)  8.6 Mn+  During the year, we met our long-term funding requirements through a strategic mix of debt  and equity.
We have received an investment commitment of up to USD 2.5 Bn from China  Development Bank and Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, enabling us to fulﬁl our  digital commitments in the regions of our presence.
We are also achieving high operating eﬃciencies and strengthening our war on waste by  developing a prudent cost structure across geographies.
Our people strengthen the diﬀerentiation  of our brand.
They are curious to learn,  drive innovation and willing to seek new  opportunities to anticipate and lead  change.
Financial acumen and  operating eﬃciencies A global  talent pool 19,564 5,130  In India and  South Asia People Strength In Africa 12% 6% India and South Asia  revenue growth in  FY 2014-15  African revenue growth  in FY 2014-15 (on a  constant currency basis) Revenue Growth  We are building on our core strengths to accelerate our business  growth and seek new vistas of opportunities to deliver on our  stakeholder commitments’ and thrive in the digital era.
Strategic Framework | Intrinsic Strengths to Deliver Value Digital for all Annual Report 2014-156 Financial Year ended March 31  Particulars Units 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 T otal Customer Base 000s 220,878      251,646      271,227 295,948 324,368  Mobile Services 000s 211,919      241,148 259,844 283,580 310,884  Broadband & T elephone Services 000s 3,296          3,270          3,283 3,356 3,411  Digital TV Services 000s 5,663          7,228          8,100 9,012 10,073  Based on Consolidated Income Statement  Revenue ` Mn 595,383 683,267 769,045 857,461 920,394  EBITDA (before exceptional items) ` Mn 200,718 222,533 233,340 278,430 314,517  Cash Proﬁt from Operations before Derivative and  Exchange Fluctuation (before exceptional items) ` Mn 180,581 193,899 195,643 241,813 285,280  Earnings Before Tax ` Mn 76,782 63,792 47,853 78,643 107,130  Net Proﬁt ` Mn 60,467 42,594 22,757 27,727 51,835  Based on Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Shareholders’ Equity ` Mn 487,668 506,113 503,217 597,560 619,564  Net Debt ` Mn 599,512 618,442 583,567 605,416 668,417  Capital Employed ` Mn 1,087,180 1,124,555 1,086,784 1,202,976 1,287,981  Key Ratios  Capex Productivity % 66.93 69.17          69.12          72.91  77.40  Opex Productivity % 45.13 43.84 45.43 45.20 43.79  EBITDA Margin % 33.71 32.57 30.34 32.47 34.17  EBIT Margin % 16.57 13.97          11.08 14.22 17.23  Return on Shareholders’ Equity % 13.30 8.57            4.51 5.04 8.52  Return on Capital Employed % 10.79 7.06 5.68 6.65 8.05  Net Debt to EBITDA Times 2.95 2.60 2.51 2.19 2.08  Interest Coverage Ratio Times 11.20 9.11 6.79 7.58 8.43  Book Value Per Equity Share `  128.41 133.27 132.51 149.49 154.99  Net Debt to Shareholders’ Equity Times 1.23 1.22 1.16 1.01 1.08  Earnings Per Share (Basic) ` 15.93 11.22 6.00 7.02  12.97  Contribution to Exchequer (India) Taxes, Duties, Fees and other Levies ` Mn 307,999      119,082      141,513      213,324  237,688  Our  Performance Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 7 * Churn numbers reported are year-end numbers 1     141 bps improvement in operational productivity  on an year-on-year basis   This is computed by dividing the operating expenses  by the total revenues for the respective period.
Operating expenses is the sum of (i) employee costs  (ii) network operations costs and (iii) selling, general  and administrative costs.
This ratio depicts the  operational eﬃciencies in the Company.
2     449 bps increase in capex productivity on an   year-on-year basis   This is computed by dividing revenue for the period  by gross cumulative capex (gross ﬁxed assets and  capital work in progress) till date i.e.
the physical  investments made in the assets creation of the  Company.
This ratio depicts the asset productivity  of the Company.
RRevennnue MMaarket Share (((RMS)))  iin Inddiia stooood at 30.7%%% for  FFY 20014-155 versuuss 30.555% in  FFY 20013-144 LLeadiing thhee pacckk on ddata  rrevennnues wwwith ddaata RMMS, offf ~45%%%%  iin FYY 20144--15 aammongsst the  top  tthreee IIndiaaa chuurrn maaintaiined uuunderrr  22.5%%%*, AAffrica cchurnn reduuuced tttoo  55.8%%%* Market Share Growth Cost Eﬃciency Expanding Margins 34.17 32.47 EBITDA Margin (%) Credible Growth 920,394  857,461  Revenue (` Mn) Y-oY-o-ooo---YYYY 777777%%%%%%% 43.79 45.20 Opex Productivity 1 (%) PA T Margin (%) 5.6 3.2 Y-oY-o-oo---YYYY 111111777700000000 bbpppppss Y-oY-oooo--Y-YYY 222222444440000000 bbppppppss Capex Productivity 2 (%) 77.40 72.91 Y-o-oooo---YYYY 111111444441111111 bbpppppsss Y-oY-o-ooo---YYYY 44444444444499999999 bbbpppppssss EBITDA (` Mn) 314,517  278,430  Y-oY-o-ooo---YYYY 11111133333%%%%%%%% 51,835  27,727 PAT (` Mn) Y-oY-o-ooo---YYYY 888888777777%%%%%%%% FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 Our Performance Digital for all Annual Report 2014-158 A Life-enrichment  Network We are one of the world’s leading  providers of telecommunication  services with signiﬁcant presence in  India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and 17  countries in Africa.
These 20 countries  represent around 26% of the world’s  population.
We provide telecom services under  wireless and ﬁxed line technology,  national and international long- distance connectivity, Digital TV and  Internet Protocol television (IPTV)  services; and oﬀer integrated telecom  solutions to our enterprise customers.
‘Airtel Money’ strengthens our  overarching objective of ﬁnancial  inclusion and oﬀers convenience of  payments and money transfers on  mobile phones over secure and stable  platforms.
Our operations reach out to millions  of subscribers, strengthening a life-  enrichment network.
At our very core, we are a brand that helps  elevate the quality of life of millions of people  globally.
Our presence transcends geographic  borders, cultural diﬀerences and linguistic  diversity.
Over the years, we have created a  vast fraternity of customers, who rely on our  innovative solutions everyday.
The expansion of mobile internet and emergence  of plenty of digital possibilities are evolving the  telecom sector signiﬁcantly.
Across South Asia  and Africa, we are partnering these possibilities  by leveraging on our intrinsic strengths.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 9 Product  Performance (Revenue wise)  53.8 27.0 5.5 6.7 4.52.5 Mobile India and South Asia   Mobile Africa Airtel Business T elemedia Digital Services T ower Infrastructure FY 201144-15 RRevennuue Miix (%) MMoobille  Serrrviccesss TTeelleemmedddiaa  DDigggitaal TTVV Aiirtteel Businnesss  Toowweer  Infraaastruuctuure We oﬀer an entire broadband continuum - ﬁxed line voice and high-speed broadband across  homes and oﬃce segments, broadband (via DSL), IPTV, internet leased line and MPLS  services.
Pan-India presence across 90 cities.
First Indian company, which provides real integration of all the three screens - television,  mobile and computer - enabling our customers to record their favourite TV programmes  through mobile and web.
We oﬀer diverse portfolio of services - voice, data, video, network integration, data centres,  managed services, enterprise mobility applications and digital media.
Strategically located submarine cables and satellite network - global network running  across 225,000 Rkms, covering 50 countries and 5 continents.
One of the world’s largest infrastructure solutions providers with over 83,000 towers  (including proportionate share of Indus T owers) We oﬀer a wide array of services under voice and data categories to over 310 Mn customers.
Mobile Africa*  6% Y-o-Y (USD Mn) 4,434  4,709   13% Y-o-Y (` Mn) 39,352  44,325   19% Y-o-Y (` Mn) 20,771  24,759   6% Y-o-Y (` Mn) 63,361  67,130   6% Y-o-Y (` Mn) 51,087 54,282  11% Y-o-YMobile India and South Asia*  (` Mn) 484,228 535,372  *including inter-segmental eliminations FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 *on constant currency basis A Life-enrichment Network | Product Performance  Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1510 May Aug Sept NovJul   Raised USD 1 Bn and EUR 750 Mn  in the ﬁrst ever dual currency  issuance by an Indian issuer and  by any Asian T elco   Divested over 3,100 telecom  towers to Helios T owers in  four countries across African  operations   Successful completion of oﬀer for  the sale of 4.5% of Bharti Infratel  Ltd. for a total consideration of  over ` 21,000 Mn   Acquired 2.55 Mn yuMobile  customers in Kenya   Divested over 3,500 telecom  towers to Eaton T owers in six  countries across its African  operations   Sold over 4,800 telecoms towers  to American T ower Corporation in  Nigeria   Crossed the milestone of 300 Mn  customers – added the last 100 Mn  customers in less than two years   The ﬁrst operator to launch 3G wiﬁ   dongle   Launched Wynk Music – carrier  agnostic mobile application with  curated library of 1.8 Mn songs   Mi India announced the launch  of Redmi 4G in partnership with  Airtel, tailored speciﬁcally to  India’s 4G network   Airtel’s ﬁrst 4G launch in Africa:  Seychelles   Launched ‘One-T ouch Internet’, a  ﬁrst-of-its-kind initiative to make  internet discovery easy for ﬁrst  time users   Airtel Africa won two awards  at Africacom – Best Mobile  Money Solution with Airtel  Money and Best App for Africa  with its intuitive Airtel Internet  application Revisiting an  Exciting Y ear 2014 Financial Highlights Operational Highlights Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 11 Dec Jan Feb Mar   Divested over 1,100 telecoms  towers to IHS Holding Ltd in  Zambia and Rwanda       Bharti Airtel partnered with Nokia  Networks to launch ultrafast 4G  services in India’s ﬁrst FDD-L TE  on 1800 MHz: marks India’s ﬁrst  FDD-L TE deployment   Successful completion of  Secondary Sale of 55 Mn shares  of Bharti Infratel Ltd for a total  consideration of over ` 19,250 Mn    Won 111.6 MHz prime spectrum  for ` 291,290 Mn    Acquired across  900/1800/2100 MHz for  renewals and new spectrum    3G on 900 MHz capabilities  now in 10 circles   Pan-India 3G/4G footprint   Airtel organised ‘Each One T each  One day’ – an industry-ﬁrst  initiative, aimed at driving India’s  internet literacy and contributing  to the nation’s digital inclusion  agenda   3G operational in all 17 operating  locations in Africa  Launched MyPlan family   Airtel applied for a Payments  Bank license with Kotak to acquire  19.9% stake in Airtel M Commerce  Services Limited   Wynk Music crosses milestone of  5 Mn app downloads   4G extended to 17 cities in India   Airtel’s One T ouch Internet  honoured as the ‘Best Mobile  Service/Application for consumers  at GSMA’s Global Mobile Awards  2015 2015 Revisiting an Exciting Year Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1512 Global telecommunication is in the  middle of a signiﬁcant transformational  shift today.
While 4G as a technology  is stabilising rapidly, numerous  possibilities in the realm of M2M  connectivity are fast appearing on  the horizon, signalling exciting future  possibilities.
Regulatory issues with  regard to in-market consolidation are  becoming an active action point for the  industry across the world.
Riding on accelerated smartphone  penetration and new generation  network roll-outs, exponential growth  of data services remained the deﬁning  feature of incremental telecom growth  in emerging markets during the year.
Rapid adoption of data services has  not only meant proliferation of new  application based services, but also  signalled potentially disruptive changes  in the ecosystem.
Emerging and developing economies  emitted mixed signals during the year  as global economic developments  impacted them in varied and  asymmetric ways.
While India  beneﬁted signiﬁcantly from lower  global commodity prices to register  substantive and stable economic  Dear Shareholders, recovery, Africa’s commodity driven  economies struggled to cope  with weakening prices and sharp  depreciation of currencies in several  markets.
We clearly encountered  contrasting environs in the two key  geographies.
Airtel India was a clear bright spot for  us, where we not only wrested back  revenue market share, but improved  proﬁtability as well.
The Company’s  customer acquisition and retention  strategy yielded signiﬁcantly reduced  churn.
With enhanced investment in  data networks - both 3G and 4G, and  strategic initiatives like ‘one touch  internet’ to attract new customers  to the internet, we experienced a  pronounced uptick in data services,  which now accounts for over 17.6% of  our revenues in India.
We expect further  momentum in this direction in the  coming days.
Proactive spectrum acquisition has  been a conscious strategy for us to  secure our long-term roadmap.
In  March 2015 auctions in India, the  Company not only successfully renewed  its prime 900 MHz spectrum holdings  in six circles, but managed to acquire  additional spectrum in diﬀerent bands  in 13 other circles.
Post these renewals  and fresh acquisitions, we now have a  spectrum mix that gives us unmatched  pan-India reach across 2G, 3G and 4G.
Message from   Chairman Prroaaccctivvve ssspecctruuum  acccquuisitttionnn haass bbeeennn a  cooonssccciouuus ssstraaategggy fffor  usss toooo secccureee ouur lloonggg- teermm  roaaadmmmapp.
17.6% 6.2 Mn+ of the Company’s revenues  in India is accounted from  data services Airtel Money customers  position us to become a major  mobile commerce service  provider in Africa.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 13 An unfavourable economic environment  in Africa, further complicated by  Ebola outbreak, adversely aﬀected our  revenue growth in the region.
Robust  growth in data traﬃc, however, proved  to be a strong counterweight against  weakening voice revenues.
Our 3G  footprint now covers all 17 markets  in Africa.
We also made our 4G debut  in the continent during the year with  launches in Rwanda and Seychelles.
With over 6.2 Mn Airtel Money  customers, we are well on course to  become a major mobile commerce  service provider in the continent.
During the year, Bharti Airtel undertook  several initiatives to meet its long- term funding requirements through  a strategic mix of debt and equity.
The Company’s subsidiary Bharti  Airtel International (Netherlands) B.V.  successfully raised USD 1.75 Bn and  EUR 750 Mn through two issues of  Guaranteed Senior Notes on extremely  favourable terms.
We also oﬄoaded a  total of 140 Mn shares of Bharti Infratel  in two tranches for a total consideration  of ` 40,689 Mn, primarily to increase  free ﬂoat and thereby better price  Teeeleeccccommm is cleeaarllyyy  mmoorrpppphinnng intoo a dddattaa- ceeenttrrrric fffutuuree, whhhichhh  iss deessstinnned to tthrrooww  upp ittsss unnniquue ssset oof  oppppoooortunitiess aandd  chhhallllllengggess.
Message from Chairman discovery.
Our African subsidiaries  also entered into several agreements  with international tower companies  for divestment of over 10,000 towers in  diﬀerent markets.
The Company’s Board went through  multiple changes during the year.
While  Tsun-yan Hsieh, Ajay Lal and Manoj  Kohli departed after long and extremely  productive stints, Shishir Priyadarshi,  Director, World T rade Organization  (WTO), entered the Board during  this period.
I take this opportunity to  express my sincere gratitude to Tsun- yan, Ajay and Manoj for their valuable  service to the Board during their  respective tenures.
Our philanthropic arm Bharti  Foundation through its school  programme is now reaching out to  nearly 52,000 rural school students  through 254 Satya Bharti Schools, 334  Learning Centres and other Quality  Support initiatives in India.
The year  also witnessed the expansion of our  philanthropic portfolio with the launch  of Satya Bharti Abhiyan, a rural  sanitation initiative, involving a total  outlay of up to ` 1,000 Mn.
In Africa,  in addition to the ‘Adopt a School’  Programme, which is now catering to  over 24,000 students, our subsidiaries  worked closely with Governments  and NGOs to help curb the spread  of the deadly Ebola virus in diﬀerent  countries.
Internet is fast becoming an all- pervasive element in our lives,  impacting every conceivable area  of activity – commerce, banking,  entertainment, education, health and  governance, among others.
Rapid  proliferation of internet application  based business entities have been the  primary driving force of this change.
This new internet economy is going  to expand exponentially in the days to  come as millions of new smartphone  customers join the networks to  experience internet for the ﬁrst time.
T elecom is clearly morphing into  a data-centric future, which is  destined to throw up its unique set of  opportunities and challenges.
With  our proactive investments in spectrum  acquisition and network rollouts, which  is eﬀectively complemented by our  customer centric approach, we are well  positioned for a dominant play in this  evolving marketplace.
Sunil Bharti Mittal Thhe yyyyearrr wiitneessseed  thhe eeexxpaaanssionn off  ouuur pppphilaaantthrooopiccc  pooorttffffoliooo wwithh theee  laaunnccch ooof SSatyyya BBBhaaartii  AAbbhhiiyyyyannn, a rurrral saaaniittttatiooon initttiattiivee,  innvvoollllvinng aa toottal ouuutllaaaay ooof up tooo   ` 11,000000 MMMn.. Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1514 FY 2014-15 was an exciting year for  us.
During the year, we continued to  strengthen our go-to-market operation,  launch innovative data propositions,  accelerate postpaid growth, enhance  customer experience and strip out waste.
As a result, our India mobile business  grew 11.3% with an EBIT growth of 37.1%.
We also maintained consistent growth  across all our other businesses and more  importantly ensured that we have a team  that is cohesive and motivated.
We secured our future in the critical  spectrum auctions held in March.
Overall, spectrum worth ` 1,098,749 Mn  was bought by all the operators, of which  Bharti Airtel acquired spectrum worth   ` 291,291 Mn.
We now have a pan-India  mobile broadband footprint with recent  acquisition of 3G and 4G spectrum.
In addition, we also strengthened our  position in the 900 MHz band, enabling  us to provide 3G services on this band  as well.
On go-to-market excellence, we  continue to push automation of our  sales force processes and emphasise  the quality of acquisition, while also  stepping up the pace of customer  additions.
On the data services front, we launched  several innovations, such as the One  T ouch Internet (OTI) and Wynk Music.
One T ouch Internet was meant to  provide new users an opportunity to  sample the world of internet, thus  easing their transition to the world of  the internet.
Wynk Music was launched  with a disruptive proposition for  streaming music.
It oﬀers a library  of more than   1.8 Mn songs to our customers and  crossed 5 Mn downloads in less than six  months of launch.
We have expanded  our 4G footprint across many more  cities and have successfully positioned  our brand as ‘The Smartphone  Network.’ Last year witnessed one of  our largest site deployment and re- farming initiative as well.
These eﬀorts  helped us improve our data oﬀerings  and experience signiﬁcantly.
On Airtel Money, we partnered with Kotak  Mahindra Bank to apply for the payments  bank license.
We believe that this initiative  is critical to achieving the objective of  transitioning to a cashless economy.
We accelerated the growth of postpaid  through the launch of several  innovative oﬀerings.
The myPlan  product was extended to B2B customers  as well as re-packaged for a complete  family proposition.
Footprint of our  retail stores was expanded through  both own and franchisee outlets.
We  automated several customer facing  processes and are continuously  improving the quality of call centres, so  that we give superior experience to our  customers.
Identifying and weeding out waste from  our business is a top priority for us.
In  the past two years, we had set ambitious  cost-saving targets for ourselves  and, we have been able to meet them  successfully.
Finally, Bharti Airtel has constantly  strived to be among the preferred  places of work for the smartest in the  industry.
Last year, we strengthened  our internal performance management  processes and stepped up recruitment  from the top engineering and  management institutes in the country.
We continue to encourage our talent  to build a holistic long-term career  at Airtel.
As we strive for business growth and  excellence, we continue to fulﬁl our  responsibility to the environment and  our obligation to the society.
We are  launching our third Sustainability  Report this year that spells out  our initiatives for environment  sustainability.
Bharti Foundation, with  full support from our employees, has  been doing remarkable work in the  area of promoting education among  underprivileged rural children.
These  initiatives have made our corporate  citizenship more meaningful.
As we look ahead to the future, we  strongly believe that India is at the cusp  of another telecom revolution.
This  time round it is focused on data.
The  government’s ‘Digital India’ initiative  has the potential to transform the  daily lives of our people by bringing  in greater transparency and eﬃciency  in delivery of public services and  expand the reach to markets, which  were otherwise considered remote.
Airtel is uniquely positioned to make a  signiﬁcant contribution to the ‘Digital  India’ goals.
We have the assets in  terms of spectrum and network, the  talent and the innovations to make a  signiﬁcant impact.
Last but not the least, I want to thank  our customers, our people, our partners  and our shareholders for reposing faith  in us and helping script this ongoing  story.
Gopal Vittal Message from Managing Director  & CEO (India & South Asia) Dear Shareholders, DDuuriinnnng ttthe yyyeaaar,  wwee ccoooontiiinued tto  sttrreennnngthhhennn ouurr goo-tooo- mmaarrkkkket ooopeeeratttionn.
11.3% Growth of mobile business  in India  Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 15 Often considered the world’s last  frontier, Africa has continued to  demonstrate considerable growth  potential in key economic sectors.
Prospects are particularly bright in  the communications sector.
Whilst,  there has been continued growth  in the sector, there is still room for  improvement to match the much faster  growth seen in other telecom markets.
Despite all the challenges the  continent has faced – political unrest,  Ebola epidemic, economic instability,  continuous currency devaluation - that  have had an impact on the way we do  business, Africa presents immense  opportunities as we continue to build  stronger bonds with our stakeholders  and the communities we operate within.
As we continued to transform the  business, under the challenging  context we reviewed the way we lead  our operations in order to consistently  win in the market place and improve  our brand scores.
We anchored our  business plan during the year to the  following strategic considerations:   Customer growth with quality  at the focus, thereby increasing  customer lifetime value   Stronger data network rollout to  help garner incremental revenue  share higher than our current  revenue market share   Leveraging adoption of Airtel  Money to induce loyalty and  reduce the churn   Localised go-to-market with  intelligent volume and rate per  minute play for proﬁtable revenue  growth   Proliferate our war on waste  across countries by focusing on  cost eﬃciencies & sweating the  assets   Revamp of our leadership teams  at all levels and new corporate  governance  Data services have already become  a powerful revenue stream for the  industry in the region, with over 80%  of internet users in Sub-Saharan Africa  accessing it through mobile devices.
We  saw encouraging results during the year  as Airtel’s data subscriptions rose by  36.2% in Africa, whilst total MBs on the  network grew by over 87.4%.
Data usage  per customer was 130 MBs by March  2015 accounting for a year-on-year  growth of 35.4%.
With the launch of 3G in Gabon, Chad  and Niger, we now have extended our  footprint to all 17 markets in Africa.
We also launched our 4G services in  Rwanda and Seychelles, showcasing  our technology leadership in the region.
With 6.18 Mn Airtel Money customers,  we are set to become a major mobile  commerce service provider in the  continent.
Our strategy for growth  continues to focus on the expansion of  our ecosystem to include governments,  merchants, retailers, utilities, banks and  other relevant stakeholders.
We have  provided aﬀordable ﬁnancial services  such as utility payments, money  transfers (Local & International),  mobile insurance, savings and loans.
Under Airtel Money, we launched  the ﬁrst East Africa mobile cross  border cash transfer product that  will enable our customers transact  money with neighbouring countries  – Kenya, Rwanda, Burundi, Tanzania  and Uganda.
We also closed our  partnership with MasterCard and Visa  card companion card linking the Airtel  Money wallet with the cards.
We continued to connect with Africans  from all walks of life through various  engagement platforms, the most  visible initiative being the Airtel T race  Music Stars Competition which so far  is the biggest music competition in the  continent.
The ﬁnals at Nairobi, Kenya  drew the best singers qualifying from  preliminary stages in 17 countries.
With CSR playing a big role in shaping  the Company’s culture and growth, we  have adopted an even more focused  policy under which the organisation  will work on aligning mobile usage  in the continent to empower, enable  and unlock the potential of future  generations to create wealth in four  key sectors – education, enterprise  development, health and environment.
In the upcoming ﬁscal year, continuing  to build on the strategy pillars of this  year, our focus shall be revenue growth  and eliminating wastage through  operational eﬃciencies.
In addition, our  CSR policy will be a key driving force in  ensuring that we connect more with the  communities we operate in.
Amidst all this, our people will continue  to be a source of competitive advantage  as we aggressively hire and develop  the best-in-class talent so as to build a  strong employer brand and ensure full  focus and execution towards achieving  the objectives of our stakeholders.
Christian de Faria Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) B.V.
Message from Managing Director  & CEO (Africa) Dear Shareholders, Duuurinngggg theee yeaaar, wwee saawww  ennccouurrraginnng reeesulltts ass  Aiirrteell’’sss dattta suuubsccrripttioonsss  roosse bbyyyy 36...2%%% in AAffriccaaa,  wwhhilsstttt totaaal MBBBs oonn theee  neettwwooorrk grrrew bbby oovver 8887.44%%.
Message from Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia) | Message from Managing Director & CEO (Africa)  Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1516 Digital for all Mobile telephony is paving the way for an  unprecedented digital empowerment for  millions of people in India.
The country now has  over 200 Mn internet users, of which close to  60% access the web through a mobile device.
2 Mn First time data users  helped by Airtel One T ouch  Internet to experience  internet 1 Lakh+ Active customers for   3G Wiﬁ Dongle One T ouch Internet As data networks expand and internet  enabled devices become aﬀordable –  more and more Indians are accessing  the internet through their mobile  devices.
However, our market research  has shown that there are millions of  customers across the country, who  own an internet-ready mobile device  and are keen on getting online, but  are apprehensive due to reasons like  lack of know-how and fear of incurring  heavy data charges.
Airtel’s ‘One T ouch  Internet’ will handhold ﬁrst-time  internet users on their mobile devices.
Key USPs   Airtel’s ‘One T ouch Internet’ is  a Wireless Application Protocol  (WAP) portal designed with a  simple, secure and intuitive  interface.
It allows ﬁrst-time users  to discover the internet easily and  helps them overcome common  perception barriers around the  mobile data experience.
In 2014, the country topped as the  world’s fastest growing smartphone  market.
The availability of low-cost  smartphones, tablets and customer- friendly data tariﬀs is driving internet  penetration across urban, semi- urban and even rural areas.
India’s  digital aspirations are altering the  dynamics of traditional media and  entertainment industry, as more  eyeballs are now shifting to online  channels.
The Government of India is now  focusing on preparing a complete  framework for transforming  India into a digital society.
The  objective of the mega plan is to  help elevate the life of the common  citizen in multiple ways and in a  cost-eﬀective manner.
At Bharti  Airtel, we have the right assets  and the acumen to ensure that our  response to this transformation is  proactive and innovative.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 17 5 Mn+  App downloads registered  on Wynk music in less than  six months 17 cities  4G roll out across India in 9,951 cities  Airtel 3G is available  across India in   Available in 10 languages and a  highly visual interface that helps  address the ‘literacy’ barrier to  internet adoption.
‘One T ouch Internet’ works as a  single-point destination for the  ‘uninitiated’ to see, try and buy a  host of popular services (including  social networking, videos, online  shopping and travel bookings) – all  with just one touch.
Driving Digital Inclusion India has the world’s third largest  internet subscriber base.
But the  country’s internet penetration stands  at about 19%, which is low compared  to internet penetration in other major  economies, such as the US and China.
We believe digital literacy is critical  to drive a knowledge-driven economy  in the twenty-ﬁrst century.
In line  with our belief, we organised ‘Each  One T each One day’- an industry-ﬁrst  initiative aimed at driving internet  literacy in India.
Our network of 1.4  Mn retailers, 20,000 on-the-ﬁeld  executives and 15,000 employees across  a total of around 1,800 towns pledged  their support towards the cause of  widespread internet awareness in India.
Wynk Music With the proliferation of smartphones  in the country, mobile phones have  emerged as the most preferred  platform, when it comes to  experiencing music on the go and  accounts for almost 85-90% of total  digital consumption.
We introduced  Wynk Music – a device agnostic  mobile application that is designed to  introduce music lovers to a library of  over 1.8 Mn songs (including Hindi,  regional and international hits) curated  by experts.
With this launch, Airtel  has now become the ﬁrst operator to  introduce an OTT (Over-the-T op) mobile  application in the Indian market.
The  application is not restricted to any  speciﬁc mobile operator, enabling  customers to stream, download and  buy songs at reasonable prices and  experience an ad-free interface, while  on the move.
New Internet Products 3G Wiﬁ Dongle: Airtel launched 3G Wiﬁ  Dongle being the ﬁrst 3G operator to  launch this device.
The product can be  plugged anywhere like phone charger  USB, laptop USB, car charger to create  a wiﬁ hotspot and up to ﬁve users can  connect and enjoy 3G.
Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1518 Digital for all Yes, that’s the number of people in India, we  are touching everyday with our wide-range of  innovative and customised solutions.
We are the  ﬁrst Indian company to enable real integration  of almost all digital devices, enabling our  customers a seamless experience.
3 Lakhs+  Users in 90+ countries  are part of the Airtel talk  community, as on  March 31, 2015 Airtel T alk High international call costs are a  deterrent towards customers freely  connecting with friends and family  when abroad.
At the same time, factors  such as fast-expanding penetration  of smartphones and adoption of data  services have led to a new market  preference for integrated forms of  communication, such as video calling  and instant messaging, among others.
We introduced ‘airtel talk’ – an all-in- one communication application that  facilitates easy and aﬀordable solution  for Indians across the world to call back  home.
It can work as an alternative  to expensive ISD voice-only calls, low  quality messenger calls and calling  cards, among others.
Voice Free for Broadbandd  Customers   We are India’s ﬁrst telecom services  provider to oﬀer our broadband  customers free voice calls to any  network in the country 24X7.
We have  launched two ﬁrst-of-its-kind voice  calling packs for our broadband  customers, oﬀering unlimited free  voice calls at unbeatable prices to any  number in India on any network, both  ﬁxed line and mobile, round the clock.
Strengthening Enterprisee  Services  We joined the AWS Partner Network  (APN), which will enable us to deliver  private network solutions for enterprise  customers using Amazon Web Services  (AWS) globally.
This will help Airtel’s  enterprise customers across the globe  leverage the power of AWS Direct  Connect to establish a dedicated  network connection between customers’  premises and Amazon’s data centres.
It helps them reduce network costs,  Airtel myPlan - tailor-maade pplan  for the entire family We introduced myPlan Family for our  post-paid segment, enabling customers  to not just tailor-make their postpaid  plan, but also share the beneﬁts with  their family.
Our customers can now  customise postpaid plans on the basis  of their family’s usage preferences  and requirements.
They can share  the beneﬁts of the plan with ﬁve of  their family members, thus ensuring  zero wastage or overspend that are  otherwise inherent in individual plans.
Airtel’s myPlan family combines the  features of inﬁnite ﬂexibility oﬀered  by myPlan with the sharing feature to  oﬀer aﬀordability, convenience and zero  wastage.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 19 460+ Channels & services  oﬀered (58 channels added  during FY 2014-15) 10 Mn Customer base achieved by  Airtel Digital TV in just 6  years of inception increase bandwidth throughput and  experience a more consistent network  connectivity.
Airtel is committed to providing highly  reliable connectivity between the  customer location and their closest  AWS data centre - thus giving a  consistent user experience and secure  network conﬁguration, while reducing  costs of IT infrastructure.
Enriching the TV Viewingg  Experience   Innovation and customer satisfaction is  core to our DNA.
We strive to empower  our customers with superior television  viewing experience by oﬀering  innovative and life enriching services,  supported by cutting-edge technology.
We are the ﬁrst to introduce the  Universal Remote to the market, along  with value-added services, such as  Multi-lingual Electronic Programme  Guide (EPG).
We are also the world’s  ﬁrst USSD-based self-care facility on  mobile, making Airtel one of the fastest  growing Direct-T o-Home (DTH) service  providers in the country.
We have a Self-Care Application for  television sets, a ﬁrst-of-its kind by a  DTH service provider.
The application  enables customers with an Airtel Digital  TV HD set-top-box to easily access their  Airtel Digital TV account details on a  real-time basis on their television sets.
They do not need to reach out to the  customer support centre.
We collaborated with Samsung to  launch the Integrated Digital TV and  introduce the Indian market to its next  phase of TV viewing experience with the  launch of Integrated Digital TV (iDTV).
As part of this innovation - Samsung’s  range of Smart Direct TVs will come  designed with an in-built Airtel digital  TV Smart Card.
This will enable DTH  signal reception without the need for  customers to install an external set- top-box (STB).
Among Many Firsts   Our subscribers only need to  connect a pen-drive to a set-top  box to enable Pause Live feature,  enabling customers to record their  favourite TV programmes and  watch them at leisure.
Our subscribers can also watch  television on phone or tablet by simply  downloading the app on the device.
Widening Spread We are constantly innovating to  meet the expectations of our growing  fraternity of customers in India.
In  the last 14 months, we have opened  over 100 Company-Owned-Company- Operated Airtel stores across India.
These stores will oﬀer end-to-end  service support for their Airtel mobile,  dongle and broadband connections.
Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1520 Digital for all Elevating Customer Experience Self-Care:  Self-Care is a handset  driven self-service option that provided  customers with multiple channels  to get service anytime, anywhere.
Following the launch, its popularity  is steadily rising.
In addition, service  though social media gained extensive  momentum.
Customer Engagement: We undertake  several initiatives throughout the year  to enhance customer engagement.
During the last FIFA World Cup, for  instance, 80 High Value Customers  were sent to Brazil, who were selected  through various promotions.
Special  events were conducted for premier  customers.
We also partnered with  hotels, airlines, airport lounges and  other well-known brands.
It helped  improve customer experience, as well  as our revenues.
Airtel Specialised Customer Care  Service: Launched in 11 markets with  plans to extend across Gabon, DRC,  Congo B, Chad and Seychelles.
We have  Airtel care active user base of over  70,000.
Africa is unnmistakabllyy risingg.. Home to more  than a billion peoplee aand somme of the fastest  growing ecconomies ooff tthe woorrld, the continent  is geared tto play a mmoorre signniﬁﬁcant role in  inﬂuencingg global eccoonnomicc aaﬀairs, than ever  before.
Theere are chaalllengess,, but the bright  spots are cclearly visibblle.
Sub-Saharan Africa, for instance,  enjoyed robust economic growth of 5%  4G Africa’s ﬁrst such service  launched in the Seychelles 3G Operational in all 17  locations in Africa where  we are present in 2014, driven by strong investment  in mining and infrastructure and  by strong private consumption,  especially in low income countries.
Although there are headwinds, the  region will continue to be among  the fastest growing economies of  the world.
We have steadily escalated our  investments in Africa, as we see  a lot of untapped potential in  the communications sector.
We  are now well positioned to derive  beneﬁts of increasing tele-density  in countries, which are under- penetrated.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 21 Digital Drive AppStore: AppStore, launched in ﬁve  markets, plans to extend across Nigeria,  Madagascar, Chad and Sierra Leone.
AppStore has 40,817 active users,  20,358 downloads and 89,651 visits  since its launch.
Micro Insurance:  Micro insurance  oﬀers Airtel customers free insurance  products, based on their monthly  spend.
The product is further enhanced  by a paid-for model, where customers  can choose to extend their cover.
Intenet Discovery Portal: It is a new  data user on-boarding tool with a set of  content including news, education and  health, among others   eg: Internet.org was adjudged the Best  App at Africa GSMA 2014.
Wynk: We rolled out music app in eight  markets and further plan to extend it  across various other locations.
We are  in the process of improving customer  experience and acquiring more  content,based on market research and  consumer behaviour.
Airtel Zone: Airtel Zone is a dynamic  tariﬃng solution that oﬀers the Airtel  customer an optimal tariﬀ, in the form  of a discount, at the time of initiating  the call.
This discount is calculated,  based on the speciﬁc cell site, the  time of day and the current utilisation  characteristics.
We have launched this  across 12 African markets and continue  to roll out in other operating locations.
Dynamic SIM Allocation (DSA): DSA  was launched in Nigeria and provides  Airtel the ability to supply the market  with blank SIM cards, therefore making  our SIM’s accessible to all.
This is  possible as valuable network resources,  such as Mobile Numbers are not tied  up at the time of distribution, but only  allocated at the time of SIM activation.
The solution can also be expanded to  provide the customer with choices, such  as Mobile Number, Language and Tariﬀ  Plan selection at the time of activation.
DSA is currently being expanded to  Tanzania, Democratic Republic of Congo  and Burkina Faso.
Video Entertainment Store (VES):   We have already launched VES in Kenya,  Uganda, Malawi, with plans of further  expansion.
VES enables customers to  watch videos at a low price and consume  data with no charges.
Home Wi-Fi Router:  Implemented in  Tanzania, it provides connectivity to all  devices (including non-sim devices).
It has a screen with self-care app for  subscription and account management.
Airtel Red: We launched our ﬁrst  customised 3G smartphone across 12  operating locations in Africa.
Through  this launch, we are focusing on  migrating existing and new customers  from the traditional feature phones  to android smartphones; and take  advantage of Airtel’s 3G networks.
Product Innovation   UnlimiNET , ﬁrst launched in Kenya,  oﬀers talk time, SMS and data  packages to customers.
It enables  customers continue browsing, even  after their bundles run out.
Yatosha, launched in Tanzania, is  a combo pack comprising bundled  minutes for voice, SMS and data.
The customers can either choose  an ‘All Networks’ pack or ‘Airtel to  Airtel’ pack.
Wiceceka, an unlimited voice  bundle, was launched in Rwanda  to boost voice revenue growth and  improve ‘Airtel to Airtel’ traﬃc  and revenues.
This bundle has  been a huge success, with growing  customer base and revenues.
Talk ChawAnkasa rewards the  customers with ﬁve times bonus on  the attainment of some targets.
It  can be spent on voice, SMS and data  before mid-night of the same day.
Smart Share allows customers to share  one data plan with family and friends.
Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1522 Board of  Directors Sunil Bharti Mittal Chairman C1 Craig Ehrlich Independent Director C1 Obiageli Ezekwesili Independent Director Sheikh Faisal Thani Al-Thani Non-Executive Director Ben Verwaayen Independent Director C2 Chua Sock Koong Non-Executive Director C2 V. K. Viswanathan Independent Director C1 C2 C3 Manish Kejriwal Independent Director D. K. Mittal Independent Director C2 C3 C4 Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 23 Board Committees C1 Audit & Risk Management Committee C2 HR & Nomination Committee C3 Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee C4 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Chairmanship Membership Rajan Bharti Mittal Non-Executive Director C2 C3 C4 Shishir Priyadarshi Independent Director C1 C1 Tan Yong Choo C3 C4 Gopal Vittal MD & CEO (India & South Asia)Non-Executive Director Board of Directors Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1524 Awards  & Accolades  Bharti Airtel secured the top spot  in Brand Equity’s ‘50 Most T rusted  Service Brands’ 2014.
Bharti Airtel won two awards –  ‘Enterprise Mobile App’ and ‘Uniﬁed  Communication Solution’ at the 5th  Edition of the Aegis Graham Bell  Awards 2014 in New Delhi.
Bharti Airtel ranked third in The  Economic Times and Interbrand’s  ‘Best Indian Brands’ survey for 2014.
According to the survey’s brand  valuation methodology, the Company’s  brand was valued at ` 294.77 Bn.
Bharti Airtel secured the second  position in the ‘BrandZ T op 50 Most  Valuable Indian Brands 2014’.
As  per the survey’s brand valuation  methodology, the brand was valued at  USD 8,217 Mn.
Airtel Bangladesh won the ‘Mobile  Money’ and ‘Digital Payments Global’  Awards, 2014 in the category of  ‘Collaboration Commendation’ at the  Mobile Money and Digital Payments  Global Conference in Istanbul.
Bharti Airtel ranked fourth in Brand  Finance’s survey for ‘The Most  Valuable Indian Brands of 2014.’ Bharti Airtel Lanka positioned among  top 50 companies on LMD magazine’s  ‘Most Respected Entities, 2014’   in Sri Lanka.
Bharti Airtel won ‘Voice & Data  T elecom Leadership Awards 2014’  in three categories – ‘T op Circles’,  ‘Product Innovation’ and ‘Business  Services’ at the Voice & Data T elecom  Leadership Forum 2015 in New Delhi.
Bharti Airtel Lanka bagged the Gold  Award at the People Development  Awards 2014, organised by the  Sri Lanka Institute of T raining and  Development (SLITAD) in Colombo.
Bharti Airtel was recognised as the  ‘T op T reasury T eam Asia 2014’ at the  Adam Smith Awards Asia 2014 in  Singapore.
Voice & Data T elecom Leadership Awards 2014 – Bharti Airtel (India) – ‘T op Circles category’  Voice & Data T elecom Leadership Awards 2014 – Bharti Airtel (India) –‘Product Innovation category’  People Development Awards 2014 – Airtel Lanka – ‘Gold Award’ Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 25 Airtel Africa won ‘Best Mobile Money  Solution’ and ‘Best App for Africa’  awards at the AfricaCom Awards 2014  in Cape T own, South Africa.
Airtel Ghana was recognised as the  ‘Best Mobile Money Service of the  year,’ and ‘CSR Company of the year’  at the Ghana T elecom Awards 2014.
Airtel Nigeria recognised as the  ‘Customer Friendly Operator of the  Year’ award at the Nigerian T elecoms  Awards 2014 in Lagos.
Airtel Ghana won ﬁve awards –  ‘PR Campaign of the Year’, ‘Best  Community Relations Program of  the Year’, ‘PR Discovery of the Year’,  ‘Social Media Company of the Year’  and ‘PR Organization of the Year –  T elecoms’ at the 2014 Institute of  Public Relations Excellence Awards  in Accra.
Airtel Ghana won ‘Marketing Oriented  Organization of the Year’ and ‘Brand  Activation Program of the Year’ Awards  at the Chartered Institute of Marketing  Ghana (CIMG) Awards 2014 in Accra.
Airtel Zambia bagged the ‘Best  Corporate Social Responsibility  Program’ and ‘Best Social Media  Campaign’ awards at the 2014 Zambia  Public Relations Association’s (ZAPRA)  Annual Awards held in Livingstone.
Bharti Airtel’s One T ouch Internet won  the ‘Best Mobile Service/Application of  the Year for consumers award’ in the  category of Best Mobile Services at  the GSMA Global Mobile Awards 2015  in Barcelona.
Airtel Kenya was recognised as the  ‘Best Wholesale Operator’ at the 3rd  International Mobile Virtual Network  Operators (MVNOs) World Congress  2015 in Nice, France.
Nigerian T elecom Awards 2014 – Airtel Nigeria – ‘Most Customer friendly Network’   Chartered Institute of Marketing Ghana (CIMG) Awards 2014 -  Airtel Ghana – ‘Marketing Oriented Organization of the Year’ and ‘Brand Activation Program of the Year’  AfricaCom Awards 2014 – Airtel Africa – ‘Best Mobile Money Solution’ and ‘Best App for Africa’ Awards & Accolades Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1526 At Bharti Airtel, we believe that doing business  responsibly and sustainably is crucial for  building long-term growth and stakeholder  value.
As the digital landscape is fast expanding  globally and touching lives in diﬀerent ways,  we are aligning our sustainability strategy with  our innovations in the digital sphere.
Our sustainability strategy revolves around  two key imperatives:   A) Community wellbeing and empowerment  through multiple initiatives and innovation;   B) Environment protection through green  initiatives and judicious resource management.
From small yet signiﬁcant eﬀorts to large- scale community and environmental initiatives,  our objective is consistent.
T o ensure a better  quality of life for all and partner the global  movement to combat environmental hazards  and climate change.
Corporate Social Responsibility  & Sustainability India A.
Community Wellbeing & Empowerment   At Bharti Airttel, we are partneriningg the governrnment’s initiative to empower  disadvantageed communities thhrorouugh need-bbasa ed intervention in the realm  of education, employment genneeratation, sanittatation, healthcare, disaster  managementt and environment pprrotection, aamom ng others.
Working for  communities, and considering tthehem key stakakeeholders in our progress, is  helping us emmerge as an agentt ofof positivity anand change for an aspiring nation.
Bharti Foundation   Imparting quality education to rural  disadvantaged children has been the  primary focus of the Foundation ever  since its inception.
The Foundation is  committed to help underprivileged  children and young people of our  country realise their potential.
The Satya Bharti School Program  is the ﬂagship initiative of Bharti  Foundation.
It aims to provide free  quality education to underprivileged  children in rural India, with a special  focus on the girl child.
The model  ensures that children are provided  quality education absolutely free of cost  through well trained teachers, selected  through a well formulated process,  from the surrounding communities.
It  supports students in our schools with  free uniforms, education materials,  nutritious mid-day meals, among  other facilities, in addition to charging  absolutely no fees.
In close partnership with ‘Educate  a Child’, a global initiative, Bharti  Foundation implements the Satya  Bharti Learning Centres Program.
The program aims to bridge the  education gap of out-of-school children  and mainstream them into regular  government schools in villages.
Under  its Quality Support Program, Bharti  Foundation is also collaborating with  government schools to improve the  overall quality of schools.
It does so  by bringing in its learnings from the  Satya Bharti School Program and  enabling the leadership and teachers  of rural government schools to initiate  their schools on the path of constant  improvement.
The Foundation has recently  announced ‘Satya Bharti Abhiyan’,  an initiative to improve sanitation  facilities in rural Ludhiana.
In addition  to rural household sanitation, it will  also improve sanitation facilities in  government schools in rural Ludhiana  ```` MMMMnn SSSppentt oonn CCSSRR innittiattivves in  FFFYY 20011444-1555 Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 27 by building toilets for girls, where no  such facilities exist.
I. Satya Bharti School Program     The Satya Bharti School Program  was introduced in 2006.
This  rural education initiative has the  following objectives:   Provide free and quality education  to underprivileged children, with  a special focus on the girl child, in  rural parts of the country.
T ransform students into educated,  conﬁdent, responsible and self- reliant employable citizens of  the country with a deep sense of  commitment to their society.
Encourage active involvement of  the community, parents and like- minded organisations.
Make a lasting and sustainable  impact on the community where  schools are present.
Find innovative solutions,  through its primary, elementary  and senior secondary schools to  create replicable and scalable  components in the program  to facilitate delivery of quality  education.
Building T omorrow’s T alent In FY 2014-15, the ﬁrst batch of  40 students from Satya Bharti  Adarsh Senior Secondary School,  Chogawan, Amritsar appeared  for the CBSE Class X board  exams.
All the students passed  the exam; 10 students scored a  CGPA of 9 and above.
Eight of  these 10 students are girls.
* *  While the ﬁnancial year ends on  March 31, 2015, these results were  declared in the month of May 2015.
Number of  Satya Bharti  Schools Number of states Number of students %%%% Percentage of girls %%%% Percentage of children  from SC/ST/OBC  communities Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainability Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1528 II.
Satya Bharti Learning Centres     In its pursuit to accelerate the  enrolment of out-of-school  children, Bharti Foundation  initiated the Satya Bharti Learning  Centres Program, in partnership  with ‘Educate a Child’ (EAC).
This  is a global initiative to reduce  the number of out-of-school  children across the world and  Bharti Foundation is a strategic  partner to this global campaign.
The Satya Bharti Learning Centres  (Remedial/Bridge Centres) are  set up to enrol out-of-school  children back into schools and  provide remedial education to  develop age appropriate learning  competencies.
Program Approach   1.
Classrooms: Government schools  provide the classroom(s) for  setting up centres in villages.
2.
T eaching Resource:  An Education  Volunteer is appointed by the  Bharti Foundation to conduct  academic and non-academic  initiatives.
3.
Identiﬁcation and Enrolment:  Education Volunteers conduct  household surveys for  identiﬁcation and enrolment of  out-of-school children.
4.
Baseline Assessment: A baseline  survey is conducted to identify the  learning gaps of children.
5.
Remedial Strategy: Based on the  results of the baseline survey,  children undergo three/six/nine/ twelve months of remedial courses  to develop age-appropriate  learning competencies.
6.
T raining of Education Volunteers:  The Education Volunteers are  imparted pedagogical training  before they teach.
III.
Quality Support Program     The program partners with  government schools and works  along with its leadership and  teachers to support them  in their  journey towards excellence.
The  program facilitates the desired  change in rural government  schools through two channels of  engagement.
It optimises on the  existing strengths and it provides  catalytic support to bridge gaps  identiﬁed by the schools’ own  leadership team.
This approach  ensures that the schools can  succeed on the strength of their  own capabilities and motivation.
Anjali Puri, Class VIII, Satya Bharti  School, Balial, Sangrur, Punjab Anjali is one of ﬁve children in her  family, including four girls and one  boy.
Her father is a rural hawker, with  no stable income source.
But that did  not prevent young Anjali from going  to school regularly.
She is so fond of  books that she reads even during  recess and while she waits for her  ride back home.
She took inspiration from her  teachers and conducted awareness  campaigns in the village to sensitise  her parents and the community on  the importance of educating girls.
As  a result, a lot of other girls (including  Anjali’s elder sister) now go to school.
Anjali epitomises the Foundation’s  credo of leadership through holistic  development of children through  quality education.
Conﬁdent Face   of Change Program Approach Optimise use  of existing  resources,  policies and  systems.
Collaborate  with school  leadership and  staﬀ to maximise  usage.
Support school  leaders to  achieve higher  goals and bridge  existing gaps.
Facilitate,  support and  enhance school  resources,  processes and  eﬀorts.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 29 IV.
Satya Bharti Abhiyan     Bharti Foundation has undertaken  a new initiative – ‘Satya Bharti  Abhiyan’ - to improve sanitation  facilities in rural Ludhiana.
Inspired by the Hon’ble Prime  Minister’s call to the corporate  sector during his speech on  Independence Day (2014), to  strengthen Government’s initiative  on this score, the Foundation has  adopted Ludhiana district (rural)  as its focus area for improvement  of sanitation.
As part of this  program, the Foundation will  construct Individual HouseHold  Latrines (IHHLs) in houses  without such amenities, in over  900 villages across the district,  over the next three years.
Satya  Bharti Abhiyan is also investing  in the improvement of sanitation  facilities in government schools  in rural Ludhiana by building new  toilets for girls, where no such  facilities exist.
V. Other Programmes     The Bharti School of  T elecommunication T echnology  and Management, IIT Delhi  helps develop telecom leaders  through excellence in education  and research oﬀering MT ech,  MBA, MS(R) and PhD at IIT ,  Delhi.
In addition, the Airtel IIT  Delhi Centre of Excellence in  T elecommunications (AICET) was  set up under a public-private  partnership mode, functioning as  an integral part of Bharti School  of T elecommunication T echnology  and Management at IIT Delhi.
In FY 2014-15, 120 students  were supported through various  facilities of the Bharti School  to pursue courses in associated  ﬁelds.
We also have Bharti Centre for  Communication in partnership  with IIT Bombay and the Bharti  Institute of Public Policy in  Airtel Connect Airtel Delhi Half Marathon   Airtel Delhi Half Marathon has  created a robust platform to generate  awareness about various initiatives  of Bharti Foundation as well as  many other NGOs.
Organisations  and individuals from all walks of life  participated with enthusiasm.
Corporate  teams ran for Bharti Foundation under  the theme – Making a Diﬀerence  T ogether.
Y oung Leader Program  Young Leader Program is a two-week  corporate induction initiative.
It  encourages new joinees of Bharti Airtel  to participate in various initiatives of  the Foundation.
This year 29 Young  Leaders volunteered for 21 Satya  Bharti Schools in Punjab, Haryana,  Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh.
They  assisted the teachers in classrooms,  trained students in various skills, such  as communication and leadership and  interacted with communities, during  their stint with Bharti Foundation.
ACT (A Caring T ouch)  A Caring T ouch (ACT) is an employee  payroll giving programme for Bharti  Group of companies.
The programme  encourages employees to give back to  the society in terms of money, time,  skills or knowledge.
Contributions are  matched by the Company as per policy.
partnership with the Fletcher  School of Law and Diplomacy,  T ufts University (USA) at the  Indian School of Business in  Mohali.
In addition, exceptionally  talented students are awarded  Bursaries to pursue studies at  the University of Cambridge, UK  through the Manmohan Singh  Bursary Fund.
Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainability Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1530 Initiatives by Circle Oﬃces In Good Times and Bad  At Bharti Airtel, community remains  our partners in progress.
We believe in  being with the community, whatever  may be the purpose.
We participate  in community festivities and provide  critical help and support to those in need  during emergencies.
This is part of our  sustainability agenda to create value for all.
Celebrating Navaratri: Airtel’s Gujarat  Circle celebrated the festival of  Navaratri with mentally and physically  challenged kids.
They enjoyed dinner  with the team and received a token of  appreciation.
The Circle also helped visually impaired  girls to put up a kiosk at the oﬃce and  encouraged employees to buy products  that were displayed  by them.
The Circle participated in the Clean  Bharat Campaign and the awareness  walk organised by the State Municipal  Corporation.
Rejoicing Children’s Day: On the eve  of ‘Children’s Day’, Rajasthan Circle  organised a three-day online auction of  over 50 laptops; the proceeds of which  were handed over to Bharti Foundation.
Protecting the Environment: Under  the ‘Go Green’ campaign initiative,  the Rajasthan Circle organised a tree  plantation campaign in Jaipur.
Airtel  employees participated enthusiastically  in the plantation campaign and planted  saplings in large numbers.
T eam UPU also contributed in  environment conservation.
Over 250  employees participated in the event and  each person pledged to plant a sapling.
Joy of Giving Week: The week provided  the Rajasthan team with another  opportunity to show their commitment.
The team visited two Satya Bharti  Schools in Amber, Jaipur district and  asked the school kids what they wished  for.
The wishes of the children varied  from school bags to crayons.
A wish  tree was created in the Jaipur oﬃce  bearing fruits, containing the various  wishes of children like pencil box  and chocolates, among others.
Some  employees even committed to fulﬁl  such wishes of children.
Christmas Celebration: Bihar and  Jharkhand circle celebrated Christmas  with diﬀerently-abled students at  a school in Darbhanga.
The team  distributed sweets and snacks to  students, along with note books,  instrument boxes, pencils, pens,  erasers, sharpeners, among others.
On request, a DTH connection was  installed in the school, which will get  recharged by Airtel every month.
Blood Donation  Celebrating the 68th year of the Indian  Independence and remembering the  heroes who sacriﬁced their lives for the  nation, Airtel WBO organised a voluntary  blood donation camp at its premise.
Due to acute scarcity of blood for saving  lives, this initiative received much  appreciation.
Gujarat circle also organised a blood  donation camp at their circle oﬃce and  Rajkot zone.
Around 100 units were  donated by employees.
Reaching Out  In Kolkata, a team led by the CEO  and accompanied by other ECs visited  ‘PARIVAAR’, a house for disadvantaged  children, with some gifts this Diwali.
The team distributed stationeries  (crayons, pencils, pencil boxes, sketch  pens, notebook, drawing book) and  chocolates.
Community Awareness  Airtel Zonal T eam at Ludhiana, with the  help of Bharti Foundation’s regional  team, adopted ﬁve villages in Ludhiana  to build community awareness for  personal hygiene and household  sanitation.
The Swachhta Pracharaks chose  Republic Day to announce the launch   Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 31 of a campaign titled ‘Swachh Raho  Swasth Raho’.
It aimed to increase  awareness against the hazards of open  defecation and the lack of personal  hygiene through various initiatives.
The team promoted the campaign  through various activities, including  marching with banners and placards,  staging role-plays and door-to-door  activities.
The month-long initiative  witnessed door-to-door campaigning  with over 600 households.
It also  sensitised communities against the  contamination of water bodies and  the subsequent spread of water- borne diseases like diarrhoea and  cholera.
This consequently helped  the community members to cultivate  healthier habits for improved health.
Sanitation Week  Ludhiana Zone employees participated  during the inaugural session of the  sanitation week, where employees  picked up brooms and waste disposal  bags, along with Bharti Foundation  T eam and Satya Bharti School Students,  to strengthen the message on hygiene  and cleanliness.
In addition to the  community, students from other local  government schools also joined the  programme.
Disaster Relief   Bharti Airtel promptly responded to  the emergency situations arising due to  ﬂoods in Jammu & Kashmir.
The Circle  joined hands with the local government  authorities to conduct relief work.
Its  channel partners organised a day-long  community kitchen in Srinagar to  provide food and water.
The Company oﬀered free-calling  facility for 60 minutes per day for ﬁve  days to each of its subscribers.
It also  set up ﬁve VSAT terminals at critical  areas and relief camps to create public  Wi-Fi hotspots, thus enabling free  data services.
Airtel also distributed  blankets and eatables at Yateem Khana,  Batmaloo.
APO circle associated with the NGO  Goonj organised a three-week drive  to collect wearable old cloth for ﬂood  victims.
The drive helped in collecting  more than six cartons full of wearable  clothes and shoes.
Airtel NESA in Support of Flood  Victims  In response to a severe natural disaster  in Meghalaya, Airtel NESA launched  a ﬂood relief campaign in the region.
The team volunteered to help victims.
The team distributed dry food items like  rice, lentils, salt, glucose biscuit and  drinking water to over 2,000 families  aﬀected by the ﬂood.
Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainability Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1532 Paving Pathways to Progress IFFCO Kisan Sanchar Limited (IKSL)  Empowerment of farmers is a critical  priority for us.
In line with that  objective, Bharti Airtel touched millions  of farmers through its partner IKSL.
A major achievement of the year was  the successful implementation of the  ﬁsheries project with the Government  of Odisha.
IKSL added 2 Lakh ﬁshermen  to the network in Odisha to provide  information on ﬁsheries.
The lifesaving  alerts provided during cyclones have  been widely acclaimed.
Energy on the Horizon Rooftop Solar Energy at Main  Switching Centres (MSC)   Bharti Airtel has installed six more solar  plants in FY 2014-15, taking the total  capacity to about 0.74 MWp, installed at  12 MSC locations.
These on-grid solar  plants are expected to generate green  energy of 1.1 Mn units, reducing emission  of 900 tons annually.
Solar and Battery Hybrid Solutions  As a part of the Company’s  corporate mandate to help protect  the environment, it is aggressively  implementing green (battery, solar,  hybrid, Li-ion and biomass) solutions at  its owned sites.
Airtel has about 2,800  owned BTS sites in Hexacom Rajasthan  and the North East.
Over 250 sites have  installed hybrid solutions to cut down  diesel consumption.
This step aims to  reduce carbon emissions by 6,000 tons  annually.
T rial on New Energy Solutions   The Company had a successful pilot  of DC Aircon Micro-cooling solution at  owned sites.
This will help switch oﬀ  Aircon sites, where critical transmission  equipment is installed.
The Company  has conducted trial on natural cooling  unit for Aircon elimination and thermo- electric cooling for 3G sites have been  tested.
Green Power Wheeling for Data  Centres and MSCs   T o further enhance the energy  eﬃciency, Airtel has been implementing  the renewable sources of energy like  solar, wind and hydro.
In FY 2014-15,  Green Power Wheeling agreements  for the procurement of green energy,  under open access of 45 Mn units per  annum, have been made for three Data  Centres at Chennai (Wheeling through  Wind Power), Bangalore (Wheeling  through Hydro Power) and Noida (Roof- top Solar Power Plant) and one MSC  location at Pune.
B.
Environmental  Protection   Morre peoplee ini  thee coming  decaades are lilikely tto be exposed  to ﬂﬂoods, drrououghtss, heat  wavves and eexxttremee weather  assoociated wwwitith climimate change,  if buusinessess aand ggovernments do  not intensifyyy ggreen n initiatives.
We  are aalready exexperieencing globally  the eearly siggnns of eexxtreme  weaather conndditionss.
At BBharti Airrtrteel, wee acknowledge  the rreality aanndd contntinue to focus  on ggreen sollututionss with renewed  vigoour.
We aarere adooptp ing new  techhnologiess aand bbest industry  pracctices to ssttrengtgthen our green  commmitmenntt.
.
A 100 KWp solar power plant is installed at the Airtel Campus  at Manesar.
The solar plant, the ﬁrst-of-its-kind in India as well  as in the telecom industry, has a raised structure.
It utilises the  car parking space for generating green energy.
The Company  will continue to endeavour in this area.
18 Lakhs+  Farmers enrolled in  2014-15 across 18 states,  who start their day with voice  information from IKSL.
80,000+  Number of farmers are  expected to beneﬁt from  the joint initiative of Andhra  Bank and IKSL.
The bank  helps farmers who had  taken loans with critical  information on agriculture,  banking operations, schemes,  loan disbursement, ﬁnancial  inclusion and crop insurance.
Social Entrepreneurship  The Government of India has awarded  IKSL for managing the prestigious  ‘Kisan Call Centre’ Services of  Government of India.
Apart from  empowering with information, farmers  and their children are also enrolled  as ‘Kisan Mitras’ to spread the IKSL  programme among other farmers.
IKSL received the prestigious  ‘Economic Times – T elecom Award’  under the category ‘Use of telecom for  Social good’.
Besides, IKSL bagged the  ‘CSI award for excellence in IT during  the year.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 33 Green Network Conversion of Indoor Sites to Outdooor  During the year, Airtel partnered with  its tower companies, which helped  convert indoor sites to outdoor sites.
Over 12,500 sites have been converted  to outdoor, thus reducing the energy  consumption of these sites by about  25%.
Sites are converted mostly  installing FCU for switching oﬀ the  Aircon, thus making them feasible for  installing green energy solutions like  solar and Li-ion, among others.
Outdoor Site Deployment  During the year, over 90% of new sites  were deployed as an outdoor site,  eliminating air-conditioner usage.
New Sites Deployment as Sharer The Company has put up more than  two-third sites as sharer site.
This  helped reduce energy consumption  signiﬁcantly.
Partnering for Greener Network Green Projects with Bharti Infratel Bharti Infratel (Infratel) has been  working closely with Airtel for removing  Aircon from sites.
This year, over 3,600  sites were converted to outdoor, using  FCU and micro-cooling solution, making  6,000 sites outdoor till date.
Besides, Infratel has installed about 700  solar solutions at sites in the current  ﬁnancial year, taking the total to 2,200.
Infratel continues to be the leader in  solar site deployment across all tower  companies in India.
In addition, Infratel  has tagged 5,500 sites as green sites.
Project Green Cities with Indus T owers  Project Green City was launched by  Indus T owers few years back, and over  22,000 sites have been tagged as green  sites, until this year.
Indus T owers has  converted over 9,000 sites in the current  year, totalling 13,700 sites outdoor,  till date.
Resource Management E-waste The increasing volume of waste  generated by the telecommunication  sector has been a matter of grave  concern.
Airtel, as one of the leading  companies of telecommunication  sector, manages both physical and  e-waste, generated from its premises.
The Company has adopted a proactive  approach by ensuring end-to-end  traceability and recycling of waste.
Airtel continuously monitors the waste  generation at each stage, and track the  procedure of waste disposal.
The Company ensures that all electrical  and electronic components and even  highly inﬂammable fuels are handled  and disposed of responsibly, by  registered and licensed recyclers.
In  FY 2014-15, over 1,700 tons of e-waste  was recycled as per Waste Electrical and  Electronic Equipment (WEEE) norms.
E-bills Airtel deploys the best-in-class digital  assets throughout its services.
The  Company aims to reduce paper usage  by promoting the use of electronic  billing and online payment methods.
Over 65% of Airtel’s total post-paid  mobile customers have switched over  to paperless bills.
More than 15%  of these customers were converted  in FY 2014-15 alone.
1,700 tons+  of e-waste was recycled in  FY 2014-15 as per Waste  Electrical and Electronic  Equipment (WEEE) norms Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainability Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1534 Awards and Recognition    Airtel Nigeria was named ‘Best  Company in Education CSR ‘by  Social Enterprise Reports Awards  (SERA).
Airtel Nigeria received the Corporate  Responsibility award for its active role  in the development of education in  Nigeria.
Airtel Ghana was recognised as ‘Best  Corporate Social Company of the  year’ at the 3rd Association of Ghana  Industries (AGI) awards in Accra.
Airtel Ghana received the ‘Best  Community Relations programme’ of  the year at the 2014 Institute of Public  Relations Excellence Awards in Accra.
Airtel Ghana was recognised for  being the outstanding Corporate  Responsibility Company of the  year in Ghana, during the Ghana  T elecom awards.
Airtel Zambia won the ‘Best  Corporate Social Responsibility  ‘award at the 2014 Zambia, ZAPRA  awards held in Livingstone.
Creating Holistic  Value, Globally We take a holistic perspective at value  creation, which encompasses caring for  the community and being responsible  for the environment across the world.
Africa Africa’s mobile revolution is creating  new vistas of opportunities for its  people.
Mobile applications are  invariably helping save lives, create  livelihoods and wealth for many across  the continent.
Health, education and  development of youth potential have  been identiﬁed by Airtel’s stakeholders  as key CSR areas.
Some Major Initiatives Include     Airtel continues to focus on  education in Africa.
In the ‘Adopt a  School’ project, the Company has  supported 24,576 people and 629  teachers in 45 schools.
Airtel Africa, along with other  operators across the continent,  initiated the ‘United Against Ebola’  campaign.
Employees of Airtel  Africa donated over USD 50,000 to  help combat the Ebola outbreak in  Sierra Leone.
UNICEF and Airtel entered into a  partnership agreement to expand  their collaboration across 17  countries in Africa.
The partnership  will drive improved access to  health and education-related  information, while pushing forward  various innovative projects.
Airtel Chad partnered with the  Ministry of Secondary Education  to train 6,000 young people in  the country.
The training focuses  on nurturing young talent to  improve their information and  communications technology (ICT)  capabilities.
Airtel Gabon unveiled a new  training programme targeting to  impart new technological skills  to thousands of youth in Gabon,  in partnership with the United  Nations Educational, Scientiﬁc and  Cultural Organization (UNESCO).
The three-year initiative (‘T rain  My Generation: Gabon 5,000’)  aims at oﬀering a scientiﬁc  and entrepreneurial training to  5,000 people (aged 18-35 years)  and high-school teachers in  Gabon - through information  and communication technology  (ICT).
Cyber centres equipped  with laptops and servers will be  created in schools in Libreville,  Port Gentil, Oyem, Franceville,  Bitam and Lambaréné.
Airtel Uganda partnered with The  Grameen Foundation to introduce  a new project that provides mobile  ﬁnancial services to women’s  savings groups in Uganda.
This  eﬀort is aimed to reduce the  gender gap to mobile access.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 35 Bangladesh In line with the Company’s  overarching objective of helping  elevate the quality of life for people  across geographies, Airtel Bangladesh  has spearheaded multiple community  outreach initiatives.
Some of the  initiatives during the year include  organising blood donation camps,  encouraging talent through awards  and accolades, participating in heritage  events like ‘Chittagong Boi Mela’ and  also sponsoring sports in Khulna to  raise funds for the welfare of freedom  ﬁghters.
Sri Lanka  The Company has undertaken  multiple initiatives in Srilanka to  drive community wellbeing and  environment protection.
Some of the  important initiatives on the community  front, during the year, comprised the  following: helped generate awareness  against child abuse; provided  assistance to The Lady Ridgeway  Hospital (refurbishing the walkways to  look colourful and educational, among  other activities); conducted workshops  on leadership and professional skills  in schools, universities and academic  institutes throughout the country; and  introducing NFC T echnology for public  transport in Sri Lanka.
As a part of the Company’s global  mandate to help protect the  environment, the following initiatives  were undertaken: reducing the usage of  plastic and paper; encouraging the use  of e-bills; cutting down the use of diesel  at site locations; taking steps at site  locations to ensure health and safety;  ensuring a pest-free clean environment  at all Airtel’s sites.
Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainability Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1536 Business Responsibility Report  “Business responsibility is part of the social contract that we must abide by.
It shows that we are accountable to society as a whole and are committed to  work towards its wellbeing.
Although we have made deﬁnite progress in our  social imperatives, I believe there is a lot more that can be done in this area.
We will continue to innovate with all our stakeholders to strengthen our  business responsibility paradigm.
”  - Sunil Bharti Mittal Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 37 We are helping empower India’s digital landscape, and at the same time focusing on key issues  that positively impact the lives of millions of people around us.
From accelerating socio-economic  development to caring for the environment to building talent and leadership for the future, we  concentrate our energy and resources on things that matter to all our stakeholders.
Business Responsibility Report is a disclosure mandated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) for the top 100  listed companies.
Since these companies have funds raised from the public, it implies involvement of an element of public  interest.
The report is a tool designed to help these companies understand the principles and core elements of responsible  business practices.
The scope of this report is Bharti Airtel Limited’s India operations, including all businesses under its operational control.
Section A General Information  1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) L74899DL1995PLC070609 2.
Name of the Company Bharti Airtel Limited 3.
Registered Address Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road, Vasant Kunj, Phase  II, New Delhi - 110 070 4.
Website www.airtel.com 5.
Email id compliance.oﬃcer@bharti.in 6.
Financial Year reported 2014 – 15 7.
Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in (industrial  activity code-wise) T elecommunication Services, Passive Infrastructure Services,  Direct to Home Services, Mobile Commerce Services either  directly or through its subsidiary companies Industrial Group Description T elecommunication Services Direct to Home Services (through Subsidiary Company) Mobile Commerce Services (through Subsidiary Company) As per National Industrial Classiﬁcation – Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation 8.
List three key products / services that the Company  manufactures / provides (as in balance sheet): 1.
Mobile Services  2.
Broadband Services  3.
T elephone Services 9.
T otal number of locations where business activity is  undertaken by the Company a.
Number of International Locations (Provide  details of major 5) The Company has businesses in 19 countries beside India,  which includes Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and 17 countries in the  African continent.
b.
Number of National Locations Headquartered in New Delhi, Bharti Airtel Limited has its  business activities spread across the country.
10.
Markets served by the Company - Local / State /  National / International While serving the Indian markets, the Company has  operations in Africa and South Asia Business Responsibility Report Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1538 1.
Paid up capital ` 19,987 Mn 2.
T otal turnover ` 554,964 Mn 3.
T otal proﬁt after taxes ` 132,005 Mn 4.
T otal spending on Corporate Social Responsibility  (CSR) as percentage of average Net Proﬁt of the  Company for last 3 ﬁnancial years.
0.59% 5.
List of activities in which expenditure in four above  has been incurred: 1)  Promotion of education through Bharti Foundation  schools and its other initiatives 2)  Rural Sanitation Programme 3) Health services and awareness 4) Higher and technical education 5) Child welfare programmes 6) Disaster relief initiatives 7) Community development programme 8) Environmental initiatives and awareness 9) Employability and entrepreneurship Section B Financial Details  Section C Other Details  1.
Details of Subsidiaries of the Company.
Bharti Airtel Limited had 114 direct and indirect subsidiary  companies, as on March 31, 2015.
Details of the same have  been provided in another section of the Annual Report.
2.
Details of the Company’s subsidiaries participating in BR initiatives.
Almost all subsidiary companies, either directly themselves or along with Airtel, endorse or participate in the Business  Responsibility initiatives.
The ‘Bharti Code of Conduct’ guides all its subsidiaries and makes sure that they adhere to the highest levels of ethical  and transparent business practices.
The Company’s Ombudsperson and Consequence Management policies identify  and prescribe actions against cases of violation of the Code of Conduct.
3.
Details of entities (suppliers and distributors, among others) that the Company does business with, who participate  in the  Company’s BR initiatives, along with the percentage of such entities (Less than 30%, 30-60%, more than 60%) Bharti Airtel actively encourages its suppliers and distributors to participate in its BR initiatives and also conduct  their own business in a responsible manner.
Currently, less than 30% of other entities participate in the Company’s  BR initiatives.
Section D Business Responsibility Information  1.
Details of Director / Directors responsible for BR  a) Details of the Director / Directors responsible for implementation of the BR policy / policies  DIN Number 00028016 Name Rajan Bharti Mittal Designation Director b) Details of the BR head: Name Sameer Chugh Designation Director – Legal & Regulatory T elephone No.
+91 124 4243188 E-mail id sustainability@airtel.com  Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 39 2.
Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy / policies (Reply in Y / N)  The National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business (NVGs), released by  the Ministry of Corporate Aﬀairs, has adopted nine areas of Business Responsibility.
Principle 1 Businesses should conduct  and govern themselves with  Ethics, T ransparency and  Accountability.
Principle 2 Businesses should provide  goods and services that  are safe and contribute to  sustainability throughout   their life cycle.
Principle 3 Businesses should promote the  wellbeing of all employees.
Principle 7 Businesses, when engaged  in inﬂuencing public and  regulatory policy, should  do so in a responsible  manner.
Principle 8 Businesses should support  inclusive growth and  equitable development.
Principle 9 Businesses should engage  with and provide value  to their customers and  consumers in a responsible   manner.
Principle 4 Businesses should respect the  interests of, and be responsive  towards all stakeholders,  especially those who are  disadvantaged, vulnerable  and marginalised.
Principle 5 Businesses should respect and  promote human rights.
Principle 6 Businesses should respect,  protect, and make eﬀorts to  restore the environment.
Business Responsibility Report Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15 40 Sl.
No.
Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 1.
Do you have a policy / policies for… Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 2.
Has the policy been formulated in consultation with  the relevant stakeholders?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 3.
Does the policy conform to any national /  international standards?
If Yes, specify?
(50 words)  Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 4.
Has the policy being approved by the Board?
If  yes, has it been signed by MD / Owner / CEO /  appropriate Board Director?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 5.
Does the Company have a specified committee  of the Board/Director / Official to oversee the  implementation of the policy?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 6.
Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?
Y N N N N N N N N 7.
Has the policy been formally communicated to all  relevant internal and external stakeholders?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 8.
Does the Company have in-house structure to  implement the policy/ policies?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 9.
Does the Company have a grievance redressal  mechanism related to the policy/policies to address  stakeholders’ grievances related to the policy/ policies?
Y - Y Y Y - - - Y 10.
Has the Company carried out independent audit  / evaluation of the working of this policy by an  internal or external agency?
* Y Y Y Y Y - Y Y Y *Mostly through internal audits and external consultants   A ll policies are formulated with detailed consultation and benchmarking across the industry.
The polices are materially in compliance with all mandatory /  applicable national / international laws, rules, regulations, guidelines and standards.
As per the C ompany’s practice, all the policies are approved by the respective Business CEO / Functional Directors.
A ll policies have a Policy Owner and the respective policy owners are responsible for implementation of a particular policy.
Ex cept Code of Conduct, all other policies are the internal policies of the Company and are applicable internally, therefore, not available on the Company’s  website.
The Code of Conduct can be accessed through the following link http://africa.airtel.com/wps/wcm/connect/africarevamp/africa/home/about-us/code- of-conduct and http://www.airtel.in/partnerworld/Business_Code_of_conduct.htm  Ex cept the Ombudsperson Policy, which is available on the Company’s website, all other policies being in-house are uploaded on the intranet and are accessible  to all employees of the Company.
An y grievance relating to any of the policies can be escalated to the Ombudsperson.
If any grievance relating to customer services is not resolved properly, it  can be escalated to the respective nodal officer, appointed in that particular service area.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 41 3.
Governance related to BR:   The frequency with which the Board of Directors,  Committee of the Board or CEO assess the BR  performance of the Company.
(Within 3 months, 3-6  months, annually, more than 1 year).
The CSR Committee of the Board reviews the Company’s  BR performance twice a year.
In addition, the Board  also oversees the performance and provides a strategic  approach to the Company’s BR initiatives on an annual  basis.
Details and link of the Company’s Business Responsibility  or Sustainability Report, along with its frequency.
The Company publishes a separate Annual Sustainability  Report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative  Framework.
The electronic version of the report is  uploaded on the Company’s website and can be viewed  by clicking the link: www.airtel.in/sustainability.
Section E Principle-wise Performance Principle 1  Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with  Ethics, T ransparency and Accountability   Ethical Standards Bharti Airtel’s business is integrally governed by ethics,  transparency and accountability.
The Company’s  commitment towards compliance to the highest governance  standards, which it believes is beyond legal and regulatory  requirements, is backed by an independent and fully informed  Board, inclusive processes, policies and communication.
The Company has laid the highest levels of ethical business  practices as articulated by its Code of Conduct (CoC), which  sets out the guiding principles on business with integrity.
The  CoC covers the Policy involving ethics, bribery and corruption,  referring to bribes, kickbacks and improper payments, and  among others.
The Policy encompasses multitude of Bharti Group’s  stakeholders like employees, suppliers and contractors,  service providers, channel partners and their employees.
All  conﬁrmed cases of violation of the Policy’s clauses are acted  upon in accordance to the Consequence Management Policy.
T ransparency and Accountability Standards In FY 2014-15, Bharti Airtel received 14 allegations of bribery  / corruption.
Investigations were completed in all cases, and  actions were initiated as per the Consequence Management  Policy.
Principle 2  Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe  and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle While evaluating the impact of business operations, Bharti  Airtel relentlessly works to provide value across its value  chain to minimise environmental fallout.
Airtel took some  signiﬁcant steps like promoting reduced energy consumption,  minimising waste and focusing on developing innovative  solutions to ensure environmental stability.
The Company  has formulated and implemented procurement guidelines to  conﬁrm safety and resource optimisation.
Besides, it adheres  to standard practices and procedures for waste disposal in  accordance with regulations.
Airtel gives primary importance to community health and  safety.
The Company acknowledges the growing concern over  the exposure to electromagnetic ﬁelds (EMF) and maintains  complete transparency in its position.
It also shares updated  and extensive research-based information on this matter  with its employees, partners, customers and the community,  at large.
The Company’s existing practices comply with  the relevant guidelines issued by the Department of  T elecommunication (DoT), Government of India (GoI).
Airtel’s  sites are subjected to random checks and audits by the DoT’s  T elecom Enforcement Resource and Monitoring (TERM) Cells.
The Company, in partnership with the Cellular Operators  Association of India (COAI) conducts various programmes,  workshops, seminars and stakeholder.
Such initiatives are  taken to build awareness about the issue.
Airtel declared ‘War on Waste’ as one of its business priorities.
This initiative intends to improve the Company’s operating  eﬃciencies by eliminating waste.
Airtel is consistently  deploying innovative technologies with the aim to reduce its  operational wastes.
More details on waste management can  be found under Principle 6.
Serving People Bharti Airtel is committed to bring socio-economic  transformation to help elevate the lives of millions.
The  Company is consistently leveraging its existing capabilities to  provide basic life services to people.
Airtel, not only plays a  signiﬁcant role to enhance connectivity, but also contributes  in realms of medicine and healthcare, education and  ﬁnancial inclusion through its mobile services.
Such services  include mobile money, mobile health, mobile education and  agricultural awareness.
Simplifying T ransactions Bharti Airtel brought India’s ﬁrst mobile wallet service called  Airtel Money, to make easy transactions.
It is an alternative  to other payment options, including cash.
It helps customers  to pay for remote transactions like instant money transfers,  booking railway or movie tickets, paying for utility bills,  insurance premiums and recharging phones, among many  others.
Bharti Airtel’s pioneering forays in IVR, web-based  applications; USSD, SMS and online presence in national as  well as regional languages helped it to become a customer- friendly platform.
My Airtel app enables its users to self- manage the Airtel services and enables them to make  payments, manage VAS and view promotions.
The new  version of ‘My Airtel’ application comes with a wide range  of fresh features, driving an enhanced digital experience  for customers.
This application simpliﬁes customers’ life by  eliminating the need to call or visit an Airtel relationship  centre.
‘My Airtel’ app has a contemporary design interface  that will simplify customer journeys and allow them to do  much more – eﬃciently and eﬀectively .
Business Responsibility Report Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1542 Inspiring Education Airtel mEducation is a unique platform that enables Airtel  users to access a host of education courses at one go.
mEducation assists students in cracking their entrance  exams through SMS and WAP .
It also provides career and job  preparation centric products like ‘Ask an Expert’.
Besides,  products like English Guru and Oﬃce Vocabulary helps  enhance English language skills.
The users get guidance  from best universities and professors according to their  requirement.
Enhancing Farmer Wellbeing Airtel aims to empower farmers and encourage Indian  agriculture and the rural economy through IFFCO Kisan  Sanchar Limited (IKSL).
It provides farmers with signiﬁcant  information through mobile and enables them take more  informed decisions pertaining to agricultural activities.
This  initiative beneﬁted over 18 Lakh farmers across India, in the  last ﬁscal.
Sourcing and Supply Chain Bharti Airtel leverages its diverse platforms to deliver  services to its wide customer base.
Thus, it does not have any  impact on sourcing, production or distribution.
The Company  also ensures that there is no broad-based impact on energy  and water due to the use of its services.
The Company is strongly committed to building a responsive  and sustainable supply chain.
It has taken various initiatives  and is continually working with its vendors and suppliers to  reduce the environmental and social impacts of its sourcing,  which ensure timely and cost-eﬀective deliveries for  necessary resources.
Bharti Airtel has set out requirements  for its suppliers on the aspects like environmental protection,  health and safety, human rights and child labour, and ethics.
In FY 2014-15, Airtel worked with over 5,500 local suppliers,  out of more than 80,000 registered partners worldwide.
T o  optimise resources, reduce the environmental impact by local  procurement and considering the socio-economic beneﬁts of  promoting indigenous entrepreneurship, nearly 94% of the  Company’s suppliers were India based.
Approximately, 71% of  the sourcing (in terms of value) was from these India-based  partners.
The Company has been continually working to consolidate its  supply chain and to make its engagements socio-economically  more meaningful.
Airtel has taken various initiatives in  developing a framework to help marginalised sections, with a  special focus on promoting women entrepreneurs and small  businesses.
Product and Waste Recycling  The most substantial waste generated from Bharti Airtel is  e-waste, owing to its nature of business.
The Company has  adopted a focused approach on e-waste management.
It has  made signiﬁcant eﬀorts to reduce environmental impact of  its operations, by minimising waste and ensuring proper  disposal and recycling.
Bharti Airtel has also implemented  various awareness strategies to reduce waste by promoting  extended use of network and IT based equipment.
The  Company maintains GoI’s guidelines to recycle the waste  generated from its source, due to technology upgradation or  any other reason.
Principle 3  Businesses should promote employee wellbeing  Employee Composition  Bharti Airtel’s Indian operations comprised a total of 14,459  employees as on March 31, 2015.
There were 17,043 sub- contracted employees for the calendar year 2014, as per Form  12.
During the period, there were no temporary and casual  employees.
There were 1,377 permanent women employees,  which represented around 10% of the total workforce.
A  total of 59 people with disabilities were employed at various  Company locations.
Safety and Wellbeing of Women Keeping gender equality at its heart, Bharti Airtel has also  taken various taken various initiatives to ensure a safe and  healthy workplace for its women employees.
It has strict  policy and procedure to ensure the workplace environment,  which is free from sexual harassment.
Eﬀective from April 2013, in compliance with the law on  prevention of sexual harassment of women at the work place,  the Company has set up Internal Complaints Committee at  its oﬃces, comprising a Presiding Oﬃcer, who is a senior  level woman employee, one member with legal knowledge  or experience in social work, one member from an NGO or  association that deals with such matters and who has relevant  knowledge and experience and one member from the Bharti  Group’s Ombudsperson’s oﬃce.
The Committee is responsible  for dealing with all matters related to the subject.
The list  of members of the Committee has been communicated to  all employees and also prominently displayed in the public  areas of all its oﬃces.
Six cases related to sexual harassment  at workplace have been reported and investigated this year.
During investigations, all legal procedures as per the new  law on prevention of sexual harassment at workplace were  followed.
Allegations of sexual harassment were proven in  three of these cases.
All the three accused were separated  from their services with the organisation.
Going beyond policies and procedures that foster inclusive  work-environment for women, Airtel has several initiatives  that facilitate balancing work and family life.
Women Safety was another subject, which was given propriety  under safety department agenda.
With majority in audience,  the Company successfully organised ‘Women’s Personal  Safety Session’ in Airtel Centre, Gurgaon.
This workshop was  attended by over 200 women employees.
The session turned  out to be interactive, inspirational and motivational, and  brought forth many issues/concerns that today’s women are  facing in the society and its anticipating solutions.
Based on  the same concept, similar workshops were also organised at  other circles.
Skill and T alent Development  Bharti Airtel considers its employees as its biggest assets.
Airtel continuously strives to harness, nurture and enable  growth of its people.
It is in its corporate values of being Alive,  Inclusive and Respectful, that drives its culture of service,  integrity, trust, teamwork and accountability.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 43 Airtel has designed its workplace practices to provide an  inclusive environment, wherein every employee can take  part, contribute and develop freely and equitably.
Employee  engagement and talent development are the key strategic  objectives of Airtel’s business.
It focuses on employee skill  development and regularly provides performance feedback  to its permanent employees.
There were over 190 unique training interventions for the  Company’s employees.
Of these, over 140 were competency- based training and over 45 functional and leadership training  interventions.
This amounted to over 6,500 man-hours of  learning, with more than 60 hours of training per employee.
Airtel acknowledges that healthy and safe employees are  more committed, engaged and productive in every aspect.
The Company’s responsibility towards the health and safety  of its employees is driven by various initiatives that minimise  risks, promote good health and prevent disease.
The Company quests to achieve its safety goals, which include  safe work culture, prevent incidence prevention, zero accident  environment, and continuous improvement.
It aims to create  awareness in the domains of Workplace Safety, Women  Safety, Health, Road Safety and Emergency Management, to  ensure a safe culture.
Bharti Airtel’s safety systems are aligned to international  standards, such as the Occupational Health and Safety  Management Standard - OSHAS 18001.
It conducts numerous  awareness sessions, self-defense programmes, poster and  quiz competitions on issues like workplace safety, women  safety and road safety, among others.
The Company also  provides precautionary measures for various diseases, like  inﬂuenza, Ebola, dengue and swine ﬂu for employees and  their families.
It is all prepared to come up with a ‘24x7 safety  helpdesk’ to respond to emergency situations.
Airtel rolled out a ‘Workplace Safety Policy Statement’ at  its circle levels.
It details the role and responsibilities of its  employees to provide and maintain safe and healthy working  conditions.
The Statement requires the circle management  to form a Safety Committee to ensure a safe working  environment.
Category No.
of  employees  which  attended  safety  trainings  No.
of  employees  which  attended  skill  upgradation  trainings Permanent employees 7,789 3,933 Permanent Women  employees 667 975 Casual / T emporary /  Contractual employees 7,276 - Employees with disabilities 46 8 Principle 4  Businesses should respect the interests of, and be  responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who  are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised  Stakeholder Engagement Bharti Airtel’s approach towards responsible and sustainable  business practices undergoes a systematic mapping  through regular engagement with its internal and external  stakeholders.
This practice helps the Company to prioritise key sustainability  issues in terms of relevance to its business and stakeholders,  including society and environment.
It rigorously conducts  a detailed materiality-assessment, which enables it to map  stakeholders’ expectations with its business priorities, risks  and opportunities.
In FY 2014-15, Airtel revisited the Materiality Analysis process  and performed stakeholder surveys to identify materiality  issues/ sustainability concerns with the highest relevance  and impact.
In order to streamline the process, identiﬁcation  and categorisation of its key stakeholders, both internal and  external, was performed.
The key stakeholders identiﬁed  include:  Customers  Employees  Business Partners (Suppliers and Vendors)  Community  Investors  Government Bodies  Industry Associations  Non-governmental Organisations (NGOs)  Academic Institutions Stakeholder engagement activities were carried out among  respective categories of stakeholders with the help of  questionnaires.
The similar exercise was performed with the  Airtel Management Board to delineate the business priorities,  which when mapped with the stakeholder concerns, fetched  the sustainability issues that demanded enhanced strategic  and operational attention.
Disadvantaged, Vulnerable and Marginalised  Stakeholders The Company has identiﬁed the disadvantaged, vulnerable  and marginalised stakeholders through its association with  the Bharti Foundation.
A substantial portion of beneﬁciaries  of the Bharti Foundation and its programmes comprise the  economically weak and disadvantaged groups, especially  SC/ST/OBC categories and girl students.
Besides, the  Company has been consistently focusing on increasing rural  penetration of its services.
Business Responsibility Report Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1544 Bharti Airtel aims to empower a wide section of people with  its digi-presence to build a digital and sustainable economy.
The Company has ﬁnalised its ‘Blueprint for Social Inclusion’  to strengthen its digi-presence and also to address its  stakeholder concerns.
The Company, through its Blueprint,  aspires to play its part in the sustainable development of  India, speciﬁcally by addressing areas like connectivity,  medicine and healthcare, education and ﬁnancial inclusion.
Airtel uses its inherent advantages of reach and aﬀordability  to bring socio-economic development across the country.
Special Initiatives    Airtel, through Bharti Foundation and its Satya Bharti  School Program strengthens its community outreach.
This program aims to build the trust and ownership of  parents and community members.
The format ensures  that there is enough opportunity for the community to  understand and be engaged with the schools.
As part of corporate induction schedule, Bharti Airtel’s  Young Leaders volunteer the Satya Bharti Schools  on locations.
In this two-week program volunteers  are expected to assist Satya Bharti School teachers to  organise upcoming events, strengthen their English and  basic computer knowledge, and help raise the proﬁle of  the village school.
Airtel employees are encouraged to volunteer at  Satya Bharti Schools and share their time, skills and  knowledge with children.
The Airtel Delhi Half Marathon (ADHM) has created  an excellent platform to bring together corporates,  individuals, employees and school and college students,  which not only garner funds for the cause but also raise  awareness about the Satya Bharti School Program.
The funds collected aid the Satya Bharti Schools in  furtherance of their educational objectives.
Principle 5  Businesses should respect and promote human rights  Bharti’s CoC and various HR Polices demonstrate its  commitment toward protection of Human Rights across  value chain and discourage instances of abuse through  Ombudsperson.
The Policies are applicable to employees,  contractors, suppliers and other business partners and  associates.
Principle 6  Businesses should respect, protect, and make eﬀorts to  restore the environment Bharti Airtel’s Policy on Environment, Health and Safety  reaﬃrms its commitment towards minimising the negative  impact of its business and operations on the environment.
This Policy extends to its entire value chain and aims to  enhance awareness to reduce the environmental risks.
It is  applicable to its premises, employees, associates, visitors,  vendors, suppliers and business partners.
Caring for Environment  Airtel has taken a proactive and holistic approach to preserve  the environment and reduce the negative fallouts of the life- cycle of its products and services across its value chain.
The Company, along with its network partners continues  its eﬀorts towards implementing several infrastructural  solutions to reduce the energy consumption.
Few strategies to address the sustainability issues like climate  change and energy are given as below:  1) Alternate Energy Sources     Installed solar rooftop power plants at 12 MSC locations,  expanding the total installed capacity to 0.74 MWp   Installed over 250 sites with solar and hybrid solutions  at owned base stations   Upgraded 160 rural high diesel sites with successful  implementation of battery and solar hybrid solutions,  Li-ion solution, as well as biomass based solutions.
Piloted DC aircon micro-cooling solution at owned sites,  which will help switch oﬀ aircon at sites, where critical  transmission equipment are installed.
Conducted pilot test on natural cooling units for air- conditioning elimination and thermo-electric cooling  solution for 3G sites.
Carried out research and signed green power wheeling  agreement for three locations, for which the green  energy (Solar/Wind/Hydro/Biomass) procurement is  being made.
2) Energy Eﬃciency Measures    Deployed new outdoor sites, eliminating air-conditioner  usage right from the beginning   Deployed over two-third of sites on sharing and this  process continues for new sites as well, reducing the  energy consumption by a minimum 30% over the  standalone sites.
Converted indoor sites to outdoor sites by installing FCU  for switching oﬀ the Aircon, making them feasible for  alternative energy sources, like solar   Deployed low-power consuming BTS sites, which are  able to achieve a reduction in power consumption by a  minimum of 30%, over the last 4-5 years.
Used energy eﬃcient retroﬁt in base stations, such as  integrated power management systems and eﬃcient DC  to AC converters, among others.
Placed Power Management Units (PMUs)   Installed energy eﬃcient air-conditioning and lighting  energy savers    Applied variable speed DC DG, mirco cooling solutions  for temperature sensitive equipment, solar thermal  solutions, FCU and temperature management.
Improved Power Utilisation Eﬀectiveness (PUE) of data  centres Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 45 3) Demand Side Management    Sites are being converted mostly by installing FCU for  switching oﬀ the Aircon, thus making them feasible for  installing green energy solutions like Solar and Li-ion,  among others.
This initiative also forms part of Airtel’s  ’War on Waste’.
4) Design Modiﬁcations and Innovations   Installed BTS sites with green shelters, ﬁtted with  optimal cooling, power and thermal management  systems, which reduces the energy consumption by 40%    Increased deployment of outdoor BTS sites, diminishing  the air-conditioning load and resulting in power  consumption by 35-40%.
Upgraded existing sites with auto-TRX shutdown feature,  which helps reduce the power consumption, during non- peak hours    These strategies have been discussed in detail on the  following link: www.airtel.in/sustainability-ﬁle/our- planet.html Safe and Clean Work Environment Bharti Airtel’s engagement with its key stakeholders on a  continuous basis results in assessment of material issues,  mainly energy and climate change, waste management and  resource use optimisation, which demand additional strategic  emphasis.
Airtel’s Policy on EHS guides its eﬀorts to reduce  and manage the impacts and plan mitigation strategies.
The Company has made dedicated eﬀorts to conserve  energy and reduce wastage in areas of its operations.
It has  taken energy-eﬃcient measures with its network partners  to reduce the energy use and emissions from the telecom  infrastructure.
The Company has also adopted resource  optimisation and waste management measures to protect the  environment.
Airtel is set to adopt alternate and renewable  energy sources to reduce its carbon footprint and optimise  dependency on diesel.
Besides, Airtel is promoting green initiatives across its  data centres and facilities to improve energy eﬃciency and  eliminate negative impacts on the environment.
The Company has implemented various energy-eﬃcient  measures in its day to day operations, ensuring use of  renewables in various oﬃces.
These initiatives take myriad  forms ranging from use of information technology solutions  at work place on one hand to energy eﬃcient cooling and  lighting system on the other.
It also actively encourages  its employees to create a clean, green and safe workplace.
The details of these initiatives can be found on our website,  www.airtel.in/sustainability.
Compliances with Regulations Airtel complies with the prescribed limits of emission and  wastes by the CPCB / SPCB.
In FY 2014-15, the Company received ﬁve (05) show cause/ legal notices from CPCB/SPCB.
Out of which 3 cases have  been successfully resolved without any adverse impact on  the Company and the  remaining 2 are pending resolution at  the end of FY 2014-15.
Principle 7  Businesses, when engaged in inﬂuencing public and  regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner Responsible Public Engagement The Company is member of the various trade and business  associations.
Few of them have been listed below:  Groupe  Speciale Mobile Association (GSMA)  World Economic Forum   Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)   Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and  Industry (FICCI)  Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI)   Association of Uniﬁed T elecom Service Providers of  India (ASUPI)   The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of  India (ASSOCHAM)  VSAT Services Association of India (VSAI)  DTH Association of India   The Internet Service Providers Association of India  (ISPAI) Airtel engages with the above mentioned industry  associations in clear and deﬁned method for advocating the  advancement of the industry and public good.
For example,  the Company provides its responses to the associations for  an appropriate representation to the Government or Sectoral  regulator on industry related common issues.
The Company makes sure that it had unwavering focus on  policies that enable empowerment and socio-economic  development of the society.
It also ensures that its position of  the policy advances its agenda of empowering and enriching  lives of millions through its core competence, technological  solutions and innovations, in order to shape a sustainable  society.
Its policy agenda is centred around the provision of  network coverage, aﬀordable access to the customers, digital  inclusion, quality of service oﬀerings, tariﬀ, environment,  and so on.
Principle 8  Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable  development Social Inclusion Bharti Airtel believes in an all-inclusive growth.
The  Company ﬁnalised its ‘Blueprint for Social Inclusion’ to  address its stakeholder concerns and bring a transformation  by empowering millions.
With the help of the inherent  advantages of reach and aﬀordability with its mobile  network, Airtel, through its Blueprint, is guided by its three  social pillars.
Business Responsibility Report Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1546 The three social pillars include: 1)  Increasing digital footprint and bringing everyone  within the fold of digi-presence;  2)   Applying Airtel’s existing platforms to the universe of  health, education and ﬁnancial services to the weaker  sections of the society; and  3)   Fostering community development through active  community service and engagement through Airtel’s  reach and accessibility in urban and rural India.
Airtel seeks to accomplish these objectives by:    Bridging the digital divide through its robust network  and far-reaching distribution.
Emerging with innovative business models like Airtel  Money, mHealth, mEducation to overcome sustainability  barriers.
Working towards expanding its bouquet of services and  enhancing its communication technologies.
Supporting the programmes, run by Bharti Foundation,  directed towards free education and vocational trainings  for the society’s economically marginalised sections.
Encouraging Social Development Airtel engages with communities within its operational  area through the Bharti Foundation and its Satya Bharti  School Program.
The programme helps impart free and  quality education to underprivileged sections in rural areas,  especially girls.
It encourages the participation of local communities in  base and around the area not only for improved results, but  also for the sector’s overall development.
Through Bharti  Foundation, the Company provides opportunities to its  various stakeholders/beneﬁciaries to grow and learn in life  through the following:  Recruitment of school staﬀ from neighbouring areas      Local youth recruited as teachers from local and  neighbouring communities     T eacher training programmes ensure that teacher’s  skills are updated and constantly enhanced     Community members, especially mothers, are  selected as mid-day meal vendors.
These vendors  also provide a ‘Didi’ (maid) to the school Airtel circles have taken the community engagement and  community volunteering initiatives to the next level, by  actively supporting the needs of the community, be it disaster  relief, green-movement or social equity.
Financial Contribution towards Community  Development During FY 2014-15, Bharti Airtel made signiﬁcant  contributions towards various philanthropic projects, which  include: ` 411 Mn   Bharti Foundation towards furtherance of its  objectives  ` 41.52 Mn  Other Contributions  Measuring Social Impact The impact of Bharti Airtel’s social initiatives has been  assessed both internally, as well as through third party  evaluation.
Community involvement, participation and their sustained  support towards the Satya Bharti Schools have been a key  component of the programme since its inception.
Bharti  Foundation ensures adoption of its various initiatives through  following ways:  School’s connect with the community   Regular home visits by teachers   Structured parent-teacher meetings    Community development campaigns  Community connecting schools with local culture   Community Volunteering Week     T eaching children history, traditions, art and craft   Community participation in school events A structured impact assessment study was conducted by a  third party to assess the Satya Bharti School Program.
Fifteen  Satya Bharti Schools across Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan  were compared to 15 other schools (from villages which do  not fall in the catchment area of a Satya Bharti School).
This  was to ascertain the impact of the programme on children,  parents, communities and teachers.
Bharti Airtel, while contributing to the larger National Mission of ‘Swachh Bharat’, is enthusiastically supporting the  ‘Satya Bharti Abhiyan’, an initiative by Bharti Foundation in rural Ludhiana.
The programme involves investment of upto  ` 1,000 Mn in constructing toilets while reaching out to every rural household lacking such facilities in Ludhiana District.
Apart from the rural household sanitation, through the ‘Satya Bharti Abhiyan’, Airtel aims to improve the sanitation  facilities in Government schools in rural Ludhiana by constructing new toilets for girls, where none exist.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 47 Making Responsible Future Citizens The Satya Bharti School Programme, a rural education  initiative of the Bharti Foundation aims to achieve holistic  development of children.
It helps children engage better  with the society and instils a sense of belonging.
Children  are encouraged to work, along with community members to  recognise social issues and implement need-based solutions.
It is integral to the learning process.
Airtel believes that  such initiatives will help transform children into socially  responsible citizens.
Students have addressed signiﬁcant  social issues like empowerment of girl child, respect for  widows, eradication of child marriages and discrimination on  the basis of caste, among many others.
These student-centric  initiatives have been recognised by various international  platforms, like the Design for Change Contest and the  Pramerica Spirit of Community Awards, among several  others.
Principle 9  Businesses should engage with and provide value to their  customers and consumers in a responsible manner Providing Customer Value There is 0.0026% of pending customer complaints as on  March 31, 2015.
Such complaints will be carried forward to  FY 2015-16.
Over 70% of the 174 total legal/consumer cases  received in FY 2014-15 are at various stages of resolution/  closure, as on March 31, 2015.
During FY 2014-15, four (4) complaints were registered with  Advertisements Standards Council of India (ASAI) and all of  them were resolved successfully.
Bharti Airtel has been transparent in communicating  the mandatory information regarding enrolment and  deactivation, tariﬀ, usage, contact and grievance information.
Enriching Customer Interaction   Airtel endeavours to engage with its customers to enhance  their experience It conducts various consumer education  workshops and also engages with customer advocacy groups.
The Company took various other initiatives in this regard,  which include: 1)  Airtel introduced Mobile Broadband Charging (MBC) to  make them aware of their data consumption in real-time,  thereby preventing bill shocks.
On completion of the  assigned quota, customers are diverted to an interstitial  page where they can upgrade and downgrade their quota  for continued usage.
This being a new initiative is under  process of rollout in diﬀerent circles across the country  and is to be completed in coming few months.
2)  Airtel’s ‘Self-care’ service provides customers the option to  manage their accounts through self-care channels – IVR,  USSD, Airtel app and website.
Customers can check tariﬀ   details, balance information, bill details, payment details,  data usage and make payments, among others.
Airtel aims to touch and transform the lives of millions and  bring sustainable development in the society through its  various solutions.
Its long-term business interests are aligned  to its stakeholder aspirations.
It believes in responsible  growth that encourages social wellbeing while promoting  innovation and eﬃciency.
Quality teacher training programmes    Aids to teachers in pursuing higher education.
Social empowerment, integration and upliftment of community, especically mothers engaged as Mid-day Meal vendors.
Notable shift in the  perception of value  education  of families whose  children are studying  in Satya Bharti  Schools reported  that they are saving  for their child’s  future education (the  corresponding ﬁgure  for other families was  8.9%)  27%  Empowering the  girl child  Instilling greater  conﬁdence among  students  Developing stronger  values and ethics  among students  Sensitising  communities  towards responsible  participation  of parents with a  girl child studying at  Satya Bharti School  wanted her to pursue  higher education (in  comparison to 73.7%  parents whose girl  child goes to other  schools)  of children studying at  Satya Bharti Schools  were certain of their  responses and clear in  their communication  (as compared to  only 38.9% children  studying in other  schools) of Satya Bharti School  Students tend to  exhibit a stronger  value code as they  believe in amicable  dispute resolution (in  comparison to 48.9 %  children from other  schools)  of families in in the  vicinity around a  Satya Bharti School,  regularly join the  village meetings;  (where other  communities have  only 45.6% of such  families)  96% 84.7% 84% 71.3%  Business Responsibility Report Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1548 Dear Members, Your Directors have pleasure in presenting the 20 th Board  Report on the Company’s business and operations, together  with audited ﬁnancial statements and accounts for the  ﬁnancial year ended March 31, 2015.
Company Overview Bharti Airtel continued to be among the top four # mobile  service providers globally with presence in 20 countries,  including India, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and 17 countries in the  African continent.
The Company’s diversiﬁed service range  includes mobile, voice and data solutions, using 2G, 3G and  4G technologies.
Its service portfolio comprises an integrated  suite of telecom solutions to its customers, besides providing  long-distance connectivity in India, Africa and the rest of the  world.
The Company also oﬀers Digital TV and IPTV services  in India.
All these services are rendered under a uniﬁed brand  ‘airtel’, either directly or through subsidiary companies.
The Company also deploys and manages passive  infrastructure pertaining to telecom operations through  its subsidiary, Bharti Infratel Limited, which also owns  42% of Indus T owers Limited.
T ogether, Bharti Infratel and  Indus T owers are the largest passive infrastructure service  providers in India.
# Subsequent to the date of this report, Bharti Airtel has become third largest  mobile operator in the world in terms of subscribers.
Financial Results In line with the statutory guidelines, the Company has  adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)  for accounts consolidation, from FY 2010-11.
The Company  publishes its standalone accounts according to Indian  Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (IGAAP).
The  consolidated and standalone ﬁnancial highlights of the  Company’s operations are as follows: Consolidated Financial Highlights (IFRS) Particulars FY 2014-15 FY 2013-14 `  Millions USD  Millions* `  Millions USD  Millions* Gross revenue 920,394 15,064 857,461 14,151  EBITDA before  exceptional items 314,517 5,148 278,430 4,595  Cash proﬁts from  operations 285,280 4,669 241,813 3,991  Earning before taxation 107,130 1,753 78,643 1,298  Net Income  / (Loss) 51,835 848 27,727 458  *1 USD = ` 61.10 Exchange Rate for the ﬁnancial year ended March 31, 2015.
(1 USD = ` 60.59 Exchange Rate for the ﬁnancial year ended March 31, 2014) Standalone Financial Highlights (IGAAP) Particulars FY 2014-15 FY 2013-14 `  Millions USD  Millions* `  Millions USD  Millions* Gross revenue   554,964       9,083   499,185        8,239  EBITDA before  exceptional items 246,241 4,030 171,522 2,831  Cash proﬁts from  operations 232,150 3,799 158,158 2,610  Earning before taxation 156,553 2,562 83,774 1,383  Net Income  / (Loss) 132,005 2,160 66,002 1,089  *1 USD = ` 61.10 Exchange Rate for the ﬁnancial year ended March 31, 2015.
(1 USD = ` 60.59 Exchange Rate for the ﬁnancial year ended March 31, 2014) The ﬁnancial results and the results of operations, including  major developments have been further discussed in detail in  the Management Discussion and Analysis section.
Share Capital During the year, there was no change in the Company’s issued,  subscribed and paid-up equity share capital.
On March 31,  2015, it stood at ` 19,987 Mn, divided into 3,997,400,102 equity  shares of ` 5/- each.
General Reserve The Company has not transferred any amount to the General  Reserve for the ﬁnancial year ended March 31, 2015. Dividend Your Directors have recommended a ﬁnal dividend of  ` 2.22 per equity share of ` 5 each (44.4 % of face value) for  FY 2014-15.
The total ﬁnal dividend payout will amount to  ` 8,874 Mn, excluding tax on dividend.
The payment of ﬁnal  dividend is subject to the approval of shareholders in the  Company’s ensuing Annual General Meeting (AGM).
During the year, the Company had also paid an interim  dividend of ` 1.63 (32.6% of face value) per equity share of  ` 5 each amounting to a total interim dividend payout of  ` 6,515 Mn excluding tax on dividend.
The total dividend  appropriation (excluding dividend tax) for FY 2014-15 is  ` 15,390 Mn.
T ransfer of amount to Investor Education and  Protection Fund Since the Company declared its maiden dividend in August  2009 for FY 2008-09, no unclaimed dividend is due for  transfer to Investor Education and Protection Fund.
Deposits The Company has not accepted any deposits and, as such, no  amount of principal or interest was outstanding, as on the  balance sheet closure date.
Board’s Report Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 49 Capital Market Ratings As on March 31, 2015, the Company was rated by two  domestic rating agencies, namely CRISIL and ICRA and three  international rating agencies, namely Fitch Ratings, Moody’s  and S&P .
CRISIL and ICRA maintained their long-term ratings of the  Company.
Currently, they rate the Company at [CRISIL] AA+  / [ICRA] AA+, with a stable outlook.
Short-term ratings were  maintained at the highest end of the rating scale at [CRISIL]  A1+ / [ICRA] A1+.
Fitch, Moody’s and S&P also maintained the ratings at BBB-/ Stable, BBB-/Stable and Baa3/Stable, respectively.
As on March 31, 2015, the Company was rated ‘Investment  Grade’ with a ‘Stable’ outlook by all three international credit  rating agencies.
Employee Stock Option Plan At present, the Company has two Employee Stock Option  (ESOP) schemes, namely the Employee Stock Option Scheme  2001 and the Employee Stock Option Scheme 2005.
Besides  attracting talent, the schemes also helped retain talent and  experience.
The HR and Nomination Committee administers  and monitors the Company’s ESOP schemes.
Both the ESOP schemes are currently administered through  Bharti Airtel Employees Welfare T rust (ESOP T rust), whereby  shares held by the T rust are transferred to the employee,  upon exercise of stock options as per the terms of the Scheme.
Pursuant to the SEBI (Share Based Employee Beneﬁts)  Regulations, 2014 (the ESOP Regulations), issued by SEBI  on October 28, 2014, the Company has obtained approval of  members through postal ballot, authorising the ESOP T rust  to acquire the Company’s shares from secondary market, for  implementation of ESOP scheme 2005.
A disclosure with respect to ESOP Schemes of the Company  as on March 31, 2015 is annexed as Annexure A to this report.
A certiﬁcate from M/s.
S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP ,  Chartered Accountants, Statutory Auditors, with respect to  the implementation of the Company’s ESOP schemes, would  be placed before the shareholders at the ensuing AGM.
A  copy of the same will also be available for inspection at the  Company’s registered oﬃce.
Material changes and commitments aﬀecting the  ﬁnancial position between the end of ﬁnancial year  and date of report after the balance sheet date Subsequent to the end of the ﬁnancial year, the Company  has ﬁled the Order of Hon’ble High Court of Bombay with  Registrar of Companies (‘ROC’), approving amalgamation of  Airtel Broadband Services Private Limited (‘ABSPL’), a wholly- owned subsidiary with the Company, on April 9, 2015, which  is the eﬀective date and the appointed date of amalgamation.
From the ﬁling of the said Order with the ROC, ABSPL ceased  to exist.
However, the Scheme has not been given eﬀect to in the  ﬁnancial statements as the appointed date of amalgamation  was subsequent to the balance sheet date.
Directors and Key Managerial Personnel Inductions, Re-appointments, Retirements & Resignations In line with the Company’s policy on Independent Directors,  Mr. Ajay Lal has retired from the Board w.e.f.
January 22,  2015.
Mr. Tsun-yan Hsieh and Mr. Manoj Kohli resigned from  the Company’s Board w.e.f.
September 1, 2014 and February  04, 2015, respectively.
The Directors place on record their  appreciation for help, guidance and contribution made by the  outgoing Directors during their tenure on the Board.
Mr. Shishir Priyadarshi was appointed as an Independent  Additional Director on the Board w.e.f.
February 04, 2015 for  a term of ﬁve years, subject to approval of the members in  the ensuing AGM.
The Company has received requisite notice  from a member under Section 160 of the Companies Act,  2013, proposing the appointment of Mr. Shishir Priyadarshi  as the Company’s Non-Executive Independent Director.
In the  opinion of the Board, Mr. Priyadarshi fulﬁls the conditions  speciﬁed in the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made  thereunder and is independent of the management and  accordingly, the Board recommends his appointment.
Ms. Tan Yong Choo will retire by rotation at the ensuing AGM  and being eligible, has oﬀered herself for re-appointment.
Brief resume, nature of expertise, details of directorships  held in other companies excluding foreign companies of the  Directors proposed to be appointed / re-appointed, along  with their shareholding in the Company, as stipulated under  Secretarial Standard 2 and Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement  with the Stock Exchanges, is appended as an Annexure to the  Notice of the ensuing AGM.
Mr. Mukesh Bhavnani, Group General Counsel and Company  Secretary has resigned w.e.f.
March 31, 2015.
The Directors  place on record their appreciation for the contribution made  by him during his tenure.
The Board in its meeting held on  April 28, 2015 has appointed Mr. Rajendra Chopra as the  Company Secretary and Compliance Oﬃcer of the Company.
Declaration by Independent Directors The Company has received declarations from all Independent  Directors of the Company conﬁrming that they meet with  the criteria of independence, as prescribed under Section  149 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Clause 49 of the Listing  Agreement.
The Independent Directors have also conﬁrmed  that they have complied with the Company’s code of conduct.
Board Diversity and Policy on Director’s Appointment and  Remuneration The Company believes that building a diverse and inclusive  culture is integral to its success.
A diverse Board, among  others, will enhance the quality of decisions by utilising  diﬀerent skills, qualiﬁcations, professional experience and  knowledge of the Board members necessary for achieving  sustainable and balanced development.
Accordingly, the  Board has adopted a policy on ‘Nomination, Remuneration and  Board Diversity’, which sets out the criteria for determining  qualiﬁcations, positive attributes and independence of a  Director.
The detailed policy is available on the Company’s  website at www.airtel.in/wps/wcm/connect/92b49e0e- 8810-497a-9c3e-9b80657a3688/Policy-on-Remuneration- Nomination-and-Board-Diversity.pdf?MOD=AJPERES and is  also annexed as Annexure B to this report.
Board’s Report Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1550 Annual Board Evaluation and Familiarisation Programme  for Board Members A note on the familiarisation programme adopted by the  Company for orientation and training of the Directors, and the  Board evaluation process undertaken in compliance with the  provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and Listing Agreement  is provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, which  forms part of this Report.
Committees of Board, Number of Meetings of the Board and  Board Committees The Board of Directors met ﬁve times during the previous  ﬁnancial year.
As on March 31, 2015, the Board has seven  committees, namely, Audit & Risk Management Committee, HR  and Nomination Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility  (‘CSR’) Committee, T echnology Committee (Dissolved w.e.f.
April 28, 2015), Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee,  Committee of Directors and Airtel Corporate Council.
A detailed update on the Board, its composition, detailed  charter including terms and reference of various Board  committees, number of Board and Committee meetings held  during FY 2014-15 and attendance of the Directors at each  meeting is provided in the Report on Corporate Governance,  which forms part of this Report.
Subsidiary, Associate and Joint Venture Companies As on March 31, 2015, your Company has 114 subsidiaries,  3 associates and 4 joint ventures, as set out in page no.
266 of  the Annual Report (for Abridged Annual Report please refer  page no.
95).
During FY 2014-15, Wynk Limited was incorporated as  a subsidiary and FireFly Networks Limited became joint  venture of the Company.
Bharti Airtel Acquisition Holdings  B.V.,  Bharti Airtel Cameroon B.V., Bharti DTH Services Zambia  Limited, Airtel DTH Services Tanzania Limited and Rwanda  T owers Limited ceased to be subsidiaries of the Company.
There was no change in the associate companies during the  previous ﬁnancial year.
Pursuant to Section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 read  with Rule 5 of Companies (Accounts of Companies) Rules,  2014, a statement containing salient features of ﬁnancial  statements of subsidiary, associate and joint venture  companies is annexed on page no.
103 of the Abridged Annual  Report and page no.
273 of the full version Annual Report.
The statement also provides the details of performance and  ﬁnancial position of each of the subsidiary, associate and  joint venture.
The audited ﬁnancial statements of each of its subsidiary,  associate and joint venture companies are available for  inspection at the Company’s registered oﬃce and also at  registered oﬃces of the respective companies.
Copies of the annual accounts of the subsidiary, associate  and joint venture companies will also be made available  to the investors of Bharti Airtel and those of the respective  companies upon request.
Abridged Annual Report In terms of the provision of Section 136(1) of the Companies  Act, 2013, Rule 10 of Companies (Accounts of Companies)  Rules, 2014 and Clause 32 of the Listing Agreement, the Board  of Directors has decided to circulate the Abridged Annual  Report containing salient features of the balance sheet and  statement of proﬁt and loss and other documents to the  shareholders for FY 2014-15, who have not registered their  e-mail id.
The Abridged Annual Report is being circulated  to the members excluding the ‘disclosure on ESOPs’,  ‘Policy on Nomination, Remuneration and Board Diversity’,  ‘Secretarial Audit Report’, ‘Annual Report on Corporate Social  Responsibility u/s 135 of the Companies Act, 2013’, ‘Business  Responsibility Report’, ‘Report on Corporate Governance and  Auditors’ Certiﬁcate on compliance of conditions of Corporate  Governance, ‘Extract of Annual Return’, ‘Note on Energy  conservation, T echnology Absorption and Foreign Exchange  Earning and Outgo’ and ‘Disclosure relating to remuneration  u/s 197(12) read with Rule 5(1)  and Rule 5(2) of the Companies  (Appointment and Remuneration of managerial Personnel),  Rules, 2014’.
Members who desire to obtain the full version of the report  may write to the Company Secretary at the registered oﬃce  address and will be provided with a copy of the same.
Full  version of the Annual Report will also be available on the  Company’s website, www.airtel.com.
Auditors and Auditors’ Report Statutory Auditors In terms of the provisions of Section 139 of the Companies  Act, 2013, M/s.
S. R. Batliboi & Associates, LLP were appointed  as the Company’s Statutory Auditors by the shareholders in  the AGM held on September 1, 2014, for a period of three  years i.e.
till the conclusion of 22nd AGM.
The said appointment is subject to ratiﬁcation by the  members at every AGM.
Accordingly, the appointment of  M/s.
S. R. Batliboi & Associates, LLP , Chartered Accountants,  as the Company’s Statutory Auditors, is placed for ratiﬁcation  by the members.
The Company has received certiﬁcate from  the Auditors to the eﬀect that ratiﬁcation of their appointment,  if made, shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section  141 of the Companies Act, 2013.
The Board has duly examined the Statutory Auditors’ Report  to the accounts, which is self-explanatory.
Clariﬁcations,  wherever necessary, have been included in the Notes to  Accounts section of the Annual Report.
As regards the comments under para i(a) of the  Annexure 1 to the Independent Auditors’ Report regarding  updation of quantitative and situation details relating  to certain ﬁxed assets, the Company is in the process of  executing a comprehensive project with the involvement  of technical experts, for deploying automated tools and  processes which will enable near real-time tracking of ﬁxed  assets and reconciliation thereto.
This project is expected  to be completed by next year.
Additionally, with regard  to the comments under para i(b) of the Annexure 1 to the  Independent Auditors’ Report regarding reconciliation of the  quantitative and situation details of the physical veriﬁcation  results with the records maintained by the Company, the  same is in progress and we believe that the impact is not  expected to be material.
Cost Auditors The Board, on the recommendation of the Audit & Risk  Management Committee has approved the appointment of  M/s.
R. J. Goel & Co., Cost Accountants, as Cost Auditor, for  the ﬁnancial year ending March 31, 2016.
The Cost Auditors  will submit their report for the ﬁnancial year ending 2014-15  on or before the due date.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 148 of the  Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Audit and  Auditors) Rules, 2014, since the remuneration payable to the  Cost Auditors is required to be ratiﬁed by the shareholders, the  Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 51 Board recommends the same for approval by shareholders at  the ensuing AGM.
Secretarial Auditor The Company had appointed M/s.
Chandrasekaran  Associates, Company Secretaries, New Delhi, to conduct  its Secretarial Audit for the ﬁnancial year ended March 31,  2015.
The Secretarial Auditors have submitted their report,  conﬁrming compliance by the Company of all the provisions  of applicable corporate laws.
The Report does not contain any  qualiﬁcation, reservation or adverse remark.
The Secretarial  Audit Report is annexed as Annexure C to this report.
The Board has reappointed M/s.
Chandrasekaran Associates,  Company Secretaries, New Delhi, as Secretarial Auditor of  the Company for FY 2015-16.
Sustainability Journey Sustainability initiatives have been integral to Bharti Airtel’s  journey, since inception.
In last four years the Company added  a more comprehensive and structured sustainability plan with  active cooperation of its stakeholders.
Bharti Airtel’s aim is to  beneﬁt the planet and the community through its operations  and engagements.
The Company is putting focus on diverse  issues like climate change, employee engagement, waste  management, digital inclusion and impact on communities,  among others.
The Company is committed to maintain the  highest standards of governance, safety and environmental  performance across the value chain.
An update on the Company’s sustainability journey forms  part of the Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability  report.
The detailed sustainability report of the Company  is available on the Company’s website at www.airtel.in/ sustainability.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) At Bharti Airtel, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)  encompasses much more than social outreach programmes.
It lies at the heart of the Company’s business operations.
Over  the years, the Company has aligned its business processes  and goals to make a more deep-rooted impact on the society’s  sustainable development.
In accordance with the requirements of Section 135 of the  Companies Act, 2013, the Company has constituted a CSR  Committee.
The composition and terms of reference of  the CSR Committee is provided in the Report on Corporate  Governance, which forms part of this Report.
The Company has also formulated a Corporate  Social Responsibility Policy, which is available on the  Company’s website at www.airtel.in/wps/wcm/connect/ fd7b3172-02e5-4e25-af7e-51d64cc17534/CSR+Policy.
pdf?MOD=AJPERES&ContentCache=NONE  During FY 2014-15, the Company has spent ` 411 Mn towards  the CSR activities.
Being the initial year, the Company was  in the process of evaluating the focus areas / locations of  intervention for CSR activities to cater to the pressing needs of  society and deliver optimal impact.
As a socially responsible  Company, your Company is committed to increase its CSR  impact and spend over the coming years, with its aim of  playing a larger role in India’s sustainable development  by embedding wider economic, social and environmental  objectives.
A detailed update on the CSR initiatives of the Company  is provided in the Corporate Social Responsibility and  Sustainability Report, which forms part of the Annual Report.
The Annual Report on Corporate Social Responsibility u/s 135  of the Companies Act, 2013 is annexed as Annexure D to this  Report.
Business Responsibility Report As stipulated under the Listing Agreement, the Business  Responsibility Report, describing the initiatives taken by  the Company from environmental, social and governance  perspective forms a part of the Annual Report.
Management Discussion and Analysis Report The Management Discussion and Analysis Report for the year  under review, as stipulated under Clause 49 of the Listing  Agreement with the Stock Exchanges in India, is presented in  a separate section, forming part of the Annual Report.
Corporate Governance A detailed report on Corporate Governance, pursuant to the  requirements of Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement, forms  part of the Annual Report.
A certiﬁcate from M/s.
S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP ,  Chartered Accountants, Gurgaon, the Statutory Auditors  of the Company, conﬁrming compliance of conditions of  Corporate Governance, as stipulated under Clause 49, is  annexed as Annexure H to this report.
Risk Management  Risk management is embedded in Bharti Airtel’s operating  framework.
The Company believes that managing risks goes  hand-in-hand with maximising returns.
T o this eﬀect, there  is a robust process in place to identify key risks across the  Group and prioritise relevant action plans to mitigate these  risks.
Risk Management framework is reviewed periodically  by the Board and the Audit & Risk Management Committee,  which includes discussing the management submissions on  risks, prioritising key risks and approving action plans to  mitigate such risks.
During the year, a Risk Management Policy has been  approved by Audit & Risk Management Committee and  the Board.
The objective of this Policy is to have a well- deﬁned approach to risk.
The Policy lays broad guidelines  for the appropriate authority so as to be able to do timely  identiﬁcation, assessment, and prioritisation of risks aﬀecting  the Company in the short and foreseeable future.
The Policy  suggests framing an appropriate response action for the key  risks identiﬁed, so as to make sure that risks are adequately  compensated or mitigated.
The Internal Audit function is responsible to assist the Audit  & Risk Management Committee on an independent basis with  a full status of the risk assessments and management.
Operationally, risk is being managed at the top level  by Management Boards (AMB and Africa Exco) and                                            at operating level by Executive Committees of Circles in India  and Operating Companies in the international operations.
Detailed discussion on Risk Management has been given as a  part of Management Discussion & Analysis under the section  ‘Risks and Concerns’, which forms part of this Annual Report.
Internal Financial Control The Company has in place adequate tools, procedures and  policies, ensuring orderly and eﬃcient conduct of its business,  including adherence to the Company’s policies, safeguarding  of its assets, prevention and detection of frauds and errors,  Board’s Report Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1552 accuracy and completeness of accounting records, and timely  preparation of reliable ﬁnancial information.
During the  year, such controls were tested and no reportable material  weaknesses in the design or operation were observed.
Other Statutory Disclosures Vigil Mechanism The Code of Conduct and vigil mechanism applicable  to Directors and Senior Management of the Company is  available on the Company’s website at www.airtel.in/about- bharti/investor-relations/corporate-governance.
A brief note on the highlights of the Whistle Blower Policy  and compliance with Code of Conduct is also provided in the  Report on Corporate Governance, which forms part of this  Annual Report.
Extract of Annual Return In terms of provisions of Section 92, 134(3)(a) of the Companies  Act, 2013 read with Rule 12 of Companies (Management And  Administration) Rules, 2014, the extracts of Annual Return  of the Company in form MGT-9 is annexed herewith as  Annexure E to this report.
Signiﬁcant and material orders There are no signiﬁcant and material orders passed by the  regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the going concern  status and Company’s operations in future.
Particulars of loans, guarantees or investments Particulars of loans, guarantees and investments form part  of Note no.
18 & 24, 26 and 17 & 20 respectively to the ﬁnancial  statements provided in the full version of the Annual Report.
Related Party T ransactions A detailed note on procedure adopted by the Company in  dealing with contracts and arrangements with Related  Parties is provided in the Report on Corporate Governance,  which forms part of this Annual Report.
All arrangements / transactions entered by the Company  with its related parties during the year were in ordinary  course of business and on an arm’s length basis.
During the  year, the Company had not entered into any arrangement /  transaction with related parties which could be considered  material in accordance with the Company’s Policy on Related  Party T ransactions and accordingly, the disclosure of Related  Party T ransactions in Form AOC 2 is not applicable.
However,  names of Related Parties and details of transactions with them  have been included in Note no.
48 to the ﬁnancial statements  provided in the full version of the Annual Report and Note no.
24 of the ﬁnancial statements provided in abridged version of  the Annual Report under Accounting Standard 18.
The Policy on the Related Party T ransactions is available  on the Company’s website at www.airtel.in/wps/wcm/ connect/36a5305d-f0ba-490c-9eﬀ-152ef6811917/BALPolicy- on-Related-Party-T ransactions.pdf?MOD=AJPERES Energy Conservation, T echnology Absorption and Foreign  Exchange Earnings and Outgo The details of energy conservation, technology absorption  and foreign exchange earnings and outgo as required under  Section 134(3) of the Companies Act, 2013, read with the  Rule 8 of Companies (Accounts of Companies) Rules, 2014 is  annexed herewith as Annexure F to this report.
Particulars of Employees Disclosures relating to remuneration of Directors u/s  197(12) read with Rule 5(1) of Companies (Appointment  and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is  annexed herewith as Annexure G to this report.
The information, as required to be provided in terms of Section  197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013, read with Rule 5(2) of  Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial  Personnel) Rules, 2014, has been enclosed with this report.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement Pursuant to Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013, the  Directors, to the best of their knowledge and belief, conﬁrm  that: a)  in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable  accounting standards had been followed, along with  proper explanation relating to material departures; b)  the Directors had selected such accounting policies and  applied them consistently and made judgements and  estimates that are reasonable and prudent, so as to give  a true and fair view of the state of aﬀairs of the Company  at the end of the ﬁnancial year and of the proﬁt and loss  of the Company for that period; c)  the Directors had taken proper and suﬃcient care  for the maintenance of adequate accounting records  in accordance with the provisions of this Act for  safeguarding the assets of the Company and for  preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities; d)  the Directors had prepared the annual accounts on a  going concern basis; e)  the Directors, had laid down internal ﬁnancial controls  to be followed by the Company and that such internal  ﬁnancial controls are adequate and were operating  eﬀectively; f)  the Directors had devised proper systems to ensure  compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws  and that such systems were adequate and operating  eﬀectively.
Acknowledgements Your Directors wish to place on record their appreciation to  the Department of T elecommunications (DoT), the Central  Government, the State Governments in India, Government  of Bangladesh, Government of Sri Lanka and Governments  in the 17 countries in Africa, Company’s bankers and  business associates, for the assistance, co-operation and  encouragement they extended to the Company.
The Directors also extend their appreciation to the employees  for their continuing support and unstinting eﬀorts in  ensuring an excellent all-round operational performance.
The Directors would like to thank various partners, viz.,  Bharti T elecom Limited, Singapore T elecommunications Ltd.  and other shareholders for their support and contribution.
We look forward to their continued support in future.
For and on behalf of the Board Date:  April 28, 2015 Sunil Bharti Mittal Place: New Delhi Chairman  Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 53 Sl.
No.
Particulars ESOP Scheme 2005 ESOP Scheme 2001 1) Number of stock options granted 27,464,611* 40,905,078** 2) Pricing Formula Exercise Price not less than  the par value of the Equity  Share and not more than  the price prescribed under  Chapter VII of the SEBI (Issue  of Capital and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulation  2009 on Grant Date 29,015,686 @ 11.25  1,760,000 @ 0.45  4,380,000 @ 35.00  142,530@ 0.00  5,541,862 @ 5.00  40,000 @ 60.00  25,000 @ 110.50 3) Options vested 10,545,931 30,664,859 4) Number of options exercised 7,504,892 30,599,859 5) Number of shares arising as a result of exercise  of option during the FY 2014-15 -- 6) Number of options lapsed 16,630,626 9,915,219 7) Money realised by exercise of options 716,264,993 392,523,865 8) T otal number of options in force 3,329,093 390,000 9) Options granted to senior managerial personnel  during the FY 2014-15   Mr. Gopal Vittal - 225,000 10) Diluted earnings per share (EPS) as per AS 20 N.A.
N.A.
11) Diﬀerence between the employees compensation  cost based on intrinsic value of the Stock and the  fair value for the year and its impact on proﬁts  and on EPS of the Company N.A.
N.A.
12) a) Weighted average exercise price ` 211.57 a) ` 11.25; ` 0.45; ` 35; ` 0;  ` 5; ` 60; ` 110.5 b) Weighted average fair value ` 185.38 b) NA; NA; NA; NA;  ` 268.20; ` 84.43;  ` 357.63 13) Method and signiﬁcant assumptions used to  estimate the fair values of options.
Black Scholes / Lattice Valuation Model / Monte Carlo  Simulation (i) risk free interest rate i) 8.55% p.a to 8.65% p.a (The Government Securities curve  yields are considered as on valuation date) (ii) expected life ii) 54 to 72 months (iii) expected volatility iii) 30.73%   (iv) expected dividends iv) 36% (Dividend yield of 0.48%) (v) market price of the underlying share on  grant date v) ` 373.70 per equity share Notes: * Granted 8,730,059 options out of the options lapsed over a period of time.
** Granted 9,225,078 options out of the options lapsed over a period of time.
The options granted to the senior managerial personnel under both the schemes are subject to the adjustments as per the terms of respective performance share  plan.
There is no variation in the terms of options granted during the year.
Other than the employee stated in point no.
9, no other employee was granted stock options exceeding 5% of the total options g ranted during the  year.
No employee was granted stock options exceeding 1% of the issued capital during the year.
Information Regarding Employees Stock Option Schemes (As On March 31, 2015) Annexure A  Board’s Report Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1554 Preamble The Board of Directors (the “Board”) on the recommendation  of the HR & Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”) has  approved and adopted this Nomination, Remuneration and  Board Diversity Policy (the “Policy”) in compliance with the  provisions of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 and rules  made thereunder, and Clause 49 of the Listing Agreements  with the Stock Exchanges.
Objectives The main objectives of this Policy are:   T o lay down criteria and terms and conditions with  regard to identifying persons who are qualiﬁed to  become Directors (Executive and Non-Executive  including Independent Directors), Key Managerial  Personnel (“KMP”) and persons who may be appointed  in senior management positions.
T o lay down criteria for determining the Company’s  approach to ensure adequate diversity in its Board.
T o retain, motivate and promote talent and to ensure  long term sustainability of talented managerial persons  and create competitive advantage for the Company.
T o determine remuneration of Directors, KMPs and other  senior management personnel’s, keeping in view all  relevant factors including industry trends and practices.
T o provide for rewards linked directly to their eﬀort,  performance, dedication and achievement of Company’s  targets.
A.
Attributes, Qualiﬁcations and Diversity Directors and Key Managerial Personnel The Committee shall be responsible for identifying a suitable  candidate for appointment as Director or as KMP of the  Company.
The Board shall consist of such number of Directors as is  necessary to eﬀectively manage the Company of the size  and nature as of Bharti Airtel, subject to a minimum of  3 and maximum of 15, including woman Directors.
The  Board shall have an appropriate combination of Executive,  Non-Executive and Independent Directors.
The Board shall  appoint a Chairman and a Managing Director or CEO and the  roles of Chairman and Managing Director or CEO shall not be  exercised by the same individual.
While evaluating a person for appointment / re-appointment  as Director or as KMP , the Committee shall consider and  evaluate number of factors including but not limited to  background, knowledge, skills, abilities (ability to exercise  sound judgement), professional experience & functional  expertise, educational and professional background, personal  accomplishment, age, experience, understanding of the  telecommunication sector / industry, marketing, technology,  ﬁnance and other disciplines relevant to the business etc.
and such other factors that the Committee might consider  relevant and applicable from time to time towards achieving  a diverse Board.
The Committee shall ensure that the proposed Director  satisﬁes the following additional criteria:   Eligible for appointment as a Director on the Board of  the Company and is not disqualiﬁed in terms of Section  164 and other applicable provisions of the Companies  Act 2013 and the Listing Agreements   Has attained minimum age of 25 years and is not older  than 70 years.
Does not hold directorship in more than 20 companies  (including private and public limited companies) or 10  public limited companies incorporated in India.
Will be able to devote suﬃcient time and eﬀorts in  discharge of duties and responsibilities eﬀectively.
While evaluating a person for appointment / re-appointment  as an Independent Director, the Committee shall ensure that  the proposed appointee satisﬁes the following additional  criteria:   Meet the baseline deﬁnition and criteria of  “independence” as set out in Section 149 of the Companies  Act, 2013 and Clause 49 of the Listing Agreements and  other applicable laws.
Should not hold the position of Independent Director in  more than six Indian listed companies and if serving as  Whole-time Director in any Indian listed company then  in not more than three Indian listed companies.
Should not hold any Board / employment position with  a competitor in the geographies where the Company  is operating.
However, the Board may in special  circumstances waive this requirement.
The reappointment / extension of term of any Board members  shall be on the basis of their performance evaluation report.
Senior Management While evaluating a person for appointment / re-appointment  in a senior management position, the management shall  considers various factors including individual’s background,  competency, skills, abilities (viz.
leadership, ability to exercise  sound judgement), educational and professional background,  personal accomplishment, age, relevant experience and  understanding of related ﬁeld viz.
marketing technology,  ﬁnance or such other discipline relevant to present and  prospective operations of the Company.
Senior Management  means personnel of the Company  who are members of its core management team excluding  Board of Directors and shall comprise of all members  of management one level below the Executive Directors,  including all functional heads.
B. Remuneration Policy Board Members The overall limits of remuneration of the Board members  including Executive Board members (i.e.
Managing Director,  Whole-time Director, Executive Directors etc.)
are governed by  the provisions of Section 197 of the Companies Act, 2013, rules  Nomination, Remuneration and Board Diversity Policy Annexure B Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 55 made thereunder and shall be approved by the shareholders  of the Company and shall be subject to availability of proﬁts  of the Company.
Within the overall limit approved by the shareholders, on  the recommendation of the Committee, the Board shall  determine the remuneration.
The Board can determine  diﬀerent remuneration for diﬀerent Directors on the basis of  their role, responsibilities, duties, time involvement etc.
Non-Executive Directors including Independent Directors Pursuant to the provisions of Section 197 of the Companies Act,  2013, rules made thereunder and the shareholders’ approval,  the Board has approved the following remuneration for Non- Executive Directors (including Independent Directors): i.  Proﬁt-linked Commission (Payable annually after  approval of the ﬁnancial results for the year)    Non-Executive Directors who are nominees of  shareholders:         USD 60,000/- per annum for Directors not  residing in India     ` 3,000,000/- per annum for Directors  residing in India    Independent Non-Executive Directors:     USD 100,000/- per annum for Directors not  residing in India     ` 5,000,000/- per annum for those residing  in India    Chairman – Audit & Risk Management Committee,  and HR and Nomination Committee:     not residing in India – additional USD  100,000/- per annum      residing in India – additional  ` 3,000,000/-  per annum    Chairman – T echnology Committee: additional  USD 150,000/- per annum.
Committee Membership Fee (per committee):     not residing in India – additional USD  10,000/- per annum      residing in India – additional  ` 500,000/- per  annum    T ravel fee if not residing in India: USD 10,000 per  meeting.
ii.
Sitting Fees   In addition to the proﬁt linked commission, the  Independent Directors will also be entitled to sitting fee  of ` 100,000/- for all Board meetings and all Committee  meetings held in a single day.
For avoidance of doubt,  in case an Independent Director attends more than  one Board and / or committee meeting in a day, he  will be paid consolidated sitting fee of ` 100,000/- for  all such meetings.
If the Board appoint any person as  an alternate Director to an Independent Director, such  person will be entitled to sitting fee for the relevant  meeting.
Executive Board Members (Managing Director, Whole- time Director, Executive Directors etc.)
The remuneration (including revision in the  remuneration) of Executive Board members shall  be approved by the Board on the basis of the  recommendation of the HR and Nomination Committee.
The remuneration payable to Executive Board members  shall consist of (a) Fixed Pay, which is payable monthly,  and shall include basic pay, contributions to retirement  beneﬁts, house rent allowance or company-leased  accommodation and other allowances as per the  Company’s policy (b) Variable Pay (paid at the end of  Financial Year) directly linked to the performance of  the individual employee (i.e.
achievement against pre- determined KRAs), his / her respective Business Unit  and the overall company’s performance (c) Long term  incentive /  ESOPs as  may be decided by the HR &   Nomination Committee from time to time.
Remuneration to Key Managerial Personnel (other than  Managing Director and Whole-time Director), Senior  Management and other employees   The remuneration of Key Managerial Personnel (other  than Managing Director and Whole-time Director), shall  be as per the compensation and appraisal policy of the  Company.
The remuneration payable to key managerial personnel  (other than Managing Director and Whole-time Director),  senior management and other employees shall consist  of (a) Fixed Pay, which is payable monthly and include  basic pay, contributions to retirement beneﬁts, house  rent allowance or company-leased accommodation  and other allowances as per the Company’s policy (b)  Variable Pay (paid at the end of Financial Year) directly  linked to the performance of the individual employee  (i.e.
achievement against pre-determined KRAs), his /  her respective business unit and the overall Company  performance (c) Long term incentive / ESOPs as  may be  decided by the Committee from time to time.
Disclosures by the Company   This Policy shall be disclosed in the Company’s Annual  Report.
General     The Group Director – HR and the Group General Counsel  and Company Secretary are jointly authorised to amend  the Policy to give eﬀect to any changes / amendments  notiﬁed by Ministry of Corporate Aﬀairs or Security  Exchange Board of India w.r.t.
Directors’ any matter  covered by this policy.
The amended policy shall be  placed before the Board for noting and ratiﬁcation.
Any questions and clariﬁcations relating to this Policy  should be addressed to the Group General Counsel and  Company Secretary at compliance.oﬃcer@bharti.in.
Board’s Report Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1556 To , The Members,  Bharti Airtel Limited  We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance  of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good  corporate practices by Bharti Airtel Limited (hereinafter  called the Company).
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a  manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the  corporate conducts/ statutory compliances and expressing  our opinion thereon.
Based on our veriﬁcation of the Company’s books, papers,  minute books, forms and returns ﬁled and other records  maintained by the Company and also the information  provided by the Company, its oﬃcers, agents and authorised  representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, we  hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the  audit period covering the ﬁnancial year ended on March 31,  2015 complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder  and also that the Company has proper Board-processes and  compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner  and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:  We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms  and returns ﬁled and other records maintained by the  Company for the ﬁnancial year ended on March 31, 2015  according to the provisions of:  (i)  The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made  thereunder;  (ii)  The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’)  and the rules made thereunder;  (iii)  The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye- laws framed thereunder to the extent of Regulation 55A;  (iv)  Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules  and regulations made thereunder to the extent of  Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment  and External Commercial Borrowings;  (v)  The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed  under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act,  1992 (‘SEBI Act’):  a)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)  Regulations, 2011;   b)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Prohibition of Insider T rading) Regulations, 1992;   c)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of  Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,  2009;  d)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share  Based employee Beneﬁts) Regulations, 2014;   e)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue  and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 ;  Not Applicable  f)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Registrars to an Issue and Share T ransfer Agents)  Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act  and dealing with client to the extent of securities  issued;   g)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; Not  Applicable  h)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 1998.
Not  Applicable (vi)  The other laws, as informed and certiﬁed by the  management of the Company which are speciﬁcally  applicable to the Company based on their sectors/  industry are:  (a) The Indian T elegraph Act, 1885  (b)  The T elecom Regulatory Authority of India Act,  1997 and Rules and Regulations made thereunder   (c) The Indian Wireless T elegraphy Act, 1933 We have also examined compliance with the applicable  clauses of the following:  (i)  Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company  Secretaries of India - Not applicable for ﬁnancial year  2014-15.
(ii)  The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company  with National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE  Limited.
During the period under review the Company has generally  complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations,  Guidelines, Standards, etc.
mentioned above.
We further report that: The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted  with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive  Directors and Independent Directors.
The changes in the  composition of the Board of Directors that took place during  the period under review were carried out in compliance with  the provisions of the Act.
Secretarial Audit Report for the Financial Y ear Ended March 31, 2015 Annexure C Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 57 Adequate notice is given to all Directors to schedule the  Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were  sent in advance, and a system exists for seeking and obtaining  further information and clariﬁcations on the agenda items  before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the  meeting.
All decisions at Board Meetings and Committee Meetings  are carried out unanimously as recorded in the minutes of  the meetings of the Board of Directors or Committee of the  Board, as the case may be.
We further report that there are adequate systems and  processes in the Company commensurate with the size and  operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance  with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period no speciﬁc  events / actions took place that having a major bearing on  the Company’s aﬀairs in pursuance of the above referred  laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, standards, etc.
Dr. S. Chandrasekaran  Senior Partner  Chandrasekaran Associates Company Secretaries Place: New Delhi Membership No.
FCS No.
: 1644  Date: April 22, 2015 Certiﬁcate of Practice No.
: 715 Note: This report is to be read with our letter of even date  which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral part  of this report.
The Members  Bharti Airtel Limited  Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,   Vasant Kunj, Phase-II,   New Delhi – 110070 1.
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of  the management of the Company.
Our responsibility is  to express an opinion on these secretarial records based  on our audit.
2.
We have followed the audit practices and processes  as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance  about the correctness of the contents of the secretarial  records.
The veriﬁcation was done on the random  test basis to ensure that correct facts are reﬂected in  secretarial records.
We believe that the processes and  practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for  our opinion.
3.
We have not veriﬁed the correctness and appropriateness  of ﬁnancial records and Books of Accounts of the  Company.
4.
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management  representation about the compliance of laws, rules and  regulations and happening of events etc.
Annexure-A  to the Secretarial Audit Report 5.
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and  other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is  the responsibility of management.
Our examination was  limited to the veriﬁcation of procedures on the random  test basis.
6.
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance  as to the future viability of the Company nor of the  eﬃcacy or eﬀectiveness with which the management  has conducted the aﬀairs of the Company.
Dr. S. Chandrasekaran   Senior Partner   Chandrasekaran Associates Company Secretaries Place: New Delhi Membership No.
FCS No.
: 1644  Date: April 22, 2015 Certiﬁcate of Practice No.
: 715 Board’s Report Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1558 1.
Brief Outline of Company’s CSR Policy  At Bharti Airtel, business success is not just about proﬁts and shareholder returns.
We believe in pursuing wider socio- economic and cultural objectives and have always endeavoured to not just live up to it, but to try and exceed the expectations  of the communities in which we operate.
At Bharti Airtel, the CSR and welfare activities centres around the following areas:  I.
Promoting education including special education, employment enhancing vocation skills especially among children  and livelihood enhancement projects;  II.
Eradicating hunger, poverty and malnutrition, promoting preventive health care and sanitation and making available  safe drinking water;  III.
Contributions or funds provided to technology incubators located within academic institutions which are approved by  the Central Government.
The detailed CSR Policy of the Company is available on Company’s website at: www.airtel.in/wps/wcm/connect/fd7b3172- 02e5-4e25-af7e-51d64cc17534/CSR+Policy.pdf?MOD=AJPERES&ContentCache=NONE   The glimpses of CSR projects and programmes undertaken by the Company through Bharti Foundation can be accessed at  www.bhartifoundation.org 2.
Composition of CSR Committee Name Designation Rajan Bharti Mittal, Chairman Non-Executive Director D. K. Mittal Independent Director Gopal Vittal Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia)   (` Millions) 3.
Average net proﬁt before tax of the Company for last three ﬁnancial years 69,986 4.
Prescribed CSR Expenditure (2% of the amount as above) 1,400 5.
Details of CSR spent during the year a)  T otal amount to be spent for the ﬁnancial year 1,400 b)  Amount Unspent 989 The Annual Report on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Activities Annexure D Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 59 c)  Manner in which amount spent during the ﬁnancial year: (` Millions) S.  No.
CSR project or  activity identiﬁed Sector in  which the  project is  covered Projects or  programmes (1) Local area  or  other (2) Specify the  State and district  where projects or  programmes was  undertaken* Amount  outlay  (budget)  project or   programmes  wise Amount spent  on the projects  or programmes Sub-heads: (1) Direct  expenditure  on projects or  programmes (2) Overheads Cumulative  Expenditure  upto the  reporting  period Amount  Spent:  Direct or  through  implementing  agency 1.
Satya Bharti  School  Programme Promotion  of  education Speciﬁed below 404.9 267.7 267.7 Through  implementing  agency  - Bharti  Foundation** 2.
Satya Bharti  Abhiyan Sanitation District Ludhiana  - Rural 6.1 6.1 6.1 *District wise / State wise details of Satya Bharti School Program - Kaithal, Kurukshetra, RMJ Kosli in Haryana; Amritsar, Ludh iana, Sangrur in Punjab; Amritsar,  Ludhiana, Sangrur in Punjab; Amer, Jodhpur, Neemrana in Rajasthan; Sivaganga in Tamil Nadu; Farrukhabad, Bulandshahr, Shahjahan pur in Uttar Pradesh and  Mushirdabad.
District wise / State wise detail of Satya Bharti Learning Program - Barmer, Jodhpur, Sawaimadhopur in Rajasthan.
District wise / State wise detail of  Quality Support Model – Mahendergarh and Nangla in Haryana and Jodhpur in Rajasthan.
** Details of Bharti Foundation: 1st Floor, C – Wing, Airtel Centre, Plot No.
16, Udyog Vihar, Phase – IV, Gurgaon – 122 015.
Haryana (India).
Ph No: 0124- 4823500.
6.
Reason for not spending the prescribed 2% amount  During FY 2014-15, the Company has spent `411 Mn towards the CSR activities.
Being the initial year, the Company was  in the process of evaluating the focus areas / locations of intervention for CSR activities to cater to the pressing needs  of society and deliver optimal impact.
As a socially responsible company, your Company is committed to increase its  CSR impact and spend over the coming years, with its aim of playing a larger role in India’s sustainable development by  embedding wider economic, social and environmental objectives.
7.
Responsibility statement of the CSR Committee  The Committee conﬁrms that the implementation and monitoring of CSR Policy is in compliance with CSR objectives and  policy of the Company.
Gopal Vittal Rajan Bharti Mittal Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia) Chairman CSR Committee Board’s Report Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1560 Form No.
Mgt-9  as on the ﬁnancial year ended on March 31, 2015 [Pursuant to Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 12(1) of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014] I.
Registration and Other Details CIN L74899DL1995PLC070609 Registration Date July 07, 1995 Name of the Company Bharti Airtel Limited Category of the Company Limited by shares Sub-Category of the Company Indian Non-Government Company Address of the Registered oﬃce and contact details Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road, Vasant Kunj, Phase II,  New Delhi – 110 070.
Phone : +91 11 4666 6100 Whether listed company        Yes Name, Address and Contact details of Registrar and  T ransfer Agents Karvy Computershare Pvt.
Ltd. Karvy Selenium T ower B, Plot number 31 & 32, Financial District,  Nanakramguda, Serilingampally Mandal, Hyderabad – 500032,  India.
Phone : +91 040 6716 2222 II.
Principal Business Activities of the Company  Businesses contributing 10% or more of the total turnover of the Company are given below : Sl.
No.
Name and Description of main  products/services NIC Code of the product/ service* % to total turnover of the Company 1 Wireless telecommunications activities 612 82.46%  Note : * As per National Industrial Classiﬁcation – Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation.
III.
Particulars of Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies S.No Name of the Company Address CIN/Registration No.
% of  shares  held Subsidiary Companies u/s 2 (87) (ii) of the Companies Act, 2013 1 Bharti Airtel Services Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,   Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi- 110 070 U64201DL1997PLC091001 100 2 Bharti Hexacom Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,   Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi- 110 070 U74899DL1995PLC067527 70 3 Bharti Infratel Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,   Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi- 110 070 L64201DL2006PLC156038 71.88 4 Bharti Infratel Services Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,   Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi- 110 070 U64200DL2013PLC253495 71.88 5 Bharti T elemedia Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,   Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi- 110 070 U92200DL2006PLC156075 95 6 Airtel M Commerce Services Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,   Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi- 110 070 U64200DL2010PLC201058 100 7 Nxtra Data Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,   Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi- 110 070 U72200DL2013PLC254747 100 8 Wynk Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,   Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi- 110 070 U74140DL2015PLC275325 100 9 T elesonic Networks Limited 4 th Floor, ‘C’ Wing, Airtel Centre, Plot No.
16,   Phase - IV, Udyog Vihar, Gurgaon - 122 015,  Haryana, India.
U64200HR2009PLC039237 100 10 Airtel Broadband Services Private  Limited Unit No.
1102, 11th Floor, Platina Plot No.
C 59  G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East)  Mumbai - 400050.
Maharashtra U72900MH2007PTC175384 100 Extract of Annual Return Annexure E Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 61 S.No Name of the Company Address CIN/Registration No.
% of  shares  held 11 Airtel Bangladesh Limited House # 34, Road # 19/A, Banani, Dhaka -  1213, Bangladesh C - 55081 100 12 Bangladesh Infratel Networks  Limited House # 34, Road # 19/A, Banani, Dhaka -  1213, Bangladesh C - 93753/11 100 13 Bharit Airtel (Canada) Limited  (In liquidation) 2800 Part Place, 666, Burrard Street,  Vancouver, BC V6C 2Z7 Canada BC0772917 100 14 Bharti Airtel (France) SAS 88, ter avenue Général Leclerc – 92100  Boulogne Billancourt RCS Nanterre 523 035 426 100 15 Bharti Airtel (Hongkong) Limited 12/F, No.
3, Lockhart Road, Wanchai,  Hongkong 1080074 100 16 Bharti Airtel (Japan) Pvt.
Ltd. Shinjuku Park T ower 30th Floor, 7-1,   Nishi Shinjuku 3-chome, Shinjuku-ku, T okyo 0111-01-055989 100 17 Bharti Airtel (UK) Limited 26 Red Lion Square, London, WC1R 4AG,   United Kingdom 5917314 100 18 Bharti Airtel (USA) Limited 335 Madison Avenue 12 th ﬂoor, New York   10017 F-060912000-21720 100 19 Bharti Airtel Holdings (Singapore)  Pte Ltd 150, Orchard Road, #08-01, Orchard Plaza,  Singapore 2007-18118-G 100 20 Bharti Airtel International  (Mauritius) Limited  Multiconsult Limited, Les cascade Building,  Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis, Mauritius 094380 CI/GBL 100 21 Bharti Airtel International  (Netherlands) B.V. Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam,   The Netherlands 8222.30.732 100 22 Bharti Airtel Lanka (Private)  Limited Level 11, west T ower, world T rade Centre,   Echelon Square Colombo 1, Sri Lanka PV10652 100 23 Bharti Infratel Lanka (Private)  Limited Level 11, west T ower, world T rade Centre,   Echelon Square Colombo 1, Sri Lanka 63290 100 24 Bharti International (Singapore)  Pte Ltd  150, Orchard Road, #08-01, Orchard Plaza,  Singapore 2010-05788-R 100 25 Network i2i Ltd. Multiconsult Limited, Les cascade Building,  Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis, Mauritius.
25951/6339 100 26 Africa T owers N.V. Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam, The  Netherlands 50970065 100 27 Africa T owers Services Limited Parkside T owers, Mombasa Road, PB 73146- 00200, Nairobi, Kenya CPR/2011/56039 100 28 Airtel (Ghana) Limited 30 Independence Avenue, North Ridge, Accra,  Ghana.
C-71,259 75 29 Airtel (Seychelles) Limited Providence, East Cost, P .O.
Box 1358, Victoria,  Mahe, Seychelles 841930-1 100 30 Airtel (SL) Limited 42, Main Motor Road, Wilberforce, Freetown,  (Sierra Leone)  C/F/179/1998 100 31 Airtel Burkina Faso S.A. 771, Avenue du Prés.
Aboubacar Sangoulé,   Lamizana, 01 Boite Postale 6622,  Ouagadougou, 01, Burkina Faso BFOUA 2000-B-522 (IFU  72004149B) 100 32 Airtel Congo S.A Avenue Amilcar Cabral/ BP 1038, Brazzaville,  Republique du Congo, Congo CG/BZV/07 B299 90 33 Airtel DTH Services (Sierra Leone)  Limited (In liquidation) c/o Airtel (SL) limited, 42, Motor Road,  Wilberforce 55/2011 100 34 Airtel DTH Services Congo (RDC)  S.p.r.l  (In liquidation) Croisement des Avenues, du T chad et du Bas  Congo, Commune de la Gombe, Kinhasa,  Republique Democratique du Congo, Congo  RDC NRC KG/9.903/M 100 35 Airtel DTH Services Nigeria Limited  (In liquidation) Plot L2, Banana Island, Foreshore Estate,  Ikoyi, Lagos, Nigeria 932607 100 36 Airtel Gabon S.A. 124 Avenue Boue/ BP 9259, Libreville, Gabon 2001/B01 000 (7344/B) 90 37 Airtel Madagascar S.A. Airtel Buliding, Explorer Business Park  Ankorondrano, Antananarivo, Madagascar 1997B00392 100 38 Airtel Malawi Limited Airtel House, Citi Centre Oﬀ Independence  Drive, P .O.
Box 57, Lilongwe, Malawi 5114 100 39 Airtel Mobile Commerce (SL)  Limited 42, Main Motor Road, Wilberforce, Freetown,  Sierra Leone  ARG/9 No 426No.
C/F/689/2009  100 40 Airtel Mobile Commerce B.V Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 34375413 100 Board’s Report Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1562 S.No Name of the Company Address CIN/Registration No.
% of  shares  held 41 Airtel Mobile Commerce Burkina  Faso S.A. 771 Avenue du Pres.
Aboubacar Sangoule  Lamizina, 01 Boite Postale 6622  Ouagadouugou BFOUA2010B3275 100 42 Airtel Mobile Commerce Ghana  Limited 30 Independence Avenue, North Ridge/GNAT  Heights, Accra, Ghana CA-62,722 100 43 Airtel Mobile Commerce Holdings  B.V Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 34381129 100 44 Airtel Mobile Commerce Kenya  Limited Parkside T owers, Mombasa Road, P .
O.
Box  73146-00200, Narobi, Kenya C 169576 100 45 Airtel Mobile Commerce Limited  (Malawi) Airtel House, Citi Centre oﬀ Independence  Drive, P .O.
Box 57, Lilongwe, Malawi 9831 100 46 Airtel Mobile Commerce  Madagascar S.A. Escalier C Zone Tana Water Front Ambodivona,  Analamanga, 101 Antananarivo Renivo,  Renivohitra, Madagascar 2011B00235 100 47 Airtel Mobile Commerce Rwanda  Limited Airtel Rwanda Limited, Remera, Gasabo, P .O.
Box 4164, Kigali, Rwanda 102933620 100 48 Airtel Mobile Commerce  (Seychelles) Limited Providence, East Coast P .O.
Box 1358, Victoria,  Mahe, Seychelles 100 49 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Tanzania)  Limited Ali Hassan, Mwinyi Road/ Kawawa Road,  Kinondoni Block 41, Morocco Area, Kinondoni  District, P .O.
Box 9623, Dar es Salaam,  Tanzania 79802 100 50 Airtel Mobile Commerce T chad  SARL Immeuble Pierre Brock,Avenue Charles de  Gaulle.
BP .
5665, N’Djamena  Chad TC/NDJ/10B 183 100 51 Airtel Mobile Commerce Uganda  Limited Airtel House, Plot 40, Jinja Road, P .
O.
Box  6771 Kampala, Uganda 123833 100 52 Airtel Mobile Commerce Zambia  Limited  Airtel House, Stand 2375, Addis Ababa Drive,  P .O.
Box 320001, Lusaka, Zambia 80052/829972 100 53 Airtel Money (RDC) S.P .R.L.
127, Avenue de Plateau, Gombe, Kinhasa,  Republique Democratique du Congo, Congo  DRC KG7602/M 100 54 Airtel Money Niger S.A. Rue de l'Aeroport/ BP 11 922, Niamey, Niger NI-NIA 2009-B-1848 100 55 Airtel Money S.A. (Gabon) Avenue Amilcar cabral,B.P .
1038,  Brazzaville,Republique du Congo RG LBV 2101 B 09955 100 56 Airtel Networks Kenya Limited Parkside T owers, Mombasa Road, P .
O.
Box  73146-00200, Narobi, Kenya 87729 100 57 Airtel Networks Limited Plot L2, Banana Island, Foreshore Estate/Ikoyi  Lagos, Nigeria 398557 79.06 58 Airtel Networks Zambia Plc Airtel House, Stand 2375, Addis Ababa Drive/ POB 320001, Lusaka Zambia 38136 96.36 59 Airtel Rwanda Limited Airtel Building Gasabo District, Remera,  Nyabisindu, P .O.
Box 4164, Kigali, Rwanda 102437818 100 60 Airtel Tanzania Limited Ali Hassan, Mwinyi Road/ Kawawa Road,  Kinondoni Block 41, Morocco Area, Kinondoni  District, P .O.
Box 9623, Dar es Salaam,  Tanzania 41291 60 61 Airtel T chad S.A. Immeuble Pierre Brock, Avenue Charles de  Gaulle.
BP .
5665, N'djamena, Chad TC/NDJ/10B127 (TC.NDJ  063B99) 100 62 Airtel T owers (Ghana) Limited 30 Independence Avenue, North Ridge/GNAT  Heights, Accra, Ghana CA 82,071 75 63 Airtel T owers (S.L.)
Company  Limited 25, Regent Road, Hill Station,  Freetown, Sierra Leone CF/106/2011 100 64 Airtel Uganda Limited Airtel House, Plot 40, Jinja Road, P .O.
Box  6771, Kampla, Uganda 111673 100 65 Bharti Airtel Africa B.V. Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 08076497 100 66 Bharti Airtel Burkina Faso Holdings  B.V. Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 08077622 100 67 Bharti Airtel Chad Holdings B.V. Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 34125184 100 68 Bharti Airtel Congo Holdings B.V. Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 08077621 100 Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 63 S.No Name of the Company Address CIN/Registration No.
% of  shares  held 69 Bharti Airtel Developers Forum  Limited Airtel House, Stand 2375, Addis Ababa Drive,  P .O.
Box 23001, Lusaka, Zambia 82795 100 70 Bharti Airtel DTH Holdings B.V. Airtel House, Stand 2375, Addis Ababa Drive,  P .O.
Box 23001, Lusaka, Zambia 50921266 100 71 Bharti Airtel Gabon Holdings B.V. Airtel House, Stand 2375, Addis Ababa Drive,  P .O.
Box 23001, Lusaka, Zambia 08078528 100 72 Bharti Airtel Ghana Holdings B.V. Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 34204633 100 73 Bharti Airtel Kenya B.V. Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam,   The Netherlands 38023926 100 74 Bharti Airtel Kenya Holdings B.V. Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 34164357 100 75 Bharti Airtel Madagascar Holdings  B.V.  Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 34204848 100 76 Bharti Airtel Malawi Holdings B.V. Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 08077659 100 77 Bharti Airtel Mali Holdings B.V. Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 34164359 100 78 Bharti Airtel Niger Holdings B.V. Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 34143743 100 79 Bharti Airtel Nigeria B.V. Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 34164360 100 80 Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings B.V.  (In liquidation) Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam,  The Netherlands NA 100 81 Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings II B.V. Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 08077623 100 82 Bharti Airtel RDC Holdings B.V. Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 34125193 100 83 Bharti Airtel Services B.V. Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 08077657 100 84 Bharti Airtel Sierra Leone Holdings  B.V.  Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 08078533 100 85 Bharti Airtel Tanzania B.V. Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 08078747 100 86 Bharti Airtel Uganda Holdings B.V. Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 08078530 100 87 Bharti Airtel Zambia Holdings B.V. Keizersgracht 62-64, 1015 CS Amsterdam,  The Netherlands 08076501 100 88 Burkina Faso T owers S.A. 771, Avenue du President Aboubacar Sangoule  Lamizana, 01 B.P .
6622 Ouagadougou 01,  Burkina Faso.
BF OUA 2011 B 1212 100 89 Celtel (Mauritius) Holdings Limited c/o Abax Corporate Services Ltd,   6th ﬂoor, T ower A, 1 Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius  18259/3238 100 90 Airtel Congo (RDC) S.A. Croisement des Avenues du T chad et du Bas- Congo, Commune de la Gombe, Kinshasa,  Republique Democratique du Congo NRC 47889 98.5 91 Celtel Niger S.A. Rue de l'Aeroport/BP 11 922, Niamey, Niger 4930 90 92 Channel Sea Management Co  Mauritius Limited c/o Abax Corporate Services Ltd, 6th ﬂoor,  T ower A, 1 Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius  18258/3237 100 93 Congo RDC T owers S.p.r.l.
Croisement des Avenues du T chad et du Bas  Congo, Commune de la Gombe, Republique  Democratique du Congo NRC KG/9.902/M 100 94 Congo T owers S.A. Avenue Amilcar cabral, B.P .
1038,  Brazzaville,Republique du Congo CG/BZV/11 B 2566 90 95 Gabon T owers S.A. 124 Avenue Bouet/ BP 9259, Libreville, Gabon 2011B11106 90 96 Indian Ocean T elecom Limited C/o Minerva T rust & Corporate Services  Limited, 43/45, La Motte Street, St. Helier,  Jersey, JE4 8SD, Channel Islands.
70138 100 97 Kenya T owers Limited Parkside T owers, Mombasa Road, PB 962-000,  Nairobi, Kenya CPU/2014/172465 100 98 Madagascar T owers S.A. Escalier C Zone Tana Water Front Ambodivona,  101 Antananarivo Renivo Renivohitna,  Madagascar 2011 B 00184 100 Board’s Report Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1564 S.No Name of the Company Address CIN/Registration No.
% of  shares  held 99 Malawi T owers Limited Airtel House, City Centre, Oﬀ Independence  Drive, P .O.
Box 57, Lilongwe, Malawi 10995 100 100 Mobile Commerce Congo S.A. Avenue Amilcar Cabral/ B.P .
1038, Brazzaville,  Republique du Congo CG/BZV 09B 1796 100 101 Montana International c/o Abax Corporate Services Ltd, 6 th ﬂoor,  T ower A, 1 Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius  6/97/2593 100 102 MSI-Celtel Nigeria Limited (In  liquidation) 7, Walter Carrington Crescent, Victoria Island,  Lagos 372966 100 103 Niger T owers S.A. Route de l'Aeroport, Quartier Talladje, BP 11  922, Niamey, Niger NI-NIA 2011-B 952 90 104 Partnership Investments Sprl Immeuble Immo-Invest, a l'argle des Abenues  ex Baron Jacques 51.554 100 105 Société Malgache de T elephonie  Cellulaire SA c/o Abax Corporate Services Ltd, 6th ﬂoor,  T ower A, 1 Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius  19022/3479 100 106 Tanzania T owers Limited Ali Hassan Mwinyi Road & Kawana Road  Kinondoni Block 41/Morocco Area, Kinondoni  District, POB 9623, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.
82086 60 107 T chad T owers S.A. BP 5665, Avenue Charles de Gaulle,  N'Djamena, Chad TC/NDJ 11 B 69 100 108 T owers Support Nigeria Limited 7 th Floor Marble House, 1 Kingsway road,  IKOYI, LAGOS, Nigeria.
940514 79.059 109 Uganda T owers Limited Airtel House, Plot 40 Jinja Road, P .O.
Box 6771,  Kampala, Uganda.
126444 100 110 Warid Congo S.A. Avenue Orsy / BP 238, Brazzaville, Republique  du Congo, Congo NA 90 111 Warid T elecom Uganda Limited  (Merger in process) Airtel House, Plot 40 Jinja Road, P .O.
Box 6771,  Kampala, Uganda.
111673 100 112 Zambian T owers Limited Airtel house, Stand 2375, Addis Ababa Drive/  P .O.Box 320001, Lusaka, Zambia.
90078 96.36 113 Zap T rust Company Nigeria Limited Plot L2, Banana Island, Foreshore Estate/Ikoyi  Lagos, Nigeria 889384 100 114 Bharti Airtel Rwanda Holding  Limited c/o Abax Corporate Services Ltd, 6th ﬂoor,  T ower A, 1 Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius  C083311 100 Associates u/s 2 (6) of the Companies Act, 2013 1 Bharti T eleports Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,   Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi- 110 070 U32204DL2008PLC183976 49 2 Tanzania T elecommunications  Company Limited 12th Floor, Exelcoms House, Dar es Salaam,  Tanzania 24490 35 3 Seychelles Cable Systems Company  Limited Third Floor, Caravelle House, Victoria, Mahe,  Seychelles 846498-1 26 Joint Venture Companies u/s 2 (6) of the Companies Act, 2013 1 Indus T owers Limited * Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Marg,  Vasant Kunj II, Vasant Kunj, New Delhi,  Delhi, 110070 U92100DL2007PLC170574 30.19 2 Bridge Mobile Pte Limited 750 Chai Chee Road, T echnopark@ChaiChee,  The Oasis, #03-02/0, Singapore 469000 200413856E 10 3 Forum I Aviation Ltd 505, G+5 Building., Opp.
Domestic Arpt.
Arrival T erminal, IGI Airport, New Delhi, India  110037 U62200DL2004PTC131655 16.67 4 FireFly Networks Limited A-19, Mohan Co-operative Industrial Estate,  Mathura Road, New Delhi, Delhi 110044 U74999DL2014PLC264417 50 Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 65 IV.
Share Holding Pattern (Equity Share Capital Breakup as percentage of T otal Equity) i) Category-wise Share Holding Category of  Shareholders No.
of Shares held at the beginning of the year i.e April 01, 2014 No.
of Shares held at the end of the year i.e March 31, 2015 % Change  during the  year     Demat Physical T otal % of T otal  Shares Demat Physical T otal % of T otal  A. Promoters Indian Individual/ HUF - - - - - - - - - Central Government - - - - - - - - - State Government - - - - - - - - - Bodies Corporate 1,745,595,460 - 1,745,595,460 43.67 1,747,545,460 - 1,747,545,460 43.72 0.05 Banks / FI - - - - - - - - - Any Other - - - - - - - - - Sub T otal (A) (1) 1,745,595,460 - 1,745,595,460 43.67 1,747,545,460 - 1,747,545,460 43.72 0.05 Foreign NRIs- Individuals - - - - - - - - - Other- Individuals - - - - - - - - - Bodies Corporate 857,180,286 - 857,180,286 21.44 857,180,286 - 857,180,286 21.44 0.00 Banks / Financial  Institutions -- - - - - - - - Any other (Foreign  Institutional Investor) 8,493,000 - 8,493,000 0.21 8,493,000 - 8,493,000 0.21 0.00 Subtotal (A) (2):- 865,673,286 - 865,673,286 21.66 865,673,286 - 865,673,286 21.66 0.00 T otal shareholding of  Promoter  A= (A)(1) + (A)(2) 2,611,268,746 2,611,268,746 65.32 2,613,218,746 - 2,613,218,746 65.37 0.05 B.
Public Shareholding  Institutions Mutual Funds 98,510,288 - 98,510,288 2.46 108,033,416 - 108,033,416 2.70 0.24 Banks / FI 3,262,189 - 3,262,189 0.08 932,054 - 932,054 0.02 (0.06) Central Govt - - - - - - - - - State Govt - - - - - - - - - Venture Capital Funds - - - - - - - - - Insurance Companies 209,160,055 - 209,160,055 5.23 190,892,726 - 190,892,726 4.78 (0.45) FIIs (including foreign  portfolio investors)  655,170,258 - 655,170,258 16.39 716,795,355 - 716,795,355 17.93 1.54 Foreign Venture    Capital Funds -- - - - - - - - Others - - - - - - - - - Sub T otal (B)(1):- 966,102,790 - 966,102,790 24.17 1,016,653,551 - 1,016,653,551 25.43 1.26 Non Institutions Bodies Corporate i) Indian 147,187,096 5,444,291 152,631,387 3.82 110,752,708 5,444,270 116,196,978 2.91 (0.91) ii) Overseas - - - - - - - - - Individual  shareholders holding  nominal share capital  upto ` 1 Lakh 36,242,409 9,558 36,251,967 0.91 29,099,563 8,418 29,107,981 0.73 (0.18) Individual  shareholders holding  nominal share capital  in excess of ` 1 Lakh 8,994,225 - 8,994,225 0.23 6,595,400 - 6,595,400 0.16 (0.07) Qualiﬁed Foreign  Investor 50 - 50 0.00 - - - - (0.00) Foreign National 112 - 112 0.00 - - - - (0.00) Foreign Companies 204,952,716 - 204,952,716 5.13 204,952,716 - 204,952,716 5.13 0.00 Non-resident Indians 2,606,787 - 2,606,787 0.07 2,159,619 - 2,159,619 0.05 (0.02) T rusts 5,261,543 - 5,261,543 0.13 5,670,563 - 5,670,563 0.14 0.01 Clearing Members 9,329,779 - 9,329,779 0.23 2,844,548 - 2,844,548 0.07 (0.16) Sub T otal (B)(2):- 414,574,717 5,453,849 420,028,566 10.51 362,075,117 5,452,688 367,527,805 9.19 (1.32) T otal Public  shareholding (B)=(B) (1)+(B)(2) 1,380,677,507 5,453,849 1,386,131,356 34.68 1,378,728,668 5,452,688 1,384,181,356 34.63 (0.05) C. Shares held by  Custodians for GDR’s  & ADR’s -- - - - - - - - T otal (A)+(B)+(C) 3,991,946,253 5,453,849 3,997,400,102 100.00 3,991,947,414 5,452,688 3,997,400,102 100.00 Board’s Report Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1566  (ii) Shareholding of Promoters S.  No.
Shareholder Name Shareholding at the beginning of the year Shareholding at the end of the year % Change in  shareholding No.
of shares % of  total  shares % of shares  pledged /  encumbered  to total shares No.
of shares % of total  shares % of shares  pledged /  encumbered  to total shares 1 Bharti T elecom  Limited 1,745,595,460 43.67% - 1,747,545,460 43.72% - 0.05% 2 Pastel Limited 591,319,300 14.79% - 591,319,300 14.79% - 0.00% 3 Indian Continent  Investment Limited 265,860,986 6.65% - 265,860,986 6.65% - 0.00% 4 Viridian Limited 8,493,000 0.21% - 8,493,000 0.21% - 0.00% T otal 2,611,268,746 65.32% - 2,613,218,746 65.37% - 0.05% (iii) Change in Promoter Shareholding S.  No.
Name of the Promoter Shareholding at the beginning  of the year  Date Increase /  decrease  during the  year Reasons Cumulative Shareholding  during the year/ shareholding  at the end of the year No.
of shares % of total  shares of the  Company No.
of shares % of total  shares of the  Company 1 Bharti T elecom Limited 1,745,595,460 43.67% April 01, 2014 Market Purchase  through Stock  Exchanges March 27, 2014 1,950,000 1,747,545,460 43.72% March 31, 2015 1,747,545,460 43.72% Note: There was no change in shareholding of other promoters during the year.
(iv) Shareholding Pattern of top ten Shareholders (other than Directors, Promoters and Holders of GDRs and ADRs): S.No Name of the Share Holder Shareholding Cumulative Shareholding  during the year No.
of shares % of total shares  of the Company No.
of shares % of total shares  of the Company 1.
Life Insurance Corporation of India At the beginning of the year  207,987,846 5.20  207,987,846 5.20 Bought during the year  25,100,750 0.63  233,088,596 5.83 Sold during the year  44,560,490 1.11  188,528,106 4.72 At the end of the year  188,528,106 4.72  188,528,106 4.72 2.
Three Pillars Pte.
Limited                                            At the beginning of the year  199,870,006 5.00  199,870,006 5.00 Bought during the year  -   -  199,870,006 5.00 Sold during the year  -   -  199,870,006 5.00 At the end of the year  199,870,006 5.00  199,870,006 5.00 3.
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited                                 At the beginning of the year  51,381,584 1.29  51,381,584 1.29 Bought during the year  8,266,897 0.21 59,648,481 1.49 Sold during the year  6,720,724 0.17 52,927,757 1.32 At the end of the year  52,927,757 1.32  52,927,757 1.32 4 Dodge and Cox International Stock Fund At the beginning of the year  39,912,904 1.00  39,912,904 1.00 Bought during the year  17,855,300 0.45 57,768,204 1.45 Sold during the year  -   -  57,768,204   1.45 At the end of the year  57,768,204 1.45  57,768,204 1.45 Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 67 S.No Name of the Share Holder Shareholding Cumulative Shareholding  during the year No.
of shares % of total shares  of the Company No.
of shares % of total shares  of the Company 5 HDFC T rustee Company Limited At the beginning of the year  8,741,315 0.22  8,741,315 0.22 Bought during the year  31,153,649 0.78 39,894,964 1.00 Sold during the year  1,996,519 0.05 37,898,445 0.95 At the end of the year  37,898,445 0.95  37,898,445 0.95 6.
Emerging Markets Growth Fund, Inc. At the beginning of the year  37,670,027 0.94  37,670,027 0.94 Bought during the year  -   -  37,670,027 0.94 Sold during the year  25,054,008 0.63 12,616,019 0.32 At the end of the year  12,616,019 0.32  12,616,019 0.32 7.
Goldman Sachs (Singapore) Pte.
Limited At the beginning of the year  35,068,211 0.88  35,068,211 0.88 Bought during the year  24,274,019 0.61  59,342,230 1.48 Sold during the year  2,870,792 0.07 56,471,438 1.41 At the end of the year  56,471,438 1.41 56,471,438 1.41 8.
Skagen Kon-Tiki Verdipapirfond At the beginning of the year  31,881,489 0.80  31,881,489 0.80 Bought during the year  12,487,359 0.31 44,368,848 1.11 Sold during the year  14,720,642 0.37 29,648,206 0.74 At the end of the year  29,648,206 0.74  29,648,206 0.74 9.
Franklin India Balanced Fund At the beginning of the year  27,434,835 0.69  27,434,835 0.69 Bought during the year  3,853,509 0.10 31,288,344 0.78 Sold during the year  9,876,687 0.25 21,411,657 0.54 At the end of the year  21,411,657 0.54  21,411,657 0.54 10.
HSBC Bank (Mauritius) Limited At the beginning of the year  26,592,089 0.67  26,592,089 0.67 Bought during the year  3,272,900 0.08 29,864,989 0.75 Sold during the year  24,320,268 0.61 5,544,721 0.14 At the end of the year  5,544,721 0.14  5,544,721 0.14 11.
Vanguard Emerging Markets Stock Index Fund At the beginning of the year  22,914,897 0.57  22,914,897 0.57 Bought during the year  1,238,550 0.03 24,153,447 0.60 Sold during the year  1,117,687 0.03 23,035,760 0.58 At the end of the year  23,035,760 0.58  23,035,760 0.58 12.
Abu Dhabi Investment Authority - Beacon At the beginning of the year  18,790,745 0.47  18,790,745 0.47 Bought during the year  5,827,754 0.15 24,618,499 0.62 Sold during the year  4,496,919 0.11 20,121,580 0.50 At the end of the year  20,121,580 0.50  20,121,580 0.50 Note: The details of shareholding are maintained by respective Depositories and it is not feasible to provide daily change in t he shareholding of top ten  shareholders.
Therefore, consolidated changes during the year 2014-15 has been provided.
Board’s Report Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1568 (iv) Shareholding of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel S.  No Name of the Director  or KMP Shareholding at the  beginning  of the year  Date Increase /  decrease  during the  year Reasons Cumulative Shareholding during  the year/ shareholding at the  end of the year No.
of  shares % of total  shares of the  Company No.
of shares % of total  shares of the  Company Directors 1 Mr. Manoj Kohli 225,739 0.01% April 1, 2014 (ceased to be  a Director on  February 04,  2015) May 28, 2014 (50,000) Market Sale 175,739 0.00% June 26, 2014 22,000 Shares alloted  under ESOP 197,739 0.00% August 1, 2014 (50,000) Market Sale 147,739 0.00% November 19, 2014 (36,900) Market Sale 110,839 0.00% February 13, 2014 (27,700) Market Sale 83,139 0.00% March 31, 2015 83,139 0.00% 2 Mr. Gopal Vittal 48,635 0.00% April 1, 2014 September 6, 2014 6,250 Shares alloted  under ESOP 54,885 0.00% October 1, 2014 10,000 Shares alloted  under ESOP 64,885 0.00% November 7, 2014 10,000 Shares alloted  under ESOP 74,885 0.00% January 12, 2015 10,000 Shares alloted  under ESOP 84,885 0.00% January 19, 2015 10,000 Shares alloted  under ESOP 94,885 0.00% February 23, 2015 10,000 Shares alloted  under ESOP 104,885 0.00% March 27, 2015 10,000 Shares alloted  under ESOP 114,885 0.00% March 31, 2015 114,885 0.00% 3 Mr. Ajay Lal 20,000 0.00% April 1, 2014 (ceased to be  a Director on  January 22, 2015) March 31, 2015 20,000 0.00% Key Managerial Personnel 4 Mr. Srikanth  Balachandran 28,000 0.00% April 1, 2014 June 9, 2014 (10,000) Market Sale 18,000 0.00% August 1, 2014 (857) Market Sale 17,143 0.00% September 2, 2014 (7,143) Market Sale 10,000 0.00% March 2, 2015 (9,500) Market Sale 500 0.00% March 9, 2015 29,413 Shares alloted  under ESOP 29,913 0.00% March 23, 2015 (5,000) Market Sale 24,913 0.00% March 26, 2015 (20,000) Market Sale 4,913 0.00% March 31, 2015 4,913 0.00% Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 69 S.  No Name of the Director  or KMP Shareholding at the  beginning  of the year  Date Increase /  decrease  during the  year Reasons Cumulative Shareholding during  the year/ shareholding at the  end of the year No.
of  shares % of total  shares of the  Company No.
of shares % of total  shares of the  Company 5.
Mr. Mukesh  Bhavnani 20,000 0.00% April 1, 2014 April 19, 2014 8,000 Shares alloted  under ESOP 28,000 0.00% September 5, 2014 3,000 Shares alloted  under ESOP 31,000 0.00% September 6, 2014 17,000 Shares alloted  under ESOP 48,000 0.00% December 10, 2014 5,000 Shares alloted  under ESOP 53,000 0.00% January 12, 2015 20,439 Shares alloted  under ESOP 73,439 0.00% February 9, 2015 3,000 Shares alloted  under ESOP 76,439 0.00% February 27, 2015 (5,000) Market Sale 71,439 0.00% February 28, 2015 (1,439) Market Sale 70,000 0.00% March 10, 2015 (11,000) Market Sale 59,000 0.00% March 11, 2015 (2,000) Market Sale 57,000 0.00% March 31, 2015 57,000 0.00% No other Director held any shares of the Company during the ﬁnancial year 2014-2015.
V. Indebtedness  Indebtedness of the Company including interest outstanding/accrued but not due for payment  (` Millions)   Secured Loans  excluding  deposits Unsecured  Loans Deposits T otal  Indebtedness Indebtedness at the beginning of the ﬁnancial year     i) Principal Amount  14 103,640 - 103,654 ii) Interest due but not paid ---- iii) Interest accrued but not due - 315 - 315 T otal (i+ii+iii) 14 103,955 103,969 Change in indebtedness during the ﬁnancial year  Addition  14 168,582 - 168,596 Reduction  9 56,544 - 56,553 Net Change 5 112,038 112,043 Indebtedness at the end of the ﬁnancial year  i) Principal Amount  19 215,678 - 215,697 ii) Interest due but not paid ---- iii) Interest accrued but not due - 267 267 T otal (i+ii+iii) 19 215,945 215,964 Board’s Report Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1570 VI.
Remuneration of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel  A. Remuneration to Managing Director, Whole-time Directors and / or Manager (` Millions) Sl.
no.
Particulars of Remuneration Name of Managing Director / Whole-time  Director / Manager T otal Amount Mr. Sunil Bharti  Mittal Chairman Mr. Gopal Vittal  Managing Director &  CEO (India & South  Asia) (1) Gross salary (a)  Salary as per provisions contained in Section 17(1)  of  the Income-tax Act, 1961 247.30 50.79 298.09 (b) Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) Income-tax Act, 1961 4.70 0.05* 4.75 (c)  Proﬁts in lieu of salary under Section 17(3) Income- tax Act, 1961 -- - (2) Stock Option* - 24.45* 24.45 (3) Sweat Equity - - - (4) Commission - - - - as % of proﬁt - - - - others, specify… - - - (5) Others - PF Contribution 19.78 2.60 22.38 T otal (A) 271.77 77.89 349.67 Ceiling as per the Act ` 15,677.40 Mn.
(being 10% of Net Proﬁts of the Company  calculated as per Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013)   Note: *Value of perquisites u/s 17 (2) Income Tax Act, 1961 does not include perquisite value of ` 24.45 Mn towards stock options exercised by Mr. Gopal Vittal  during FY 2014-15.
The same has been shown separately in point no.
(2).
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 71  B. Remuneration to Non-Executive Directors including Independent Directors (` Millions) Independent Directors Fee for attending Board  / committee meetings Commission T otal Mr. Ajay Lal 1 0.64 5.70 6.34 Mr. Craig Ehrlich 0.30 8.73 9.03 Mr. Tsun–yan Hsieh 2 0.10 3.45 3.55 Mr. Manish Kejriwal 0.40 6.50 6.90 Ms. Obiageli Ezekwesili 0.20 8.10 8.30 Mr. V. K. Viswanathan 0.40 7.80 8.20 Mr. D. K. Mittal 0.50 5.50 6.00 Mr. Ben Verwaayen 0.70 24.19 24.89 Mr. Shishir Priyadarshi 3 0.10 1.68 1.78 T otal B1 3.34 71.65 74.99 Other Non-Executive Directors Fee for attending Board  / committee meetings Commission T otal Mr. Rajan Bharti Mittal - 3.00 3.00 Mr. Manoj Kohli 4 - 2.55 2.55 Sheikh Faisal Thani Al-Thani - 3.78 3.78 Ms. Tan Yong Choo - 3.74 3.74 Ms. Chua Sock Koong - 3.74 3.74 T otal B2 - 16.81 16.81 T otal B=(B1+B2) 3.34 88.46 91.80 Ceiling as per the Act` 1567.74 Mn (being 1% of Net Proﬁts of the Company calculated as  per Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013) T otal Managerial Remuneration (A+B) ` 441.47 Mn T otal ceiling as per the act (11%) ` 17,245.14 Mn (being 11% of Net Proﬁts of the Company calculated  as per Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013)   Notes:  (1) Ceased to be Director of the Company w.e.f.
January 22, 2015.
(2) Ceased to be Director of the Company w.e.f.
September 1, 2014.
(3) Appointed w.e.f.
February 04, 2015.
(4) Ceased to be Director of the Company w.e.f.
February 04, 2015.
Board’s Report Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1572   C. Remuneration to Key Managerial Personnel other than Managing Director / Whole-time Directors / Manager (` Millions) Sl.
no.
Particulars of Remuneration Key Managerial Personnel T otal Amount Mr. Srikanth  Balachandran  Global CFO Mr. Mukesh Bhavnani  Group General Counsel &  Company Secretary# (1) Gross salary (a)  Salary as per provisions contained in Section  17(1) of  the Income-tax Act, 1961 36.33 30.67 67.00 (b)  Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) Income-tax Act,  1961 0.03* 0.07* 0.10 (c)  Proﬁts in lieu of salary under Section 17(3)  Income-tax Act, 1961 -- - (2) Stock Option 10.32* 17.45* 27.77 (3) Sweat Equity - - - (4) Commission - - - - as % of proﬁt - - - - others, specify… - - - (5) Others - Provident Fund 1.51 1.42 2.93 T otal 48.19 49.61 97.80  Notes:   * Value of perquisites U/s 17 (2) Income Tax Act, 1961 does not include perquisite value of ` 10.32 Mn and ` 17.45 Mn.
towards stock options exercised by  Mr. Srikanth Balachandran and Mr. Mukesh Bhavnani respectively during FY 2014-15.
The same has been shown separately in point no.
(2).
#Resigned w.e.f.
March 31, 2015.
VII.
Penalties / Punishment/ Compounding of Oﬀences There were no penalties / punishment / compounding of oﬀences for breach of any section of Companies Act against the  Company or its Directors or other oﬃcers in default, if any during the year.
A.
Conservation of Energy  The Company remains conscious of the environmental impact  of its business and has improved its energy eﬃciency through  various initiatives.
The main focus of the energy conservation  drive has been on reducing energy cost and minimising the  environmental impact of its operations.
1)  During the year under review, several steps were taken for  conservation of energy, some of which are listed below:  Network     Sites deployed during the year are all outdoor  sites that will not require air-conditioners and  have also been opened on sharing basis, reducing  energy consumption by over 30%, in comparison  to standalone sites.
FCU  units have been introduced at the Base  T ransceiver Stations (BTS) for switching oﬀ the  air-con ditioners, making it feasible for the sites to  utilise alternate sources of energy.
BTS sites are now being operated at low power.
Power Management Units (PMUs)  have been  introduced.
Energy-eﬃcient retroﬁts, such as integrated  power management systems, eﬃcient DC-to-AC  convertors, and eﬃcient air-conditioners were  used at BTS sites.
Particulars of Energy Conservation, T echnology Absorption and Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo Annexure F    Speed drivers and energy-eﬃcient lighting systems  were introduced at various locations.
Innovative design modiﬁcations have taken place,  such as:     Upgrading the existing sites and installing  new sites with an auto-TRX shutdown feature,  which reduces the energy requirement at  non-peak hours.
Equipping shelters with optimal cooling,  power, and thermal management systems,  among other facilities.
Placing BTS sites outdoors, thus decreasing  the air-conditioning load.
Data Centres   Several initiatives have been adopted to improve the  energy eﬃciency of data centres by reducing their  negative impact on the environment and promoting  green initiatives.
The emphasis has been on optimising  the operation of data centres for energy conservation,  improving space utilisation, and enhancing performance.
Few of the initiatives are listed below:    Cold Aisle Containment has been introduced  to prevent the mixing of cold supply air and hot  exhaust air in data centre aisles.
This leads to  Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 73 lower energy consumption and more eﬃcient  cooling, and, moreover, helps in ﬁxing the ‘short- cycling’ of cold/ hot air inside the data centres.
Variable Frequency Drives (VFDs) have been  installed in our HVAC systems to automatically  reduce the speed and power consumption of  motors when there is lower system load.
Based on power audits and an extensive study  of energy usage, various initiatives have been  undertaken over the years to optimise the usage of  electricity, such as:     identiﬁcation and rectiﬁcation of hot spots    optimisation of lighting and AC usage   Facilities   Installed LEDs at several oﬃce locations.
Successfully installed Automatic Power Factor  Controller (APFC) at oﬃce across Pan India.
Variable Frequency Drive (VFD) Installations at few  oﬃces.
2)  The following initiatives have been undertaken by the  Company, to utilise alternate sources of energy:    Rooftop solar plants at main switching centres:  The Company has installed solar power plants at 12  MSC locations.
These on-grid solar plants, without  battery bank, are expected to generate green  energy of 1.1 Mn units with emission reduction of  900 tons per annum.
A 100 kWp solar power plant  has been installed at the Airtel campus at Manesar.
The solar plant, the ﬁrst of its kind in India as well  as in the telecom industry worldwide, has a raised  structure that utilises the car parking space to  generate green energy.
Solar and battery hybrid solutions and biomass  fuel replacing diesel:  In FY 2014–15, Airtel took  an aggressive step towards elimination of diesel  usage by implementing battery and solar hybrid  solutions, a Li-ion solution, and a biomass solution,  at its 2,800 BTS sites in Hexacom Rajasthan and  the North-East.
The Company upgraded around  160 rural diesel sites.
Apart from this, over 110  sites were converted to outdoor sites, with the help  of FCU.
Till date, more than 250 sites have hybrid  solutions that help save diesel at the Company’s  base stations.
T rial of new energy solutions:  Bharti Airtel has  conducted trials of micro-cooling solutions for  data centres, at its BTS sites.
Such a solution  would help switch oﬀ air-conditioners where  critical transmission equipment is installed, thus  reducing the energy requirement.
The Company  has also conducted a successful trial of natural  and thermo-electric cooling, to eliminate the need  for air-conditioning altogether.
Green power wheeling for data centres and MSCs:  T o further enhance energy eﬃciency, the Company  has been using renewable sources of energy,  like solar, wind, and hydroelectric energy.
In FY  2014–15, green power wheeling agreements for the  procurement of green energy, under open access  of 45 Mn units per annum, have been made for  three data centres at Chennai (wheeling through  wind power), Bangalore (wheeling through hydro  power), and Noida (roof-top solar power plant),  and one MSC location.
Partnering green projects with Bharti Infratel:  Bharti Infratel has been working closely with Bharti  Airtel to convert more of the Company’s sites into  green sites.
In FY 2014–15, over 3,600 sites have  been converted to outdoor sites, using FCU and  micro-cooling solutions, bringing the total number  of outdoor sites in the Company to 6,000.
Currently,  2,200 sites are functioning on solar energy across  the Company’s pan-India operations, 700 of which  have been installed with solar plants during the  past year.
This year, Infratel has tagged over 5,500  sites as green sites that have eliminated the use of  diesel.
Building green cities with Indus T owers:  Project  Green City, by Indus T owers, has tagged more  than 22,000 sites as green and diesel-free.
Airtel’s  close partnership with Indus T owers has resulted  in converting over 9,000 of the Company’s sites to  outdoor sites in FY 2014–15, leading to a total of  13,700 outdoor sites in the Company.
Installation of Solar Plates in cafeteria area of  oﬃce premise in Gurgaon.
Wind power wheeling for the oﬃce and MSC  location at Vega Centre, Pune.
3)  The capital investment on energy conservation  equipment is shown below: Sr.  No Location Capex  (in ` Millions) 1 Own sites (Hexacom and Core) 327.00 2 TOCO (Indus and Infratel) 564.50 3 TOCO (through partners Ericsson and NSN  at TOCO locations) 57.29 TOTAL 891.50 B. T echnology Absorption 1.
Eﬀorts to enhance technology absorption   The Indian market has been experiencing explosive  growth in mobile broadband services, fuelled by  aﬀordable smartphone devices and a plethora of  applications that are inﬂuencing social lifestyles.
This  is driving a continuous requirement for additional  capacity and spectrum, in order to provide a best-in- class user experience to subscribers.
Unprecedented  loading of the network with scarce spectrum, limited  infrastructure, and right-of-way challenges for ﬁbre  layout has caused Airtel to seek non-traditional ways  of densiﬁcation and optimisation of its networks.
The  Company has embraced new technologies to overcome  these challenges.
With the aim of fulﬁlling the Government of India’s  ‘Digital India’ initiative and providing a world-class data  experience to users, Airtel pioneered the deployment of  Board’s Report Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1574 LTE technology in India, to provide 4G services across  more than 250 cities and towns, including India’s  ﬁrst dual-band LTE TDD and FDD network.
Airtel  has deployed India’s ﬁrst 3G network in the 900 MHz  bandwidth, with the ﬁrst-everre-farming of its 900-band  spectrum.
The Company has also introduced India’s ﬁrst  100G and Evolved packet transport network, to provide  high-speed backbone connectivity for its 3G and LTE  customers.
Airtel has embraced a Self-optimisation network and  Geo-analytical tools in real time to ensure enhancement  of customer experience.
These platforms have enabled  automatic optimisation of multi-layered networks,  setting new benchmarks in end-user experience, by  reducing call drop rates, preventing network blocking,  and increasing data throughputs.
Mobile phones have become an integral part of people’s  daily lives and as a telecom operator, our aim is to ensure  24x7 uninterrupted services to our customers.
In order  to fulﬁll our customers’ immediate accessibility needs  in event of a damaged or lost SIM, Airtel has introduced  a revised and improved SIM Swap process.
In the past,  SIM Swap was a tedious and time consuming process,  requiring all documentation from the customer to be  submitted to the store.
It took around 2 hours to swap  the SIM and approx.
24 hrs of SIM barring.
The improved  process is a customer initiated SIM swap, where the  customer gets a swap done over SMS in approx.
10  minutes.
This has resulted in better SIM inventory  management and faster service to our customers.
By outsourcing its managed services, Airtel is now  serving more than 100 million rural subscribers,  connecting 85% of the population of the country.
The  Company has the largest subscriber base among all  telecom companies in India.
2.
Beneﬁts derived from technology absorption   Airtel oﬀers one of the largest bouquets of mobile  services to its customers, including 2G, 3G, 4G, mobile  commerce, and many other value-added services.
Innovative products like Wynk Music app, myPlan and  My Airtel app have been immensely successful and  rapidly adopted by customers, across the country.
The Company is the ﬁrst mobile operator to oﬀer 4G  services in India and has the largest 3G footprint in the  country.
The launch of India’s ﬁrst LTE services across  various cities has helped the Company provide higher  throughput and faster downloads.
Re-farming of the  900MHz spectrum to 3G has improved indoor coverage  for the mobile broadband network, increasing capacity  of 3G networks, and eﬃciency of the scarce spectrum  resources.
Airtel has transformed its network in an  environment-friendly manner by deploying ‘green’ base  stations, reducing power consumption and footprint,  converting a majority of units into outdoor units, and  eliminating the need for air-conditioning.
These steps  have resulted in signiﬁcant reduction of the Company’s  carbon footprint.
Network planning and design is done by in-house  experts.
Through eﬀective in-house planning and  outsourcing of managed services, Airtel has been  successful in delivering the most advanced network  to its customers.
T o introduce more and more people  to the internet, Airtel launched an innovative product  called ‘One T ouch Internet’, which has been recognised  as the best mobile service/application of the year for  consumers, in the ‘Best Mobile Services’ category at  the prestigious GSMA Global Mobile Awards 2015 in  Barcelona.
Airtel is the ﬁrst telecom company to implement a self- optimising network (SON), which has enabled automated  network optimisation of its complex multi-technology,  multi-vendor networks.
It has enabled dynamic  conﬁguration of the network for seamless handovers  in 3G and 2G formats, thus reducing call drops.
Real- time balancing of network load across congested and  non-congested sites has reduced overloading, thereby  improving user throughputs and preventing blocks in the  network.
Real-time optimisation has improved network  utilisation, making the available spectrum and network  capacity more eﬃcient.
Airtel has pioneered customer  demand-centric network planning and densiﬁcation  by obtaining visibility of the network consumption  on a granular 50m x 50m grid.
It has helped in the  introduction of new sites and small cells, in corridors of  high consumption, resulting in improved eﬃciency.
In case of imported technology (imported during the  last three years estimated from the beginning of the  ﬁnancial year):   a.
Details of technology imported:     The Company has not imported any technology  in the given period, only telecom equipment were  imported.
b.
Year of import:   N A  c. Whether the technology been fully absorbed:    N A  d.  If not fully absorbed, areas where absorption has  not taken place, and the reasons thereof:    N A  3.
Expenditure incurred on R&D:    NIL C. Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo Activities relating to initiatives taken to increase exports;  development of new export markets for products and  services, and exports plans.
T otal foreign exchange used and earned for the year: (a) T otal Foreign Exchange Earnings ` 37,274 Mn (b) T otal Foreign Exchange Outgo ` 70,351 Mn Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 75 i.
The per centage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Executive Officer and Company  Secretary during FY 2014-15, ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees of  the Company for FY 2014-15 and comparison of the remuneration of each Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) against the  performance of the Company are as under: S.No Name of the Director Remuneration of  Director / KMP for  FY 2014-15  (in `)  P ercentage  increase in  remuneration in  FY 2014-15 5 Ratio of remuneration of  each Director to median  remuneration of the employees  of the Company 5,7 Comparison of  remuneration of KMP  against the performance  of the Company Executive Directors 1.
Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal   Chairman 2 71,773,463 (2.52)6 323.63 The Company’s revenue  has increased by 11.17%  on year to year basis  and profit after tax has  increased by 100% year  to year basis.
2.
Mr. Gopal Vittal   Managing Director & CEO (India  & South Asia) 5 3,432,196* 12.456 63.63 Non-Executive Directors 3.
Ms. Chua Sock Koong 3,741,219 8.08 4.46 4.
Sheikh Faisal Thani Al-Thani 3,784,840 4.96 4.51 5.
Mr. Rajan Bharti Mittal 3,000,000 10.66 3.57 6.
Ms. Tan Yong Choo 3,741,219 8.08 4.46 7.
Mr. Manoj Kohli 2,547,945 1 (68.82) 3.57 Independent Directors 8.
Mr. Ben Verwaayen 24,886,592 (8.12) 29.63 9.
Mr. Shishir Priyadarshi 1,782,235 2 - 13.83 10.
Mr. Craig Ehrlich 9,027,487 4.33 10.75 11.
Mr. D. K. Mittal 6,000,000 9.09 7.14 12.
Mr. Manish Kejriwal 6,900,000 39.10 8.22 13.
Ms. Obiageli Ezekwesili 8,304,204 6.67 9.89 14.
Mr. V.K Viswanathan 8,201,370 41.78 9.77 15.
Mr. Tsun-yan Hsieh 3,554,127 3 (6.02) 10.03 16.
Mr. Ajay Lal 6,344,658 4 13.21 9.28 Key Managerial Personnel other than Executive Directors 17.
Mr. Srikanth Balachandran  Global Chief Financial Officer 30,9 19,211# 13.166 The Company’s revenue  has increased by 11.17%  on year to year basis  and profit after tax has  increased by 100% year  to year basis.
18.
Mr. Mukesh Bhavnani   Company Secretary and  C ompliance Officer 28,757,476^ 10.006 Notes: 1.
F rom April 01, 2014 to February 04, 2015.
Mr. Manoj Kohli ceased to be Managing Director and CEO (International) of the Company and served as a  Non-Executive Director w.e.f.
April 1, 2014.
2.
F rom February 04, 2015 to March 31, 2015.
3.
F rom April 01, 2014 to September 01, 2014.
4.
F rom April 01, 2014 to January 22, 2015.
5.
Based on Annualised R emuneration.
6.
The v alue of performance linked incentive (PLI) in remuneration of Key Managerial Personnels (KMPs) represents incentive which will accrue at 100%  performance level.
For effective comparison, the PLI component of their remuneration for FY 2013-14 has also been considered at 100% performance  level.
7.
R emuneration of Employees and KMPs does not include perquisite value of stock options exercised during the year 2014-15.
*   The r emuneration of Mr. Gopal Vittal excludes perquisite value of stock options of ` 24,452,450 exercised during the current financial year.
#   The r emuneration of Mr. Srikanth Balachandran excludes perquisite value of stock options of ` 10,318,415 exercised during the current financial year  and cash payout of ` 6,950,309 under performance-based long-term incentive plan of the Company.
The r emuneration of Mr. Mukesh Bhavnani excludes perquisite value of stock options of ` 17,450,700 exercised during the current financial year and  cash payout of ` 3,408,284 under performance-based long-term incentive plan of the Company.
Statement of Disclosure of Remuneration under Section 197(12) of Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1)  of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 Annexure G Board’s Report Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1576 ii)  The percentage increase in the median remuneration of the employees in the ﬁnancial year: There has been a decrease of  2.3% in median remuneration of employees in FY 2014-15 as compared to FY 2013-14. iii)  The number of permanent employees on the roll of the Company: There were 9,202 employees on the rolls of the Company  as on March 31, 2015. iv)  The explanation on the relationship between average increase in remuneration and Company performance: The revenue  growth during FY 2014-15 over FY 2013-14 was 11.17% and net proﬁt growth was 100%.
The average increase in the  remuneration of employees excluding Key Managerial Personnel during FY 2014-15 was 10%.
v)  a)   Variation in the market capitalisation: The market capitalisation ` 1,270,173.88 Mn at March 31, 2014 and ` 1,572,177.46  Mn at March 31, 2015 i.e.
an increase of 23.78 %.
b)   Price earnings ratio: The price earning ratio was 11.91 at March 31, 2015 as compared to 19.04 at March 31, 2014 i.e.
a  decrease of 37.45%.
c)   Percentage increase in the market quotation of shares of the Company as compared to the rate of last public oﬀer: The  closing price of Company’s equity shares on NSE and BSE as of March 31, 2015 was ` 393.30 and ` 393.90 respectively,  representing 774% increase over IPO price (NSE).
vi) Average percentage increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in FY  2014-15 and its comparison with the percentage increase in the managerial remuneration: The average increase in the  remuneration of employees excluding KMPs during FY 2014-15 was 10% and the average increase in the remuneration of  KMPs was 8.27% which is consistent with the increase in remuneration of employees.
vii)  The key parameters for any variable component of remuneration availed by the Directors:  In terms of Company’s  remuneration Policy, the key parameters for the variable component of remuneration availed by the Executive Directors  are directly linked to performance of the individual (i.e.
achievement against pre-determined KRAs), his / her respective  Business Unit and the overall company’s performance.
No other Director receives any variable pay.
viii) The ratio of the remuneration of the highest paid Director to that of the employees who are not Directors but receive  remuneration in excess of the highest paid Director during the year:  During the year 2015, no employee received  remuneration in excess of highest paid Director.
ix) Aﬃrmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company:  The remuneration of Directors was  as per the Remuneration Policy of the Company.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 77 To   The Members of Bharti Airtel Limited, We have examined the compliance of conditions of corporate governance by Bharti Airtel Limited (“the Company”), for the year  ended March 31, 2015, as stipulated in Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement of the said Company with Stock Exchanges in India.
The compliance of conditions of corporate governance is the responsibility of the management.
Our examination was limited to  procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the   for ensuring the compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance.
It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the ﬁnancial statements of the Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, we certify that the Company has  complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the above mentioned Listing Agreement.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the eﬃciency or  eﬀectiveness with which the management has conducted the aﬀairs of the Company.
For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W per Nilangshu Katriar Place: New Delhi Partner Date: April 28, 2015 Membership No.
58814 Board’s Report Annexure HAuditors’ Certiﬁcate Regarding Compliance of Conditions of Corporate Governance Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1578 At Bharti Airtel, our journey so far has been exciting.
In  July, 2014, we crossed the important milestone of 300 Mn  customers.
The last 100 Mn additions happened in less than  two years.
We are committed to further bolster our market  leadership across geographies.
T elecom is transforming, and  data-centricity is playing a critical role in it.
We launched  several industry-ﬁrst innovations to drive data uptake during  the year through various oﬀerings and partnerships.
We have  steadily enhanced our investments in Africa, and continue to  believe in the continent’s tremendous growth potential.
We  are well positioned to derive beneﬁts from increasing tele- density in many countries, which have low mobile and data  penetration.
Our endeavour is to maintain the optimum capital structure  at all times and maintain and solidify our balance sheet’s  strength.
Despite being at very comfortable levels of  leverage, deleveraging remains on track following initiatives,  such as equity infusion, value unlocking through our investee  companies and cash-generation through hiving oﬀ of our  African tower infrastructure assets.
The investment grade  ratings awarded and reaﬃrmed by international credit rating  agencies reﬂect the inherent strengths of our business model,  its robustness and scalability.
We continue to be committed  to creating value for all stakeholders, while ensuring highest  standards of corporate governance.
Our brand leadership, strong ﬁnancial performance and  sound governance will translate into enhanced stakeholder  conﬁdence.
This, in turn, will ensure long-term sustainability  and value generation for your business.
Economic Overview Global Review Financial year 2014-15 was marked by the collapse in crude  prices and other commodities, while legacy risks continued  to play their part in slow global growth.
Many economic adjustments that these events have triggered  will continue to materialise in the quarters ahead.
On the one  hand, there is visible expansion in the US economy, while on  the other, we are witnessing weak and uneven acceleration  in some pockets of Europe, though largely macro-economic  indicators continue to remain sluggish.
There has been a  decoupling in global growth – while the US is talking about  starting monetary tightening, in markets of Europe and even  China – which contributed largely to global growth – are  continuing to talk about easing.
The collapse in oil prices  will eﬀectively provide a tax cut for consumers globally.
Growth in China has been sluggish, amid slowdown in the  construction and manufacturing sectors.
The world’s second  largest economy is now rebalancing itself from an investment  and export-led model to a consumption-led growth model.
In the near term, cheap oil adds to deﬂationary pressures,  enabling central banks to maintain their ultra-supportive  stance.
However, the divergent global growth dynamics will  be mirrored in central bank policy.
Persistent concerns over  low inﬂation in the Eurozone and Japan may see the European  Central Bank (ECB) and Bank of Japan (BoJ) continue to  ease policy.
In contrast, the Fed, buoyed by a strengthening  economy and rising wages, may raise rates.
Monetary policy  will, however, remain accommodative, with rates remaining  low relative to previous cycles.
For the emerging economies,  inﬂation levels have also broadly trended lower with a few  exceptions, and a fall in commodity prices will support this  trajectory.
The softening of commodity prices, which is likely  to sustain for some time, is expected to weigh on traditional  commodity exporters as opposed to net importers.
Net  energy importers, such as India, T urkey, the Philippines are  expected to gain at the expense of countries, such as Brazil,  Indonesia, Russia and the Gulf countries.
GDP Growth T rend                                                                                                           (%)   Actual Projections  2013 2014 2015 2016 World Output 3.4 3.4 3.5 3.8 Advanced Economies 1.4 1.8 2.9 3.2 Emerging and Developing  Economies 5.0 4.6 4.3 4.7 China 7.8 7.4 6.8 6.3 India 6.9 7.2 7.5 7.5 Bangladesh 6.1 6.1 6.3 6.8 Sri Lanka 7.3 7.4 6.5 6.5 Sub-Saharan Africa 5.1 5.0 4.5 5.1 (Source: International Monetary Fund, World Economy Outlook database, April 2015)  Indian Economy India is back on track as an emerging powerhouse of Asia  and the world.
Inﬂation has largely been range bound  during the course of the year, building a strong case for a  more balanced monetary policy stance.
The collapse of the  global commodity prices has reduced stress on twin deﬁcits  and inﬂation, boosting consumer demand at the same time.
These macro tailwinds are facilitating a gradual recovery  with stable exchange rates, resulting in increased investor  appetite and capital ﬂows into the country.
Asset prices are  thus buoyant, with Indian equity indices near all-time highs  and among the best performing in the world.
Certain lead indicators, also suggest that the headwinds  buﬀeting India’s economy seem to be easing at the margin, as  some of the bottlenecks in key industries are being removed.
Noteworthy is the Government’s focus on infrastructure  Management Discussion and Analysis Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 79 investments, and this is expected to strengthen India’s  economic growth, going forward.
T elecom is also expected  to play a signiﬁcant role in implementing the Government’s  Digital India vision.
India’s GDP growth during FY 2014-15 is estimated at 7.4%  under the new method of computing national accounts  [Source: CSO].
The economic growth rate has the potential  to overtake that of China in the foreseeable future, if legacy  risks do not derail growth.
A key driver of India’s macro- economic growth will be the digital consumer as the country’s  total internet user base is expected to exceed 350 Mn in the  near future.
Thus India’s future growth story will be driven  by two important trajectories: the positive macro-economic  development and the acceleration provided by the internet to  the aspiring young population.
Prospects in Africa Africa is now widely considered as the sweet spot of  opportunity, where investments in education, employment,  healthcare and critical infrastructure can help elevate  people’s lives.
Not only is the region blessed with abundant  and diverse resources, both natural and human, it has one of  the world’s youngest populations brimming with aspirations  for a better life.
However, it still has a long way to go to  realise its potential.
Africa clearly can contribute signiﬁcantly  to global growth, provided Governments focus on sustained  reforms to facilitate infrastructure creation, education and  skill building, employment opportunities, entrepreneurships  and socio-economic stability.
Real GDP growth in Sub-Saharan Africa has been projected  by the IMF to hover around 5% annually for the next two  years.
Foreign direct investment into the region is targeting  infrastructure sectors, as well as business services, transport  and manufacturing.
In 2014, the inﬂows into the region,  excluding South Africa rose by 5% over the previous year  to a projected USD 35 Bn.
In fact, even the intra-Africa  investments’ share of cross border Greenﬁeld foreign direct  investment rose to 18% from 10% from 2004 to 2009.
Over the last ﬁscal year, in the backdrop of falling oil and  commodity prices, challenges with oil production, planned  ﬁscal consolidation, resultant devaluation of most African  currencies, along with security and Ebola outbreak concerns,  there were downward revisions in growth forecasts.
These  challenges have led to adjustments in Government spends  and customer wallets.
However, following the period of  economic adjustments, these countries are likely to elevate  to a higher growth trajectory.
South Asian Economies With regaining political stability and with a renewed focus on  growth, Bangladesh is estimated to have grown its GDP by  6.1% in 2014.
The country’s economy is expected to accelerate  its growth to 6.3% in 2015.
Remittances are expected to  ﬁnance higher domestic consumption, while investments,  especially in infrastructure will support strong long-term  aggregate demand.
Sri Lanka too seems to have recovered  from the turmoil witnessed in the past few years, and has  stepped up its eﬀorts to attract foreign investments, improve  infrastructure and promote all-round socio-economic  development.
The Sri Lankan economy is thus expected to  continue its strong growth, at 6.5% in 2015, albeit marginally  lower than the estimate of 7.4% in the past ﬁscal.
Megatrends that drive the Company’s Business 1    India’s internet users have risen considerably from 50  Mn in 2007 to 100 Mn in 2010 and more than 300 Mn  in 2014, with close to 60% users accessing internet  via mobile, making India the world’s second-largest  internet market (Source: The Internet & Mobile  Association of India (IAMAI)).
Increasingly, ﬁrst-time  users are coming online via mobiles, leapfrogging the  desktop era.
The time taken to add incremental 100 Mn  internet users has shrunk from 10 years in the previous  cycle to under two now.
India enjoys favourable demographics for internet  penetration than many countries of the world; around  75% of its online population are aged between 15 and 34.
2   India is a lucrative market for global and domestic  smartphone manufacturers.
Smartphone shipments  have doubled year-on-year, which led the total  established base to reach 150 Mn in 2014.
Enhanced  focus on manufacturing aﬀordable handsets with  indigenous technology will further spur mobile  telephony.
At the same time, it will widen and deepen  the internet user base.
3   Growth in smartphones, therefore, would lead to a  signiﬁcant rise in mobile data usage, which, as per  estimates is likely to grow 13 fold in the next ﬁve  years.
As per these estimates, mobile data traﬃc will  grow thrice as fast as ﬁxed IP traﬃc between 2014 and  2019 and therefore, is expected to account for 28% of  the total internet traﬃc by 2019, up from 9% in 2014  (Source: Cisco- VNI Global data traﬃc forecast).
4   Demographic dividend and interest penetration  including internet of things are transforming the lives of  1.25 Bn of people as they rely on it for various purposes  from online shopping, entertainment, education to  healthcare, payment mechanisms and so on.
Such a  scenario is driving mobile commerce.
5    Hence, a converged opportunity exists through voice  secularity, data uptake and new services in the country  across technologies as consumer needs are diversiﬁed  across the spectrum of oﬀerings.
Diﬀerent consumers  have widely varying consumption patterns from being  ﬁrst-time users to aﬄuent data-hungry consumers –  providing telecom companies a well balanced portfolio.
6   Moreover, India’s Government is committed to usher  in a ‘Digital India’ and bring along a transformative  impact on every citizen through the internet across  nine principal areas.
These are: broadband highways,  universal access to mobile connectivity, public internet  access programme, e-governance, e-delivery of  services, information for all, electronics manufacturing,  IT for jobs and early harvest programme.
Your  Company  is committed towards assisting in furthering  this agenda of the Government in a manner that creates  a win-win for all stakeholders.
Management Discussion and Analysis Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1580 Megatrends that drive the Company’s Business (contd.)
Industry Overview Indian T elecom Sector India’s total customer base stood at 996.49 Mn with a tele- density of 79.38%, as on March 31, 2015, having grown from  a base of 933 Mn and tele-density of 75.23% last year.
The  urban tele-density stood at 148.61%, whereas the rural tele- density stood at 48.37%, as on March 2015.
India’s telecom  sector has grown phenomenally, with the country’s total  customer base second only to China.
The wire-line customer base continued to decline from  28.49 Mn, as at the end of March 31, 2014, to 26.59 Mn at  the end of March 31, 2015, representing a penetration of  just 2.12%.
The scale of the mobile opportunity in India is  therefore immense.
Among the service areas excluding metros, Tamil Nadu has  the highest tele-density (117.52%), followed by Himachal  Pradesh (114.52%), Punjab (103.78%), Karnataka (97.52%),  Gujarat (95.61%), Kerala (95.57%) and Maharashtra (93.41%).
Among the three metros, Delhi tops with 237.94% tele- density.
On the other hand, the service areas, such as Bihar  (51.17%), Assam (53.95%), Madhya Pradesh (60.36%), Uttar  Pradesh (60.51%) and Odisha (66.85%) have comparatively  low tele-density.
2010-11 846.32 951.34 898.02 933.00 996.49 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 T ele Density: India (%) 70.89 78.66 73.32 75.23 79.38 (Source: T elecom Regulatory Authority of India) T ele Density (%)Customer Base (Mn) Rural penetration has been increasing and with penetration  levels still below 50%, it represents an opportunity for  driving higher growth, as there is still a signiﬁcant untapped  market potential.
With urban tele-density nearing 150%,  internet penetration and experience will be the key drivers of  growth in urban areas.
During the year, the Company continued to work towards  improving data connectivity, and launched several industry- ﬁrst initiatives to contribute to nation’s digital inclusion  agenda.
Lowering smartphone prices, coupled with the  proliferation of 2.5G EDGE/ 3G/ 4G services in India, are likely  to reduce connectivity costs and overcome the challenge of  limited ﬁxed-line connections.
The Company is privileged to play a lead role in the ‘Digital  India’ programme announced by the Government of India.
There are nine pillars of this programme, split across three  clusters – creation of digital infrastructure, delivering  services digitally and digital literacy.
This programme will  beneﬁt all the citizens of India, as well as the administration.
A time-bound plan for the completion in 2019 is in place, and  its progress will be monitored by an inter-ministerial ‘Digital  India Advisory Group’.
It is, however, signiﬁcant to note that  for a successful implementation of this programme, there is  a need for several enablers – additional wireless spectrum,  level-playing ﬁeld for telecom service providers and OTT  players, state government and local authority support and  telecom policy stability.
The Company commits itself to capex  investments, technology upgradation, servicing capability  improvements and a deep rural thrust.
These strategies will  provide an impetus to the ‘Digital India’ programme.
7   The proposed telecom policy environment through  M&A rules, spectrum sharing guidelines and 20-year  spectrum positions for the telecom operators emerging  post the recently concluded auctions not only provide  for business certainty, but also encourage industry  consolidation and robust growth.
8   Africa, with a median population of less than 20  years, is on the cusp of a mobile data boom as 3G and  4G deployments gather scale with more aﬀordable  handsets available.
There exists signiﬁcant headroom for Sub-Saharan  Region to further its mobile penetration with another  300 Mn subscribers additions predicted between 2014  and 2019, as per Ericsson.
9   Mobile money services are revolutionising the  payments landscape across Africa.
It has provided  consumers with cheaper access to ﬁnances due to a  reduced need to travel and lower overall cost of mobile  phone for ﬁnancial transactions.
Co-ordinated eﬀorts  by mobile operators, telecom regulators, central  banks, commercial banks, merchants and application  developers are expected to drive rapid growth of mobile  money usage in the region.
10   Wordwide digital literacy is considered a key aspect of  contemporary citizenship to enable individuals to fully  participate in ordinary societal and economic activities,  besides being part of the democratic process.
In fact,  the need for digital literacy has triggered an urgent  need for communities to close gaps in literacy rates.
On the one hand, mobile habits and digital familiarity  are leading to enhanced literacy; on the other hand, the  younger generation with more command over digital  tools has become the ambassador for literacy in the  relatively under-developed parts of the world.
This  ‘reverse mentoring’ is indeed a unique phenomenon in  the history of mankind.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 81  New Interconnect Usage Charges: In February 2015, the  sector regulator, T elecom Regulatory Authority of India  (TRAI) came out with ﬁnal regulation on termination  rates for the industry eﬀective from March 1, 2015.
Mobile  termination charge has been reduced from ` 0.20 per min  to ` 0.14 per min.
Fixed line termination rates have been  reduced from ` 0.20 per min to zero.
T ermination charge  on international incoming calls has been increased from  ` 0.40 per min to ` 0.53 per min.
The cap on carriage  charge has been reduced from ` 0.65 per min to ` 0.35  per min.
TRAI proposes new ceiling for roaming tariﬀ : TRAI has  reduced ceiling tariﬀs for national roaming calls by 20%  to 40% and SMS by 75%, eﬀective from May 1, 2015.
The  ceiling for outgoing local voice call has been reduced  from ` 1 per min to ` 0.80 per min.
Outgoing STD ceiling  has been reduced from ` 1.5 per min to ` 1.15 per min.
Incoming call ceiling has been reduced from ` 0.75 per  min to ` 0.45 per min.
Local SMS ceiling has been reduced  from ` 1 per sms to ` 0.25 per sms.
Revised national SMS  ceiling is ` 0.38 per sms, compared to existing ceiling of  ` 1.5 per sms.
There will be a reduction of roaming prices  in the near future, which should encourage more roaming  usage, since the travelling population is growing.
TRAI recommendations on ’Deﬁnition of Revenue Base  (AGR) for the reckoning of License Fee and SUC’:  On  January 6, 2015, TRAI issued its recommendations on  Deﬁnition of Revenue Base (AGR) for the reckoning  of Licence Fee (LF) and SUC.
LF and Spectrum Usage  Charges (SUC) should continue to be computed, based on  the Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR), with clearly deﬁned  inclusions and exclusions.
A new concept of Applicable  Gross Revenue (ApGR) has been introduced.
TRAI has also  recommended that the share of USO levy in LF should  be reduced from the present 5% to 3% of AGR.
With  this reduction, the applicable uniform rate of LF would  become 6% (from the present 8%) of AGR.
Intra-circle  roaming charges should not be allowed as deduction for  the purpose of computation of LF and SUC.
The above  recommendations are under the consideration of the DoT .
TRAI amendment to Quality of Service (QoS) of  Broadband Service Regulations: On June 25, 2014, TRAI  notiﬁed the QoS of Broadband Service Regulations, and  eﬀectively increased the minimum speed, qualifying an  internet connection as a ‘broadband connection’.
As per  the notiﬁcation, ’Broadband is a data connection that is  able to support interactive services including Internet  Access and has the capability of the minimum download  speed of 512 kbps to an individual subscriber from the  point of presence (POP) of the service provider intending  to provide Broadband Service‘.
This deﬁnition now over- rides the previously deﬁned minimum download speed of  256 kbps.
Judgement on TDSAT:  Post migration to the revenue  sharing regime since 1999, a large number of disputes  between operators and the DoT arose on the issue of  ‘Adjusted Gross Revenue’ (AGR) deﬁnition.
In August  2007, the T elecom Disputes and Settlement T ribunal  (TDSAT) ruled that license fees should be levied only on  revenues arising out of telecom activities, and accordingly  settle various heads of revenue, which shall be included  With the recent acquisition of spectrum, Airtel is well  positioned to enable data growth, and has secured a clear  roadmap for the next 20 years.
Cumulatively, since 2010 the  Company has invested ` 681 Bn in spectrum through the  auctions route.
These investments will exert a downward  pressure on the return on capital employed, which is already  in single digits, hence it is imperative to generate healthy  revenue growth.
This scenario will enable the Company to  sustain capex investments and support its growing customer  base and usage.
African T elecom Sector The economy of the continent faced headwinds in the past  year, which impacted the growth of various countries in  Africa.
The year saw a sharp decline in crude oil and other  commodity prices, impacting several African economies,  such as Nigeria, T chad, Congo B, Gabon, DRC and Zambia.
Africa being a commodity-heavy continent, witnessed  sharp depreciation in currencies across various countries.
This has also caused some changes in regulations, such as  a change in the Nigerian regulation requiring dollars to be  purchased in the open market for import payments at higher  rates than the Central Bank auction rates available earlier.
The revenue-weighted currency depreciation versus the US  Dollar across 17 countries in Africa over the last 12 months  (exit March 31 rates) has been 22.3%, primarily caused by  depreciation in Ghana Cedi by 42.3%, Nigerian Naira by  28.4% and CFA by 28.3%.
In terms of the 12-month average  rates, the revenue-weighted Y-o-Y currency depreciation  has been 8.2%, primarily caused by depreciation in Ghana  Cedi by 49.1%, Zambian Kwacha by 16.8%, Malawi Kwacha  by 12.3%, Nigerian Naira by 8.5% and CFA by 6.0%.
Further,  events such as the outbreak of Ebola in West Africa presented  signiﬁcant challenges to some countries; however, with  support from the UN and developed countries, the situation  has since returned to near normalcy.
However, the African continent continues to present great  opportunities for growth in the T elecom sector and connecting  the billion-plus population in the continent.
Data and mobile  money present signiﬁcant opportunities for explosive  growth in the continent and with the increasing adoption of  smartphones, this trend is set to continue.
The launch of 4G/ LTE technologies also provides a great boost for data uptake.
Development in Regulations The year saw several regulatory changes and developments  for both the industry and the Company.
The signiﬁcant  regulatory changes are as follows: India  Spectrum Auction: In March, 2015, the Department of  T elecommunications concluded the auction process for  800 MHz, 900 MHz, 1800 MHz and 2100 MHz spectrum.
Of the 470.75 MHz that was put up for auction in 22  circles, 418.05 MHz was sold for a consideration of  ` 1,098,749 Mn.
The licences would be valid for a period  of 20 years from the date of allotment.
Airtel won 111.6  MHz spectrum for a consideration of ` 291,291 Mn.
It may  be recalled that in the previous year, Airtel won 115 MHz  spectrum for a consideration of ` 184,386 Mn.
Cumulative  spectrum investments made by the Company since 2010  are ` 681 Bn.
Management Discussion and Analysis Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1582 or excluded in the AGR.
The DoT appealed against this  judgement before the Hon’ble Supreme Court, who held in  October 2011, that TDSAT cannot decide on the terms and  conditions of the license agreement, but can only decide  on the interpretation of the license.
Since then, several  operators including the Company had approached TDSAT  on the issue of AGR deﬁnition.
The Company has also  obtained stays from the Kerala and T ripura High Courts  on DoT demands for additional licence fees under various  heads.
In its judgement dated April 23, 2015, TDSAT has  once again settled various inclusions and exclusions in  the deﬁnition of AGR, and also directed the DoT to rework  on licence fees payable by the operators for the years in  question.
Africa   Burkina Faso: The Regulator is contemplating cost  plus based pricing.
This will negatively impact business  freedom to price competitively.
The Regulator is  considering imposition of ﬁxed-line obligations on  operators; eﬀorts to persuade the Regulator to accept  wireless ﬁxed services instead of wireline ﬁxed services  are being made, in view of the huge ﬁnancial outlay that  will be required for cabling and wiring.
Gabon: The Regulator issued a regulation with higher  ﬂoor prices applicable only to Airtel; this asymmetry  was in place for three years till December 31, 2014.
The  Regulator has also asked all operators to comply with  a new requirement of an analytical accounting system,  which must be able to provide the cost of the network  and the speciﬁc and non-speciﬁc cost of interconnect  and leased lines.
The Regulator has also contracted a  consultant to develop an interconnect model speciﬁc to  Gabon, using the World Bank template.
Ghana: T elecom chamber has commissioned  Pricewaterhouse Coopers (PwC) to undertake a study on  total tax contribution of telecom operators to Ghana’s  GDP .
The Government announced a policy to grant four  new types of licenses: Interconnect Clearing House,  International Wholesale license, Uniﬁed Access Service  License and Mobile Virtual Network Operations (MVNO)  license.
The Government also issued a directive prohibiting  all oﬀ-net promotions priced below interconnect cost,  eﬀective from September 30, 2014.
Kenya: Interconnect rates have dropped from KES 1.15 to  KES 0.99 per minute.
The Government has reduced tax  payable by telecom companies from 33% to 30%.
There  is one player with a dominant share, and the rest of the  industry is of the opinion that Government should declare  it as dominant and encourage more competitive play  among existing operators for the beneﬁt of customers.
The Competition Authority ﬁnalised a settlement with  the dominant competitor, which includes unlocking  exclusivity of mobile money outlets.
Niger: The Government is enforcing a unique international  gateway, which will have a detrimental impact on the  industry.
Nigeria: Licenses are coming up for renewal in August  2015, and the industry is of opinion that the automatic  licence renewal period should be for a longer period  of 10-20 years, instead of ﬁve years.
The Nigerian  Communications Commission (NCC) has approved  retention of ﬂoor price at Nigerian Naira 6.40 per minute  for both on-net and oﬀ-net mobile voice calls.
Rwanda: 4G services were launched in Rwanda by single  wholesale network consortium led by Korean T elecom.
Operators can provide 4G/LTE services as MVNO to the  consortium.
Consequently, Airtel has commenced 4G/LTE  services as a MVNO.
Sierra Leone: The Government is contemplating an  increase in license fee – which may increase the payout  of operators by eight times.
The justiﬁcation of such  increase is not yet clear and industry is working with the  Government to annul this increase.
T anzania: Currently, the excise duty on T elecom Services  is 17.5% and the industry has represented that it should  be harmonised at 12% like other East African countries.
As regards new entrants, the industry is of an opinion  that there should be a level playing ﬁeld with existing  operators.
The Regulator has prepared and distributed a  Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on implementation  of MNP; operators have requested for a detailed  discussion on the same.
The Regulator has proposed new  QoS requirements, which are under discussion by the  industry.
The industry is currently representing against  a draft regulation issued in 2014 that requires operators  to list a portion of their shares; the most contentious  issue is a proposal in the draft regulation to have local  shareholders own at least 35%.
T chad: The industry has been requesting the Government  to improve the index of ‘ease of doing business’ in T chad,  especially following several unjustiﬁed and frivolous tax  demands that were levied on the industry, which caused  enormous pressure on operators, besides unnecessary  burden of litigation.
Zambia: The Government is conducting a consultation for  introducing a 4 th operator–the industry has represented  that this would fragment the sector and aﬀect scale  and economies of existing operators.
The Lusaka Stock  Exchange’s (LUSE) enforcement of a minimum 10% local  shareholding is being contested by the operators.
East Africa: The East African Governments initiated  a project to ease doing business, enhance regional  integration and avoid bill shock of roamers, and  decided the following during their meeting in Rwanda:  (i) Originating and terminating between diﬀerent member  states in the EAC region is exempt from surcharges on  International Incoming T raﬃc (SIIT) (ii) Regional roaming  retail tariﬀ is capped at USD 0.10 per minute on a per  second billing arrangement (iii) Regional roaming retail  rate inclusive of the Inter-Operator Tariﬀs (IOT) for the  EAC region is capped at USD 0.07 per minute (iv) There  shall be no charges for receiving calls, while roaming  for traﬃc originating and terminating between diﬀerent  member states in the EAC region (v) The prevailing local  tariﬀ rates in the visited country shall apply to in-bound  roamers (non-discrimination between in-bound roamers  and subscribers of visited networks).
Consequently, Kenya,  Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 83 Rwanda, Uganda and South Sudan have mutually agreed  to adopt a regional telecommunications framework for  ’One-Network-Area’.
Others: Penalties on quality of service are inconsistent  and many times frivolous.
This is causing enormous  burden on operators across countries.
In addition, there  are a lot of challenges with respect to KYC.
The telecom  industry is of opinion that the Governments need to  act as an equal partner, especially since there are no  Government issued ID cards in many countries.
GSMA: At the Africa CEO Roundtable, the participants  suggested that the GSMA and the Task Force set out  a roadmap on digital inclusion/rural access, aimed at  developing a more positive narrative on rural coverage.
GSMA Africa team met with several Government  delegations in Barcelona.
Several common themes were  identiﬁed including: (a) need for capacity building in the  African region (b) challenges with meeting the Digital  Migration deadline of June 17, 2015 and (c) Rural coverage  and follow-up actions were agreed.
SCOT Analysis Strengths  Present in 20 countries, India’s largest operator and third  largest in the world  These countries are carrying 1/6 th of the world’s  voice traﬃc, covering more than 1/4th of the world’s  population  Strategically placed in growing economies with rising  GDP , driving growths in mobile  Growth markets of India and Africa contribute 1/3 rd to  new mobile subscriptions globally  Integrated service portfolio with dominant position in  marketplace  Incumbent leader in India with 31% wireless RMS,  2nd largest operator in Africa by subscribers, largest  private wire-line operator in India  Eﬃcient utilisation of operating and capital expenditures  Passive infrastructure sharing further complemented  with divestment of towers in Africa to drive cost  eﬃciencies Opportunities  Under-penetrated geographies: Africa and India  New and converged needs across technologies and  services targeted to speciﬁc customer segments  Data explosion at its cusp with the proliferation of  smartphones   Mobile broadband users in the 20 countries represent  less than 20% penetration   Scalability on mobile: Mobiles act as a portal to a new  world of opportunities  Signiﬁcant opportunities created by the internet across  payment mechanisms and mobile commerce  Large residual opportunity with bulk investments in  place  Airtel has the best pan-India spectrum assets with  prime spectrum and the largest optical ﬁbre network  among private players.
3G and Airtel Money launched  in all the 17 countries in Africa Challenges  Inadequate infrastructure in Indian and African rural  regions pushing cost of operations  Continuously innovating and investing in greater reach  Integration in operations across continents  Leveraging common platforms across all 20 countries  Understanding evolving customer perceptions in a multi- cultural and multi-lingual environment  Diversity across 20 countries – global scale, local  perspective  Increasing capital expenditure on state-of-the-art  network infrastructure  Continuously upgrading network infrastructure Threats  Falling average revenue per user  Changing rates across a wide array of products  Political and economic uncertainties in Africa and India  Changes in policies   Volatility in currencies  Higher than expected voice revenue cannibalisation  led by potential competition, data proﬁtability not  completely covering the shortfall  Management Discussion and Analysis Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1584 Financial Review Consolidated Figures Particulars FY 2014-15 FY 2013-14 `   Millions USD  Millions* `   Millions USD  Millions* Gross Revenue 920,394 15,064 857,461 14,151 EBITDA before  exceptional items 314,517 5,148 278,430 4,595 Interest, Depreciation  & Others before  exceptional items 198,855 3,255 200,325 3,306 Proﬁt before  exceptional items  and Tax 115,662 1,893 78,105 1,289 Proﬁt before Tax 107,130 1,753 78,643 1,298 Tax expense 54,047 885 48,449 800 Proﬁt for the year 51,835 848 27,727 458 Earnings per share (in  ` / USD) 12.97 0.21 7.02 0.12 *1 USD = ` 61.10 Exchange Rate for ﬁnancial year ended March 31, 2015 (1 USD  = ` 60.59 for ﬁnancial year ended March 31, 2014) Standalone Figures Particulars FY 2014-15 FY 2013-14 `   Millions USD  Millions* `   Millions USD  Millions* Gross Revenue 554,964 9,083 499,185 8,239 EBITDA before  exceptional items 246,241 4,030 171,522 2,831 Interest, Depreciation  & Others before  exceptional items 89,688 1,468 85,677 1,414 Proﬁt before  exceptional items  and Tax 156,553 2,562 85,845 1,417 Proﬁt before Tax 156,553 2,562 83,774 1,383 Tax expense 24,548 402 17,772 293 Proﬁt for the year 132,005 2,160 66,002 1,089 Earnings per share (in  ` / USD) 33.02 0.54 16.69 0.28 *1 USD = ` 61.10 Exchange Rate for ﬁnancial year ended March 31, 2015 (1 USD  = ` 60.59 for ﬁnancial year ended March 31, 2014).
Consolidated revenues increased by 7.3% to ` 920,394 Mn for  the year ended March 31, 2015.
Revenues in India for the year  ended March 31, 2015 stood at ` 645,295 Mn, representing  a growth of 12.1%, compared to that of the previous year.
Revenues in Africa reported at USD 4,407 Mn, representing  de-growth of 1.9%, compared to that of the previous year.
In  constant currency terms the growth in revenues for Africa  was 6.2%.
The Company incurred operating expenditure  (excluding access charges, cost of goods sold and license  fees) of ` 402,395 Mn, representing an increase of 3.8% over  the previous year.
Consolidated EBITDA at ` 314,517 Mn  grew by 13.0% over the previous year primarily contributed  by India.
EBITDA margin for the full year stood at 34.2%,  increased from 32.5% in the previous year, primarily due to  tighter opex controls.
Depreciation and amortisation costs  for the year were lower by 0.8% to ` 155,311 Mn, partially due  to lower depreciation in Africa on account of assets held for  sale.
Consequently, EBIT at ` 158,571 Mn increased by 30.0%,  resulting in an improved margin of 17.2%, up from 14.2% in  the previous year.
Net ﬁnance costs at ` 48,463 Mn were marginally higher by  ` 82 Mn.
The impact of higher forex and derivative losses for  the full year at ` 21,530 Mn (PY: ` 12,423 Mn) was neutralised  by higher investment income.
Consequent to a conservative  hedge accounting policy followed by the Company, net  foreign exchange gains of ` 27,575 Mn on account of certain  designated Euro and USD borrowings were taken directly to  equity instead of the income statement.
The consolidated  proﬁt before taxes and exceptional items at ` 115,662 Mn has  signiﬁcantly improved by 48.1% over the previous year.
The consolidated income tax expense (before the impact on  exceptional items) for the full year ending March 31, 2015 is  ` 52,928 Mn, compared to ` 44,478 Mn for the previous year.
The eﬀective tax rate in India for the full year came in at  26.5% (25.5% excluding dividend distribution tax), compared  to 31.2% (29.1% excluding the impact of dividend distribution  tax) for the full year ended March 31, 2014.
The reduction in  the underlying eﬀective tax rate in India is due to improved  performance in the loss making subsidiaries and lower forex  losses in relation to borrowings.
The tax charge in Africa for  the full year at USD 203 Mn (full year 2013-14: USD 273 Mn)  has been lower, primarily due to higher operating losses and  reduction in withholding taxes due to lower upstreaming  from subsidiaries.
Exceptional items, during the year, accounted for a net charge  of ` 8,993 Mn.
These included impact of several restructuring  and integration activities, settlement of various disputes, tax  settlements, gains / losses on disposal of towers and forex  impact arising out of change in foreign exchange regulations  in Nigeria, among others.
After accounting for exceptional  items, the resultant consolidated net income for the year  ended March 31, 2015 touched ` 51,835 Mn, a signiﬁcant  86.9% increase over the previous year.
Net income before  exceptional items for the full year came in at ` 60,828 Mn, an  increase of 85.9% over the previous year.
The capital expenditure for the full year was ` 186,682  Mn, an increase of 76.4%, compared to the previous year.
Consolidated operating free cash ﬂow for the year reﬂected a  decline of 25.9% from ` 172,587 Mn to ` 127,834 Mn, primarily  on account of stepped up capex in India and Africa.
Liquidity and Funding During the year, the Company undertook several initiatives to  meet its long-term funding requirements, strategically using  a diversiﬁed mix of debt and equity: a) In Q1, the Company’s  subsidiary BAIN raised to USD 1,000 Mn through the issuance  of 5.25%; Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2024 at an issue  price of 99.916% and Euro 750 Mn through the issuance of  3.375% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2021 at an issue price  of 99.248%, b) In Q2, Airtel sold 85 Mn shares of Bharti  Infratel Limited (Infratel) for ` 21,434 Mn, representing 4.5%  shareholding in Infratel to comply with the requirement to  maintain minimum public shareholding of 25%.
Subsequent  to this transaction, the shareholding in Infratel was reduced  to 74.86%, and c) In Q4, the Company sold 55 Mn shares in  Infratel for ` 19,255 Mn, representing 2.9% shareholding  in Infratel.
Subsequent to the transaction, the Company’s  shareholding in Infratel has now reduced to 71.9 %.
As on March 31, 2015, the Company was rated ‘Investment  Grade’ with a ‘Stable’ outlook by all three international  credit rating agencies namely Fitch, Moody’s and S&P .
It had  cash and cash equivalents of ` 11,719 Mn and short-term  investments of ` 92,840 Mn.
During the year ended March  31, 2015, the Company generated operating free cash ﬂow  of ` 127,834 Mn.
The Company’s consolidated net debt as on  March 31, 2015 increased by USD 606 Mn to USD 10,679 Mn  Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 85 as compared to USD 10,074 Mn last year, mainly due to the  DoT spectrum obligations.
The net debt excluding the DoT  spectrum obligations stood at USD 8,392 Mn as on March 31,  2015 (USD 10,056 Mn as at March 31, 2014).
The Net Debt- EBITDA ratio (USD terms LTM) as on March 31, 2015 improved  to 2.08 times as compared to 2.19 times in the previous year,  mainly on account of strong operating performance and  the proceeds from the Infratel stake sale and continuous  deleveraging from cashﬂows.
The Net Debt-Equity ratio  marginally increased to 1.08 times as on March 31, 2015,  compared to 1.01 times in the previous year.
Auction of Spectrum in India The Department of T elecommunications (DoT) commenced  the auction process for 800 MHz, 900 MHz, 1800 MHz and  2100 MHz spectrum on March 4, 2015 that went on for 115  rounds till its conclusion on March 25, 2015.
A total of 470.75 MHz of spectrum was put to auction by DoT  across bands, of which 52.70 MHz went unsold.
Spectrum  worth ` 1,098,749 Mn was bought by seven telecom operators.
The Company successfully renewed 900 MHz spectrum in six  circles, where the 20-year tenure of existing administered  spectrum will end in various dates between December 11, 2015  and April 21, 2016.
The Company also won additional 900 MHz  spectrum in key leadership circles.
This was in addition to its  existing 1800 MHz and 2100 MHz spectrum in seven circles, and  won 2100 MHz spectrum for 3G services in six new circles.
Airtel  acquired 111.6 MHz of prime spectrum across 900 MHz, 1800  MHz and 2100 MHz bands for a total consideration of ` 291,291  Mn in the spectrum auction conducted by the Government of  India in March 2015.
Of this, ` 176,176 Mn has been spent on  the renewal of existing spectrum, while the balance ` 115,115  Mn has been spent on procuring new spectrum.
The circle-wise  quantum of spectrum secured in the auctions is summarised in  the table below: Circle 900 MHz 1800 MHz 2100 MHz A.P   9.0   1.2     -   Assam     6.2      -       -   Bihar     1.6      -       -   Tamil Nadu      -       -      5.0  Gujarat      -       -      5.0  Haryana      -      3.4     5.0  Himachal Pradesh     7.4      -       -   Karnataka     8.8      -       -   Kolkata      -      2.0      -    M.P          -             -           5.0  Maharashtra          -             -           5.0  Odisha        1.2         6.2         5.0  Punjab      10.0         1.0           -    UP East          -             -           5.0  West Bengal        2.2           -             -    North East        8.8         1.6           -    Rajasthan        6.0           -             -    T otal Spectrum      61.2       15.4       35.0  Upfront Payment (` Mn)* 90,952 3,545 19,250 Balance Amount (` Mn) 131,597 6,862 39,085 T otal Cost (` Mn) 222,549 10,407    58,335     *Upfront payments made in Mar’15: ` 47,251 Mn and in Apr’15: ` 66,496 Mn.
Since 2010, in ﬁve separate auctions, the Company has  acquired spectrum valued at ` 681 Bn.
This is in line with  its long-term strategy to grow the internet user base, and  emerge as a leading player in realising the national vision of  a ‘Digital India’.
The Company has secured its future and the  roadmap for the next 20 years is now clear.
The Company is  committed to provide world-class voice and data services to  its customers across 2G, 3G and 4G technologies.
Awards and Recognition  Honoured with the Dun & Bradstreet (D&B) Corporate  award in the T elecom Services sector at the D&B –  Manappuram Finance Corporate Awards 2014 in Mumbai.
B Srikanth, Global CFO, Bharti Airtel Ltd, has been  honored with the ‘Best Performing CFO in the T elecom  Sector’ award at the 8th edition of India’s most coveted  awards for the ﬁnest CFOs - the CNBC-TV18 CFO Awards  2013.
Bharti Airtel is the winner of ‘T op T reasury T eam Asia  2014’ in Adam Smith Awards Asia 2014.
The Company has scored 100% on a Composite Disclosure  Index in a report by FTI Consulting Inc, a global advisory  ﬁrm.
This Index tracks mandatory and voluntary  disclosure practices among listed companies.
Along with  two other listed companies, Airtel scored a perfect 10 out  of 10 on disclosure practices.
The average score for the  BSE 100 companies came in at 6.7 / 10.
Segment-wise Performance B2C services Mobile Services: India    Overview The year saw rapid growth in e-commerce and growing  popularity of apps on smartphones, including OTT  applications, which catalysed explosive growth in data usage  over the past year.
During the year, the Company continued  to work towards improving data connectivity and launched  several industry-ﬁrst initiatives.
As on March 31, 2015, the Company had 226 Mn GSM  customers.
The Company’s customer acquisition and  retention strategy is consistently yielding positive results in  terms of reduced customer churn, from 2.9% last year to 2.7%  in the current year.
Data revenues, as a percentage to total  revenues, increased from 9.9% to 15.2% in the current year.
Of its total number of mobile subscribers, the Company had  46.4 Mn data customers (on the basis of the revised deﬁnition  of ‘data customer’ as one who uses at least 1 MB per month)  as on March 31, 2015, of which 19.4 Mn were subscribed to 3G  data services.
The segment witnessed signiﬁcant improvement in the EBITDA  margin in the current year to 37.6%, compared to 33.8% in  the last year.
Improvement in margin is the combined eﬀect  of revenue growth and enhanced opex productivity.
EBIT  margins have improved signiﬁcantly from 19.5% to 24.0% in  the current year.
The Company continued to invest in networks and spectrum to  build capacity and improve the quality of coverage, especially  in 3G and 4G technologies.
The number of sites as on March  31, 2015 were 146,539, of which 48,825 were 3G sites.
Management Discussion and Analysis Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1586 (` Millions) Particulars FY 2014-15 FY 2013-14 Y-o-Y  Growth Gross Revenues 519,636 466,836 11% EBIT 124,695 90,973 37% Wireless Subscribers: India (Million) 188.2 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 205.5 226.0  9.6% CAGR Key Initiatives  Bharti Airtel launched ‘Wynk Music’, a new music  streaming service with an OTT app that is carrier  agnostic.
Wynk Music crossed its ﬁrst milestone, thereby  witnessing 1 Lakh downloads in just four days of its  launch.
Wynk also achieved a momentous feat of 5 Mn  downloads within six months, making it one of the most  popular destinations for the country’s music lovers.
Launched ‘Platinum 3G’- India’s ﬁrst 3G network in  Mumbai and Kolkata.
This service will enable customers  to experience 34% faster speed than other 3G networks,  30% better indoor coverage and battery lasting for 17%  longer than on other networks.
Rolled out 4G services across India’s 16 cities, expanding  its 4G footprint in the country.
With this achievement,  Airtel 4G is now present in India’s 17 cities.
Launched ‘One T ouch Internet’ – a ﬁrst-of-its-kind  initiative aimed at simplifying internet services for  millions of ﬁrst-time users in India.
It is a portal designed  with a simple, secure and intuitive interface that will  allow users to discover internet easily.
It works as a  single-point destination for users to see-try-buy a host of  popular services.
Announced a strategic collaboration with China Mobile,  under which the two companies will work towards  the growth of the LTE ecosystem and evolving mobile  technology standards.
Airtel and China Mobile will also  work towards shaping up a joint strategy for procurement  of devices that include Miﬁ, smart-phones, data cards,  LTE CPEs and USIM.
Launched ‘The Smartphone Network’ campaign to  augment the rapidly increasing uptake of data services.
Airtel has made signiﬁcant technology and network  investments to ensure the best data experience for  smartphone users in India.
Organised ‘Each One T each One’ day - an industry-ﬁrst  initiative, aimed at driving internet literacy in India and  contributing to the nation’s digital inclusion agenda.
Partnered  with Mi India to launch its ﬂagship 4G device –  Redmi Note 4G.
Introduced a series of relief initiatives to support  those aﬀected in Jammu & Kashmir ﬂoods, expediting  restoration of communication services in the region.
Facilities like free calling stations, free talk time and  advance talk time were launched to facilitate easy  communication.
Introduced a series of relief packages to ensure restoration  of communication services in cyclone aﬀected regions of  Andhra Pradesh.
Free calling stations and local talk time  of 10 minutes, along with Advance Talk time facility were  provided to all Airtel customers in the aﬀected areas to  enable them to connect with their families.
Introduced its ‘Smart SIM’ in the market, which provides  customers the freedom to seamlessly work across  multiple devices (including smartphones and tablets)  without worrying about the compatibility of their SIM  card.
Launched a refreshed ‘my Airtel app’ to extend an  enhanced digital experience to its customers across  categories.
Launched customer initiated instant SIM swap for its  prepaid customers in all circles, enabling change or  upgradation of SIM within 10 minutes.
Became the ﬁrst private telecom operator to launch 2G  services in Bomdila, Jameri, Zero Point and T enga Valley  of Arunachal Pradesh.
In collaboration with Kotak Mahindra Bank, Airtel has  applied for a Payments Bank licence to be a partner in  the national mission of ﬁnancial inclusion.
Awards and Recognition  Ranked ‘No.1 Service Brand’ in the annual Brand Equity  Most T rusted Brands Survey 2014.
Won the DSCI Excellence Award for Security in T elecom at the  NASSCOM-DSCI Annual Information Security Summit 2014.
Won the ’Best Mobile Product‘ for Wynk Music under  T elecom Service Providers Category and ’My Favourite  Service Provider‘ award under the Public Poll Awards  Category at the prestigious ET T elecom Awards 2014.
Airtel’s WAP (Wireless Application Protocol) portal –  ‘One T ouch Internet’ was accredited as the ‘Best Mobile  Service/ Application of the Year for consumers’ in the  category of Best Mobile Services at the prestigious GSMA  Global Mobile Awards 2015 in Barcelona.
Won eight accolades at the Voice & Data T elecom  Leadership Forum & Awards 2015, these included –  Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 87 T op Performance in Assam, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh,  Karnataka, Odisha, Punjab and Rajasthan circles and for  Wynk Music app in Product Innovation category.
T elemedia Services   Overview The Company provides ﬁxed-line telephone and broadband  (DSL) services for homes, as well as oﬃces in 90 cities across  India.
Airtel had 3.4 Mn customers, as on March 31, 2015.
Of  them, 1.5 Mn customers were subscribed to its broadband /  internet services, representing 44.2%, compared to last year’s  43.6%.
The higher proportion of DSL customers was primarily  driven by improved speed oﬀering and the Company’s focus  on quality acquisitions.
The higher number of broadband  customers also resulted in a signiﬁcant increase in ARPU to  ` 1,026 during the year as compared to ` 946 in the previous  year.
Consequently, non-voice revenue as a percentage of  total telemedia revenue also increased signiﬁcantly, now  representing 64.9%, compared to 59.8% last year.
The product oﬀerings include high-speed broadband, rising  up to the speed of 100 mbps for the home segment.
Besides,  the Company’s product portfolio also includes local, national  and international long-distance voice connectivity.
In the  oﬃce segment, Airtel is a trusted solutions provider for ﬁxed  line voice (PRIs), MPLS, mobile, data and other connectivity  solutions.
Additionally, the Company oﬀers solutions to  businesses to improve employee productivity through  collaborative solutions (audio, video and web conferencing).
Cloud portfolio is integral to its oﬃce solutions suite, which  oﬀers storage, compute, Microsoft oﬃce 365, e-commerce  package through shopify and CRM packages on a pay-as- you-go model.
(` Millions) Particulars FY 2014-15 FY 2013-14 Y-o-Y  Growth Gross Revenues 44,325 39,352 13% EBIT 8,699 5,540 57% Broadband Users (Million) 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 1.46 1.51 1.39  4.2% CAGR Key Initiatives On the home front, signiﬁcant progress was made in the  endeavour to pioneer high-speed broadband through  FTTH and VDSL rollouts in the top markets.
Another key  intervention was improvement in the quality of acquisition  through focused interventions, resulting in lower churn.
Focus on high-speed internet during both - acquisition and  base migration, resulted in high-speed base (deﬁned as  greater than or equal to 4 Mbps) moving to 46% at the end of  the year as against 34% last year.
On the corporate business front, signiﬁcant progress was  made in ICT solutions, in terms of simpliﬁcation of the  products and processes through instant feasibility and faster  implementation (implementation of ILP in one day).
In Fixed  Line, new segments were tapped with innovative products  like call conferencing and call-back.
Another focus area was  increasing distribution in terms of geographic coverage and  cluster-wise infrastructure mapping, among others.
There  was also a signiﬁcant brand shift from product sales to  solution sales.
In addition, programmes like verticalisation  simpliﬁed the sales ecosystem on a consultative selling  approach.
Airtel made voice free for broadband customers.
Customers  can now make free calls to any network in India at any time  of the day or night, as the Company launched ﬁrst-of-its-kind  voice calling packs, oﬀering unlimited local calls at just ` 49  per month and unlimited local and STD calls at just ` 99 per  month.
Digital TV Services  Overview The Company served a customer base of 10.1 Mn on its Direct- to-Home platform (Airtel digital TV), as on March 31, 2015,  adding 1.1 Mn customers during the year.
From the third  quarter, the Company harmonised the accounting of indirect  taxes in line with other segments and industry practice; such  taxes were part of opex earlier and are now netted oﬀ against  revenues.
On a like-to-like basis the growth in revenues was  24.6%, compared to previous year.
The Company currently oﬀers both standard and high  deﬁnition (HD) digital TV services with 3D capabilities and  Dolby surround sound.
The Company currently oﬀers a total  of 460 channels, including 27 HD channels, four international  channels and three interactive services.
Enriching its  regional focus, Airtel Digital TV has added 29 vernacular  channels across languages, such as Bengali, Tamil, T elugu  and Oriya, among others.
Enhanced transponder capacities,  aﬀordability of HD set-top boxes and upselling eﬀorts led to  ARPU increasing by ` 14 to ` 216.
Consequently, this business  reported positive EBIT in Q4 for the ﬁrst time.
(` Millions) Particulars FY 2014-15 FY 2013-14 Y-o-Y  Growth Gross Revenues 24,759 20,771 19% EBIT (1,581) (4,812) 67% Management Discussion and Analysis Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1588 DTH Subscriber Base (Million) 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 9.0 10.1 8.1  11.7% CAGR Key Initiatives Airtel Digital TV launched ‘Pocket TV’ app on iOS, enabling  its subscribers to view TV on their mobiles, tablets and other  similar devices.
Airtel is India’s ﬁrst company to provide  real-time integration of all three screens viz.
television,  mobile and computer, enabling its customers to record their  favourite TV programmes through mobile and web.
Airtel  Digital TV launched a Self-Care App and a Wi-Fi dongle for  its HD customers.
Airtel Digital TV, in partnership with Disney India launched its  ﬁrst English Subscription Video on Demand (SVOD) channel  – ‘Disney Family Movies’ to showcase popular Disney movies,  including Hollywood classics, popular animation movies and  live action titles.
In addition, Airtel Digital TV also tied up with  Samsung TV for an exclusive launch with Samsung for IDTV:  India’s ﬁrst integrated TV with inbuilt HD STB.
Customer can put  an Airtel CAM card in the TV and enjoy Airtel digital TV services.
No separate STB is required for availing the same facility.
B2B Services    Airtel Business     Overview Airtel Business is India’s leading and most trusted ICT  services provider.
Its diverse portfolio of services includes  voice, data, video, network integration, data centre, managed  services, enterprise mobility applications and digital media.
Airtel Business consistently delivers cutting-edge integrated  solutions, superior customer service and unmatched depth  / reach to global markets, to enterprises, governments,  carriers, and small and medium businesses.
Global Business, the international arm of Airtel Business,  oﬀers an integrated suite of global and local connectivity  solutions, spanning across voice and data to the carriers,  T elcos, OTTs, large multinationals and content owners  globally.
Airtel’s international infrastructure includes ownership of i2i  submarine cable system, connecting Chennai to Singapore  and consortium ownership of SMEWE4 submarine cable  system, which connects Chennai and Mumbai to Singapore  and Europe.
It also includes cable system investments like  Asia America Gateway (AAG), India, the Middle East and  Western Europe (IMEWE), Unity, Europe India Gateway (EIG)  and East Africa Submarine System (EASSy).
Along with these  seven owned subsea cables, Airtel Business has a capacity on  13 other cables across various geographies.
It has signiﬁcantly invested in creating state-of-the-art  national and international long-distance infrastructure to  serve the growing capacity demands of customers, especially  in the emerging markets of the Middle East, Africa and APAC.
Its global network runs across 225,000 Rkms with over 1000  customers, covering 50 countries and ﬁve continents.
This  is further interconnected to its domestic network and direct  terrestrial cables to SAARC countries and China, accelerating  India’s emergence as a preferred transit hub.
Leveraging the direct presence of Airtel in 20 countries across  Asia and Africa, Global Business also oﬀers VAS solutions  (ITFS, signalling hubs, messaging), along with managed  services and Satcom solutions.
(` Millions) Particulars FY 2014-15 FY 2013-14 Y-o-Y  Growth Gross Revenues 67,130 63,361 6% EBIT 7,713 8,078 (5%) Key Initiatives Airtel Business continues to focus on the following areas to  propel the business to greater heights:  Driving deeper engagement and increasing revenue  wallet share in large, multi-geography customers  through Global Account Management programme.
Acquiring new customers and enhancing global reach  in unchartered geographies through Channel Partner  programme.
Leveraging strength of existing retail customers to enter  into strategic business alliances like Chicago agreement  with large T elcos and carriers.
Moving from traditional revenue sources to VAS solutions  by focusing on newer products and solutions, such as toll  free services, SMS hub, Firewall, Satellite solutions and  airtel talk, among others.
Expanding footprint in the emerging markets with access,  network, delivery and partnerships to further strengthen  the position and revenue from such markets.
Developing India as an IP Hub for neighbouring countries,  including Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh, China, Myanmar,  Sri Lanka and Maldives by on-boarding CDNs like google,  facebook, and so on.
Bharti Airtel Hong Kong Ltd. announced the launch of  ‘airtel talk’ – an all-in-one communication application  that facilitates easy and aﬀordable calls into India.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 89  Airtel joined hands with Amazon Web Services to oﬀer  private network solutions for its global enterprise  customers.
The partnership will help Airtel’s customers  to leverage the powerful and dedicated AWS network at  reduced network costs to experience increased bandwidth  and consistent connectivity.
Signed an inter-provider connectivity agreement with  Orange Business Services to enable inter-country video  conferencing facility to enterprise customers in respective  countries of operation.
Applied for a Payments Bank licence,  in collaboration  with Kotak Mahindra Bank  to be a partner in the national  mission of ﬁnancial inclusion.
Awards and Recognition  Won top honours at the prestigious 2014 Frost & Sullivan  India Information & Communications T echnology (ICT)  Awards.
Airtel won three awards: Enterprise T elecom  Service Provider of the Year – Large Enterprise Segment,  Enterprise T elecom Service Provider of the Year - SMB  (Corporate) Segment, and Enterprise 3G Service Provider  of the Year under the ‘Enterprise T elecom Services’  category for its exemplary growth and performance.
Won the ‘Enterprise Mobile App 2014’ award for Airtel  mGovernance solution and ‘Uniﬁed Communication  Solution’ award for Biznet video solution at the Aegis  Graham Bell Awards – the biggest innovation award in  the ﬁeld of telecom, internet, media and entertainment  (TIME).
Passive Infrastructure Services   Overview Bharti Infratel Limited, a subsidiary of Bharti Airtel, provides  passive infrastructure services on non-discriminatory basis  to all telecom operators in India.
Bharti Infratel deploys, owns  and manages telecom towers and communication structures  in 11 circles of India.
It also holds 42% share in Indus T owers  (a joint venture between Bharti Infratel, Vodafone and Idea  Cellular).
Indus T owers operates in 15 circles (four common  circles with Bharti Infratel, 11 circles on exclusive basis).
(` Millions) Particulars FY 2014-15 FY 2013-14 Y-o-Y  Growth Gross Revenues 54,282 51,087 6% EBIT 14,462 11,151 30% The Company enjoys nationwide presence with operations in  India’s all 22 telecommunications circles.
As on March 31, 2015, Bharti Infratel owned and operated  37,196 towers in 11 telecommunications circles, while Indus   T owers operated 115,942 towers in 15 telecommunication  circles.
Bharti Infratel’s towers, including installations in its  42% interest in Indus T owers, comprised an economic interest  in the equivalent of 85,892 towers in India, as on March 31,  2015.
Bharti Infratel is listed on the Indian Stock Exchanges,  NSE and BSE.
Africa Overview The year saw sharp decline in crude oil and other commodity  prices impacting several African economies such as Nigeria,  T chad, Congo B, Gabon, DRC and Zambia.
Africa being a  commodity-heavy continent, witnessed sharp depreciation in  currencies across various countries.
As on March 31, 2015, the Company had 76.3 Mn customers in  Africa across 17 countries as compared to 69.4 Mn customers  in the previous year, an increase of 9.8%.
T otal minutes on  the network during the year increased by 7.6% to 118.6 Bn,  compared to 110.2 Bn in the previous year.
At the end of  the year, 30.4 Mn data customers accounted for 39.8% of  the total customer base, compared to 32.1% in the previous  year.
Data traﬃc increased by 87.4% from 18.9 Bn MBs in the  previous year to 35.3 Bn MBs in the current year, with usage  per customer increasing from 89 MBs to 114 MBs.
Voice realisation per minute, however, declined from 3.30  cents to 2.84 cents for the full year, due to competitive  pressures and currency depreciation.
Consequently, overall  ARPU in Africa declined from USD 5.6 to USD 5.1.
T otal sites  in Africa as on March 31, 2015 were 18,819, of which 10,011  were 3G sites, representing 53% of the total sites.
Full year reported revenues of Africa came in at USD 4,407  Mn (PY: USD 4,491 Mn).
In constant currency terms, gross  revenues increased by 6.2%, and net revenues by 7.5%.
Reported EBITDA at USD 1,002 Mn (PY: USD 1,175 Mn) reﬂected  a margin of 22.7%, a decline from 26.2% in the previous year  due to investments in network and higher marketing spends.
Reported EBIT at USD 193 Mn declined from USD 280 Mn in  the previous year.
After accounting for a full year capex of  USD 1,073 Mn (PY: USD 635 Mn), the cash burn in Africa was  USD 71 Mn, compared to operating free cash ﬂow of USD 540  Mn in the previous year.
(` Millions) Particulars FY 2014-15 FY 2013-14 Y-o-Y  Growth Gross Revenues 269,070 272,488 (1%) EBIT 11,781 17,141 (31%) Wireless Subscribers: Africa (Million) 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 69.44 76.26 63.72  9.4% CAGR Management Discussion and Analysis Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1590 Key Initiatives  During the year, the Company’s subsidiary, Bharti  Airtel International (Netherlands) B.V. (BAIN) entered  into agreements with Helios T owers Africa (HTA) for  divestment of over 3,100 telecom towers in four countries  across Africa.
BAIN also entered into agreements with  Eaton T owers Limited (Eaton) for divestment of over  3,500 telecom towers in six countries across Africa.
The  Company’s subsidiary in Nigeria and American T owers  Corporation (ATC) have entered into an agreement for sale  of over 4,800 telecom towers in Nigeria.
The Company’s  subsidiaries in Zambia and Rwanda have entered into  agreements with IHS Zambia Ltd and IHS Rwanda Ltd,  respectively, for sale of over 1,100 telecom towers in these  two countries.
The divestment of tower assets in one of  the countries consummated during the year.
Airtel and Kenya Airways have signed a Memorandum of  Understanding (MoU) to deliver an MVNO service for the  airline, subject to regulatory approvals.
Airtel Kenya tied up a unique MVNO plan with Equity  Bank, which will reduce Equity’s cost of delivering MVNO  services and help Airtel to utilise its investment and grow  revenues.
Airtel Money signed an MoU with the United Bank of Africa  (UBA) for cross-border money transfer in 24 countries  across Africa, where either Airtel or UBA is present.
Yu subscribers in Kenya were successfully migrated  to Airtel on December 20, 2014 and Essar network was  ﬁnally switched oﬀ on January 5, 2015.
In Kenya, the existing licence was successfully renewed  for 10 years.
Following the successful acquisition of Yu  Mobile’s customers and license in January 2015, the  Regulator has now conﬁrmed that Airtel Kenya license will  be synchronised with Essar Yu to expire on June 30, 2024.
Airtel Money launched cross-border person-to-person  transfer between DRC, Zambia and Rwanda and also  received regulatory approval from Banque Centrale  des Etats de I’Afrique de I’Ouest (BCEAO) for launch of   cross-border remittances in Niger.
Facebook, in partnership with Airtel launched the  internet.org app in Zambia, Kenya and Ghana  The year has continued to see Airtel’s involvement in the  community across Africa, such as:    Pan-African partnership with VISA and MasterCard  for the introduction of virtual and plastic companion  cards for Airtel Money.
Airtel Sierra Leone embarked on a Private Public  Partnership with the Ministry of Health and Sanitation  and UNFPA in the ﬁght against the outbreak of the  deadly EBOLA epidemic, where the staﬀ donated a  day’s salary for the cause.
Service delivery and food stuﬀ donation to ﬂood  victims by Airtel in Madagascar and Malawi.
Support to pregnant women in Kenya through the  ‘Beyond Zero’ marathon, donation of Mama kits in  Uganda and baby packs for mothers in Sierra Leone.
Key Highlights  Airtel crossed the milestone of 75 Mn subscribers across  17 countries in Africa.
Airtel continues to expand its 3G footprint across the  continent with Airtel now present in all 17 countries.
Airtel obtained trial authorisation from Regulator for  providing 4G LTE services in Madagascar.
Airtel’s licence  will expire on the September 20, 2015 and renewal is  already in process.
The payment of the licence fee in  Madagascar for renewal of 10 year licence will be done as  soon as the terms and conditions are ﬁnalised.
The Company successfully renewed its existing licenses in  Niger.
Airtel was also successful in obtaining 3G license  for a period of 15 years.
The Company was successful in obtaining 3G and 4G  licences in T chad.
3G services have also been launched.
Airtel Money crossed the milestone of 5 Mn subscribers  across Africa.
As at the end of March 2015, Airtel Money  had 6.2 Mn customers across Africa.
Airtel Money  celebrated 1 Mn REC milestone in DRC, making it the  largest provider of ﬁnancial services in DRC.
Awards and Recognition  Airtel Money was awarded the Best Mobile Money Service  in Ghana at the Mobile World Ghana T elecoms Awards  and also won the Best Mobile money solution at Africa  Com Awards in South Africa.
Airtel Ghana was awarded the best CSR Company and  best Mobile Money Service of 2013.
Airtel Ghana also won the Brand Activation Programme  of the year for Airtel Rising Stars programme.
Airtel Zambia won the overall award at Zambia Public  Relations Association (ZAPRA) for its outstanding CSR  initiatives like ‘Adopt a School Programme’ and ‘Staﬀ  Volunteer Programme’.
Airtel Zambia also won the Green Award for  sustained compliance and commitment to continuous  environmental improvement; and recognised for  outstanding telecommunications service, innovation and  corporate citizenship at the PMR Africa Achievers Awards.
Airtel Zambia also won the Most Creative Advert of  2014 for Airtel Money campaigns and Best Sponsorship  Marketing Excellence award of 2014 for Airtel Rising  Stars campaign.
Airtel Uganda scooped the ‘Best Brand of the year 2014’  at the Annual Social Media Awards 2015.
These awards  sought to reward individuals and organisations that  were at the front-line in using social media for change,  engagements and talking to customers online.
Airtel Kenya was rated as one of the top global brands on  social media, making it to the category of socially devoted  companies in the region.
The report is based on Airtel  Kenya’s high response rate on Facebook and Twitter in a  report issued by Social Bakers, a leading global provider  of social media analytic tools, statistics and metrics.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 91 South Asia Overview As on March 31, 2015, South Asia had 8.6 Mn mobile customers  on its network.
Data customers represented 40.4% of the  total customer base as on March 2015, compared to 35.7%  in the last year.
As on March 2015, the Company had 6,867  sites on network, compared to 6,814 sites in the last year.
Of  the total number, 3G sites were 3,050 in number, representing  44.4% of the total.
Full year revenues of South Asia declined by 9.4% to ` 15,759  Mn, compared to ` 17,403 Mn in the previous year.
EBITDA  loss for the year at ` 196 Mn dropped by 118.9%, compared  to the previous year.
EBIT losses for the year reported at  ` 6,138 Mn, compared to a loss of ` 4,271 Mn in the previous  year.
Capex for the year was ` 3,233 Mn, compared to ` 6,460  Mn in the previous year.
(` Millions) Particulars FY 2014-15 FY 2013-14 Y-o-Y  Growth Gross Revenues 15,759 17,403 (9%) EBIT (6,138) (4,271) (44%) Wireless Subscribers: South Asia (Million) 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 8.62 8.60 7.91  4.3% CAGR Key Highlights  Airtel Sri Lanka launched its very own Airtel App Store - a  one-stop online shop for all local and international apps.
Airtel Sri Lanka completed Airtel Rising Stars programme,  where 12 aspiring footballers were sent to Manchester  United.
This year, for the ﬁrst time, two female players  were chosen to represent Sri Lanka.
Airtel Sri Lanka won a Gold award at the People  Development Awards 2014.
Airtel was the youngest  organisation and the only telecom company to win the  award for best practices in human resources.
Airtel Bangladesh launched a new voice product called  ‘shobaiek’, which oﬀers the lowest ﬂat rate of 1 paisa/ second to all customers.
Airtel Bangladesh also launched ‘aircredit’ facilities to its  customers.
Risks and Concerns This section discusses the various aspects of enterprise-wide  risks.
Readers are cautioned that risk-related information  outlined here is not exhaustive and is for information  purpose only.
Risk management is embedded in the operating framework  of Bharti Airtel.
The Company believes that managing  risks goes hand in hand with maximising returns.
Risks are  inherent in any business operation, especially in a multi- country organisation and in a regulated sector, where the  Company serves millions of customers everyday.
Pro- actively identifying risks and managing them in a systematic  manner is an essential pre-requisite for eﬀective corporate  governance.
Bharti Airtel has a sound practice to identify key  risks across the Group and prioritise relevant action plans to  mitigate these risks.
At the apex level, the Risk Management Framework is  reviewed periodically by the Board and the Audit & Risk  Management Committee.
These apex reviews include:  discussing the management submissions on risks, prioritising  key risks and approving action plans to mitigate such risks.
The Internal Audit function is responsible for assisting the  Audit & Risk Management Committee on an independent basis  with a full status of the risk assessments and management.
Every quarter, the Audit & Risk Management Committee  also obtains periodical updates on certain identiﬁed risks,  depending upon the nature, quantum and likely impact on  the business.
At the top level, the respective Management Boards (AMB and  Africa Exco) are accountable for managing the risks across  their respective businesses, viz., India & South Asia and Africa.
The AMB / Africa Exco ensure that the environment – both  external and internal – is scanned for all possible risks.
At the operating level, the Executive Committees (EC) of  Circles in India and Operating Companies in the international  operations are fully charged with the responsibilities of  managing the risks at the ground level.
During the year, a Risk Management Policy has been placed  before the Audit & Risk Management Committee and the Board  and got approved.
The objective of this Policy is to have a well- deﬁned approach to risk.
The Policy lays broad guidelines  for the appropriate authority so as to be able to do timely  identiﬁcation, assessment, and prioritisation of risks aﬀecting  the Company in the short and foreseeable future.
The Policy  suggests framing an appropriate response action for the key  risks identiﬁed, so as to make sure that risks are adequately  compensated or mitigated.
Management Discussion and Analysis Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1592 The two CEOs, for India & South Asia and Africa, are responsible for the implementation of the agreed risk framework, including  the detailed processes of: The key risks that may impact the Company and the mitigating  actions undertaken are: 1.
Political Instability and Government Relations Risk Statement: The Company operates in India, Bangladesh,  Sri Lanka and 17 African countries.
Some of these countries  (or regions within countries) are aﬀected by political  instability, civil unrest and other social tensions.
The political  systems in a few countries are also fragile, resulting in regime  uncertainties; hence, the risk of not enjoying Government  support.
Such conditions tend to aﬀect the overall business  climate, especially the telecom sector, which requires stable  socio-economic conditions and policy stability.
Mitigation: As a responsible corporate citizen, the Company  engages proactively with key stakeholders in the societies in  which it operates, and continuously assesses the impact of  the changing political scenario.
The Company works hand- in- hand with other telecom operators in jointly representing  the case for policy stability.
It does its best to contribute to the  socio-economic growth of the countries in which it operates  through high quality services to its customers, improved  connectivity, providing direct and indirect employment, and  contributions to the exchequer.
Through the Company’s CSR  activities, it contributes to the country’s social and economic  development, especially in the ﬁeld of education.
2.
Economic Uncertainties Risk Statement: The Company’s strategy is to focus on  the growth opportunities in the emerging and developing  markets.
These markets are characterised by low to medium  mobile penetration, low internet penetration and relatively  lower per capita incomes, thus oﬀering more growth  potential.
However, these countries are also more prone to  economic uncertainties, such as capital controls, inﬂation,  interest rates and currency ﬂuctuations.
Since the Company  has borrowed in foreign currencies, and many loans are  carrying ﬂoating interest terms, it is exposed to market risks,  which impact its earnings, cash ﬂow and balance sheet.
Mitigation: As a global player with presence across  20 countries, the Company has diversiﬁed its risks and  opportunities across markets.
Through a variety of services  including voice, data, Airtel Money and value-added services,  it has also spread its portfolio.
T o mitigate currency and  interest rate risks, the Company follows a prudent risk  management policy, including hedging mechanisms to  protect its cash ﬂow.
A prudent cash management policy  ensures that surplus cash is up-streamed regularly to  minimise the risks of blockages at times of capital controls.
Finally, the Company adopts a pricing strategy that is based  on twin principles of proﬁtability and aﬀordability, which  ensures that it protects margins at times of inﬂation, and  market shares at times of market contraction.
3.
Weaknesses in Infrastructure  Risk Statement: Several regions, particularly rural and the  hinterland, are handicapped by poor quality infrastructure,  such as lack of proper roads, transport, power supply, housing,  labour availability, banking and security, among others.
These could result in gaps, such as energy unavailability, fuel  shortages, fuel theft, asset misappropriation and cash theft,  among others, thereby impacting quality of its services.
Mitigation: The Company’s philosophy is to share  infrastructure with other operators, and enter into SLA-based  outsourcing arrangements.
The disposal of towers in Africa to  independent and well-established tower companies and long- term lease arrangements with them will ensure high quality  of assets and maintenance on the passive infrastructure.
The Company proactively shares ﬁbre assets with other  telecom operators.
It has also put in place redundancy plans  for power outages, ﬁbre cuts and VSAT breakdowns, among  others, through appropriate back ups, such as generators,  secondary links, and so on.
4.
Unavailability or Poor Quality of Networks and IT  Including Redundancies and Disaster Recoveries Risk Statement: The Company’s operations and assets are  spread across wide geographies.
Repeated outages and /  or poor quality of networks cause disruption of services,  resulting in revenue losses, customer attrition, market share  losses and damage to brand image and Company reputation.
Regulators are now levying stiﬀ monetary penalties for poor  quality of services.
Mitigation: Network Planning is increasingly being done  in-house, to ensure that intellectual control on architecture  is retained within the Company.
The Company follows a  conservative insurance cover policy that provides a value  cover equal to the replacement values of assets against  risks, such as ﬁre, ﬂoods, and other natural disasters.
The  Company has been continuously investing in business  continuity plans and disaster recovery initiatives to ensure  minimum disruption and speedy restoration of services.
The  Company has recently revamped the IT resourcing strategy,  and is now able to deploy a more balanced mix of in-house  and outsourced capabilities to improve its IT capabilities.
Scanning  the entire  business  environment,  both internal  and external,  for identifying  potential  risks Agreeing  detailed  action plans  to manage  the key risks Approving  resources  including  budgets  for risk  management Reviewing  progress of  action plans,  taking stock  of gross  and net  exposures  and  mandating  corrective  actions Reporting  progress to  the Board  and the Audit  & Risk  Management Committee Fixing ac- countabilities  of people and  positions to  implement  the mitigating  action plans Developing  objective  measurement  methodology  for such risks Listing and  prioritising  the key  risks to be  addressed  and  managed Classifying  the various  risks in  terms of  probability,  impact and  nature Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 93 5.
Adverse Regulatory or T axation Developments Including  Risks Related to T ax Positions Risk Statement: Several regulatory developments in India,  South Asia and Africa have posed several challenges to  the telecom sector.
India’s telecom sector is also a highly  taxed sector with high revenue share-based license fees and  spectrum charges, service taxes and corporate tax, besides  the signiﬁcant spectrum acquisition costs in the auctions.
The  telecom industry in Africa also operates in a high tax regime.
The sim tax in Bangladesh has made customer acquisition  an expensive proposition, and this aﬀects smaller players.
OTT operators may also take away a share of the revenue pie  increasingly.
Mitigation: The Company has always stood for a fair,  transparent and non-discriminatory Government policy on  telecom regulation.
It has represented to the Governments  in all countries that sustainable regulatory regimes will lead  to healthy growth of the telecom sector, leading to higher  investments and modernisation, which in turn unleashes  a growth cycle once again.
The telecom industry has been  making a case for regulation of OTT players, especially in  matters such as security and lawful interception, among  others.
The Company stands for a regime that promotes  healthy, competitive pricing, keeping two objectives in mind  - customer interests and health of the telecom sector.
As an  industry, Airtel provides adequate facts and ﬁgures to prove  how healthy telecom growth improves the overall economic  growth of the country.
Similarly, the Company has been at  the forefront of industry co-operation to share infrastructure,  to minimise impact on the environment, lower the costs of  operations and make services more aﬀordable.
6.
Gaps in Internal Controls and / or Process Compliances Risk Statement: The Company serves over 324 Mn customers  globally with a daily average of 3,630 Mn minutes of voice  and 1,074 terra bytes of data carried on the wireless networks.
Gaps in internal controls and / or process compliances  not only lead to wastages, frauds and losses, but can also  adversely impact the Airtel brand.
Mitigation: Airtel’s business philosophy is to ensure  compliance with all-accounting, legal and regulatory  requirements proactively.
Compliance is regulated  meticulously at all stages of operation.
Substantial  investments in IT systems and automated workﬂow processes  help minimise human errors.
Besides internal audits, the  Company also has a process of self-validation of several  checklists and compliances, as well as a ‘maker-checker’  division of duties to identify and rectify deviations early  enough.
Lately, the Company has implemented GRC systems  (Governance, Risk and Compliance) to embed systemic  controls.
7.
Inadequate Quality of Customer Lifecycle Management in  the Wake of Intense Competition Risk Statement: Customer mindsets and habits are changing  rapidly, reﬂected in their ever-rising expectations in terms of  quality, variety, features and pricing.
The competitive landscape  is also changing dramatically, day by day, as operators view  with one another to capture customer and revenue market  shares.
Failure to keep pace with customer expectations would  result in customer churn, leading to erosion of revenues,  proﬁts and cash ﬂows, and market share losses.
Mitigation: The Company constantly refreshes its ways  of working, especially in customer service, innovation,  marketing and distribution.
These are now captured in the  Company’s integrated Customer Lifecycle Management  approach, which ensures that every customer’s behaviour  is studied, classiﬁed and segmented, followed by segmented  service and price oﬀerings.
Organisational eﬀectiveness is  enhanced through appropriate design and creation of leaner  and multi-functional teams.
T echnologies and tools, such  as Business Intelligence, Scientiﬁc Pricing Modelsa and Big  Data Analytics, among others are deployed in managing the  customer lifecycle.
The Company has recently announced the  theme of ‘hunger to win customers for life’ as its ‘obsession’,  and this has energised all employees.
8.
Poor Quality of Customer Acquisitions Risk Statement: In a market dominated by prepaid  customers, several ineﬃcient processes have emerged in  respect of customer acquisitions, e.g.
unhealthy commission  structure for agents and fraudulent practices by retailers,  among others.
Such practices lead to high rotational churn,  high acquisition costs, trade frauds, and so on.
Mitigation: The Company led the way, bringing in healthier  commission and incentive structures.
In many countries,  Government regulations have also been introduced to tighten  new customer activation process, restriction on number of  SIMs for the same customer and so on, making rotational  churn more diﬃcult.
The Company tracks ‘customer  base decay’ for the ﬁrst six months after an acquisition to  understand and mitigate this risk more eﬀectively.
9.
Non-compliance with Subscriber Veriﬁcation and KYC  Regulations Risk Statement: In several countries including India, the  Regulators have introduced more stringent subscriber  veriﬁcation and KYC guidelines.
Non-compliance with  these guidelines entails severe penalties, and repeated  violation may even threaten the license itself.
Weak internal  processes for subscriber veriﬁcation and KYC may also lead  to uncompetitive market position especially if competitors  have a much faster and well coordinated system for customer  activation.
Mitigation: The Company is investing signiﬁcant capex on  IT assets and KYC tools to improve the quality of subscriber  activation and documentation processes.
Focus on quality  of partners and IT systems, staﬀ training, proactive maker- checker controls and internal audits, as well as robust  internal MIS help achieve greater focus on compliances.
The  Company regularly benchmarks its ‘ﬁrst time activation’ and  quality with other operators.
10.
Low Revenues and / or Low Utilisation of Sites Risk Statement: While there is a robust process and criteria  for choice of new site locations and the investment approval,  often the Company is faced with the issue of low revenues  and / or low utilisation of sites (‘LRLU’), leading to recurring  operating losses in such sites, not to mention the burden of  sunk investment.
Mitigation: Mitigating actions include: making cross- functional teams responsible for the turnaround, improving  Management Discussion and Analysis Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1594 brand presence in the speciﬁed location, increasing distributor  coverage, adding new retail outlets for SIM selling and  recharges, trade incentives, special introductory pricing and  improving quality of networks, among others.
Contingency  actions include: closure of sites and redeployment of  equipment, allowing another operator to roam, which will  help share the costs, consolidation of sites, and so on.
At a  root cause level, the Company has introduced more science  into the decision-making criteria for investments in new sites.
11.
Issues Arising Out of Emerging Businesses and New  T echnologies Risk Statement: Evolving technologies (2G, 3G, 4G) result in  change in customer value propositions.
The quality of internet  experience, especially in a seamless manner and indoor  environment has emerged as a key competitive parameter.
Mobile money technologies, innovative mobile apps, Cloud,  M2M, SaaS and other technology-based VAS products are also  evolving.
Such rapid technology evolution may impact the  functionality of existing assets and accelerate obsolescence.
Keeping pace with changing customer expectations is a big  agenda for the telecom sector.
Mitigation: Airtel’s strong strategic vendor relationships -  especially in the areas of network technologies, IT , mobile  money and a few other key VAS technologies help us keep  pace with technology shifts and retain market leadership.
The Company’s own digital innovations, such as Wynk and  My Airtel App, among others are few examples of its keeping  pace with the changing landscape.
The potential risks of asset obsolescence are managed  through leaner order pipelines, demand-based capacity  sourcing and formal swap arrangements with vendors.
In  several countries, the Company is pro-actively leading the  development of 3G, 4G, digital content partnerships and  mobile money, among others ahead of the curve to leverage  big opportunities.
12.
Ineﬀective Partner Governance Risk Statement: There are increasing risks around partners’  adaptability to new growth opportunities, agility to implement  new projects and changes, capability to match Airtel’s new  leadership expectations, and so on.
There is also the risk  of cost competitiveness, especially with partners whose  business models have become relatively ineﬃcient over time.
Mitigation: The Company has decided to retain, nurture and  sharpen in-house capabilities for planning and designing  functions, which will grow its intellectual capital.
It is also  widening its base to the next circle of partners to eliminate a  layer of the partner ecosystem, which will enable more agility  and higher quality of innovation through direct partnership  between the vendor and the Company.
Formal governance  processes will be further streamlined and embedded into the  Company’s management framework, with more visibility to  and involvement of the local operating teams.
Internal Controls The Company’s philosophy towards internal controls is based  on the principle of healthy growth with a proactive approach  to risk management.
The Circle and Country Finance Heads are held accountable  for ﬁnancial controls, measured by objective metrics  on accounting hygiene and audit scores.
They are fully  responsible for accuracy of books of accounts, preparation  of ﬁnancial statements and reporting the same as per the  Company’s accounting policies.
The Company deploys  a robust system of internal controls that facilitates fair  presentation of its ﬁnancial results in a manner that is  complete, reliable and understandable, ensure adherence  to regulatory and statutory compliances, and safeguards  investor interest by ensuring the highest levels of governance  and periodic communication with investors.
The Audit & Risk Management Committee reviews  the eﬀectiveness of the internal control system,  and also invites functional Directors and senior  management personnel to provide updates on  operating eﬀectiveness and controls, from time to time.
A CEO and CFO Certiﬁcate, forming part of the Corporate  Governance Report, conﬁrms the existence and eﬀectiveness  of internal controls and reiterates their responsibilities  to report deﬁciencies to the Audit & Risk Management  Committee and rectify the same.
The Company’s code of  conduct requires compliance with law and Company policy,  and also covers matters, such as ﬁnancial integrity, avoiding  conﬂicts of interest, work place behaviour, dealings with  external parties and responsibilities to the community.
M/s.
KPMG and M/s.
ANB & Co (ANB) were the Internal   Auditors of the Company.
In order to bring subject matter  expertise, audits were categorised into deﬁned assurance  tracks, with each track to be handled by subject matter  experts.
KPMG was appointed to audit Finance and  T echnology tracks, ANB for Customer, Legal and Regulatory  tracks.
KPMG was also engaged to perform forensics work.
Bottom-up risk assessment and directional inputs from the  Audit & Risk Management Committee formed the basis of  audit priorities.
The Company was awarded the ‘Firm of the year’ in the  ‘T elecom Sector’, at the premier edition of CNBC TV 18  India Risk Management Awards 2015.
This premier award  recognises organisations and teams that have signiﬁcantly  added to the understanding and practice of risk management.
The Airtel Centre of Excellence (‘ACE’), the captive shared  services for Finance, Revenue Assurance, SCM and HR  processes, continue to expand its footprint across the 20  countries.
Digitisation of ACE is being aimed as a part of  transformation agenda and includes initiatives like system-  based reconciliation, reporting processes with vividly  deﬁned segregation of duties.
ERP integration in Africa into  an Africa Single Instance has been accomplished at 13 out  of 17 countries, ensuring uniformity and standardisation  in ERP conﬁgurations, chart of accounts, ﬁnance and  SCM processes across countries.
The implementation at  the remaining countries is underway.
Quality of ﬁnancial  reporting and controls continues to show improvement.
The  Company  continuously examines its governance practices in  an eﬀort to enhance investor trust and improve the Board’s  overall eﬀectiveness.
Initiatives undertaken in the previous  years, such as self-validation checks, desktop reviews and  regular physical veriﬁcation are bearing fruits through  Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 95 substantial improvement in the control scores across both  India and Africa.
Governance Risk Controls (GRC) have been  implemented for India, strengthening the existing controls  pertaining to access rights in various ERP , preventing  possibilities of access conﬂicts.
GRC is also being leveraged by  extending its scope to cover Africa and other IT applications.
Material Developments in Human Resources At Bharti Airtel, people are at the core of its business  strategy.
The Company’s  endeavour has always been to build  an organisation where its people are always engaged and  empowered to do their best.
The Company’s culture is focused  on customer-centricity collaborative team work, result  orientation, entrepreneurial mindset and developing people.
The Company’s HR strategy also aims to create a future  ready pool of talent across all levels.
At the end of March  2015, Bharti Airtel, along with its subsidiaries, associates and  JVs, had 24,694 employees, of which, 9,202 were employed  directly by the Company.
The year 2014-15 saw a host of initiatives around talent  management and development to identify and accelerate  the Company’s high-potential employees, as well as building  the right set of capabilities for all businesses.
Eﬀorts towards  developing functional capabilities across the organisation  continued, with the review of the Company’s current  skill levels and development of functional academies to  build next-generation functional and domain capabilities.
These academies make learning an ongoing process through  tools like e-learning, on-the-job learning, e-libraries and  so on.
In the year gone by, signiﬁcant investments have  been made in developing Network, Marketing, Mobile  Money, Data, Finance, SCM and IT capabilities within the  organisation.
These learning interventions, coupled with  Airtel’s established career paths, are helping employees  make seamless transition to their future roles.
Another facet of talent development was ensuring that  all employees across levels are aware of what is expected of  them from both business and people perspectives, through  an initiative titled ‘Talent First’.
This also provides a holistic  ‘One View of Talent’ across the organisation and helps  channel the Company’s  Talent Management initiatives  eﬀectively.
T o build a holistic leadership pipeline within  the organisation, some of its key leadership development  initiatives included i-RISE, i-LEAD and Bharti Global  Leadership Programme.
In addition, the Company partnered  with the prestigious Harvard Business School to customise  leadership development intervention for its T op 50 leaders  across its global operations.
The Company also partnered with Centre for Creative  Leadership (CCL) to design and deliver marquee programmes  like the Leadership for Organisational Impact (LOI),  Leadership in Action Programme (LIA) and Talent Labs.
Owing to the competitiveness and diversity of African  markets, the Company strives to ensure adequate succession  planning of its leadership talent pool.
It is increasingly  grooming and hiring talent locally from reputed universities  and organisations.
This has helped the Company’s  businesses  keep their ears close to the ground and progressively increase  their business performance.
In line with the Company’s focus on employee empowerment,  it also designed new ‘Ways of Working’ to deliver high  operational excellence and governance.
Outlook India’s telecom industry is poised for higher growth with the  country’s economic engine revving up.
Unlike most developed  countries, India leapfrogged to mobile/smartphone  generation by skipping through the desktop era.
With only 15  Mn ﬁxed-line broadband connections, mobiles will continue  to be the primary means to access the internet.
More so,  favourable demographics and content would drive further  engagement.
Around 72% of the world’s internet users are  aged between 15 and 44 years, and India has 580 Mn people  in this age group.
Overall, voice secularity will facilitate a stable growth story,  but within this, data growth will be exponential, thanks to  enhanced penetration, mobile commerce and mobile banking  opportunities.
Africa’s telecom sector continues to witness a revolution  in the areas of data and mobile commerce.
The continent’s  fastest growing and young population with the median age  of less than 20 years oﬀers substantial growth opportunities;  given current demographic trends, the population is expected  to reach 2.4 Bn by 2050.
Africa has one of the world’s most  evolved mobile money systems.
With only 22% of Africans  holding a bank account or credit facility, the GSMA expects  the number of mobile commerce users to quadruple as mobile  ﬁnancial services oﬀer the unbanked a way to transact, pay  bills and build assets.
Airtel Money has been rolled out  across all operations in Africa and innovative oﬀerings and  collaborations would aid a ‘hockey stick’ growth for the  service.
With strong linkages across all sectors, telecom has a key  role to play in India’s socio economic development.
Data  presents a key opportunity for the Company, going forward  and increasing data network rollouts and investments by  operators, including us, will drive not only connectivity, but  also higher end application usage.
Bharti Airtel continues  to make signiﬁcant investments in key assets to be able to  drive this growth, such as spectrum and licenses, 3G and 4G  networks, brand, IT and Customer care.
Airtel is the only pan- India data operator in the country.
Moreover, our presence  in Africa and South Asia further strengthen our global  leadership position and continue to enhance the respect your  Company commands.
Management Discussion and Analysis Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1596 Corporate Governance is more than a set of processes and  compliances at Bharti Airtel.
It underlines the role that we  see for ourselves for today, tomorrow and beyond.
In accordance with Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement with  Bombay Stock Exchange Limited (BSE) and the National  Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) and some of the best  practices followed internationally on Corporate Governance,  the following report on governance lays down the ethos of  Bharti Airtel Limited and its commitment to conduct business  in accordance with sound Corporate Governance practices.
Governance Philosophy At Bharti Airtel, the philosophy of Corporate Governance  focuses on creating and sustaining a deep relationship of  trust and transparency with all stakeholders.
We follow  ethical business standards in all our operations globally.
We  consider stakeholders as partners in our journey forward and  we are committed to ensure their wellbeing, despite business  challenges and economic volatilities.
The norms and processes of Corporate Governance reﬂect  our commitment to disclose timely and accurate information  regarding our ﬁnancial and operational performance, as well  as the Company’s leadership and governance structure.
Over  the years, our stakeholder commitment has enhanced the  respect and recall of our brand nationally and internationally.
Our global stature has enabled us to attract best industry  talent and ﬁnancial resources to translate our short-term  and long-term strategies into a viable business blueprint.
Our Board of Directors (‘the Board’) shapes the long-term  vision and policy approach to steadily elevate the quality of  governance in our organisation.
We follow a deﬁned guideline  and an established framework of corporate governance.
The  objective is to emerge as a market leader in our industry,  nationally and internationally with focus on creating greater  value for all those who have a stake in our progress directly or  indirectly.
At the same time, the Board puts a lot of emphasis  on creating a global talent pool and helping protect the  environment by following green practices and technologies.
Our enlightened Board represents a conﬂuence of experience  and expertise across diverse areas, ranging from global  ﬁnance, telecommunication, banking, general management,  administrative services and consulting.
There is clear  demarcation of duties and responsibilities among the position  of the Chairman and Managing Directors & CEOs to ensure  best corporate performance and socio-economic value  creation.
Our governance conforms to global standards through  continuous evaluation and benchmarking.
It is based on the  following broad tenets whereby the Company:  Adopts transparent procedures and practices and  arrives at decisions based on adequate information.
Ensures compliance with regulatory and ﬁduciary  requirements in letter and spirit.
Oﬀers high levels of disclosures to disseminate  corporate, ﬁnancial and operational information to all  stakeholders.
Adopts policies on tenure of Directors, rotation of  Auditors and a Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior  Management.
Creates various Committees for Audit & Risk  Management, HR and Nomination, Corporate Social  Responsibility, Employee Stock Option Plans and  Stakeholders’ Relationship.
Ensures complete and timely disclosure of relevant  ﬁnancial and operational information to enable the  Board to play an eﬀective role in guiding strategies.
Organises meetings of Independent Directors without the  presence of any Non-Independent / Executive Directors  and members from the management to identify areas,  where they need more clarity or information and putting  the same before the Board or management.
Oﬀers a formal induction schedule and provide  familiarisation programme for new Board members  that enable them to meet individually with the top  management team, customers etc.
Reviews regularly and establishes eﬀective meeting  practices that encourage active participation and  contribution from all members.
Ensures independence of Directors in reviewing and  approving corporate strategy, major business plans and  activities.
Keeps in place a well-deﬁned corporate structure that  establishes checks, balances and delegates decision- making to appropriate levels in the organisation though  the Board always remains in eﬀective control of aﬀairs.
Corporate Governance Rating CRISIL assigned its Governance and Value Creation (GVC)  rating, viz.
CRISIL GVC Level 1 on the Corporate Governance  practices adopted by Airtel.
The rating indicates that Bharti  Airtel’s capability, with respect to Corporate Governance  and value creation for all its stakeholders, is the highest.
The Company acknowledges that standards are a constantly  upwardly moving target.
It aims to establish and benchmark  itself with the best of companies in India and globally, to  maintain the highest rating for its practices.
Report on Corporate Governance Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 97 Governance Structure Sustaining a culture of integrity, along with high performance  orientation in today’s complex business environment needs  a robust governance structure.
The Corporate Governance  structure of the Company is multi-tiered, comprising  governing / management Boards at various levels, each of  which is interlinked in the following manner:  At the apex level is the Board of Directors and various  committees, which collectively ensure highest  standards of Corporate Governance and transparency  in the Company’s functioning.
The Board exercises  independent judgement in overseeing management  performance on behalf of share owners and other  stakeholders, and hence, plays a vital role in the  oversight and management of the Company.
The Board  is chaired by the Executive Chairman, who is responsible  for the overall strategy development, alliances,  leadership development, international opportunities,  strengthening governance practices and enhancing  brand value and Bharti’s global image and reputation.
At one level below the Board, strategic co-ordination  and direction is provided by the Airtel Corporate  Council (ACC).
The ACC is headed by the Chairman and  comprises the Managing Directors & CEOs and selected  senior management personnel as its members.
The  key responsibilities of the ACC Committee are provided  latter in this report.
The Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia)  is responsible for strategy deployment and overall  business performance.
He is supported by the Airtel  Management Board (AMB).
The Company’s business  in India is structured into four business units (BUs) i.e.
Mobile Services, T elemedia Services, Airtel Business  and Digital TV Services, each headed by a Business  President / CEO.
The Passive Infrastructure business is deployed, owned  and managed through Bharti Infratel Limited (Infratel),  a listed subsidiary company.
Infratel’s operations are  managed by its Managing Director under the supervision  of an Independent Board.
The business transactions  between the Company and Infratel are undertaken on  an arms’ length basis, since it provides services to other  telecom operators as well, on a non-discriminatory basis.
The Company’s operations in Africa are guided by  the Managing Director & CEO (Africa) of Bharti Airtel  International (Netherlands) B.V., a subsidiary company.
He is responsible for strategy deployment and overall  business performance.
He is supported by the Africa  Executive (AEX).
The AMB in India and South Asia, and AEX in Africa  provide support relating to the Company’s business  strategy and also derive operational synergies across  business units.
They own and drive company-wide  processes, systems, policies, and also function as role  models for leadership development and as catalysts  for imbibing customer centricity and meritocracy in the  Company.
Airtel’s governance structure thus helps in clearly  determining the responsibilities and entrusted powers  of each of the business entities, enabling them to fulﬁl  those responsibilities in the most eﬀective manner.
It  also allows the Company to retain the organisational  DNA, while enabling eﬀective delegation of authority  and empowerment at all levels.
Board of Directors Composition of the Board The Company’s Board is an optimum mix of Executive, Non- Executive and Independent Directors, and conﬁrms with the  provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, Listing Agreements,  FDI guidelines, terms of the shareholders’ agreement and  other statutory provisions.
The Board comprises of thirteen  members with a Chairman, Managing Director & CEO (India &  South Asia) beside four Non-Executive and seven Independent  Directors.
Detailed proﬁle of each of the Directors is available on  the Company’s website at www.airtel.com in the Investor  Relations section.
The Company’s Board members are from diverse  backgrounds with skills and experience in critical areas like  technology, global ﬁnance, telecommunication, banking,  entrepreneurship, and general management.
Many of them  have worked extensively in senior management positions  in global corporations, and others are industrialists of  repute with a deep understanding of the global business  environment.
The Board reviews its strength and composition  from time to time to ensure that it remains aligned with the  statutory, as well as business requirements.
As per the Company’s Policy on Nomination, Remuneration  and Board Diversity, selection of new Board member(s) is  the responsibility of the HR and Nomination Committee,  which is subsequently approved by the entire Board and all  the appointments are made with unanimous approval.
The  appointment of such Directors is subsequently approved by  shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (AGM).
While  the shareholders’ representative Directors are proposed  by the respective shareholders, Independent Directors are  selected from diverse academic, professional or technical  background, depending upon business needs.
Independent Directors The Company has a policy on Independent Directors, their  roles, responsibilities and duties, which is consistent with the  provisions of Clause 49 of the Listing Agreements and Section  149 of the Companies Act, 2013.
We have in place a comprehensive policy on Independent  Directors that sets out criteria of independence, age limits,  recommended tenure, committee memberships, remuneration  and other related terms of appointment.
The policy emphasises  on importance of independence.
As per the policy: a) The Independent Director must meet the baseline  deﬁnition and criteria on ‘independence’ as set out in  Clause 49 of the Listing Agreements and Section 149 of  the Companies Act, 2013 and other regulations.
b) The Independent Director must not be disqualiﬁed from  being appointed as Director in terms of Section 164 and  other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
Report on Corporate Governance Digital for all Annual Report 2014-1598 c) The minimum age is 25 years and the maximum is 70  years.
d) The Independent Directors are not to be on the Board of  more than six listed companies and if the Independent  Director is serving as a Whole-time Director in any listed  company then he shall not serve as an Independent  Director in more than three listed companies.
e) The maximum tenure is two terms of ﬁve years each.
However, the second term shall be approved by  shareholders by way of special resolution.
The Company has issued letter of appointment to all  Independent Directors.
The terms and conditions of their  appointment are available on the Company’s website i.e.
www.airtel.in/wps/wcm/connect/2ﬀaf2d2-d542-44e2-a42a- 50225c9245f5/T erms-and-Conditions-of-Appointmentof- Independent-Director.pdf?MOD=AJPERES At the time of appointment and thereafter at the beginning of  each ﬁnancial year, the Independent Directors submit a self- declaration, conﬁrming their independence and compliance  with various eligibility criteria laid down by the Company,  among other disclosures and the Company also ensures  that its Directors meet the above eligibility criteria.
All such  declarations are placed before the Board for information.
Lead Independent Director The Company, since a long time has followed a practice of  appointing a Lead Independent Director.
Mr. Craig Ehrlich  has been designated as the Lead Independent Director and  his roles and responsibilities, inter alia, are to:   Preside over all deliberation sessions of the Independent  Directors.
Provide objective feedback of the Independent Directors  as a group to the Board on various matters, including  agenda and other matters relating to the Company.
Undertake such other assignments, as may be requested  by the Board from time to time.
Meeting of Independent Directors The Independent Directors meet separately at least once in  a quarter, prior to the commencement of Board meeting,  without presence of any Non-Independent Directors or  representatives of management.
They meet to discuss and  form an independent opinion on the agenda items, various  other Board-related matters and to annually review the  performance of Non-Independent Directors, the Board as  a whole and the Chairman.
The Lead Independent Director  update the Board about the proceedings of the meeting.
The Independent Directors also meet with the Statutory, as  well as Internal Auditors at least once a year by rotation, in  the aforesaid meeting, to discuss internal audit eﬀectiveness,  environment control and invite their general feedback.
The Lead Independent Director updates the Audit & Risk  Management Committee / the Board about the outcome of  the meetings and action, if any, required to be taken by the  Company.
During FY 2014-15, the Independent Directors met four times  i.e.
on April 29, 2014, July 29, 2014, October 30, 2014 and  February 4, 2015.
Familiarisation programme for Board members The Company has adopted a well structured two-day  induction programme for orientation and training of Directors  at the time of their joining so as to provide them with an  opportunity to familiarise themselves with the Company, its  management, its operations and the industry in which the  Company operates.
The induction programme includes one-to-one interactive  sessions with the top management team, business and  functional heads among others, and also includes visit to  networks centre to understand operations and technology.
Apart from the induction programme, the Company  periodically presents update at the Board/Committee  meetings to familiarise the Directors with the Company’s  strategy, business performance, operations, product oﬀerings,  ﬁnance, risk management framework, human resources and  other related matters.
The Board members are also given an  opportunity to visit Airtel outlets and meet customers / other  stakeholders periodically for gaining ﬁrst-hand experience  about the products and services of the Company.
At the time of appointment, an appointment letter setting  out the role, functions, duties and responsibilities, details  regarding remuneration, training and development and  performance evaluation process, among others, is also given  to the Directors.
The Board also has an active communication  channel with the executive management, which allows  free ﬂow of communication among Directors, in terms of  raising query, seeking clariﬁcations for enabling a good  understanding of the Company and its various operations.
Quarterly updates, press release and mid-quarter updates  are regularly circulated to Directors to keep them abreast on  signiﬁcant developments in the Company.
Detailed familiarisation programme for Directors is  available on the Company’s website at www.airtel.in/wps/ wcm/connect/ea0152dc-a649-40ae-89d9-b3cec142d249/ Familiarisation+Programme+for+Board+Members.
pdf?MOD=AJPERES&ContentCache=NONE Board Evaluation In compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act,  2013 and Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement with Stock  Exchanges, HR and Nomination Committee has approved the  process, format, attributes and criteria for the performance  evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and Individual  Directors including the Chairman and Managing Director &  CEO (India and South Asia).
The process provides that the performance evaluation  shall be carried out on an annual basis.
During the year,  the evaluation process was completed by the Company,  which included evaluation of the Board as a whole, Board  Committees and individual Directors, including the Chairman.
The evaluation process was facilitated by an independent  leading HR consulting ﬁrm.
Performance of the Board and Board Committees were  evaluated on various parameters such as structure,  composition, quality, diversity, experience, competencies,  performance of speciﬁc duties and obligations, quality of  decision-making and overall Board eﬀectiveness.
Performance of individual Directors was evaluated on  parameters, such as meeting attendance, participation  and contribution, responsibility towards stakeholders and  independent judgement.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 99 Chairman and MD & CEO were evaluated on certain  additional parameters, such as performance of the Company,  leadership, relationships and communications, recognition  and awards to the Company.
Some of the performance indicators based on which  Independent Directors were evaluated include:   Devotion of suﬃcient time and attention towards  professional obligations for independent decision and  acting in the best interest of the Company.
Provides strategic guidance to the Company and  determine important policies with a view to ensure  long-term viability and strength.
Bringing external expertise and independent judgement  that contributes to the objectivity of the Board’s  deliberation, particularly on issues of strategy,  performance and conﬂict management.
All Directors participated in the evaluation survey and  review was carried out through a peer-evaluation excluding  the Director being evaluated.
The result of evaluation was  discussed in the Independent Director’s meeting, respective  committee meetings and in the Board Meeting held on April  28, 2015.
The Board members noted the suggestions / inputs  of Independent Directors, HR and Nomination Committee and  respective committee Chairmen and also discussed various  initiatives to further strengthen Board eﬀectiveness.
Board Meeting Schedules and Agenda The calendar for the Board and Committee meetings, in which  the ﬁnancial results would be considered in the ensuing year,  as well as major items of the agenda are ﬁxed in advance for  the whole year.
The Board Calendar has been disclosed later  in the report and has also been uploaded on the Company’s  website.
The Board meetings are held within 45 days from  the end of the quarter in the manner that it coincides with the  announcement of quarterly results.
Time gap between two  consecutive meetings does not exceed 120 days.
In case of an  urgent necessity, an additional Board meeting is called.
The Audit & Risk Management Committee and the HR and  Nomination Committee meetings are held on the same dates  as Board meetings.
T o ensure an immediate update to the  Board, the Chairman of the respective committee briefs the  Board about the proceedings of the respective committee  meetings.
The Company Secretary, in consultation with the Chairman,  prepares the Board and the Committee meeting’s agenda.
The  detailed agenda, along with explanatory notes and annexures,  as applicable are sent to the Board and Committee members  well in advance, at least a week before the meetings.
In special  and exceptional circumstances, additional or supplementary  item(s) are permitted to be taken up as ‘any other item’.
Sensitive subject matters are discussed at the meeting,  without written material being circulated in advance.
As a process prior to each Board meeting, proposals  are invited from Independent Directors for discussion /  deliberation at the meeting(s) and these are included in the  meeting’s agenda.
Group CFO and other Senior Management members are  invited to the Board meetings to present reports on the items  being discussed at the meeting.
In addition, the functional  heads of various business segments / functions are also  invited at regular intervals to present updates on their core  area.
Information available to the Board The Board has complete access to all the relevant information  within the Company and to all the employees of the Company.
The information shared on a regular basis with the Board  speciﬁcally includes:  Annual operating plans, capital budgets and updates  therein  Quarterly and annual consolidated and standalone  results and ﬁnancial statements for the Company and  its operating divisions or business segments  Minutes of meetings of the Board and Board Committees,  resolutions passed by circulations, and Board minutes  of the unlisted subsidiary companies  Information on recruitment / remuneration of senior  oﬃcers just below Board level  Material important show cause, demand, prosecution  notices and penalty notices, if any  Fatal or serious accidents, dangerous occurrences,  material eﬄuent or pollution problems, if any  Any material default in ﬁnancial obligations to and by  the Company or substantial non-payment for services  provided by the Company  Any issue which involves possible public or product  liability claims of substantial nature, if any  Details of any acquisition, joint venture or collaboration  agreement  T ransactions involving substantial payment towards  goodwill, brand equity or intellectual property  Human resource updates and strategies  Sale of material nature, of investments, subsidiaries,  assets, which is not in the normal course of business  Quarterly treasury reports  Quarterly compliance certiﬁcates with the ‘Exceptions  Reports’, which include non-compliance of any  regulatory, statutory nature or listing requirements and  shareholders service  Disclosures received from Directors  Proposals requiring strategic guidance and approval of  the Board  Related party transactions  Regular business updates  Update on Corporate Social Responsibility activities  Signiﬁcant transactions and arrangements by subsidiary  companies  Report on action taken on last Board meeting decisions Report on Corporate Governance Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15100 Number of Board Meetings During FY 2014-15, the Board met ﬁve times i.e.
on April 29, 2014, July 29, 2014, August 13, 2014, October 30, 2014 and February  4, 2015.
Requisite information, according to the requirements of Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement is provided below: Name of  Director Director  Identiﬁcation  Number Category Number of other directorships 1 and  committee2  memberships  and  chairmanships No.
of Board  meetings  attended  (total held  during tenure) Whether  attended   last   AGMDirectorships Committees Chairman Member Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal 00042491 Chairman 10 Nil Nil 5 (5) No Mr. Gopal Vittal 02291778 Ex ecutive Director 6 Nil Nil 5 (5) Yes Ms. Chua Sock Koong3 00047851 Non-Executive  Director 1 Nil Nil 4 (5) No Mr. Rajan Bharti Mittal 00028016 Non-Executive  Director 11 2 Nil 5 (5) No Mr. Manoj Kohli4 00162071 Non-Executive  Director N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
4 (5) Yes Ms. Tan Yong Choo 02910529 Non-Executive  Director 2 Nil Nil 4 (5) No Sheikh Faisal Thani  Al-Thani 06675785 Non-Executive  Director NIL Nil Nil 2 (5) No Mr. Ajay Lal5 00030388 Independent Director N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
4 (4) Yes Mr. Ben Verwaayen 06735687 Independent Director Nil Nil Nil 4 (5) No Mr. Craig Ehrlich 02612082 Independent Director Nil Nil Nil 3 (5) No Mr. D. K. Mittal 00040000 Independent Director 9 Nil 4 5 (5) No Ms. Obiageli Ezekwesili 0638 5532 Independent Director Nil Nil Nil 2 (5) No Mr. Manish Kejriwal 00040055 Independent Director 3 Nil 2 4 (5) Yes Mr. Tsun-yan Hsieh6 03313649 Independent Director N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
1 (3) No Mr. V. K. Viswanathan 01782934 Independent Director 7 3 2 4 (5) Yes Mr. Shishir Priyadarshi7 03459204 Independent Director Nil Nil Nil 1 (1) N.A.
1.
The directorships, held by Directors as mentioned above, do not include directorships in foreign body corporates and Bharti Airtel limited.
2.
Committees considered for the purpose are those prescribed under Clause 49(II)(D)(2) of the Listing Agreement(s) viz.
Audit  & Risk Management Committee  and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of Indian public limited companies other than Bharti Airtel limited.
Committee members hip details provided do  not include chairmanship of committees as it has been provided separately.
3.
One meeting was attended by Mr. Mark Chong Chin Kok, alternate Director.
4.
Mr. Manoj Kohli ceased to be a Director w.e.f.
February 4, 2015.
5.
Mr. Ajay Lal retired  from the Board w.e.f.
January 22, 2015.
6.
Mr. Tsun-yan Hsieh ceased to be a Director w.e.f.
September 1, 2014.
7.
Mr. Shishir Priyadarshi was appointed as an Independent Director w.e.f.
February 4, 2015.
8.
Except Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal and Mr. Rajan Bharti Mittal, who are brothers, none of the Directors are relatives of any other Director.
9.
As on March 31, 2015, Apart from Mr. Gopal Vittal, Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia) who holds 1,14,885 equity s hares, no other Director of the  Company holds shares in the Company.
Nomination, Remuneration & Board Diversity In terms of the revised Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement  and Companies Act, 2013, the Board has approved a Policy on  Nomination, Remuneration and Board Diversity for Directors,  KMPs and other Senior Management Personnel.
The Company’s remuneration policy is directed towards  rewarding performance, based on review of achievements  periodically.
The detailed Nomination, Remuneration and Board Diversity  Policy is annexed as Annexure B to the Directors’ Report.
The  Company aﬃrms that the remuneration paid to the Directors  is as per terms laid out in its Nomination, Remuneration and  Board Diversity Policy.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 101 Directors’ Remuneration The details of the remuneration of Directors during FY 2014-15 are given below: (Amount in `) Name of Director Sitting   fees Salary and  allowances Performance-  linked  incentive Perquisites Commission T otal Executive Directors Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal -- 184,573,240 82,500,000 4,700,223 -- 271,773,463 Mr. Gopal Vittal -- 36,885,876 16,500,000 46,320 -- 53,432,196 Non-Executive Directors Mr. Ajay Lal 640,000 -- -- -- 5,704,658 6,344,658 Mr. Ben Verwaayen 700,000 -- -- -- 24,186,592 24,886,592 Ms. Chua Sock Koong -- -- -- -- 3,741,219 3,741,219 Mr. Craig Ehrlich 300,000 -- -- -- 8,727,487 9,027,487 Mr. D. K. Mittal 500,000 -- -- -- 5,500,000 6,000,000 Mr. Manish Kejriwal 400,000 -- -- -- 6,500,000 6,900,000 Mr. Manoj Kohli -- -- -- -- 2,547,945 2,547,945 Ms. Obiageli Ezekwesili# 200,000 -- -- -- 8,104,204 8,304,204 Mr. Rajan Bharti Mittal -- -- -- -- 3,000,000 3,000,000 Ms. Tan Yong Choo -- -- -- -- 3,741,219 3,741,219 Mr. Tsun-yan Hsieh 100,000 -- -- -- 3,454,127 3,554,127 Sheikh Faisal Thani Al-Thani -- -- -- -- 3,784,840 3,784,840 Mr. Shishir Priyadarshi# 100,000 -- -- -- 1,682,235 1,782,235 Mr. V.K.
Viswanathan 400,000 -- -- -- 7,801,370 8,201,370 T otal 3,340,000 221,459,116 99,000,000 4,746,543 88,475,896 417,021,555   The salary and allowance includes the Company’s contribution to the Provident Fund.
Liability for gratuity and leave encashme nt is provided on actuarial  basis for the Company as a whole, the amount pertaining to the Directors is not ascertainable and therefore, not included.
The value of the perquisites is calculated as per the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
Value of Performance Linked Incentive (PLI) considered above represents incentive which will accrue at 100% performance level  for FY 2014-15 and will get  paid basis actual performance parameters in the next year.
At 100% performance level, the gross remuneration of Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal was ` 271,773,463 for  FY 2014-15 and ` 278,800,623 for FY 2013-14 and that of Mr. Gopal Vittal ` 53,432,196 for FY 2014-15 and ` 47,515,814 for FY 2013-14.
Last year, PLI was disclosed on actual pay-out basis.
During the year, Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal, Mr. Gopal Vittal and Mr. Mano j Kohli were paid ` 200,000,000,  ` 20,500,000 and ` 5,700,000 respectively as PLI for previous year 2013-14, which is not included above.
During the year, Mr. Gopal Vittal was granted 225,000 stock options on July 29, 2014 under ESOP Scheme 2001 at an exercise pr ice of ` 5 per option, with  vesting period spread over 5 years.
The above remuneration of Mr. Gopal Vittal does not include perquisite value of ` 24,452,450 towards the value of stock  options exercised during the year.
The options can be converted into equity shares either in full or in tranches at any time upto seven years from the grant dat e. The unexercised vested options  can be carried forward throughout the exercise period.
The options which are not exercised will lapse after the expiry of the exercise period.
No other Director has been granted any stock option during the year.
The Company has entered into contracts with the Executive Directors i.e.
Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal dated October 1, 2011 and wit h Mr. Gopal Vittal dated February    1, 2013.
These are based on the approval of the shareholders.
There are no other contracts with any other Director.
No notice period or severance fee is payable to any Director.
Commission include provision for FY 2014-15 and adjustments on account of actual payout for FY 2013-14.
# sitting fee of ` 100,000 each for FY 2014-15 has been paid to Ms. Obiageli Ezekwesili and Mr. Shishir Priyadarshi in FY 2015-16.
There were no other pecuniary relationships or transactions of Non-Executive Directors vis-à-vis the Company.
Report on Corporate Governance Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15102 Board Committees In compliance with the statutory requirements, the Board  has constituted various committees with speciﬁc terms of  reference and scope.
The objective is to focus eﬀectively on  the issues and ensure expedient resolution of the diverse  matters.
The committees operate as the Board’s empowered  agents according to their charter / terms of reference.
The constitution and charter of the Board Committees are  available on the Company’s website, www.airtel.com, and are  also stated herein.
Audit & Risk Management Committee During FY 2014-15, the Audit & Risk Management Committee  was re-designated as the ‘Audit & Risk Management  Committee’.
The Committee comprises ﬁve Directors, four  of whom are independent.
The Committee of the Chairman,  Mr. V. K. Viswanathan, Independent Director is a Chartered  Accountant and has sound ﬁnancial knowledge, as well  as many years of experience in general management.
All  members of the Audit & Risk Management Committee,  including the Chairman, have accounting and ﬁnancial  management expertise.
The composition of the Audit & Risk  Management Committee meets the requirements of Section  177 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Clause 49 of the Listing  Agreement.
The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
The Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia), the  Managing Director & CEO (Africa), the Global CFO, the Group  Director – Internal Assurance, the Statutory Auditors and the  Internal Auditors are permanent invitees.
The Chairman of the Committee was present at the last AGM,  held on September 1, 2014.
Key Responsibilities of the Audit & Risk Management  Committee   Oversee the Company’s ﬁnancial reporting process and  the disclosure of its ﬁnancial information, to ensure  that the ﬁnancial statements are correct, suﬃcient and  credible.
Consider and recommend to the Board the appointment  (including ﬁlling of a casual vacancy), resignation or  dismissal, remuneration and terms of appointment  (including qualiﬁcation and experience) of the Statutory  Auditor, Internal Auditors / Chief Internal Auditor, Cost  Auditor and Secretarial Auditor.
Prior approval of non-audit services that can be provided  by the Statutory Auditors and approval of payment of  such non-audit services.
Prior approval of all transactions with related party  (ies), subsequent modiﬁcations of transactions with  related parties and review of the statement of signiﬁcant  related party transactions with speciﬁc details of the  transactions.
Discussion with the Statutory Auditor before the  commencement of audit about the nature and scope of  the audit to be conducted and post-audit discussion to  ascertain any areas of concern.
T o call for comments of the Auditors about internal  control systems, including the observation of the  Auditor, review ﬁnancial statement before their  submission to the Board and discussion on any related  issues with the Internal and Statutory Auditors and the  management of the Company.
Review, with the Management, the quarterly ﬁnancial  statements before submission to the Board for approval.
Review, with the Management, the annual ﬁnancial  statements and Auditor’s Report thereon before  submission to the Board for approval, with particular  reference to:    Matters required to be included in the Directors’  responsibility statement, included in the Board’s  report in terms of Clause (c) of Sub-section 3 of  Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013.
Changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices  and reasons for the same     Major accounting entries involving estimates based  on the exercise of judgement by management    Signiﬁcant adjustments made in the ﬁnancial  statements arising out of audit ﬁndings    Compliance with listing and other legal  requirements relating to ﬁnancial statement.
Disclosure of all related party transactions   Qualiﬁcations in the draft audit report  Review the following information:    Management Discussion and Analysis of ﬁnancial  condition and results of operations    Management letter / letters of internal control  weaknesses issued by the Statutory Auditors    Internal Audit Reports relating to internal control  weaknesses    The ﬁnancial statements, in particular the  investments, if any, made by unlisted subsidiary  companies    Quarterly compliance certiﬁcates conﬁrming  compliance with laws and regulations, including  any exceptions to these compliances   Oversee the functioning of the Vigil Mechanism / Whistle  Blower Mechanism.
Establish the systems for storage, retrieval and display  of books of accounts and other ﬁnancial records in  electronic format.
Review the ﬁndings of any internal investigation by the  Internal Auditors into matters where there is suspected  fraud or irregularity, or a failure of internal control  systems of a material nature and reporting the matter  to the Board.
Review the reasons for substantial defaults, if any, in the  payment to depositors, debenture holders, shareholders  (in case of non-payment of declared dividends) and  creditors, if any Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 103   Approve the appointment, re-appointment and removal  of the Company’s Chief Financial Oﬃcer after assessing  the qualiﬁcations, experience and background, among  others, of the candidate.
Review the Company’s ﬁnancial and risk management  policies, implementation of treasury policies, strategies  and status of investor relation activities.
Ensure that the internal audit function is eﬀective,  adequately resourced, to review coordination between  Internal and Statutory Auditors and (where relevant)  the risk management department.
Review the state and adequacy of internal controls with  key members of the Management, Statutory Auditors  and Internal Auditors.
Discuss with the Internal Auditor the coverage,  functioning, frequency and methodology of internal  audits, as per the annual audit plan and discuss  signiﬁcant ﬁndings and follow up thereon.
Review and monitor the Statutory and Internal Auditor’s  independence, performance and eﬀectiveness of audit  process.
Review and scrutinise the inter-corporate loans and  investments.
Monitor and review with the Management, the  statement of uses / application of funds raised through  an issue (public issue, right issue and preferential issue,  among others), the statement of funds utilised for  purposes, other than those stated in the oﬀer document  / prospectus / notice and the report submitted by  the monitoring agency monitoring the utilisation  of proceeds of a public or right issue, and making  appropriate recommendations to the Board to take up  steps in this matter.
Valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company,  wherever necessary.
Appointment of a registered valuer of the Company and  ﬁxation of their terms and conditions.
Evaluation of internal ﬁnancial controls and risk  management systems.
Formulate and review risk management policy.
Implement, monitor and review the risk management  framework, risk management plan and related matters.
Delegate above said functions to Sub-Committees,  whenever required.
The Audit & Risk Management Committee shall also  undertake such other functions, as may be assigned by  the Board of Directors from time to time, or as may be  stipulated under any law, rule or regulation, including  the Listing Agreement and the Companies Act, 2013.
Powers of the Audit & Risk Management Committee  Investigate any activity within its terms of reference.
Seek any information that it requires from any employee  of the Company, and all employees are directed to  cooperate with any request made by the Committee.
Obtain outside legal or independent professional advice.
Secure attendance of outsiders with relevant expertise.
Access suﬃcient resources to carry out its duties.
Meetings, Attendance and Composition of the Audit & Risk  Management Committee During FY 2014-15, the Committee met four times i.e.
on April  29, 2014, July 29, 2014, October 30, 2014 and February 4, 2015.
Beside the Committee meetings as above, the Committee  also holds conference call before every regular Committee  meeting to discuss routine internal audit issues.
This provides  an opportunity to the Committee to devote more time on other  signiﬁcant matters in the regular Committee meeting.
During  FY 2014-15, the Committee had met four times through the  conference call i.e.
on April 22, 2014, July 22, 2014, October  21, 2014 and January 28, 2015.
All recommendations made by the Audit & Risk Management  Committee were accepted by the Board.
Name Category Number of  meetings attended   (total held during  tenure) Number of  conference calls attended  (total conducted during  tenure) Mr. V. K. Viswanathan (Chairman)1 Independent Director 4 (4) 4 (4) Mr. Ajay Lal2 Independent Director 3 (3) 3 (3) Mr. Craig Ehrlich Independent Director 3 (4) 3 (4) Ms. Tan Yong Choo Non-Executive Director 4 (4) 4 (4) Mr. Obiageli Ezekwesili Independent Director 2 (4) 1 (4) Mr. Shishir Priyadarshi3 Independent Director 1 (1) NA 1.
Appointed as Chairman of the Committee w.e.f.
April 29, 2014.
2.
Ceased to be Chairman of the Committee w.e.f.
April 29, 2014 and ceased to be member of the Committee w.e.f.
January 22, 201 5.
3.
Appointed as a member of the Committee w.e.f.
February 4, 2015.
The composition and the attendance of members at meetings held during FY 2014-15, are given below: Report on Corporate Governance Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15104 Audit & Risk Management Committee Report for the  year ended March 31, 2015 T o the Shareholders of Bharti Airtel Limited The Audit & Risk Management Committee is pleased to  present its report for the year ended March 31, 2015: The Committee presently comprises ﬁve members of whom  two-thirds, including the Chairman, are Independent  Directors, as per the requirements of Clause 49 of the Listing  Agreements and Section 177 of the Companies Act, 2013.
Responsibility for the Company’s internal controls and  ﬁnancial reporting processes lies with the Management.
The  Statutory Auditors have the responsibility of performing an  independent audit of the Company’s ﬁnancial statements,  in accordance with Indian Generally Accepted Accounting  Principles (IGAAP) and International Financial Reporting  Standards (IFRS) and issuing a report thereon.
The Board has appointed two External and Independent  Internal Auditors.
They are responsible for ensuring adequacy  of internal control systems and adherence to management  policies and statutory requirements.
The Company also has  in place an internal assurance group, headed by the Group  Director-Internal Assurance.
The Group is responsible for  reviewing all operations of the Company to evaluate the  risks, internal controls and governance processes.
The  Ombudsperson is responsible for the Company’s Whistle  Blower Mechanism.
The Audit & Risk Management Committee  oversees the work of the External Auditors, Internal Auditors,  Internal Assurance Group and Ombudsperson.
It is also  responsible for overseeing the processes related to the  ﬁnancial reporting and information dissemination.
In this regard, the Committee Reports as follows: I.
The Committee has discussed with the Company’s  Internal Auditors and Statutory Auditor, the overall  scope and plan for their respective audits.
The Committee  also discussed the results and eﬀectiveness of the audit,  evaluation of the Company’s internal controls and the  overall quality of ﬁnancial reporting.
II.
The Management presented the Company’s ﬁnancial  statements to the Committee.
They also aﬃrmed that  the Company’s ﬁnancial statements had been drawn  in accordance with the Indian GAAP and IFRS.
Based  on its review and discussions conducted with the  Management and Statutory Auditors, the Audit & Risk  Management Committee believes that the Company’s  ﬁnancial statements are fairly presented in conformity  with applicable accounting standards, in all material  aspects.
The Committee also considers that the ﬁnancial  statements are true, accurate and provide suﬃcient  information.
The Committee believes the Company has  followed an adequate process to create them.
III.
The Committee reviewed both abridged and unabridged  versions of the standalone and consolidated ﬁnancial  statements for the year ended March 31, 2015.
It has  recommended the same for the Board’s approval.
IV.
The Committee reviewed the internal controls put in  place to ensure that the Company’s accounts are properly  maintained and that the accounting transactions are  in accordance with prevailing laws and regulations.
In conducting such reviews, the Committee found no  material discrepancy or weakness in the Company’s  internal control systems.
V.  The Committee reviewed the Company’s internal audit  function and risk management systems from time to  time.
VI.
The Committee reviewed the Ombudsperson’s report on  the functioning of the Whistle Blower Mechanism for  reporting concerns about unethical behaviour, actual or  suspected fraud, or violation of the Company’s Code of  Conduct or ethics policy.
The Committee believes that  the Company has eﬀective Whistle Blower Mechanism  and nobody has been denied access to this policy.
VII.
The Committee reviewed with the Management, the  independence and performance of Statutory Auditors.
It has recommended to the Board the ratiﬁcation of  re-appointment of M/s.
S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP ,  Chartered Accountants, Gurgaon, as the Company’s  Statutory Auditors for next term at the ensuing AGM.
VIII.
The Committee, along with the management,  reviewed the performance of the Internal Auditors  and recommended to the Board the re-appointment  of M/s.
KPMG, New Delhi and ANB & Co., Chartered  Accountants, Mumbai, as the Company’s Internal  Auditors for succeeding tenure.
IX.
The Committee has been vested with adequate powers  to seek support and other resources from the Company.
The Committee has access to the information and  records as well.
It also has the authority to obtain  professional advice from external sources, if required.
X.
The Audit & Risk Management Committee monitored  and approved all related party transactions, including  any modiﬁcation / amendment, in any such transactions.
In conclusion, the Committee is suﬃciently satisﬁed that it  has complied with the responsibilities as outlined in the Audit  & Risk Management Committee’s Charter.
Place: New Delhi  V. K. Viswanathan Date: April 28, 2015 Chairman, Audit & Risk  Management Committee Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 105 HR and Nomination Committee The Committee comprises ﬁve Non-Executive Directors,  of whom three members, including, the Chairman are  Independent Directors.
The composition of the Committee  meets the requirements of Section 178 of the Companies Act,  2013 and Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement.
The Company  Secretary acts as the Secretary of the Committee.
The Group  Director-HR is a permanent invitees to the Committee  meetings.
Other Senior Management members are also  invited to the meeting to present reports relating to items  being discussed at the meeting.
Key Responsibilities of the HR and Nomination Committee HR Related   Formulation and recommendation to the Board, a policy  relating to remuneration of Directors, Key Managerial  Personnel** and other employees.
Determine the compensation (including salaries and  salary adjustments, incentives / beneﬁts, bonuses)  and performance targets of the Chairman and of the  Managing Directors & CEO’s.
In the event of no proﬁt or inadequate proﬁt, to approve  the remuneration payable to managerial persons,  taking into account the Company’s ﬁnancial position,  industry trend, appointee’s qualiﬁcation, experience,  past performance, past remuneration, while bringing  objectivity in determining the remuneration package,  while striking a balance between the Company’s interest   and shareholders.
Attraction and retention strategies for employees  Review employee development strategies   Assess the learning and development needs of the  Directors and recommend learning opportunities,  which can be used by Directors to meet their needs for  development.
Review all human resource related issues, including  succession plan of key personnel   The Committee shall also consider any other key issues  / matters as may be referred by the Board, or as may be  necessary in view of Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement  or any other statutory provisions.
ESOP Related  Formulation of ESOP plans and decide on future grants;   Formulation of terms and conditions on following under  the present ESOP Schemes of the Company with respect to:    Quantum of options to be granted under ESOP  Scheme(s) per employee and in the aggregate  under a plan    Performance conditions attached to any ESOP Plan    Conditions under which options vested in  employees may lapse in case of termination of  employment for misconduct    Exercise period within which the employee should  exercise the option, and that option would lapse on  failure to exercise the option within the exercise  period    Speciﬁed time period within which the employee  must exercise the vested options in the event of  termination or resignation of an employee    Right of an employee to exercise all options vested  in him at one time or at various points of time  within the exercise period    Procedure for making a fair and reasonable  adjustment to the number of options and to the  exercise price, in case of rights issues, bonus issues  and other corporate actions    Grant, vest and exercise of option in case of  employees, who are on long leave, and the  procedure for cashless exercise of options    Any other matter, which may be relevant for  administration of ESOP schemes from time to time   T o frame suitable policies and processes to ensure  that there is no violation of SEBI (Prohibition of Insider  T rading) Regulations, 1992 and SEBI (Prohibition of  Fraudulent and Unfair T rade Practices relating to the  Securities Market) Regulations, 1995.
Other key issues as may be referred by the Board.
Nomination Related   Formulate the criteria / policy for appointment of  Directors, Senior Management*, which shall, inter-alia,  include qualiﬁcations, positive attributes, diversity and  independence of a Director   Review and recommend the structure, size and  composition (including the skills, knowledge, experience  and diversity) of the Board and Board Committees.
Evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, experience  and diversity on the Board for description of the role  and capabilities, required for a particular appointment.
Identify and recommend to the Board, persons who are  qualiﬁed to become Directors and who may be appointed  in Senior Management, including Key Managerial  Personnel, in accordance with the criteria laid down and  their removal thereof.
Recommend the appointment of any Director to  executive or other employment / place of proﬁt in the  Company.
Identify and nominate for the approval of the Board,  candidates to ﬁll Board vacancies, as and when they arise   Review succession planning for Executive and Non- Executive Directors and other Senior Executives,  particularly the Chairman, Managing Directors & CEOs.
Recommend suitable candidate for the role of Lead  Independent Director   Formulation of criteria for evaluation of Independent  Directors and the Board   Conduct an annual evaluation of the overall eﬀectiveness  of the Board, the Committees of the Board and the  performance of each Director.
Review the T erms of Reference of all committees of  the Board, including itself on an annual basis, and  recommend any changes to the Board.
* ‘Senior Management’ means personnel of the Company who are members  of its core management team excluding Board of Directors, comprising  all members of the Management, one level below the Executive Directors,  including the functional heads.
** ‘Key Managerial Personnel’ means: i) the Chief Executive Oﬃcer or the  Managing Director or the Manager; ii) the Company Secretary; iii) the Whole-  time Director; iv) the Chief Financial Oﬃcer.
Report on Corporate Governance Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15106 Meetings, Attendance and Composition of HR and  Nomination Committee During FY 2014-15, the Committee met four times i.e.
April 29,  2014, July 29, 2014, October 30, 2014 and February 4, 2015.
The composition and the attendance of members at the  meetings held during FY 2014-15, are given below: Name Category Number of  meetings  attended  (total held   during tenure) Mr. Ben Verwaayen,  Chairman Independent  Director 4 (4) Mr. Chua Sock Koong* Non-Executive  Director 4 (4) Mr. Manish Kejriwal Independent  Director 4 (4) Mr. D. K. Mittal Independent  Director 4 (4) Mr. Rajan Bharti Mittal Non-Executive  Director 4 (4) Sheikh Faisal Thani-Al  Thani1 Non-Executive  Director 1 (2) Mr. Tsun-yan Hsieh1 Independent  Director 1 (2) 1.
Ceased to be member of the Committee w.e.f.
September 1, 2014 *One meeting attended by Mark Chong Chin Kok, alternate Director The details relating to remuneration of Directors, as required  under Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement, have been given  under a separate section, viz.
‘Directors’ Remuneration’ in this  Report.
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee In compliance with the Listing Agreement requirements  and provisions of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013,  the Company has a Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee.
The Committee comprises four members including two  Independent Directors.
Mr. Rajan Bharti Mittal, Non- Executive Director is the Chairman of the Committee.
The  Company Secretary acts as a Secretary to the Committee.
Key Responsibilities of the Stakeholders’ Relationship  Committee The key responsibilities of the Stakeholders’ Relationship  Committee include the following:  Formulation of procedures, in line with the statutory  guidelines to ensure speedy disposal of various requests  received from shareholders from time to time.
Consider and resolve complaints / grievances of security  holders of the Company, including complaints related  to transfer of shares, non-receipt of balance sheet and  non-receipt of declared dividend.
Dematerialise or re-materialise the share certiﬁcates  Approve the transmission of shares or other securities  arising as a result of death of the sole / any of joint  shareholder.
Sub-divide, consolidate and / or replace any share or  other securities certiﬁcate(s) of the Company  Issue duplicate share / other security (ies) certiﬁcate(s)  in lieu of the original share / security (ies) certiﬁcate(s)  of the Company.
Approve, register and refuse to register transfer /  transmission of shares and other securities  T o further delegate all or any of the power to any other  employee(s), oﬃcer(s), representative(s), consultant(s),  professional(s), or agent(s)  Oversee and review, all matters connected with the  transfer of securities of the Company  Oversee the performance of the Company’s Registrar  and Share T ransfer Agent   Recommend methods to upgrade the standard of  services to the investors.
T o deal with the Company’s unclaimed / undelivered  shares, as prescribed in the relevant Clause of the  Listing Agreement.
T o do all such acts, deeds and things as may be necessary  in this regard The meetings of the Committee are generally held as and  when deemed necessary, to review and ensure that all investor  requests / grievances are redressed within a stipulated time  period.
Meetings, Attendance and Composition of Stakeholders’  Relationship Committee During FY 2014-15, the Committee met ﬁve times i.e.
on April  29, 2014, July 29, 2014, October 30, 2014, December 26, 2014 and  February 4, 2015.
The composition and the attendance of members  at the meetings held during FY 2014-15, are given below: Name Category Number of  meetings  attended (total  held  during  tenure) Mr. Rajan Bharti Mittal,  Chairman Non-Executive  Director 5 (5) Mr. Ajay Lal1 Independent  Director 4 (4) Mr. Manish Kejriwal Independent  Director 4 (5) Mr. Gopal Vittal Executive  Director 5 (5) Mr. D. K. Mittal2 Independent  Director 1 (1) 1.
Ceased to be member of the Committee w.e.f.
January 22, 2015.
2.
Appointed as a member of the Committee w.e.f.
February 4, 2015.
Compliance Oﬃcer Mr. Mukesh Bhavnani, Group General Counsel and Company  Secretary, acted as the Company’s Compliance Oﬃcer up to  March 31, 2015.
He was responsible for complying with the  requirements of the Listing Agreement with Stock Exchanges  and requirements of securities laws, including SEBI  (Prohibition of Insider T rading) Regulations, 1992.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 107 The Board in its meeting held on April 28, 2015, has  appointed Mr. Rajendra Chopra as the Company Secretary  and Compliance Oﬃcer of the Company.
Nature of Complaints and Redressal Status During FY 2014-15, the complaints and queries received by  the Company were general in nature, which include issues  relating to non-receipt of dividend warrants, shares, annual  reports and others, which were resolved to the satisfaction of  the shareholders.
Details of the investors’ complaints received during FY 2014- 15 are as follows: Type of  complaint Number Redressed Pending on  March 31, 2015 Non-receipt of  securities 0 0 Nil Non-receipt of  Annual Report 1 1 Nil Non–receipt  of dividend  / dividend  warrants 3 3 Nil Miscellaneous 0 0 Nil T otal 4 4 Nil Committee of Directors T o cater to various day-to-day requirements and to facilitate  seamless operations, the Company has formed a functional  Committee known as the Committee of Directors.
The  Committee meets as and when deem necessary cater to the  day to day requirements of the Company.
The Committee comprises four members including two  Independent Directors.
Mr. Rajan Bharti Mittal, Non- Executive Director is the Chairman of the Committee.
The  Company Secretary acts as a Secretary to the Committee.
Meetings, Attendance and Composition of Committee of  Directors During FY 2014-15, the Committee met six times i.e.
on April  29, 2014, June 13, 2014, July 29, 2014, October 30, 2014,  February 4, 2015 and March 9, 2015.
The composition and the  attendance of members at the meetings held during FY 2014- 15, are given below: Name Category Number of meetings  attended (total held)   during tenure Mr. Rajan Bharti  Mittal, Chairman Non- Executive  Director 6 (6) Mr. Ajay Lal1 Independent  Director 4 (4) Mr. Manish Kejriwal Independent  Director 4 (6) Mr. Gopal Vittal Executive  Director 6 (6) Mr. D. K. Mittal2 Independent  Director 2 (2) 1.
Ceased to be member of the Committee w.e.f.
January 22, 2015.
2.
Appointed as a member of the Committee w.e.f.
February 4, 2015.
Key Responsibilities of the Committee of Directors (within  the limit approved by the Board) Investment Related  T  o grant loans to anybody, corporate / entity   T o give guarantee(s) in connection with loan made to  anybody, corporate / entity   T o negotiate, ﬁnalise, amend, modify, approve and accept  the terms and conditions with respect to aforesaid loans  and / or guarantee(s) from time to time   T o purchase, sell, acquire, subscribe, transfer or  otherwise deal in the shares / securities of any Company,  body corporate or other entities T reasury Related   T o borrow such sum of money, as may be required  by the Company from time to time provided that the  money already borrowed, together with the money to  be borrowed by the Company does not exceed the limits  provided under Section 180 of the Companies Act, 2013  i.e.
up to the paid up capital and free reserve of the  Company   T o create security / charge(s) on all or any of the assets  of the Company for the purpose of securing credit  facility (ies) of the Company   T o deal in government securities, units of mutual funds,  ﬁxed income and money market instruments, ﬁxed  deposits and certiﬁcate of deposit programme of banks  and other instruments / securities / treasury products  of banks and ﬁnancial institutions as per treasury policy  of the Company   T o deal in foreign exchange and ﬁnancial derivatives  linked to foreign exchange and interest rates including,  but not limited to foreign exchange spot, forwards,  options, currency swaps and interest rate swaps   T o open, operate, close, change in authorisation for  any Bank Account, Subsidiary General Ledger (SGL)  Account, Dematerialisation / Depository Account   T o approve, ﬁnalise and authorise the execution of any  deed, document, letter or writing, in connection with  the aforesaid activities, including borrowing / credit  facilities, creation of charge Allotment of Shares   Issue and allot shares of the Company in one or more  tranches as per the terms of the ESOP Schemes for  the time being in force or upon conversion of Foreign  Currency Convertible Bonds issued by the Company.
T o seek listing of shares issued as above on one or more  Stock Exchanges in India and all such shares being pari- passu with the existing equity shares of the Company in  all respects.
T o do all such acts, deeds and things, as may be  necessary and incidental to allotment and listing of  shares.
General Authorisations   T o open, shift, merge or close any branch oﬃce, circle  oﬃce Report on Corporate Governance Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15108   T o approve for participation into any tender, bid or  auction by the Company   T o register the Company with any Central / State  Government authorities, Semi-Government authorities,  local authorities, tax authorities including sales  tax, service tax, value added tax authorities, labour  law authorities, administrative authorities, business  associations and other bodies.
T o purchase, sell, take on lease / license, transfer or  otherwise deal with any property   T o apply for and surrender any electricity, power or  water connection   T o appoint any Merchant Banker, Chartered Accountant,  Advocate, Company Secretary, Engineer, T echnician,  Consultants and / or Professionals for undertaking any  assignment for and on behalf of the Company.
T o constitute, reconstitute, modify or dissolve any trust  or association with regard to the administrative matters  or employee related matters and to appoint, reappoint,  remove or replace the trustees or representatives.
T o authorise one or more employee(s), oﬃcer(s),  representative(s), consultant(s), professional(s), or  agent(s) jointly or severally to:    represent the Company before Central Government,  State Governments, Judicial, Quasi-judicial and  other statutory / administrative authorities or any  other entity    negotiate, ﬁnalise, execute, modify, sign, accept,  and withdraw all deed, agreements, undertakings,  certiﬁcates, applications, conﬁrmations, aﬃdavits,  indemnity bonds, surety bonds, and all other  documents and papers   aﬃx common seal of the Company    enter into, sign, execute and deliver all contracts  for and on behalf of the Company   T o do all such acts, deeds and things as may be required  for the smooth conduct of the operations of the Company  and which does not require the speciﬁc approval of the  Board of the Company or which has speciﬁcally been  delegated by the Board to any other Committee of the  Board or any oﬃcer, employee or agent of the Company.
T o perform such other functions as may be authorised /  delegated by the Board or as might have been authorised  / delegated to the erstwhile Borrowing Committee,  Investment Committee, Committee of Director or the  Allotment Committee.
T o authorise / delegate any or all of its power to any  person, oﬃcer, representative T echnology Committee The Committee comprises three members.
Ben Verwaayen,  Independent Director, is the Chairman of the Committee.
The  Chief IT Oﬃcer and Director – NSG are the permanent invitees  to the meetings of the Committee.
The Company Secretary  acts as a Secretary to the Committee.
Key Responsibilities of the T echnology Committee   Review the Company’s strategy and approach to  technology and innovation, including its impact on  the Company’s performance, growth and competitive  position.
Oversee the Company’s investments in technology  and software, including through acquisition and other  business development activities.
Ensure that the Company adopts the industry’s best  practices and is future ready.
Establish and maintain relationships with the Company’s  key technology partner   Appraise and critically review the ﬁnancial, tactical and  strategic beneﬁts of proposed major IT-related projects  and technology architecture alternatives.
Meetings, Attendance and Composition of T echnology  Committee During FY 2014-15, the Committee met three times on July 28,  2014, October 29, 2014 and February 3, 2015.
The Composition  and the attendance of the members at the meetings held  during FY 2014-15, are given below: Name Category Number of  meetings attended  (total held) during  tenure Mr. Ben Verwaayen,  Chairman Independent  Director 3 (3) Mr. Gopal Vittal Member 3 (3) Mr. Christian de Faria Member 1 (3) Mr. Manoj Kohli1 Member 1 (3) 1.
Ceased to be member of the Committee w.e.f.
February 4, 2015.
The T echnology Committee was dissolved w.e.f.
April 28, 2015.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee In compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act,  2013, the Company has constituted the Corporate Social  Responsibility Committee.
The Committee evaluates and  recommend the CSR proposals to the Board for approval.
The Committee comprises three members, including one  Independent Director.
Mr. Rajan Bharti Mittal, Non-Executive  Director, is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Company  Secretary acts as a Secretary to the Committee.
Key Responsibilities of the CSR Committee   Formulate, monitor and recommend to the Board  CSR Policy and the activities to be undertaken by the  Company   Recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred  on the activities undertaken  Review the Company’s performance in the area of CSR   Evaluate the social impact of the Company’s CSR  activities   Review the Company’s disclosure of CSR matters,  including any annual social responsibility report   Review the following, with the Management, before  submission to the Board for approval Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 109   The Business Responsibility (BR) Report   CSR Report   Annual Sustainability Report   Formulate and implement the BR policies in consultation  with the respective stakeholders   Establish a monitoring mechanism to ensure that the  funds contributed by the Company are spent by Bharti  Foundation, or any other charitable organisation to  which the Company makes contribution, for the intended  purpose only.
Approve the appointment or re-appointment of Directors  responsible for Business Responsibility   Consider other functions, as deﬁned by the Board, or  as may be stipulated under any law, rule or regulation,  including the Listing Agreement, Corporate Social  Responsibility Voluntary Guidelines, 2009 and the  Companies Act, 2013.
On the recommendation of the CSR Committee, the Board had  approved the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR Policy) of  the Company.
The CSR Policy intends to strive for economic  development that positively impacts the society at large with  minimal resource footprints.
The Policy is available on the  Company’s website at www.airtel.com.
Meetings, Attendance and Composition of CSR Committee During FY 2014-15, the Committee met four times i.e.
on April  22, 2014, April 29, 2014, October 30, 2014 and February 4,  2015.
The composition and the attendance of members at the  meetings held during FY 2014-15, are given below: Name Category Number of  meetings  attended (total  held  during  tenure) Mr. Rajan Bharti Mittal,  Chairman Non-Executive  Director 4 (4) Mr. Gopal Vittal Executive  Director 4 (4) Mr. Ajay Lal1 Independent  Director 3 (3) Mr. Manoj Kohli2 Non-Executive  Director 4 (4) Mr. D. K. Mittal3 Independent  Director 1 (1) 1.
Ceased to be member of the Committee w.e.f.
January 22, 2015.
2.
Ceased to be member of the Committee w.e.f.
February 4, 2015.
3.
Appointed as a member of the Committee w.e.f.
February 4, 2015.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report for the year ended  March 31, 2015 The CSR Report for the year ended March 31, 2015 is annexed  as Annexure D to the Directors’ Report.
Airtel Corporate Council (ACC) Airtel Corporate Council is a non-statutory committee,  constituted by the Board for strategic management and  supervision of the Company’s operations within the approved  framework.
The Committee comprises six members.
Mr. Sunil Bharti  Mittal, is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Company  Secretary acts as a Secretary to the Committee.
Key Responsibilities of the ACC Committee   Strategic Management and supervision of the Company’s  business   Formulation of the Company’s business plan, including  objectives and strategies, capex, and investments   Formulation of organisation policies, systems and  processes, concerning the Company’s operations    Review and monitor the implementation of plans /  strategies   Review the business-wise performance against  approved plans of revenue, costs, proﬁts, balance  sheet, borrowings and investments, including strategy  implementation.
Appointment, remuneration, promotion, termination,  career and succession planning and all employment  related matters of the AMB and AIMB members (other  than Chairman, MD and JMD).
Approval of the variation in the Approved Annual  Operation Plan up to 5% negative deviation   Approval of overall rewards strategy for the Company  and its funding cost   Approval of performance target for the purpose of  performance bonus and long-term incentive plans in  respect of regions, segments and concerned business  units   Review and approval of all strategic consulting  assignment   Review and recommend for approval of all items /  proposals relating to restructuring, new line of business,  investments, ﬁnancial restructuring, General Reserved  Matters (as referred in Article 125 (ii) of Articles of  Association of the Company) and other matters, which  require the Board’s approval.
Acquisition, disposal, transfer of any immovable  property of value exceeding any amount in excess of the  duly approved respective DoA’s   Review with the Auditors the Internal Audit Reports and  Special Audit Reports   Formation, modiﬁcation, withdrawal, implementation  of systems, policies, control manuals and other  policy frameworks for operational eﬃciency and risk  management   Approval of major legal initiatives, including  commencement of legal action against Government /  Quasi Government authorities   Write oﬀ advances, receivables, claims and any other  amounts in excess of the duly authorised respective  DoA’s   Entry or exit into new sub line of business / product line  / major activity in any manner whatsoever Report on Corporate Governance Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15110  Change of the Company’s brand name, logo, trade mark   Approval for charitable donations within the overall  limit set by the Board   Approval for contribution to any political party /  political trust within the overall limit set by the Board   Nomination of Director / representative on the  subsidiaries and joint ventures   Reviewing all major pending legal cases and related  matters Powers of ACC in respect of the Subsidiaries and their step  down Subsidiaries (Other than listed subsidiaries)   Formulation of business plan, including any strategic  initiative, investments, capex, borrowing including  reﬁnancing and extension, among others.
Nomination of the respective subsidiaries nominee on  Board of other companies   Entry into / exit from business / major business activities,  in any manner whatsoever, including purchase, sale,  lease and franchise, among others.
With respect to overseas subsidiaries and their step  down subsidiaries, the power of ACC are conﬁned to  performing key shareholder functions.
General Body Meetings The details of last three Annual General Meetings (AGMs) are as follows: Financial Y ear Location Date Time Special Resolution  passed 2013-14 Air Force  Auditorium,  Subroto Park, New  Delhi-110010 September 1, 2014 1530 Hrs.
(IST) No special resolution  was passed in the last  three AGMs 2012-13 September 5, 2013 1530 Hrs.
(IST) 2011-12 September 6, 2012 1530 Hrs.
(IST) No special resolution is proposed to be passed at the ensuing  AGM.
Postal Ballot The Company passed the following Special Resolutions  through postal ballot / e-voting on T uesday, April 14, 2015:   Implementation of the ESOP Scheme 2005 through  ESOP T rust and related amendment in the ESOP Scheme  2005; and    Authorisation to the ESOP trust for secondary acquisition  of shares and provision of money for acquisition of such  shares.
Person Conducting the Postal Ballot Exercise Mr. Gopal Vittal, Managing Director & CEO (India and South  Asia) and Mr. Mukesh Bhavnani, Group General Counsel and  Company Secretary were appointed as persons responsible  for the entire postal ballot / e-voting process.
Mr. Sanjay  Grover of M/s.
Sanjay Grover & Associates, Company  Secretaries, New Delhi (C.P .
No.
3850) was appointed as the  Scrutiniser for conducting the postal ballot voting process in  a fair and transparent manner.
Mr. Sanjay Grover, Practicing  Company Secretary conducted the process and submitted the  report to the Company.
Procedure Followed 1.
In compliance with Clause 35B of the Listing Agreement  and Section 108, 110 and other applicable provisions  of the Companies Act, 2013, read with the rules made  thereunder, the Company provided electronic voting  facility to all its members, to enable them to cast their  votes electronically.
The Company engaged the services  of Karvy Computershare Pvt.
Ltd. (Karvy) for the  purpose of providing e-voting facility.
The members had  the option to vote either by physical ballot or e-voting.
2.
The Company dispatched the postal ballot notice, dated  October 30, 2014, containing draft resolutions together  with the explanatory statements, postal ballot forms  and self-addressed envelopes to the members whose  names appeared in the register of members/list of  beneﬁciaries as on cut-oﬀ date i.e.
Friday, February  13, 2015.
The Company also published a notice in the  newspaper declaring the details of completion of  dispatch and other requirements as mandated under the  Act and applicable rules.
3.
Members desiring to exercise their votes by physical  postal ballot forms were requested to return the forms  duly completed and signed, to the Scrutiniser on or  before the close of business hours on Friday, April 10,  2015.
The members who opted for the e-voting could  vote from 08:00 a.m. on Thursday, March 12, 2015 to  08:00 p.m. on Friday, April 10, 2015.
4.
The Scrutiniser submitted his report on Monday, April  13, 2015, after the completion of scrutiny.
5.
The result of the postal ballot was declared on T uesday,  April 14, 2015.
The date of declaration of the results of  the postal ballot was taken as the date of passing of the  resolution.
6.
The result of the postal ballot was published in the  newspapers within 48 hours of the declaration of the  results, and is available on the website of the Company  at www.airtel.com, besides being communicated to  Stock Exchanges, Depository and Registrar and Share  T ransfer Agent.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 111 Details of Voting Pattern Details of the voting pattern in respect of Special Resolutions are as under: Details of Agenda No.
of valid votes Votes cast in favour  of the resolution  (no.& % age) Votes cast against  the resolution  (no.& %age) Special resolution for implementation of the ESOP  Scheme 2005 through ESOP T rust and related  amendment in the ESOP Scheme 2005 3,604,069,151 3,349,670,977  (92.941%) 254,398,174  (7.059%) Special resolution for authorisation to the Bharti  Airtel Employees’ Welfare T rust (the ESOP T rust) for  the secondary acquisition and provision of money for  acquisition of such shares.
3,604,067,718 3,349,668,441  (92.941%) 254,399,277  (7.059%) There is no immediate proposal for passing any resolution  through postal ballot on or before ensuing Annual General  Meeting.
Code of Conduct In compliance with Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement and the  Companies Act, 2013, the Company has framed and adopted  a Code of Conduct for all Directors and Senior Management  personnel.
The code is available on the Company’s website  www.airtel.com.
The Code is applicable to all Board members  and Senior Management executives who directly report to  the Chairman, the Managing Director & CEO (India & South  Asia).
The Code is circulated to all Board members and Senior  Management Personnel and its compliance is aﬃrmed by  them annually.
Besides, the Company also procures a quarterly conﬁrmation  of material ﬁnancial and commercial transactions entered  into by Senior Management personnel with the Company that  may have a potential conﬂict of interest.
A declaration signed by the Managing Director & CEO (India &  South Asia), regarding aﬃrmation of the compliance with the  Code of Conduct by Board members and Senior Management  for the ﬁnancial year ended March 31, 2015 is annexed as  Annexure A to this report.
Along with the Code of Conduct for the Board members  and Senior Management, the Company has also laid down  a Code of Conduct for its employees.
As a process, an  annual conﬁrmation is also sought from all employees.
All  employees are expected to conﬁrm compliance to the Code  annually.
Regular training programmes are conducted across locations  to explain and reiterate the importance of adherence to the  Code.
Disclosures and Policies Disclosure on Materially Signiﬁcant Related Party  T ransactions that may have potential conﬂict with the  interest of the Company at large All transactions entered into with related parties as deﬁned  under the Companies Act, 2013 and Clause 49 of the Listing  Agreement during the ﬁnancial year were in the ordinary  course of business and on an arm’s length pricing basis and  do not attract the provisions of Section 188 of the Companies  Act, 2013.
None of the transactions with any of the related parties  were in conﬂict with the interest of the Company rather,  they synchronise and synergise with the Company’s  operations.
Attention of members is drawn to the disclosure  of transactions with the related parties set out in Note no.
48  of the Standalone Financial Statements, forming part of the  Annual Report.
The required statements / disclosures, with respect to the  related party transactions, are placed before the Audit &  Risk Management Committee, as well as to the Board of  Directors, on quarterly basis, in terms of Clause 49(VII)(D) of  the Listing Agreement and other applicable laws for approval  / information.
Prior omnibus approval is obtained for Related  Party T ransactions, which are repetitive in nature.
The Company’s major related party transactions are  generally with its subsidiaries and associates.
These  transactions are entered into based on consideration of  various business exigencies, such as synergy in operations,  sectoral specialisation, liquidity and capital resource of  subsidiary and associates and all such transactions are on an  arm’s length basis.
The Board of Directors has formulated a Policy on dealing  with Related Party T ransactions pursuant to the provisions  of the Companies Act, 2013 and Listing Agreement.
The  Policy intends to ensure that proper reporting, approval and  disclosure processes are in place for all transactions between  the Company and related parties.
The Policy is available  on the website of the Company at www.airtel.in/wps/wcm/ connect/36a5305d-f0ba-490c-9eff-152ef6811917/BAL- Policy-on-Related-Party-T ransactions.pdf?MOD=AJPERES   Disclosure on Risk Management The Company has established an enterprise-wide risk  management (ERM) framework to optimally identify and  manage risks, as well as to address operational, strategic  and regulatory risks.
In line with the Company’s commitment  to deliver sustainable value, this framework aims to provide  an integrated and organised approach to evaluate and  manage risks.
Risk assessment monitoring is included in the  Company’s annual Internal Audit programme and reviewed by  the Audit & Risk Management Committee at regular intervals.
In compliance with Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement,  the Board of Directors has formulated a Risk Management  Policy for framing, implementing and monitoring the risk  management plan for the Company.
Report on Corporate Governance Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15112 The Board is periodically updated on the key risks, steps and  processes initiated for reducing and, if feasible, eliminating  various risks.
Business risk evaluation and management is an  ongoing process within the Company.
Detailed update on risk management framework has  been covered under the risk section, forming a part of the  Management Discussion and Analysis.
Details of Non-compliance with regard to Capital Markets  during the last three years There have been no instances of non-compliances by the  Company and no penalties and / or strictures have been  imposed by Stock Exchanges or SEBI or any statutory  authority on any matter related to capital markets during the  last three years.
Insider T rading In compliance with the SEBI regulation on prevention of  insider trading, the Company has established systems  and procedures to prohibit insider trading activity and has  formulated a code on insider trading for designated persons,  who may have access to the Company’s price sensitive  information.
The Code lays down procedures to be followed  and disclosures to be made, while trading in the Company’s  shares.
The Company follows highest standards of transparency  and fairness in dealing with all stakeholders and ensures  that no insider shall use his or her position with or without  knowledge of the Company to gain personal beneﬁt or to  provide beneﬁt to any third party.
Ombudsperson Policy/ Whistle Blower Policy Bharti Airtel has adopted an Ombudsperson Policy (includes  Whistle Blower Policy).
It outlines the method and process  for stakeholders to voice genuine concerns about unethical  conduct that may be in breach with the employees’ Code of  Conduct.
The policy aims to ensure that genuine complainants  can raise their concerns in full conﬁdence, without any fear of  retaliation or victimisation.
The Ombudsperson administers  a formal process to review and investigate any concerns  raised.
It also undertakes all appropriate actions required to  resolve the reported matter.
Instances of serious misconduct  dealt with by the Ombudsperson are reported to the Audit &  Risk Management Committee.
All employees of the Company,  as well as vendors/ partners and any person that has a  grievance (excluding standard customer complaints) has  full access to the Ombudsperson through phones, emails or  even meetings in person.
During the year under review, no  employee was denied access to the Audit & Risk Management  Committee.
Auditors’ Certiﬁcate on Corporate Governance As required under Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement, the  auditors’ certiﬁcate on Corporate Governance is annexed as  Annexure  to the Directors’ Report.
CEO and CFO Certiﬁcation The certiﬁcate required under Clause 49(IX) of the Listing  Agreement, duly signed by the CEO and CFO was placed  before the Board.
The same is provided as Annexure B to this  report.
Subsidiary Companies The Company monitors performance of subsidiary companies,  inter alia, by the following means:   Financial Statements, in particular investments made by  unlisted subsidiary companies, are reviewed quarterly  by the Company’s Audit & Risk Management Committee.
Minutes of Board Meeting of unlisted subsidiary  companies are placed before the Company’s Board  regularly.
A statement containing signiﬁcant transactions and  arrangements entered into by unlisted subsidiary  companies is placed before the Company’s Board.
Bharti Infratel Limited, the Company’s material Indian  subsidiary, is listed on Stock Exchanges w.e.f.
December  28, 2012.
Therefore, the Company is no more required to  nominate a Director on the Board of Bharti Infratel.
The Board of Directors have formulated a Policy for determining  material subsidiaries pursuant to the provisions of the Listing  Agreement.
The same is available on the Company’s website  at http:// www.airtel.in/wps/wcm/connect/7e99add6-9401- 4ab3-899a-07572390a956/BAL-Policy-for-determining- Material-Subsidiaries.pdf?MOD=AJPERES.
Compliance with the Mandatory Requirements of Clause 49  of the Listing Agreement The Board of Directors periodically review the compliance  of all applicable laws.
The Company has complied with  all the mandatory requirements of the Code of Corporate  Governance as stipulated under the Listing Agreement.
It  has obtained a certiﬁcate aﬃrming the compliances from  M/s.
S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP , Chartered Accountants,  Gurgaon, the Company’s Statutory Auditors and the same is  attached to the Directors’ Report.
Details of Compliances with the Non-mandatory  Requirements of Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement In addition to the mandatory requirements, the Company has  also adopted the following non-mandatory requirements of  Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement: Shareholders’ Rights and Auditors’ Qualiﬁcation The Company has a policy of announcement of the audited  quarterly results.
The results, as approved by the Board  of Directors (or Committee thereof) are ﬁrst submitted to  Stock Exchanges within 15 minutes of the approval of the  results.
Once taken on record by Stock Exchanges, the same  are disseminated in the media through press release.
The  quarterly ﬁnancial results are published in newspapers and  uploaded on Company’s website www.airtel.com.
On the next day of the announcement of the quarterly  results, an earnings call is organised, where the management  responds to the queries of the investors / analysts.
These  calls are webcast live and transcripts posted on the website.
In addition, discussion with the management team is webcast  and also aired on the electronic media.
Audit Qualiﬁcations Company’s ﬁnancial statements are unqualiﬁed.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 113 Separate posts of Chairman and CEO The positions of the Chairman of the Board and the Managing  Director & Chief Executive Oﬃcer of the Company are held by  separate individuals.
Reporting of Internal Auditor The Internal Auditors directly reports to the Audit & Risk  Management Committee.
Compliance with the ICSI Secretarial Standards The relevant Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute  of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI), which were  recommendatory in nature, has been substantially complied  by the Company.
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Till 2009-10, besides preparing the Indian GAAP (IGAAP)  consolidated ﬁnancial statements as per statutory  requirements, the Company also used to prepare ﬁnancial  statements under US GAAP voluntarily, which were audited  by Ernst & Young.
In April 2010, the Stock Exchanges had  amended Clause 41 of the Listing Agreement and permitted  the companies to prepare their consolidated ﬁnancial  statements.
The Company voluntarily prepared statements  in accordance with IFRS in place of IGAAP from FY 2010-11.
The Ministry of Corporate Aﬀairs, Government of India, has  also issued a detailed roadmap for convergence of the IGAAP  with IFRS.
In line with the philosophy of the Government  and amendment in the Listing Agreement, the Company has  voluntarily migrated to IFRS accounting and accordingly the  consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under  IFRS from FY 2010-11 onwards.
Green Initiatives by MCA In compliance with the provisions of Section 20 of the  Companies Act, 2013 and as a continuing endeavour towards  the ‘Go Green’ initiative, the Company proposes to send all  correspondences/communications through email to those  shareholders, who have registered their email id with their  depository participant’s / Company’s registrar and share  transfer agent.
In case the shareholders desire to receive  printed copy of such communications, they may send  requisition to the Company.
The Company will forthwith  send a printed copy of the communication to the respective  shareholder.
Status of Dividend Declared The Company declared its maiden dividend in August 2009 for the FY 2008-09.
Status of the dividend declared by the Company  for the last seven years is as under.
Amount in ` Millions Financial Y ear Rate of Dividend Per  equity share of ` 5 each T otal Pay-out Amount Paid to the  shareholders Amount un-paid to the  shareholders 2014-15 `  1.63 (Interim Dividend) 6,515.76 6,515.00 (99.99%) 0.76 (0.01%) 2013-14 `  1.80 7,195.32 7,194.49 (99.99%) 0.83 (0.01%) 2012-13 `  1 3,797.53 3,791.05 (99.83%) 6.48 (0.17%) 2011-12 `  1 3,797.53 3,790.78 (99.82%) 6.75 (0.18%) 2010-11 `  1 3,797.53 3,791.13 (99.83%) 6.40 (0.17%) 2009-10 `  1 3,797.53 3,790.09 (99.80%) 7.44 (0.20%) 2008-09 `  2 3,796.48 3,790.39 (99.84%) 6.09 (0.16%) The Company constantly endeavours to reduce the unpaid dividend amount.
The shareholders, who have not claimed their dividend for the above ﬁnancial years are  requested to contact the Company or its Share T ransfer Agent.
Report on Corporate Governance Equity Shares in the Suspense Account In terms of Clause 5A(II) of the Listing Agreement, the Company reports the following details in respect of equity shares lying in  the suspense accounts, which were issued in physical form: Particulars Number of  Shareholders Number of equity  shares Number of shareholders and aggregate number of shares as transferred to the  Unclaimed Suspense Account outstanding as on April 1, 2014.
82 1 Number of shareholders who approached the Company for transfer of shares and  shares transferred from suspense account during the year Nil Nil Aggregate Number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense  account lying as on March 31, 2015 82 1 The voting rights on the shares in the suspense accounts as on March 31, 2015 shall remain frozen till the rightful owners of  such shares claim the shares.
Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15114 Means of Communication Quarterly Results: The Company’s Quarterly Audited Results  are published in prominent daily newspapers, viz., Mint  (English daily) and Hindustan (vernacular newspaper) and  are also uploaded on the Company’s website www.airtel.com.
News releases, presentations:  Oﬃcial news releases and  oﬃcial media releases are sent to Stock Exchanges and  uploaded  on the Company’s website www.airtel.com.
Earning Calls and Presentations to Institutional Investors  / Analysts:  The Company organises an earnings call with  analysts and investors on the next day of announcement  of results, which is also broadcast live on the Company’s  website.
The transcript is posted on the website soon after.
Any speciﬁc presentation made to the analysts / others is  also uploaded on the website www.airtel.com.
NSE Electronic Application Processing System (NEAPS)/  BSE Corporate Compliance & Listing Centre:  The NEAPS/ BSE’s Listing Centre is a web-based application, designed  for corporates.
All periodical compliance ﬁllings, like  shareholding pattern, Corporate Governance Report,  media releases and other material information is also ﬁled  electronically on the designated portals.
Website: Up-to-date ﬁnancial results, annual reports,  shareholding patterns, oﬃcial news releases, ﬁnancial  analysis reports, latest presentation made to the institutional  investors and other general information about the Company  are available on the website www.airtel.com.
Since the time of listing of shares, Bharti Airtel adopted a  practise of releasing a quarterly report, which contains  ﬁnancial and operating highlights, key industry and Company  developments, results of operations, stock market highlights,  non-GAAP information, ratio analysis, summarised ﬁnancial  statements and so on.
The quarterly reports are posted  on the Company’s website and are also submitted to Stock  Exchanges, where the Company’s shares are listed.
General Shareholders’ Information  20th Annual General Meeting  Date : August 21, 2015 Day : Friday Time : 3.30 p.m.   Venue : Air Force Auditorium,  Subroto Park,  New Delhi – 110 010 Financial Calendar   (T entative Schedule, subject to change) Financial year : April 1 to March 31   Results for the quarter ending June 30, 2015 : August 4, 2015, (T uesday) September 30, 2015 : October 28, 2015, (Wednesday) December 31, 2015 : January 28, 2016, (Thursday) March 31, 2016 : April 27, 2016 (Wednesday) Book Closure Saturday, August 15, 2015 to Friday, August 21, 2015 (both  days inclusive) Dividend `  2.22 per equity share of `  5/- each (i.e.
44.40% on the  face value of the shares) Dividend Pay-out Date On or after August 21, 2015 (within the statutory time limit  of 30 days i.e.
up to September 19, 2015), subject to the  approval of the shareholders.
Equity Shares Listing, Stock Code and Listing Fee Payment Name and address of the Stock Exchange Scrip code Status of fee paid for  FY 2015-16 National Stock Exchange of India Limited  Exchange Plaza’ ‘C-1 Block G  Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra ©, Mumbai – 400001 BHARTIARTL Paid The BSE Limited  Phiroze Jeejeebhoy T owers Dalal Street, Mumbai – 400001 532454 Paid The Company de-listed its shares from the Delhi Stock Exchange Association Limited (Regional) during FY 2003-04.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 115 Stock Market Data for the Period April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015 Month NSE BSE High Low Volume (Nos.)
High Low Volume (Nos.)
Apr-14 345.50 312.00 77,152,236 345.40 312.00 3,116,596 May-14 349.95 305.25 105,472,237 350.00 304.00 6,076,287 Jun-14 367.15 327.95 116,040,205 367.00 328.10 8,007,104 Jul-14 375.20 326.60 92,930,485 375.05 326.75 7,911,449 Aug-14 387.10 361.25 80,531,753 386.80 361.70 5,496,550 Sep-14 420.00 369.85 93,300,547 419.90 370.40 8,033,548 Oct-14 416.85 380.00 74,697,126 417.00 380.00 3,804,486 Nov-14 407.80 376.00 84,402,071 408.20 378.15 4,702,541 Dec-14 387.35 335.80 86,905,962 386.20 336.85 8,083,909 Jan-15 395.70 339.10 82,428,360 394.45 339.30 5,560,619 Feb-15 377.30 340.10 74,064,931 377.10 341.00 4,369,322 Mar-15 404.50 339.10 161,270,811 404.25 339.05 10,542,135 Source: www.nseindia.com                                                                                                                                                                                         Source: www.bseindia.com Report on Corporate Governance Bharti Airtel Share Price Vs. NSE Nifty Bharti Airtel Share Price NSE Nifty Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 90 100 110 120 130 140 Bharti Airtel Share Price Vs. BSE Sensex Bharti Airtel Share Price BSE Sensex Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 90 100 110 120 130 140 Note: Base 100 = April 1, 2014 Registrar and T ransfer Agent All the work related to share registry, both in physical and  electronic form, is handled by the Company’s Registrar  and T ransfer Agent at the address mentioned in the  communication addresses section.
Share T ransfer System As much as 99.86% of the Company’s equity shares are in  electronic format.
These shares can be transferred through  the depositories, without the Company’s involvement.
T ransfer of shares in physical form is processed within 15  days from the date of receipt, provided the documents are  complete in all respects.
All transfers are ﬁrst processed  by the T ransfer Agent and are submitted thereafter to  the Company, for approval.
The T ransfer Agent has been  authorised to transfer minor shareholding up to 50 shares  without the Company’s involvement.
Pursuant to Clause 47(C) of the Listing Agreements, the  Company obtain certiﬁcates from a practicing Company  Secretary on a half-yearly basis to the eﬀect that all the  transfers are completed within the stipulated period.
A copy  of such certiﬁcates so received is submitted to both Stock  Exchanges, where the shares of the Company are listed.
Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15116 Distribution of Shareholding  By number of shares held as on March 31, 2015 Sl.
no.
Category (by no.
of shares) No.
of shareholders % to holders No.
of shares % of shares 1 1 - 5000 228,882 99.24 27,542,624 0.69 2 5001 - 10000 475 0.21 3,464,668 0.09 3 10001 - 20000 261 0.11 3,756,573 0.09 4 20001 - 30000 123 0.05 3,062,433 0.08 5 30001 - 40000 78 0.03 2,747,729 0.07 6 40001 - 50000 67 0.03 3,061,910 0.08 7 50001 - 100000 150 0.07 10,696,787 0.27 8 100001 - above 588 0.25 3943,067,378 98.64 T otal 230,624 100 % 3,997,400,102 100 % By category of holders as on March 31, 2015 Sl.
no.
Category No.
of shares %age of holding I Promoter and Promoter Group (i) Indian promoters 1,747,545,460 43.72 (ii) Foreign promoters 865,673,286 21.66 T otal Promoters Shareholding 2,613,218,746 65.37 II Public Shareholding (A) Institutional Investors (i) Mutual Funds and Unit T rust of India 108,033,416 2.70 (ii) Financial institutions and Banks 932,054 0.02 (iii) Insurance companies 190,892,726 4.78 (iv) Foreign Institutional Investors 636,827,227 15.93 (v) Others - Foreign Portfolio Investors 79,968,128 2.00 (B) Others (i) Bodies Corporate (Indian) 116,196,978 2.91 (ii) Bodies Corporate (Foreign) 204,952,716 5.13 (iii) T rusts 5,670,563 0.14 (iv) NRIs / OCBs / Foreign Nationals / QFI 2,159,619 0.05 (v) Indian Public & Others 38,547,929 0.96 T otal Public Shareholding 1,384,181,356 34.63 T otal Shareholding 3,997,400,102 100 Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 117 Dematerialisation of Shares and Liquidity The Company’s shares are compulsorily traded in dematerialised form and are available for trading with both the depositories  i.e.
National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL).
The shareholders can  hold the Company’s shares with any of the depository participants, registered with these depositories.
ISIN for the Company’s  shares is INE 397D01024.
The Company’s equity shares are frequently traded at the BSE Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited.
Outstanding GDRs/ ADRs/ Warrants or any Convertible instruments, conversion date and likely impact on equity The Company does not have any outstanding GDRs/ ADRs/ warrants or any convertible instruments as on date.
Plant Locations Being a service provider company, Bharti Airtel has no plant locations.
The Company’s Circle Oﬃce addresses are provided at  the end of the Annual Report.
Communication Addresses Contact Email Address For Corporate Governance  and Other Secretarial related  matters  Mr. Rajendra Chopra Company Secretary compliance.oﬃcer@bharti.in    Bharti Airtel Limited  Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson  Mandela Road, Vasant Kunj,  Phase – II, New Delhi 110 070 T elephone no.
+91 11 46666100 Fax no.
+91 11 46666137 Website: www.airtel.com For queries relating to  Financial Statements  Mr. Harjeet Kohli Corporate Head -  T reasury & Investor  Relations ir@bharti.in For Corporate Communication  related matters  Mr. Raza Khan Head – Group Corporate  Communications corporate.communications@ bharti.in Registrar & T ransfer Agent Karvy Computershare  Pvt.
Ltd. einward.ris@karvy.com Karvy Selenium T ower B,  Plot number 31 & 32  Financial District,  Nanakramguda,  Serilingampally Mandal,  Hyderabad-500 032  Ph No.
040-67162222  Fax No.
040-23001153  Website  www.karvy.com Report on Corporate Governance Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15118 Declaration I hereby conﬁrm that the Company has received from all members of the Board and Senior Management, for the ﬁnancial year  ended March 31, 2015, a conﬁrmation that they are in compliance with the Company’s Code of Conduct.
For Bharti Airtel Limited Gopal Vittal Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia) Date: April 28, 2015 Place: New Delhi Chief Executive Oﬃcer (CEO) / Chief Financial Oﬃcer (CFO) certiﬁcation We, Gopal Vittal, Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia) and Srikanth Balachandran, Global Chief Financial Oﬃcer of  Bharti Airtel Limited, to the best of our knowledge and belief hereby certify that: (a)  We have reviewed ﬁnancial statements and the cash ﬂow statement for the year ended March 31, 2015 and that to the best  of our knowledge and belief :   (i)  these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that  might be misleading;   (ii)  these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s aﬀairs and are in compliance with existing  accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
(b)  There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the year which are  fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s code of conduct.
(c)  We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for ﬁnancial reporting and that we have  evaluated the eﬀectiveness of internal control systems of the Company pertaining to ﬁnancial reporting and we have  disclosed to the Auditors and the Audit & Risk Management Committee, deﬁciencies in the design or operation of such  internal controls, if any, of which we are aware and the steps we have taken or propose to take to rectify these deﬁciencies.
(d) We have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit & Risk Management Committee:   (i) signiﬁcant changes in internal control over ﬁnancial reporting during the year;   (ii)  signiﬁcant changes in accounting policies during the year and that the same have been disclosed in the notes to the  ﬁnancial statements; and   (iii)  instances of signiﬁcant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the management  or an employee having a signiﬁcant role in the Company’s internal control system over ﬁnancial reporting.
Date: April 28, 2015 Srikanth Balachandran Gopal Vittal Place: New Delhi Global Chief Financial Oﬃcer Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia) Annexure A Annexure B Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements Bharti Airtel Limited 119 Standalone Financial Statements Particulars Page  Nos.
Independent Auditor’s Report 120 Balance Sheet 124 Statement of Proﬁt and Loss 125 Cash Flow Statement 126 Notes to Financial Statements 1.
Corporate Information 127 2.
Basis of Preparation 127 3.
Summary of Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies 127 4.
Segment Reporting 133 5.
Share Capital 136 6.
Reserves and Surplus 137 7.
Long-term Borrowings 138 8.
Taxes 139 9.
Other Long-term Liabilities 140 10.
Long-term Provisions 140 11.
Short-term Borrowings 141 12.
T rade Payables 141 13.
Other Current Liabilities 141 14.
Short-term Provisions 142 15.
Tangible Assets 142 16.
Intangible Assets 144 17.
Non-current Investments 145 18.
Long-term Loans and Advances 146 19.
Other Non-current Assets 147 20.
Current Investments 147 21.
Inventories 148 22.
T rade Receivables 149 23.
Cash and Bank Balances 149 Particulars Page  Nos.
24.
Short-term Loans and Advances 150 25.
Other Current Assets 150 26.
Contingent Liabilities 150 27.
Capital and Other Commitments 153 29.
Revenue from Operations 154 30.
Other Income 154 31.
Cost of Goods Sold 154 32.
Employee Beneﬁt Expenses 155 33.
Power and Fuel, Rent and Other Expenses 155 34.
Finance Costs 156 35.
Depreciation and Amortisation Expense 156 36.
Exceptional Items 156 37.
Preferential Allotment 156 38.
Acquisitions / Additional Investments /  New Developments 156 39.
Earnings Per Share 158 40.
Employee Beneﬁts 158 41.
Investment in Joint Ventures / Jointly Owned  Assets 161 44.
Expenditure / Earnings in Foreign Currency 163 45.
CIF Value of Imports 163 46.
Auditors’ Remuneration 164 47.
Details of Dues to Micro and Small Enterprises 164 48.
Related Party Disclosures 164 49.
Operating Lease 178 50.
Employee Stock Compensation 179 51.
Forward Contracts & Derivative Instruments and  Unhedged Foreign Currency Exposure 183 53.
Movement in Provision 184 For Other Notes 28, 42, 43, 52, 54 to 58 - Refer Pages 154,162,162,184 and 185 respectively.
Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15120 T o the Members of Bharti Airtel Limited  Report on the Standalone Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying standalone ﬁnancial  statements of Bharti Airtel Limited (“the Company”), which  comprise the Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2015, the  Statement of Proﬁt and Loss and Cash Flow Statement for the  year then ended, and a summary of signiﬁcant accounting  policies and other explanatory information.
Management’s Responsibility for the Standalone  Financial Statements The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the  matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Companies Act, 2013  (“the Act”) with respect to the preparation of these standalone  ﬁnancial statements that give a true and fair view of the  ﬁnancial position, ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂows of the  Company in accordance with accounting principles generally  accepted in India, including the Accounting Standards  speciﬁed under Section 133 of the Act, read with Rule 7 of  the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
This responsibility  includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in  accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of  the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting  frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of  appropriate accounting policies; making judgements and  estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design,  implementation and maintenance of adequate internal  ﬁnancial control that were operating eﬀectively for ensuring  the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records,  relevant to the preparation and presentation of the ﬁnancial  statements that give a true and fair view and are free from  material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these standalone  ﬁnancial statements based on our audit.
We have taken into  account the provisions of the Act, the accounting and auditing  standards and matters which are required to be included in  the audit report under the provisions of the Act and the Rules  made thereunder.
We conducted our audit in accordance  with the Standards on Auditing issued by the Institute of  Chartered Accountants of India, as speciﬁed under Section  143(10) of the Act.
Those Standards require that we comply  with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit  to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the ﬁnancial  statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit  evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial  statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s  judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material  misstatement of the ﬁnancial statements, whether due to  fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor  considers internal ﬁnancial control relevant to the Company’s  preparation of the ﬁnancial statements that give a true and fair  view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate  in the circumstances but not for the purpose of expressing an  opinion on whether the Company has in place an adequate  internal ﬁnancial controls system over ﬁnancial reporting  and the eﬀectiveness of such controls.
An audit also includes  evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used  and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates made  by the Company’s Directors, as well as evaluating the overall  presentation of the ﬁnancial statements.
We believe that the  audit evidence we have obtained is suﬃcient and appropriate  to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the standalone  ﬁnancial statements.
Opinion In our opinion and to the best of our information and  according to the explanations given to us, the standalone  ﬁnancial statements give the information required by the Act  in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in  conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted  in India, of the state of aﬀairs of the Company as at March 31,  2015, its proﬁt, and its cash ﬂows for the year ended on that  date.
Emphasis of Matters We draw attention to Note 26(ii)(g)(vii) to the standalone  ﬁnancial statements which, describes the uncertainties related  to the legal outcome of Department of T elecommunications’  demand with respect to One Time Spectrum Charge.
Our  opinion is not qualiﬁed in respect of this matter.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 1.
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s report) Order,  2015 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government  of India in terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of  the Act, we give in the Annexure 1 a statement on the  matters speciﬁed in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.
2.
As required by section 143 (3) of the Act, we report that:   (a)  We have sought and obtained all the information  and explanations which to the best of our  knowledge and belief were necessary for the  purpose of our audit;  (b)  In our opinion, proper books of account as required  by law have been kept by the Company so far as it  appears from our examination of those books;  (c)  The Balance Sheet, Statement of Proﬁt and Loss,  and Cash Flow Statement dealt with by this Report  are in agreement with the books of account;  (d)  In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone ﬁnancial  statements comply with the Accounting Standards  speciﬁed under section 133 of the Act, read with  Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014;  (e)  On the basis of written representations received  from the directors as on March 31, 2015, and taken  on record by the Board of Directors, none of the  directors is disqualiﬁed as on March 31, 2015, from  being appointed as a director in terms of section  164 (2) of the Act; Independent Auditor’s Report  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 121  (f)  With respect to the other matters to be included in  the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of  the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in  our opinion and to the best of our information and  according to the explanations given to us:  i.
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending  litigations on its ﬁnancial position in its standalone  ﬁnancial statements – Refer Note 26(ii)and Note  53(b) to the standalone ﬁnancial statements;   ii.
The Company has made provision, as required  under the applicable law or accounting standards,      for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term  contracts including derivative contracts – Refer  Note 51 to the standalone ﬁnancial statements;   iii.
There were no amounts which were required  to be transferred to the Investor Education and  Protection Fund by the Company.
For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP  Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W  per Nilangshu Katriar Partner Membership No: 58814 Place: New Delhi Date:  April 28, 2015 Annexure 1 Annexure referred to in paragraph 1 of ‘Report on other Legal  and Regulatory Requirements’  Re: BHARTI AIRTEL LIMITED (‘the Company’) (i) (a)   The Company has maintained proper records  showing full particulars with respect to most of its  ﬁxed assets, however, is in the process of updating  quantitative and situation details with respect to  certain ﬁxed assets in the records maintained by  the Company.
(b)    The capitalised ﬁxed assets are physically veriﬁed  by the management according to a regular  programme designed to cover all the items over a  period of three years.
Pursuant to the programme, a  portion of ﬁxed assets and capital work in progress  has been physically veriﬁed by the management  during the year, which in our opinion is reasonable  having regard to the size of the Company and  nature of its assets.
The Company is in the process  of reconciling the quantitative and situation details  of the physical veriﬁcation results with the records  maintained by the Company and as informed to us,  the impact is not expected to be material.
(ii) (a)  The Inventory (other than inventory with third  parties) has been physically veriﬁed by the  management during the year.
In our opinion, the  frequency of veriﬁcation is reasonable.
(b)  The procedures of physical veriﬁcation of inventory  followed by the management are reasonable and  adequate in relation to size of the Company and the  nature of its business.
(c)  The Company is maintaining proper records of  inventory and no material discrepancies were  noticed on physical veriﬁcation.
(iii)  According to the information and explanations given to  us, the Company has neither granted any loans, secured  or unsecured, to companies, ﬁrms or other parties  covered in the register maintained under Section 189  of the Act.
Accordingly, Clause 3(iii) of the Order is not  applicable to the Company for the current year and  hence not commented upon.
(iv)    In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, having regard to the explanation  that certain items purchased are of proprietary nature  for which suitable alternative sources do not exist for  obtaining comparative quotations, there is an adequate  internal control system commensurate with the size  of the Company and the nature of its business, for the  purchase of inventory, ﬁxed assets and for the sale of  goods and services.
During the course of our audit, we  have neither observed nor have been informed of any  major weakness or continuing failure to correct any  major weaknesses in the aforesaid internal control  system.
(v)  The Company has not accepted any deposits from the  public.
(vi)  We have broadly reviewed the books of account  maintained by the Company pursuant to the rules  made by the Central Government for the maintenance  of cost records under Section 148(1) of the Act and are  of the opinion that prima facie, the prescribed accounts  and records have been made and maintained.
We have  not, however, made a detailed examination of records  with a view to determine whether they are accurate or  complete.
(vii) (a)  The Company is generally regular in depositing  with appropriate authorities undisputed statutory  dues including provident fund, employees’ state  insurance, income-tax, sales-tax, wealth-tax,  service tax, duty of customs, value added tax, cess  Independent Auditor’s Report  Independent Auditor’s Report Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15122 Independent Auditor’s Report  and other material statutory dues applicable to it.
The provisions relating to duty of excise are not  applicable to the Company.
(b)   According to the information and explanations  given to us, no undisputed amounts payable  in respect of provident fund, employees’ state  insurance, income-tax, sales-tax wealth-tax,  service tax, duty of customs, value added tax, cess  and other material undisputed statutory dues were  outstanding as at the year end, for a period of  more than six months from the date they became  payable.
(c)   According to the records of the Company, the dues outstanding of income-tax, sales-tax, wealth-tax, service tax, duty of  customs, value added tax and cess on account of any dispute, are as follows: Name of Statutes Nature of the  Dues Amount  Disputed   (in ` Mn) Period to which  it relates Forum where the dispute  is pending Andhra Pradesh VAT Act Sales Tax 41 2005-10 T ribunal  Andhra Pradesh VAT Act Sales Tax 46 2010-13 Deputy  Commissioner,Commercial  Taxes,Punjagutta  Bihar Value Added Sales Tax Act Sales Tax 34 2007-08 Assistant Commissioner  Bihar Value Added Sales Tax Act Sales Tax 31 2006-13 Joint Commissioner,  Appeal Bihar Value Added Sales Tax Act Sales Tax 29 2005-08 T ribunal  Gujarat Sales Tax Act Sales Tax 1 2006-07 Assistant Commissioner  Himachal Pradesh Value Added Tax Act Sales Tax 1 1999-02 Additional Commissioner   J&K General Sales Tax Sales Tax 34 2004-07 High Court , Jammu & Kashmir  Karnataka Sales Tax Act Sales Tax 291 2005-06 Assistant Commissioner   Karnataka Sales Tax Act Sales Tax 1 2001-06 Commercial tax Oﬃcer   Kerala Sales Tax Act Sales Tax 1 2011-12 Commercial tax Oﬃcer  Kerala Sales Tax Act Sales Tax 1 2005-13 Commercial tax Oﬃcer   Kerala Sales Tax Act Sales Tax 11 2005-06 Deputy Commissioner, Appeal   Kerala Sales Tax Act Sales Tax 0 2009-13 Intelligence Oﬃcer Squad   Kerala Sales Tax Act Sales Tax 2 2002-05 T ribunal   Kerala Value Added Tax Act Sales Tax 5 2005-06 Deputy Commissioner, Appeal  Kerala Value Added Tax Act Sales Tax 71 2006-07 High Court of Kerala Kerala Value Added Tax Act Sales Tax 20 2007-09 Assistant Commissioner, Spl  Circle III, Ernakulam Madhya Pradesh Commercial Sales  Tax Act Sales Tax 24 2007-12 Appellate authority  Madhya Pradesh Commercial Sales  Tax Act Sales Tax 0 2005-07 Assistant Commissioner  Madhya Pradesh Commercial Sales  Tax Act Sales Tax 0 2004-08 Commercial tax Oﬃcer  Madhya Pradesh Commercial Sales  Tax Act Sales Tax 2 2008-13 Deputy Commissioner  Madhya Pradesh Commercial Sales  Tax Act Sales Tax 22 1997-04 Deputy Commissioner, Appeal  Maharashtra Sales Tax Act Sales Tax 9 2003-04 High Court, Mumbai  Maharashtra Sales Tax Act Sales Tax 0 2003-04 Joint Commissioner, Appeal   Orissa Value Added Tax Act Sales Tax 1 2006-07 Additional Commissioner   Punjab Sales Tax Act Sales Tax 0 2009-10 Commissioner  Punjab Sales Tax Act Sales Tax 30 2003-04 High Court   Punjab Sales Tax Act Sales Tax 1 2002-03 Jt.
Director( Enforcement)   Punjab Sales Tax Act Sales Tax 1 2008-10 T ribunal  UP VAT Act Sales Tax 21 2002-12 Assessing oﬃcer  UP VAT Act Sales Tax 21 2002-05 Assistant Commissioner  UP VAT Act Sales Tax 2 2005-10 Commercial tax Oﬃcer  UP VAT Act Sales Tax 6 2008-11 High court  UP VAT Act Sales Tax 1 2003-04 Joint Commissioner Appeal  UP VAT Act Sales Tax 12 2005-07 T ribunal  West Bengal Sales Tax Act Sales Tax 0 1996-97 The Deputy Commissioner of  Commercial Taxes FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 123 Independent Auditor’s Report   d)   There were no amounts which were required to be  transferred to the investor education and protection  fund by the Company in accordance with the relevant  provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) and  rules made thereunder.
(viii)  The Company has no accumulated losses at the end of  the ﬁnancial year and it has not incurred cash losses in  the current and immediately preceding ﬁnancial year.
(ix)  Based on our audit procedures and as per the information  and explanations given by the management, we are  of the opinion that the Company has not defaulted in  repayment of dues to a ﬁnancial institution, bank or  debenture holders.
(x)  According to the information and explanations given to  us, the Company has given guarantee for loans taken  by others from banks or ﬁnancial institutions, the terms  and conditions whereof, in our opinion, are not prima- facie prejudicial to the interest of the Company.
(xi)   Based on the information and explanations given to us  by the management, term loans were applied for the  purpose for which the loans were obtained.
(xii)  Based upon the audit procedures performed for the  purpose of reporting the true and fair view of the  ﬁnancial statements and as per the information and  explanations given by the management, we report that  no fraud by the Company and no material fraud on the  Company has been noticed or reported during the year.
For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP  Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W  per Nilangshu Katriar Partner Membership No: 58814 Place: New Delhi  Date:  April 28, 2015 Name of Statutes Nature of the  Dues Amount  Disputed   (in ` Mn) Period to which  it relates Forum where the dispute  is pending West Bengal Sales Tax Act Sales Tax 0 1995-96 Commercial tax Oﬃcer  West Bengal Sales Tax Act Sales Tax 9 2005-06 Revision Board  West Bengal Sales Tax Act Sales Tax 3 1997-12 T ribunal  Sub T otal (A) 787 Finance Act, 1994 (Service tax  provisions) Service Tax 301 2004-08 Supreme Court   Finance Act, 1994 (Service tax  provisions) Service Tax 7 2000-07 Commissioner Adjudication  Finance Act, 1994 (Service tax  provisions) Service Tax 1 2003-06 Commissioner Appeal  Finance Act, 1994 (Service tax  provisions) Service Tax 23 2002-07 High court  Finance Act, 1994 (Service tax  provisions) Service Tax 5 1995-97 Supreme Court   Finance Act, 1994 (Service tax  provisions) Service Tax 10,230 1995-12 T ribunal  Sub T otal (B) 10,566 Income Tax Act, 1961 Income Tax 6  2002-04 Supreme Court Income Tax Act, 1961 Income Tax 11,685 1996-97;   2001-02;   2004-10  High Court Income Tax Act, 1961 Income Tax 17,240  2003-11 Income Tax Appellate T ribunal Income Tax Act, 1961 Income Tax 19,603 1995-2003;    2004-14 Commissioner of Income Tax  (Appeals) Income Tax Act, 1961 Income Tax 1,392 1994-95;   1996-98;   2004-15  Assessing Oﬃcer Sub T otal (C) 49,926 Custom Act, 1962 Custom Act  4,128 2001-06 Supreme Court  Custom Act, 1962 Custom Act  126 2006-10 T ribunal   Sub T otal (D) 4,254 The above mentioned ﬁgures represent the total disputed cases without any assessment of Probable, Possible and Remote, as done in case of contingent  liabilities.Of the above cases, total amount deposited in respect of sales tax is ` 291 Mn, Service tax is  ` 330 Mn, Income tax is ` 10,115 Mn and Custom Duty  is ` 2,138 Mn.
Independent Auditor’s Report Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15124  (` Millions)  Particulars Notes As of  March 31, 2015 As of  March 31, 2014 Equity and Liabilities  Shareholders' Funds  Share capital 5  19,987  19,987  Reserves and surplus 6  762,742  647,293  Non-Current Liabilities  Long-term borrowings 7  196,267  72,717  Deferred tax liabilities (Net) 8  10,721  9,475  Other long term liabilities 9  42,036  39,394  Long term provisions 10  1,969  2,095  Current Liabilities  Short-term borrowings 11  6,259  12,510  T rade payables 12  71,232  62,663  Other current liabilities 13  140,675  106,454  Short  term provisions 14  12,349  9,453  T otal  1,264,237  982,041  Assets  Non-current Assets  Fixed Assets       Tangible  assets 15  256,552  240,682       Intangible assets 16  277,892  158,100       Capital work-in-progress  26,561  12,442       Intangible assets under development 16  64,108  -     Non current investments 17  383,958  340,348   Long- term loans and advances 18  88,381  145,180   Other non-current assets 19  19,221  17,901   Current Assets    Current investments 20  47,211  4,891   Inventories 21  94  11   T rade receivables 22  33,110  21,655   Cash and bank balances 23  3,887  4,460   Short-term loans and advances  24  53,942  24,218   Other current assets 25  9,320  12,153  T otal  1,264,237  982,041  The accompanying notes form an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements.
As per our report of even date For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP                                          For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W per Nilangshu Katriar                                                 Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Partner  Membership No: 58814 Chairman Managing Director   & CEO (India & South Asia) Place: New Delhi Rajendra Chopra Srikanth Balachandran  Date: April 28, 2015 Company Secretary Global Chief Financial Oﬃcer  Balance Sheet FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 125  (` Millions except per share data and as stated otherwise)  Particulars Notes For the year ended  March 31, 2015 For the year ended  March 31, 2014 Income  Revenue from operations 29  554,964  499,185  Other income 30  51,930  8,534  T otal income  606,894  507,719  Expenses  Access charges  79,601  73,015  License fee and spectrum charges (revenue share)  67,062  54,682  Cost of goods sold 31  76  22  Employee beneﬁts expenses 32  16,915  16,481  Power and fuel 33  41,151  41,697  Rent 33  59,790  56,904  Other expenses 33  95,766  92,711  Charity and donation [includes ` 250 Mn (2013-14 ` 280 Mn) paid to  Satya Electoral T rust for political purpose]   292  685  T otal expenses  360,653  336,197  Proﬁt before ﬁnance costs, depreciation, amortisation, exceptional  items and tax   246,241  171,522  Finance costs 34  14,091  13,364  Depreciation and amortisation expense 35  75,597  72,313  Proﬁt before exceptional items and tax  156,553  85,845  Exceptional items 36  -    2,071  Proﬁt before T ax  156,553  83,774  T ax expense (including exceptional items)  Current tax   31,092  19,980  MAT credit   (7,790)  (180) Deferred tax  1,246  (2,028) Proﬁt for the year  132,005  66,002  Earnings per share (equity shares of par value ` 5 each) 39 Basic and Diluted (in `)  33.02  16.69  The accompanying notes form an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements.
As per our report of even date For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP                                          For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W per Nilangshu Katriar                                                 Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Partner  Membership No: 58814 Chairman Managing Director   & CEO (India & South Asia) Place: New Delhi Rajendra Chopra Srikanth Balachandran  Date: April 28, 2015 Company Secretary Global Chief Financial Oﬃcer  Statement of Proﬁt and Loss Standalone Financial Statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15126 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements.
As per our report of even date For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP                                          For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W per Nilangshu Katriar                                                 Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Partner  Membership No: 58814 Chairman Managing Director   & CEO (India & South Asia) Place: New Delhi Rajendra Chopra Srikanth Balachandran  Date: April 28, 2015 Company Secretary Global Chief Financial Oﬃcer   (` Millions)  Particulars  For the year ended  March 31, 2015  For the year ended   March 31, 2014  A.
Cash ﬂows from operating activities:  Proﬁt before tax   156,553  83,774  Adjustments for:     Depreciation and amortisation expense  75,597  72,313  Exceptional Items (refer Note 36)  -    2,071  Interest income  (1,396)  (433) (Proﬁt)/ loss on sale of investments  (34,698)  (2,096) Finance costs  14,091  13,364  Unrealized foreign exchange (gain) / loss  (853)  (285) Expenses on employee stock option plan  (6)  (42) (Proﬁt)/ loss on sale of assets (net)  550  (95) Dividend income  (13,700)  (4,588) Operating cash ﬂow before changes in assets and liabilities  196,138  163,983  Adjustments for changes in assets and liabilities :   -  (Increase)/decrease in trade receivables  (11,455)  600   -  (Increase)/decrease in other receivables  (4,074)  (1,596)  -  (Increase)/decrease in inventories  (83)  10   -  Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables  27,260  15,420   -  Increase/(decrease) in provisions  148  316  Cash generated from operations  207,934  178,733  CSR expenses paid  (411)  -    Income taxes paid  (28,125)  (18,513) Net cash ﬂow from / (used in) operating activities  179,398  160,220   B.
Cash ﬂows from investing activities:  Purchase of tangible assets  (70,142)  (50,820) Purchase of intangible assets  (6,900)  (57,289) Proceeds from sale of tangible assets  501  332  Sale/(Purchase) of investments (net)  (40,392)  8,005  Proceeds from sale/redemption/reduction of shares in subsidiaries/ associates/ joint  ventures (net of expenses)  40,499  -    Proceeds from sale of an undertaking under slump sale  -    1,771  Acquisition/ subscription/investment in subsidiaries/ associates/ joint ventures (refer  Note 38)  (40,292)  (13,350) Net movement in advances given to subsidiaries/ associates/ joint ventures  (26,348)  (64,443) Purchase of bank deposits (with maturity more than three months)  (705)  (791) Proceeds from maturity of bank deposits (with maturity more than three months)  671  654  Interest received  1,396  218  Dividend received from subsidiary companies  13,700  4,850  Net cash ﬂow from / (used in) investing activities  (128,012)  (170,863)  C. Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities:  Proceeds from issuance of equity shares to institutional investor  -    67,956  Proceeds from borrowings  23,192  69,914  Repayments of borrowings  (58,138)  (111,219) Short-term borrowings (net)  3,094  -    Dividend paid  (13,711)  (3,798) Tax on dividend paid  (2)  -    Interest and other ﬁnance charges paid  (6,392)  (11,031) Net cash ﬂow from / (used in) ﬁnancing activities  (51,957)  11,822  Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents during the year  (571)  1,179  Add : Balance as at the beginning of the year  4,458  3,279  Balance as at the end of the year (refer note 23)  3,887  4,458  Notes :         1  Figures in brackets indicate cash out ﬂow.
2   The above cash ﬂow statement has been prepared under the indirect method setout in AS-3 ‘Cash Flow Statements’ notiﬁed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read  with rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 issued by the Ministry of Corporate Aﬀairs.
3  Cash and cash equivalents also includes ` 35 Mn in unpaid dividend  bank account (March 31, 2014- ` 33 Mn) (refer note 23)       4  Advances given to subsidiaries/ associates/ joint ventures have been reported on net basis.
5  Previous year ﬁgures have been regrouped and recast wherever necessary to conform to the current year classiﬁcation.
Cash Flow Statement Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 127Standalone Financial Statements Financciaialialal StatetementsFINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 127 1.
Corporate Information   Bharti Airtel Limited (‘the Company’) incorporated in  India on July 7, 1995, is a company promoted by Bharti  T elecom Limited (‘BTL’), a company incorporated under  the laws of India.
The Company’s shares are publicly  traded on the National Stock Exchange (‘NSE’) and the  Bombay Stock Exchange (‘BSE’), India.
The Registered  oﬃce of the Company is situated at Bharti Crescent,  1, Nelson Mandela Road, Vasant Kunj, Phase – II, New  Delhi – 110070.
The Company is a leading telecommunication service  provider in India providing telecommunication systems  and services.
2.
Basis of Preparation    The ﬁnancial statements of the Company have been  prepared in accordance with the generally accepted  accounting principles in India (Indian GAAP).
The  ﬁnancial statements have been prepared to comply in  all material respects with the accounting standards  notiﬁed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013  read with rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014  issued by the Ministry of Corporate Aﬀairs.
The ﬁnancial  statements have been prepared under the historical  cost convention and on an accrual basis except in case  of assets for which revaluation is carried out and certain  derivative ﬁnancial instruments (refer note 3.13).
The  accounting policies have been consistently applied by  the Company and are consistent with those used in the  previous year.
These ﬁnancial statements are presented in Indian  Rupees (‘Rupees’ or ‘ `’) and all amount are rounded to  the nearest million (‘Mn’), except as stated otherwise.
3.
Summary of Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies 3.1.
Use of Estimates   The preparation of the ﬁnancial statements in  conformity with Indian GAAP requires management  to make judgement, estimates and assumptions that  aﬀect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities  and disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the  ﬁnancial statements and the results of operations during  the reporting year.
Although these estimates are based  upon management’s best knowledge of current events  and actions, uncertainty about these assumptions and  estimates could result in the outcomes requiring a  material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets  and liabilities in future periods.
3.2.
T angible Assets   Tangible Assets are stated at cost, net of accumulated  depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if  any.
Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of  the plant and equipment and borrowing costs for long  term construction projects, if the recognition criteria  are met.
When signiﬁcant parts of tangible assets  are required to be replaced in intervals, the Company  recognises such parts as separate component of assets  with speciﬁc useful lives and provides depreciation over  their useful life.
Subsequent costs are included in the  asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate  asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that  future economic beneﬁts associated with the item will  ﬂow to the Company and the cost of the item can be  measured reliably.
The carrying amount of the replaced  part is derecognised.
All other repair and maintenance  costs are recognised in the statement of proﬁt and loss  as incurred.
Capital work in progress is valued at cost.
Where assets are installed on the premises of customers  (commonly called Customer premise equipment  –“CPE”), such assets continue to be treated as tangible  assets as the associated risks and rewards remain with  the Company and management is conﬁdent of exercising  control over them.
Gains and losses arising from retirement or disposal  of the tangible assets are determined as the diﬀerence  between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying  amount of the asset and are recognised in statement of  proﬁt and loss on the date of retirement or disposal.
Depreciation on tangible assets is provided on the  straight line method based on useful lives of respective  assets as estimated by the management.
The assets’  residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each  ﬁnancial year end or whenever there are indicators for  review, and adjusted prospectively.
Freehold Land is not  depreciated.
Estimated useful lives of the assets are as follows:  Y ears Leasehold Land Period of lease Building 20  Building on Leased Land 20 Leasehold Improvements Period of lease or 10  years, whichever is less Plant & Equipment 3 – 20 Computer 3 Oﬃce Equipment 2-5 Furniture and Fixtures 5 Vehicles 5   The management basis its past experience and technical  assessment has estimated the useful life, which is at  variance with the life prescribed in Part C of Schedule  II of the Companies Act, 2013 and has accordingly,  depreciated the assets over such useful life.
3.3.
Intangible Assets   Identiﬁable intangible assets are recognised when the  Company controls the asset, it is probable that future  economic beneﬁts attributed to the asset will ﬂow to  the Company and the cost of the asset can be reliably  measured.
Intangible assets under development is  valued at cost.
At initial recognition, the separately acquired intangible  assets are recognised at cost.
Following initial  recognition, the intangible assets are carried at cost  less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated  impairment losses, if any.
Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15128  Amortisation is recognised in the statement of proﬁt  and loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated  useful lives of intangible assets from the date they  are available for use.
The amortisation period and  the amortisation method for an intangible asset are  reviewed at least at each ﬁnancial year end.
Changes  in the expected useful life is accounted for as changes  in accounting estimates and accounted prospectively  over the remaining useful life.
Changes in the expected  pattern of consumption of future economic beneﬁts  embodied in the asset is accounted for as change in the  amortisation method and accounted retrospectively,  thus, depreciation is recalculated in accordance with  the new method from the date of the asset coming into  use and any excess or deﬁcit on such re-computation is  accounted in the statement of proﬁt and loss when such  change is eﬀected.
Gains and losses arising from retirement or disposal of  the intangible assets are determined as the diﬀerence  between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying  amount of the asset and are recognised in statement of  proﬁt and loss on the date of retirement or disposal.
(i) Software    Software is capitalized at the amounts paid to acquire  the respective license for use and is amortised over the  period of license, generally not exceeding three years.
Software up to Rupees ﬁve hundred thousand, which  has an independent use, is amortised over a period of  one year from the date of place in service.
(ii) Licenses and spectrum    Acquired licenses and spectrum are initially  recognised at cost.
Subsequently, they are measured  at cost less accumulated amortisation and  accumulated impairment loss, if any.
Amortisation  is recognised in the statement of proﬁt and loss on  a straight-line basis over the unexpired period of the  license/spectrum commencing from the date when  the related network is available for intended use in  the respective jurisdiction.
(iii) Bandwidth     Payment for bandwidth capacities are classiﬁed as  pre-payments in service arrangements or under  certain conditions as an acquisition of a right.
In the  latter case it is accounted for as intangible assets  and the cost is amortised over the period of the  agreements, which may exceed a period of ten years  depending on the tenor of the agreement.
(iv) Other acquired intangible assets      Payment for the rights acquired for unlimited license  access to various applications are recognised as other  acquired intangibles.
They are capitalised at the  amounts paid and amortised on a straight-line basis  over the period of the agreements.
3.4.
Leases (i) Where the Company is the lessee     Leases where the lessor eﬀectively retains  substantially all the risks and rewards incidental  to ownership of the leased item, are classiﬁed as  operating leases.
Lease rentals with respect to  assets taken on ‘Operating Lease’ are charged to the  statement of proﬁt and loss on a straight-line basis  over the lease term.
Leases which eﬀectively transfer to the Company  substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to  ownership of the leased item are classiﬁed as ﬁnance  lease.
These are capitalised at the commencement  of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or,  if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease  payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between  ﬁnance charges and reduction of the lease liability  so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the  remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges  are recognised in the statement of proﬁt or loss.
Lease  management fees, legal charges and other initial  direct costs of lease are capitalized.
Leased assets are depreciated on straight-line basis  over the useful life of the asset.
However,if there is  no reasonable certainty that the company will obtain  ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is  depreciated on straight line basis over the shorter of  the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
(ii) Where the Company is the lessor    Leases in which the Company does not transfer  substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to  ownership of the asset are classiﬁed as operating  leases.
Lease income in respect of ‘Operating Lease’  is recognised in the statement of proﬁt and loss on a  straight-line basis over the lease term.
Assets subject  to operating leases are included in ﬁxed assets.
Initial  direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease  are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset  and recognised over the lease term on the same basis  as rental income.
Leases in which the Company transfer substantially  all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of  the asset are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases.
Assets leased to others under ﬁnance lease are  recognised as receivables at an amount equal to the  net investment in the leased assets.
Finance Income  is recognised based on a pattern reﬂecting a constant  periodic rate of return on the net investment of the  lessor outstanding in respect of the ﬁnance lease.
Initial direct costs are expensed in the statement of  proﬁt and loss at the inception of the lease.
(iii) Indefasible right to use (‘IRU’)    As a part of operations, the Company enters into  agreement for leasing assets under “Indefasible right  to use” with third parties.
Under the arrangement  the assets are given on lease over the substantial  part of the asset life.
However, the title to the assets  and signiﬁcant risk associated with the operation  and maintenance of these assets remain with the  Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 129Standalone Financial Statements lessor.
Hence, such arrangements are recognised as  operating lease.
The contracted price is received in advance and  is recognised as revenue during the tenure of the  agreement.
Unearned IRU revenue net of the amount  recognisable within one year is disclosed as deferred  revenue in other long term liabilities and the amount  recognisable within one year is disclosed as deferred  revenue in other current liabilities.
3.5.
Borrowing Cost  Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that  the Company incurs in connection with the borrowing  of funds.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the  acquisition, construction or production of an asset that  necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get  ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part  of the cost of the respective assets.
All other borrowing  costs are expensed in the period in which they occur.
3.6.
Impairment of Assets  The carrying amounts of assets are reviewed  for impairment, whenever events or changes in  circumstances indicate that the carrying amount  may not be recoverable or when annual impairment  testing for an asset is required.
An impairment loss is  recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset  or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable  amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the  greater of its fair value less costs to sell and value in  use.
T o calculate value in use, the estimated future  cash ﬂows are discounted to their present value using  a pre-tax discount rate that reﬂects current market  rates and the risks speciﬁc to the asset.
For an asset  that does not generate largely independent cash  inﬂows, the recoverable amount is determined for  the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Fair value less costs to sell is the best estimate of the  amount obtainable from the sale of an asset in an arm’s  length transaction between knowledgeable, willing  parties, less the costs of disposal.
Impairment losses,  if any, are recognised in the statement of proﬁt and  loss as a component of depreciation and amortisation  expense.
After impairment, depreciation is provided on the  revised carrying amount of the asset over its remaining  useful life.
An impairment loss is only reversed to the  extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed  the carrying amount that would have been determined  if no impairment loss had previously been recognised.
3.7.
Asset Retirement Obligations (ARO)  Asset retirement obligations (ARO) are provided for  those operating lease arrangements where the Company  has a binding obligation at the end of the lease period  to restore the leased premises in a condition similar  to inception of lease.
The estimated future costs of  decommissioning are reviewed annually and adjusted  as appropriate.
Changes in the estimated future costs  are added to or deducted from the cost of the asset and  depreciated prospectively over the remaining useful life.
3.8.
Investment  Investment, which are readily realisable and intended  to be held for not more than one year from the date  on which such investments are made, are classiﬁed as  current investments.
All other investments are classiﬁed  as non-current investments.
On initial recognition, all investments are measured at  cost.
The cost comprises purchase price and directly  attributable acquisition charges such as brokerage, fees  and duties.
Current Investments are carried in the ﬁnancial  statements at lower of cost and fair value determined  on an individual investment basis.
Non-current  investments are valued at cost.
Provision is made for  diminution in value to recognise a decline, if any, other  than that of temporary nature.
On disposal of investment, the diﬀerence between its  carrying amount and net disposal proceeds is charged  or credited to the statement of proﬁt and loss.
3.9.
Cash and Cash Equivalents  Cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of cash ﬂow  statement comprise cash at bank, cash on hand and  cheques on hand, call deposits, and other short term  highly liquid investments with an original maturity of  three months or less that are readily convertible to a  known amount of cash and are subject to an insigniﬁcant  risk of changes in value.
3.10.
Inventory  Inventory is valued at the lower of cost and net  realisable value.
Cost is determined on First in First  out basis.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling  price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated  costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary  to make the sale.
The Company provides for obsolete and slow-moving  inventory based on management estimates of the  usability of inventory.
3.11.
Revenue Recognition and Receivables  Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable  that the economic beneﬁts will ﬂow to the Company  and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue  is measured at the consideration received/receivable  net oﬀ discounts, process waivers, and value added  tax (‘VAT’), service tax or duty.
The Company assesses  its revenue arrangements against speciﬁc criteria,  i.e., whether it has exposure to the signiﬁcant risks  and rewards associated with the sale of goods or the  rendering of services, in order to determine if it is acting  as a principal or as an agent.
(i) Service Revenues    Service revenues include amounts invoiced for usage  charges, ﬁxed monthly subscription charges and  Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15130 very small aperture terminal (‘VSAT’) service usage  charges, bandwidth services, roaming charges,  activation fees, processing fees and fees for value  added services (‘VAS’).
Service revenues also include  revenues associated with access and interconnection  for usage of the telephone network of other operators  for local, domestic long distance and international  calls and data messaging services.
Service revenues are recognised as the services are  rendered and are stated net of discounts, process  waivers and taxes.
Revenues from pre-paid customers  are recognised based on actual usage.
Processing fees  on recharge coupons is recognised over the estimated  customer relationship period or coupon validity  period, whichever is lower.
Activation revenue and  related activation costs, not exceeding the activation  revenue, are deferred and amortised over the  estimated customer relationship period.
The excess  of activation costs over activation revenue, if any, are  expensed as incurred.
Billings in excess of revenue  recognised is treated as unearned and reported as  deferred revenue in the balance sheet.
Service revenues from the internet and VSAT business  comprise revenues from registration, installation  and provision of internet and VSAT services.
Registration fee and installation charges are deferred  and amortised over the period of agreement with  customer.
Service revenue is recognised from the date  of satisfactory installation of equipment and software  at the customer site and provisioning of internet and  VSAT services.
Revenues from national and international long  distance operations comprise revenue from provision  of voice services which are recognised on provision of  services while revenue from provision of bandwidth  services (including installation) is recognised over the  period of arrangement.
(ii) Equipment Sales    Equipment sales consist primarily of revenues  from sale of telecommunication equipment and  related accessories.
Revenue from equipment sales  transactions are recognised when the signiﬁcant risks  and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer  and when no signiﬁcant uncertainty exists regarding  realisation of consideration.
Installation charges are  recognised as revenue on satisfactory completion of  installation.
(iii) Investing and Other Activities    Income on account of interest and other activities are  recognised on an accrual basis.
(iv) Dividend Income    Dividend income is recognised when the Company’s  right to receive the payment is established.
(v) Provision for Doubtful Debts    The Company provides for amounts outstanding for  more than 90 days from the date of billing, in case of  active subscribers, roaming receivables, receivables  for data services and for entire outstanding from  deactivated customers net oﬀ security deposits or in  speciﬁc cases where the management is of the view  that the amounts from certain customers are not  recoverable.
For receivables due from the other operators on  account of their National Long Distance (NLD) and  International Long Distance (ILD) traﬃc for voice  and Interconnect Usage charges (IUC), the Company  provides for amounts outstanding for more than 120  days from the date of billing, net of any amounts  payable to the operators or in speciﬁc cases where  the management is of the view that the amounts from  these operators are not recoverable.
(vi) Unbilled Revenue    Unbilled revenue represent revenue recognised from  last bill cycle date to the end of the reporting period.
These are billed in subsequent periods based on the  terms of the billing plans / contractual arrangements.
3.12.
License Fees – Revenue Share  The revenue-share fee on license and spectrum is  computed as per the licensing agreement at the  prescribed rate and is expensed as incurred.
3.13.
Foreign Currency translation, accounting for forward  contracts and derivatives  Initial Recognition   Foreign currency transactions are recorded in the  reporting currency, by applying to the foreign currency  amount the exchange rate between the reporting  currency and the foreign currency at the date of the  transaction.
Conversion Foreign currency monetary items are translated using  exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Non- monetary items which are carried in terms of historical  cost denominated in a foreign currency are translated  using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction;  and non-monetary items which are carried at fair value  or other similar valuation denominated in a foreign  currency are translated using the exchange rates at the  date when the values were determined.
Exchange Diﬀerences Exchange diﬀerences arising on the settlement of  monetary items or on restatement of the Company’s  monetary items at rates diﬀerent from those at which  they were initially recorded during the year, or reported  in previous ﬁnancial statements, are recognised as  income or as expenses in the year in which they arise.
Forward Exchange Contracts covered under AS 11, ‘The  Eﬀects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’  Exchange diﬀerences on forward exchange contracts  and plain vanilla currency options for establishing  the amount of reporting currency and not intended for  trading & speculation purposes, are recognised in the  Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 131Standalone Financial Statements statement of proﬁt and loss in the year in the which  the exchange rate changes.
The premium or discount  arising at the inception of forward exchange contracts  is amortised as expense or income over the life of the  contract.
Any proﬁt or loss arising on cancellation or  renewal of such forward exchange contract is recognised  as income or expense for the year.
Exchange diﬀerence on forward contracts which are  taken to establish the amount other than the reporting  currency, arising due to the diﬀerence between forward  rate available at the reporting date for the remaining  maturity period and the contracted forward rate (or  the forward rate last used to measure a gain or loss on  the contract for an earlier period) are recognised in the  statement of proﬁt and loss for the year.
Other Derivative Instruments, not in the nature of AS  11, ‘The Eﬀects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’  The Company enters into various foreign currency  option contracts and interest rate swap contracts that  are not in the nature of forward contracts designated  under AS 11 as such and contracts that are not entered  to establish the amount of the reporting currency  required or available at the settlement date of a  transaction; to hedge its risks with respect to foreign  currency ﬂuctuations and interest rate exposure arising  out of foreign currency loan.
In accordance with the  ICAI announcement, at every year end, all outstanding  derivative contracts are fair valued on a mark-to- market basis and any loss on valuation is recognised in  the statement of proﬁt and loss, on each contract basis.
Any gain on mark-to-market valuation on respective  contracts is not recognised by the Company, keeping  in view the principle of prudence as enunciated in AS  1, ‘Disclosure of Accounting Policies’.
Any reduction in  fair values and any reversals of such reductions are  included in statement of proﬁt and loss of the year.
Embedded Derivative Instruments The Company occasionally enters into contracts,  that do not in their entirety meet the deﬁnition of a  derivative instrument, that may contain “embedded”  derivative instruments – implicit or explicit terms  that aﬀect some or all of the cash ﬂow or the value of  other exchanges required by the contract in a manner  similar to a derivative instrument.
The Company  assesses whether the economic characteristics and  risks of the embedded derivative are clearly and closely  related to the economic characteristics and risks of  the remaining component of the host contract and  whether a separate, non-embedded instrument with the  same terms as the embedded instrument would meet  the deﬁnition of a derivative instrument.
When it is  determined that (1) the embedded derivative possesses  economic characteristics and risks that are not clearly  and closely related to the economic characteristics and  risks of the host contract and (2) a separate, stand- alone instrument with the same terms would qualify  as a derivative instrument, the embedded derivative is  separated from the host contract, carried at fair value  as a trading or non-hedging derivative instrument.
At  every year end, all outstanding embedded derivative  instruments are fair valued on mark-to-market basis  and any loss on valuation is recognised in the statement  of proﬁt and loss for the year.
Any reduction in mark to  market valuations and reversals of such reductions are  included in statement of proﬁt and loss of the year.
T ranslation of Integral and Non-Integral Foreign  Operation The ﬁnancial statements of an integral foreign operation  are translated as if the transactions of the foreign  operation have been those of the Company itself.
In translating the ﬁnancial statements of a non- integral foreign operation for incorporation in ﬁnancial  statements, the assets and liabilities, both monetary  and non-monetary are translated at the closing rate;  income and expense items are translated at average  exchange rates prevailing during the year; and all  resulting exchange diﬀerences are accumulated in a  foreign currency translation reserve until the disposal  of the net investment.
3.14.
Employee Beneﬁts The Company’s post employment beneﬁts include  deﬁned beneﬁt plan and deﬁned contribution plans.
The Company also provides other beneﬁts in the form  of deferred compensation and compensated absences.
Under the deﬁned beneﬁt retirement plan, the Company  provides retirement obligation in the form of Gratuity.
Under the plan, a lump sum payment is made to eligible  employees at retirement or termination of employment  based on respective employee salary and years of  experience with the Company.
For deﬁned beneﬁt retirement plans, the diﬀerence  between the fair value of the plan assets and the present  value of the plan liabilities is recognised as an asset  or liability in the balance sheet.
Scheme liabilities are  calculated using the projected unit credit method and  applying the principal actuarial assumptions as at the  date of balance sheet.
Plan assets are assets that are  held by a long-term employee beneﬁt fund or qualifying  insurance policies.
All expenses in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt plans,  including actuarial gains and losses, are recognised in  the statement of proﬁt and loss as incurred.
The Company’s contributions to deﬁned contribution  plans are recognised in statement of proﬁt and loss  when the employee renders the related services.
The  Company has no further obligations under these plans  beyond its periodic contributions.
The distinction between short-term and long-term  employee beneﬁts is based on expected timing of  settlement rather than the employee’s entitlement  beneﬁts.
Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15132 The employees of the Company are entitled to  compensated absences based on the unavailed leave  balance as well as other long term beneﬁts.
The  Company records liability based on actuarial valuation  computed under projected unit credit method.
The  Company presents the liability for compensated  absences as a current liability in the balance sheet  as it does not have an unconditional right to defer its  settlement for 12 months after the reporting date.
3.15.
Share Based Compensation  The Company issues equity-settled and cash-settled  share-based options to certain employees.
These are  measured at fair value on the date of grant.
The fair value determined on the grant date of the equity  settled share based options is expensed over the vesting  period, based on the Company’s estimate of the shares  that will eventually vest.
The fair value determined on the grant date of the  cash settled share based options is expensed over the  vesting period, based on the Company’s estimates of the  shares that will eventually vest.
At the end of the each  reporting period, until the liability is settled, and at the  date of settlement, liability is re-measured at fair value,  with any changes in fair value pertaining to the vesting  period till the reporting date is recognised immediately  in proﬁt or loss.
Fair value is measured using Lattice-based option  valuation model, Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo  Simulation framework and is recognised as an expense,  together with a corresponding increase in equity/  liability, as appropriate, over the period in which the  options vest using the graded vesting method.
The  expected life used in the model is adjusted, based on  management’s best estimate, for the eﬀects of non- transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioral  considerations.
The expected volatility and forfeiture  assumptions are based on historical information.
Where the terms of a share-based compensation are  modiﬁed, the minimum expense recognised is the expense  as if the terms had not been modiﬁed, if the original  terms of the award are met.
An additional expense is  recognised for any modiﬁcation that increases the total  fair value of the share-based payment transaction, or is  otherwise beneﬁcial to the employee as measured at the  date of modiﬁcation.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated  as if it is vested on the date of cancellation, and any  expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised  immediately.
This includes any award where non- vesting conditions within the control of either the entity  or the employee are not met.
However, if a new award is  substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as  a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the  cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a  modiﬁcation of the original award, as described in the  previous paragraph.
All cancellations of equity-settled  transaction awards are treated equally.
3.16.
T axes  (i) Current Income tax   Current Income tax is measured at the amount  expected to be paid to the tax authorities in accordance  with Indian Income Tax Act, 1961.
The tax rates and  tax laws used to compute the amount are those that  are enacted or substantively enacted, by the reporting  date.
(ii) Deferred T ax   Deferred income taxes reﬂects the impact of current  year timing diﬀerences between taxable income and  accounting income for the year and reversal of timing  diﬀerences of earlier years.
Deferred tax is measured  based on the tax rates and the tax laws enacted or  substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent  that there is reasonable certainty that suﬃcient  future taxable income will be available against which  such deferred tax assets can be realised.
In situations,  where the Company has unabsorbed depreciation or  carry forward tax losses, all deferred tax assets are  recognised only if there is virtual certainty supported  by convincing evidence that they can be realised  against future taxable proﬁts.
In the situations where the Company is entitled  to a tax holiday under the Income-tax Act, 1961,  no deferred tax (asset or liability) is recognised in  respect of timing diﬀerences which reverse during  the tax holiday period.
Deferred tax in respect of  timing diﬀerences which reverse after the tax holiday  period is recognised in the year in which the timing  diﬀerences originate.
For recognition of deferred  taxes, the timing diﬀerences which originate ﬁrst are  considered to reverse ﬁrst.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is  reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to  the extent that it is no longer reasonably certain or  virtual certain, as the case may be, that suﬃcient  taxable proﬁt will be available to allow all or part of  the deferred tax asset to be realised.
At each balance sheet date, unrecognised deferred tax  assets of earlier years are re-assessed and recognised  to the extent that it has become reasonably or  virtually certain, as the case may be, that future  taxable income will be available against which such  deferred tax assets can be realised.
(iii) MAT Credit   Minimum Alternative Tax (MAT) credit is recognised  as an asset only when and to the extent there is  convincing evidence that the Company will pay  normal income tax during the speciﬁed period, i.e., the  period for which MAT credit is allowed to be carried  forward.
In the year in which the MAT credit becomes  eligible to be recognised as an asset in accordance  with the recommendations contained in Guidance  Note on Accounting for credit available in respect of  Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 133Standalone Financial Statements Minimum Alternative Tax under the Income Tax Act,  1961, the said asset is created by way of a credit to  the statement of proﬁt and loss account and shown  as MAT Credit Entitlement.
The Company reviews the  same at each balance sheet date and writes down  the carrying amount of MAT Credit Entitlement to  the extent there is no longer convincing evidence to  the eﬀect that Company will pay normal income tax  during the speciﬁed period.
3.17.
Segment Reporting (i)  Primary Segment   The Company operates in three primary business  segments viz.
Mobile Services, T elemedia Services  and Airtel Business.
(ii) Secondary Segment   The Company has operations serving customers  within India as well as in other countries located  outside India.
The operations in India constitute the  major part, which is the only reportable segment, the  remaining portion being attributable to others.
3.18.
Earnings Per Share  The earnings considered in ascertaining the Company’s  Earnings per Share (‘EPS’) comprise the net proﬁt after  tax attributable to equity shareholders.
The number  of shares used in computing basic EPS is the weighted  average number of shares outstanding during the  year.
The weighted average number of equity shares  outstanding during the year are adjusted for events of  bonus issue, bonus element in a rights issue to existing  shareholders, share split, and reverse share split  (consolidation of shares).
The diluted EPS is calculated  on the same basis as basic EPS, after adjusting for the  eﬀects of potential dilutive equity shares.
3.19.
Provisions and Contingencies  Provisions are recognised when the Company has a  present obligation as a result of past event, it is probable  that an outﬂow of resources embodying economic  beneﬁts will be required to settle the obligation and  a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the  obligation.
Provisions are not discounted to its present  value and are determined based on best estimate  required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet  date.
These estimates are reviewed at each balance sheet  date and adjusted to reﬂect the current best estimates.
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises  from past events whose existence will be conﬁrmed  by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more  uncertain future events not wholly within the control  of the Company or a present obligation that is not  recognised because it is not probable that an outﬂow  of resources embodying economic beneﬁts will be  required to settle the obligation or the amount of the  obligation cannot be measured with suﬃcient reliability.
Information on contingent liabilities is disclosed in the  notes to the ﬁnancial statements, unless the possibility  of an outﬂow of resources embodying economic beneﬁts  is remote.
3.20.
Multiple Element Contracts with Vendors  The Company enters into multiple element contracts  with vendors for supply of goods and rendering of  services.
The consideration paid is/may be determined  independent of the value of supplies received and  services availed.
Accordingly, the supplies and services  are accounted for based on their relative fair values to  the overall consideration.
The supplies with ﬁnite life  under such contracts are accounted as Tangible assets  or as Intangible assets in view of the substance of these  contracts and existence of economic ownership in these  assets.
3.21.
Expenditure incurred on Corporate Social  Responsibility (“CSR”) In accordance with the guidance issued by ICAI, ‘FAQ on  the provisions of CSR under Section 135 of the Companies  Act 2013 and Rules thereon’, the amount of expenditure  incurred on CSR is accounted as appropriation to  the statement of proﬁt and loss unless otherwise it is  incurred by the Company as part of the normal business  activity which also qualiﬁes for CSR activity, in which  case, it will continue to be charged to statement of proﬁt  and loss in the normal course.
4.
Information about Business Segments - Primary  Segment Deﬁnitions: The Company’s operating businesses are organized and  managed separately according to the nature of products  and services provided, with each segment representing  a strategic business unit that oﬀers diﬀerent products  and serves diﬀerent markets.
Mobile Services – These services cover voice and data  telecom services provided through wireless technology  in India (2G/3G/4G).
This includes the captive national  long distance networks which primarily provide  connectivity to the mobile services business in India.
This also includes intra city ﬁbre networks.
T elemedia Services – These services cover voice and  data communications based on ﬁxed network and  broadband technology.
Airtel Business –  These services cover end-to-end  telecom solutions being provided to large Indian and  global corporations by serving as a single point of  contact for all telecommunication needs across data and  voice (domestic as well as international long distance),  network integration and managed services.
Unallocated –  Unallocated includes other income,  proﬁts/ (losses), assets and liabilities of the Company  which are not allocated to the business segments and  is primarily related to the corporate headquarter of  the Company.
These also include current taxes (net of  provisions of tax), deferred taxes (net), MAT credit and  borrowings not allocated to the business segments.
Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15134 Summary of the Segmental Information for the year ended and as of March 31, 2015  (` Millions)  Particulars  Mobile  Services T elemedia  Services  Airtel  Business  Unallocated  Eliminations  T otal Revenue  Revenue from operations external  464,426  40,195  50,343  -    -    554,964  Inter segment revenue  18,508  849  8,955  -    (28,312)  -    T otal Revenue  482,934  41,044  59,298  -    (28,312)  554,964  Results  Segment Result- Proﬁt / (Loss)*  112,562  8,506  3,786  (4,004)  -    120,850  Finance costs (Income)*  (35,703) Proﬁt / (Loss) before tax  156,553  Provision for Tax  - Current Tax (including MAT Credit)  23,302  - Deferred Tax (Credit)/ Charge  1,246  Net Proﬁt / (Loss) after tax  132,005  Other Information  Capital Expenditure   228,213  7,598  6,356  452  (6,772)  235,847  Depreciation and amortisation   66,079  9,040  5,483  11  (5,016)  75,597  As of March 31, 2015 Segment Assets  632,821  29,103  32,356  531,308  -    1,225,588  Inter Segment Assets  435,337  76,880  90,661  -    (602,878)  -    MAT Credit             38,649      38,649  T otal Assets  1,068,158  105,983  123,017  569,957  (602,878)  1,264,237  Segment Liabilities**  337,154  8,774  29,484  94,877  -    470,289  Inter Segment Liabilities  48,602  42,556  41,464  470,256  (602,878)  -    Provision for Tax (Net of Advance Tax)           498      498  Deferred Tax Liability (net)              10,721      10,721  T otal Liabilities  385,756  51,330  70,948  576,352  (602,878)  481,508   *Segment result excludes ﬁnance income of `49,794 Mn, which is netted oﬀ from ﬁnance costs for the purpose of segment reporting     **Unallocated liabilities includes amount borrowed for the acquisition of 3G and BWA Licenses (including spectrum) of `8,153 Mn       Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 135Standalone Financial Statements Summary of the Segmental Information for the year ended and as of March 31, 2014  (` Millions)  Particulars  Mobile  Services  T elemedia  Services  Airtel  Business  Unallocated  Eliminations  T otal  Revenue  Revenue from operations external  415,484  36,243  47,458  -    -    499,185  Inter segment revenue  19,530  1,132  11,109  -    (31,771)  -    T otal revenues  435,014  37,375  58,567  -    (31,771)  499,185  Results  Segment Result- Proﬁt / (Loss)*  81,667  5,750  6,519  (1,844)  -    92,092  Finance costs (Income)*  6,247  Exceptional items #  2,071  Proﬁt / (Loss) before tax  83,774  Provision for Tax  - Current Tax (including MAT Credit)  19,800  - Deferred Tax (Credit)/ Charge  (2,028) Net Proﬁt / (Loss) after tax  66,002  Other Information  Capital Expenditure   96,945  8,747  5,639  160  (9,887)  101,604  Depreciation and amortisation   62,527  8,996  5,320  -    (4,530)  72,313  As of March 31, 2014 Segment Assets  462,946  29,753  30,922  424,928  -    948,549  Inter Segment Assets  322,048  38,392  63,058  28  (423,526)  -    Advance tax (Net of provision for tax)   2,855   2,855  MAT Credit  30,637   30,637  T otal Assets  784,994  68,145  93,980  458,448  (423,526)  982,041  Segment Liabilities**  154,462  8,384  25,227  117,213  -    305,286  Inter Segment Liabilities  46,424  12,988  18,236  345,878  (423,526)  -    Deferred Tax Liability (net)  9,475   9,475  T otal Liabilities  200,886  21,372  43,463  472,566  (423,526)  314,761   *Segment result excludes ﬁnance income of ` 7,117 Mn, which is netted oﬀ from ﬁnance costs for the purpose of segment reporting    **Unallocated liabilities includes amount borrowed for the acquisition of 3G & BWA Licenses (including Spectrum) of `36,400 Mn     # Exceptional items shown separately relates to reassessment of residual useful lives of certain assets [Refer Note 36 for details]    Notes: 1.
The Company prepares its segment information in conformity with the accounting policies adopted for preparing and presentin g the ﬁnancial statements of the  Company as a whole.
2.
Segment results represent proﬁt/(loss) before ﬁnance costs (net of ﬁnance income), exceptional items and tax.
3.
Capital expenditure represents gross additions, capital work-in-progress and capital advance given for acquiring tangible and intangible assets during the year.
4.
Segment assets include tangible, intangible, current and other non current assets and excludes non current investments, MAT credit, advance tax (net).
5.
Segment liabilities include current, non current liabilities and excludes provision for tax (net), deferred tax liabilities (net).
6.
Inter segment assets / liabilities represent the inter segment account balances.
7.
Inter segment revenue is accounted for on terms established by the management on arm’s length basis.
These transactions have been eliminated at the  Company level.
Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15136 Information about Geographical Segment – Secondary The Company has operations serving customers within India as well as located in other countries.
The information relating to  the geographical segments in respect of customers being served and assets within India, which is the only reportable segment,  the remaining portion being attributable to others, is presented below : (` Millions) Particulars  For the year ended  March 31, 2015  For the year ended  March 31, 2014 Segment Revenue from external customers based on geographical location of  customers  Within India  518,924  464,256  Others  36,040  34,929   554,964  499,185  Carrying amount of Segment Assets by geographical location of assets Within India  978,816  752,938  Others  285,421  229,103   1,264,237  982,041  Cost incurred during the year to acquire Segment Assets by geographical location  of assets Within India  234,197  100,832  Others  1,650  772   235,847  101,604  Notes: 1.
Segment assets include tangible, intangible, current and other non-current assets.
2.
Cost incurred during the year to acquire segment assets represents gross additions, capital work-in- progress and capital advance given for acquiring  tangible and intangible assets during the year.
5.
Share Capital     (` Millions)  Particulars As of  March 31, 2015 As of  March 31, 2014 Authorised shares 5,000,000,000 (March 31, 2014 - 5,000,000,000) equity shares of ` 5 each  25,000  25,000  Issued, Subscribed and fully paid-up shares 3,997,400,102 (March 31, 2014- 3,997,400,102) equity shares of ` 5 each  19,987  19,987   19,987  19,987   Note: 21,474,527 Equity shares of ` 10 each were alloted as fully paid-up shares upon the conversion of Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds (FCCBs) during  the ﬁnancial years from 2007-08 to 2009-10 (42,949,054 equity shares post share split of one equity share of ` 10 each into 2 equity shares of ` 5 each) Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 137Standalone Financial Statements a. Reconciliation of the equity shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year Particulars  For the year ended  March 31, 2015  For the year ended  March 31, 2014   No.
` Mn  No.
` Mn  At the beginning of the year  3,997,400,102  19,987  3,797,530,096  18,988  Issued during the year (refer note 37)  -  -  199,870,006  999  Outstanding at the end of the year  3,997,400,102  19,987  3,997,400,102  19,987  b. T erms/rights attached to equity shares  The Company has only one class of equity shares having par value of ` 5 per share.
Each holder of equity shares is entitled  to one vote per share.
The Company declares and pays dividend in Indian rupees.
The dividend proposed by the Board of  Directors is subject to approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
During the year ended March 31, 2015, the Board of Directors has proposed dividend of ` 2.22 per share (March 31, 2014  ` 1.80).
The Company, based on an independent legal opinion, had determined that provisions of the Companies Act, 2013  applies to the proposed dividend for the year ended March 31, 2014, as the same was declared and paid after April 1, 2014.
Since, Companies Act, 2013 does not mandate transfer of certain percentage of proﬁts to general reserve, the Company  has not transferred any amount to general reserve in respect of proposed dividend for the year ended March 31, 2014 and  March 31, 2015. c. Details of shareholders (as per  the register of shareholders) holding more than 5% shares in the Company Particulars   As of   March 31, 2015  As of  March 31, 2014  No.
% holding  No.
% holding  Equity shares of ` 5 each fully paid up Bharti T elecom Limited* 1,747,545,460 43.72% 1,745,595,460 43.67% Pastel Limited 591,319,300 14.79% 591,319,300 14.79% Indian Continent Investment Limited 265,860,986 6.65% 265,860,986 6.65% Life Insurance Corporation of India  -    -   207,987,846 5.20% Three Pillar Pte Limited 199,870,006 5.00%  199,870,006 5.00% *Holding as at March 31, 2014 does not include 1,950,000 shares credited to the demat account post March 31, 2014.
6.
Reserves and Surplus (` Millions)  Particulars As of     March 31, 2015 As of     March 31, 2014 Capital Reserve 51  51  Securities Premium Reserve Opening balance  107,936  40,896  Additions during the year  31  67,040  Closing balance  107,967  107,936  Revaluation Reserve  21  21  Employee Stock Options Outstanding  Opening balance  2,365  2,841  Add : Addition during the year  80  332  Less : Forfeiture/Exercise   1,689  808  Closing balance 756  2,365  Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15138 (` Millions)  Particulars As of     March 31, 2015 As of     March 31, 2014 Reserve for Business Restructuring 24,912 24,912 General Reserve Opening balance  27,043  26,973  Add : Adjustment on account of forfeiture of employee stock option  1,327  -    Add : Adjustment on account of exercise of stock options (shares  transferred to employees from shares purchased through open market)  82  70  Closing balance  28,452  27,043  Surplus in the Statement of Proﬁt and Loss Opening balance  484,965  426,780  Add : Proﬁt for the year  132,005  66,002  Amount available for appropriation  616,970  492,782  Appropriations : CSR expenses #  (411)  -    Dividend paid/ proposed (refer note 52)  (15,390)  (7,195) Tax on dividend paid/ proposed*  (586)  (622) Net surplus in the statement of proﬁt and loss  600,583  484,965  T otal  762,742  647,293  *Tax on dividend proposed is net of credit of ` 1,221 Mn (March 31, 2014 - ` 601 Mn) on account of dividend distribution tax on dividend from subsidiary  companies.
#As per the requirements of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 the Company was required to spend an amount of ` 1,400 Mn on Corporate Social  Responsibility expenditure for the ﬁnancial year 2014-15.
During the current ﬁnancial year, the Company has spent an amount of ` 411 Mn against Corporate  Social Responsibility expenditure.
7.
Long-term Borrowings     (` Millions)  Particulars As of   March 31, 2015 As of  March 31, 2014 Secured From Banks  18  10  From Others  1  4  T otal secured  19  14  Unsecured T erm Loans From Banks  19,265  54,876  From Others  46,843  35,228  T otal  66,108  90,104  Deferred payment liabilities towards spectrum  143,167  1,026  Finance lease obligations  144  -    T otal unsecured  209,419  91,130  Less: Current maturities (refer note 13) From Banks  5,822  12,642  From Others  7,306  13,128  5,785  18,427  Finance lease obligations  43  -     196,267  72,717  Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 139Standalone Financial Statements a.
Secured borrowings represent vehicle loans which are secured by hypothecation of vehicles of the Company.
b.
Details relating to maturity proﬁle, interest rate and currency of long term borrowings (` Millions) Currency of borrowings Rate of Interest  (Weighted  average)  As of   March 31, 2015   Maturity Proﬁle  Within  one year   between  one and two  years   between  two and ﬁve  years   over ﬁve  years   INR 10.08%  163,483  5,240  18,245  27,751  112,247   USD 1.25%  45,955  7,931  6,874  14,618  16,532  T otal  209,438  13,171  25,119  42,369  128,779  (` Millions) Currency of borrowings Rate of Interest  (Weighted  average)  As of   March 31, 2014   Maturity Proﬁle  Within  one year   between  one and two  years   between  two and ﬁve  years   over ﬁve  years   INR 10.30%  59,439  11,656  15,755  23,028  9,000   USD 1.08%  31,705  6,771  5,529  10,493  8,912  T otal 7.06%  91,144  18,427  21,284  33,521  17,912  c.  The borrowings of ` 209,438 Mn outstanding as of March 31,2015, comprising various loans, are repayable in total 15  quarterly installments, 840 half yearly installments and 15 yearly installments (borrowings of ` 91,144 Mn outstanding as  of March 31, 2014, comprising various loans, are repayable in total 559 half yearly instalments and 5 yearly installments).
8.
T axes i)  Deferred tax liabilities (Net) (` Millions) Particulars As of  March 31, 2015 As of  March 31, 2014 Deferred T ax Liabilities Depreciation claimed as deduction under Income Tax Act but chargeable in  the statement of proﬁt and loss in future years  29,839  25,790  Gross Deferred T ax Liabilities  29,839  25,790  Less: Deferred T ax Assets Provision for doubtful debts/advances charged in the statement of proﬁt and  loss but allowed as deduction under the Income Tax Act in future years (to  the extent considered realisable)  7,178  5,900  Lease rent equalization charged in the statement of proﬁt and loss but  allowed as deduction under the Income Tax Act in future years on actual  payment basis  5,676  4,842  Foreign exchange ﬂuctuation and mark to market losses charged in the  statement of proﬁt and loss but allowed as deduction under the Income Tax  Act in future years (by way of depreciation and actual realisation)  4,384  3,910  Other expenses claimed as deduction in the statement of proﬁt and loss but  allowed as deduction under Income Tax Act in future year on actual payment  (Net)  1,880  1,663  Gross Deferred T ax Assets  19,118  16,315  Deferred T ax Liabilities (Net)  10,721  9,475  Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15140 ii)  T ax expense  (a)  MAT credit includes income of ` 364 Mn (March 31,  2014 – ` 180 Mn), current tax includes income of  ` Nil (March 31, 2014- income of ` 1,384 Mn) and  deferred tax includes income of ` 82 Mn (March 31,  2014 – expense of ` 76 Mn) relating to earlier years.
(b) During the year ended March 31, 2015, the Company  had recognised additional tax charge of ` 188 Mn  (March 31, 2014 ` Nil) on account of change in tax  rate from 33.99% to 34.61% as proposed in the  Finance Bill, 2015.
9.
Other Long-term Liabilities (` Millions) Particulars As of  March 31,  2015 As of  March 31,  2014 Security deposit  received#  2,722  2,848  Equipment supply payable  452  2,287  Deferred revenue  15,535  13,433  Lease rent equalization  18,378  16,074  Others*  4,949  4,752   42,036  39,394    #Security deposit received represents refundable security deposits  received from subscribers on activation of connections granted thereto  and are repayable on disconnection, net of outstanding, if any and  security deposits received from channel partners.
T rade receivables  are secured to the extent of the amount outstanding against individual  subscribers by way of security deposit received from them.
*Others as of March 31, 2015 includes ` 4,104 Mn (March 31, 2014 ` 4,104  Mn) payable to Qualcomm Asia Paciﬁc Pte.
Limited towards purchase of  balance equity shares upon satisfaction of certain conditions as per the  share purchase agreement for acquisition of Airtel Broadband Services  Private Limited (formerly know as Wireless Business Services Private  Limited) (refer note 38 (i)).
10.
Long-term Provisions (` Millions) Particulars As of  March 31,  2015 As of  March 31,  2014 Provision for employee  beneﬁts (refer note 40) Provision for gratuity  1,137  1,269  Provision for  long  term service award  86  105   1,223  1,374  Other provisions Provision for asset  retirement obligation  746  721   1,969  2,095  The Company uses various premises on lease to install  its equipments.
A provision is recognised for the costs  to be incurred for restoration of these premises at the  end of the lease period.
It is expected that this provision  will be utilized at the end of the lease period of the  respective sites as per the respective lease agreements.
The movement of provision in accordance with AS–29  Provisions, Contingent liabilities and Contingent Assets’,  is given below: (` Millions) Particulars  For the   year ended  March 31,  2015  For the    year ended   March 31,  2014 Opening balance  721  440  Addition (net)  25  281  Closing balance  746  721  Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 141Standalone Financial Statements 11.
Short-term Borrowings    (` Millions)  Particulars As of  March 31, 2015 As of  March 31, 2014 (Unsecured unless stated otherwise) Loans From banks  6,259  12,510   6,259  12,510  a.
Details relating to interest rate and currency of borrowings    (` Millions) Currency of Borrowings  As of March 31, 2015  As of March 31, 2014   Rate of Interest  (Weighted  average)   Amount  outstanding   Rate of Interest  (Weighted  average)   Amount  outstanding   INR  -    -   9.96%  6,500   USD 0.43%  6,259 0.81%  6,010   T otal 0.43%  6,259 5.56%  12,510  b.
The borrowings of ` 6,259 Mn outstanding as of March 31, 2015, comprising various loans, are repayable in 2 instalments  (borrowings of ` 12,510 Mn outstanding as of March 31, 2014, comprising various loans, are repayable in 4 bullet instalments).
12.
T rade Payables    (` Millions)  Particulars As of  March 31, 2015 As of  March 31, 2014 Dues to Micro and Small Enterprises *  10  38 T rade payables other than dues to Micro and Small Enterprises **  71,222  62,625   71,232  62,663   * refer note 47 for details of dues to Micro and Small Enterprises  ** amount payable to related parties ` 13,912 Mn (March 31, 2014 ` 12,961 Mn) (refer note 48) 13.
Other Current Liabilities  (` Millions)  Particulars As of   As of    March 31, 2015 March 31, 2014 Deferred revenue  29,246  22,780  Equipment supply payables  53,664  30,633  Payable to others*  37,149  27,616  Advance received from customers  1,445  1,440  Current maturities of long term debt (refer note 7)  13,128  18,427  Current maturities of ﬁnance lease obligations (refer note 7)  43  -    Interest accrued but not due on borrowings  267  315  Other taxes payable*  4,686  4,166  Unpaid dividends 35  33  Other liabilities  1,012  1,044  T otal  140,675  106,454    *Payable to others and Other taxes payable include provision of ` 27,843 Mn as of March 31, 2015 and ` 22,097 Mn as of March 31, 2014 towards sub judice  matters.
Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15142 14.
Short-term Provisions  (` Millions)  Particulars As of   As of    March 31, 2015 March 31, 2014 Provision for employee beneﬁts (refer note 40) Provision for Gratuity  450  241  Provision for Leave Encashment  720  794  T otal  1,170  1,035  Others Provision for Income Tax (net of advance tax of ` 139,277 Mn (March 31,  2014 ` Nil Mn) and includes ` 583 Mn TDS receivable provided for (March  31, 2014 is Nil Mn))#  498  -    Proposed Dividend (refer note 52)  8,874  7,195  Tax on Dividend  1,807  1,223  T otal  11,179  8,418   12,349  9,453   # Reversal of MAT credit utilisation of ` 222 Mn (March 31, 2014 utilisation of ` Nil) adjusted with Provision for tax.
15.
T angible Assets  (` Millions)  Particulars Leasehold  Land Freehold  Land Building Plant and  Equipment Furniture  and  Fixtures Vehicles Oﬃce  Equipment Computer* Leasehold  improvements T otal Cost As of April 1, 2013  414  1,302  5,931  508,384  1,440  276  3,203  26,477  4,227  551,654  Additions  -  50  303  38,726  54  11  554  2,247  252  42,197  Disposals / adjustment  -  (38)  (156)  (10,594)  (81)  (34)  (735)  (727)  (65)  (12,430) Reclassiﬁcation  (3)  (2)  (22)  163  -  -  -  (3)  (162)  (29) As of March 31, 2014  411  1,312  6,056  536,679  1,413  253  3,022  27,994  4,252  581,392  Additions  -  38  416  73,923  189  53  666  1,062  208  76,555  Disposals / adjustment  -  -  -  (5,501)  (2)  (25)  (27)  (36)  (44)  (5,635) Reclassiﬁcation  -  -  (5)  17  -  -  1  (1)  -  12  As of March 31, 2015 411  1,350  6,467  605,118  1,600  281  3,662  29,019  4,416  652,324  Accumulated Depreciation As of April 1, 2013  28  -  1,691  255,644  1,178  214  2,372  23,696  2,469  287,292  Charge for the year #  7  -  294  57,737  113  21  386  2,048  477  61,083  Disposals / adjustment  -  -  (79)  (6,066)  (74)  (18)  (665)  (709)  (47)  (7,658) Reclassiﬁcation  -  -  (12)  157  -  -  (1)  7  (158)  (7) As of March 31, 2014  35  -    1,894  307,472  1,217  217  2,092  25,042  2,741  340,710  Charge for the year #  5  -  326  56,793  116  17  409  1,756  473  59,895  Disposals / adjustment  -  -  -  (4,708)  (2)  (19)  (24)  (35)  (44)  (4,832) Reclassiﬁcation  -  -  3  (7)  2  1  (1)  3  (2)  (1) As of March 31, 2015  40  -    2,223  359,550  1,333  216  2,476  26,766  3,168  395,772  Net Carrying Amount As of April 1, 2013  386  1,302  4,240  252,740  262  62  831  2,781  1,758  264,362  As of March 31, 2014  376  1,312  4,162  229,207  196  36  930  2,952  1,511  240,682  As of March 31, 2015  371  1,350  4,244  245,568  267  65  1,186  2,253  1,248  256,552   *With respect to assets where the Company has economic ownership, refer note 3.20.
#Includes exceptional items of ` Nil (March 31, 2014 ` 2,071 Mn) with respect to Plant and Equipment (refer note 36) Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 143Standalone Financial Statements a.  Freehold Land and Building includes ` 4 Mn (March 31, 2014 ` 4 Mn) and ` 13 Mn (March 31, 2014 ` 13 Mn) respectively, in respect of which registration of title in  favour of the Company is pending b.
Building includes building on leashold land: (` Millions) Gross Block Depreciation  Net Block  Particulars As of   April 1,  2014 Additions Disposals /  adjustment   Reclassiﬁcation As of  March 31,  2015 As of   April 1,  2014 Charge for  the year Disposals /  adjustment Reclassiﬁcation As of  March 31,  2015  As of  March 31,  2015   As of  March  31, 2014  Building on  leasehold land  2,676  -    -    -    2,676  667  146  -    -    813  1,863  2,009  (` Millions) Gross Block Depreciation  Net Block  Particulars As of   April 1,  2013 Additions Disposals /  adjustment   Reclassiﬁcation As of  March 31,  2014 As of   April 1,  2013 Charge for  the year Disposals /  adjustment Reclassiﬁcation As of  March 31,  2014  As of  March 31,  2014   As of  March 31,  2013  Building on  leasehold land  2,685  16  (25)  -    2,676  570  104  (7)  -    667  2,009  2,115  c. Reclassiﬁcation includes reclass of assets between category of assets.
` 12 Mn and ` (1) Mn gross block and accumulated depreciation respectively, has been  reclassiﬁed mainly from intangible assets to tangible assets during the year ended March 31, 2015 and ` 29 Mn and ` 7 Mn gross block and accumulated depreciation  respectively, has been reclassiﬁed mainly from tangible assets to intangible assets during the year ended March 31, 2014. d. Capital work in progress includes goods in transit ` 6,017 Mn (March 31, 2014 ` 1,718 Mn).
e. Refer note 10, 41 and 49 for ARO, jointly owned assets and assets given on operating lease, respectively.
Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15144 16. i) Intangible Assets  (` Millions)  Particulars Software* Bandwidth Licenses  and  Spectrum Other  acquired  intangibles T otal Cost As of April 1, 2013  10,701  19,759  179,947  -  210,407  Additions  3,024  925  -  -  3,949  Disposals / adjustment  -  -  (34)  -  (34) Reclassiﬁcation  -  29  -  -  29  As of March 31, 2014  13,725  20,713  179,913  -    214,351  Additions  1,239  3,485  128,618  2,165  135,507  Disposals / adjustment **  -  -  (1,300)  -  (1,300) Reclassiﬁcation  -  (12)  -  -  (12) As of March 31, 2015  14,964  24,186  307,231  2,165  348,546  Accumulated Amortisation As of April 1, 2013  7,159  6,146  29,638  -  42,943  Charge for the year  2,505  1,374  9,422  -  13,301  Disposals / adjustment  -  -  -  -  -  Reclassiﬁcation  7  -  -  -  7  As of March 31, 2014  9,671  7,520  39,060  -    56,251  Charge for the year  2,301  1,506  11,462  433  15,702  Disposals / adjustment **  -    -    (1,300)  -    (1,300) Reclassiﬁcation  -  1  -  -  1  As of March 31, 2015  11,972  9,027  49,222  433  70,654  Net Carrying Amount As of April 1, 2013  3,542  13,613  150,309  -  167,464  As of March 31, 2014  4,054  13,193  140,853  -  158,100  As of March 31, 2015  2,992  15,159  258,009  1,732  277,892  * With respect to assets where the Company has economic ownership, refer note 3.20.
** Gross block and amortisation of licenses have been oﬀ set upon being fully amortised.
a.
Weighted average remaining amortisation period of  license as of March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014 is 17.37  years and 16.14 years, respectively.
b.
Borrowing cost capitalised during the year ended March  31, 2015 was ` 1,083 Mn (March 31, 2014 ` Nil).
The  Company capitalises borrowing cost in the Intangible  assets under development.
c. Reclassiﬁcation includes reclass of assets between  category of assets.
` 12 Mn and ` (1) Mn gross block  and accumulated depreciation respectively, has been  reclassiﬁed mainly from intangible assets to tangible  assets during the year ended March 31, 2015 and ` 29 Mn  and ` 7 Mn gross block and accumulated depreciation  respectively, has been reclassiﬁed mainly from tangible  assets to intangible assets during the year ended March  31, 2014. ii)  Intangible Assets Under Development   Intangible assets under development includes the amount of spectrum allotted to the Company and related costs (including  borrowing costs capitalised under AS 16 – “Borrowing Costs”), if any, for which services are yet to be rolled out.
Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 145Standalone Financial Statements 17.
Non-current Investments  (` Millions)  Particulars  As of  March 31, 2015   As of  March 31, 2014   T rade investments (at cost) Investment in Equity Instruments  Investment in Subsidiaries 1) Bharti Hexacom Limited: 175,000,000 (March 31, 2014 - 175,000,000)  Equity shares of ` 10 each fully paid up  5,718  5,718  2) Bharti Airtel Services Limited: 100,000 (March 31, 2014 - 100,000)      Equity shares of ` 10 each fully paid up.
1  1  3) Bharti Airtel (USA) Limited: 300 (March 31, 2014 - 300)  Equity shares of USD .0001 each fully paid up.
509  509  4) Bharti Airtel (UK) Limited:123,663 (March 31, 2014 - 123,663)  Equity shares of GBP 1 each fully paid up  101  101  5) Bharti Airtel (Hongkong) Limited: 4,959,480 (March 31, 2014 -  4,959,480) Equity shares of HKD 1 each fully paid up  26  26  6) Bharti Airtel (Canada) Limited: 75,100 (March 31, 2014 - 75,100)  Equity shares of Canadian Dollar (CAD) 1 each fully paid up.
3  3  7) Network i2i Limited: 52,227,896  (March 31, 2014 - 52,227,896)  Equity shares of USD 1 each fully paid up.
7,925  7,925  8) Bharti Infratel Limited: 1,360,000,000 (March 31, 2014 -1,500,000,000)  Equity shares of ` 10 each fully paid up.
(refer note 38 (vi))  74,511  82,182  9) Bharti T elemedia Limited: 9,690,000 (March 31, 2014 - 9,690,000)  Equity shares of ` 10 each fully paid up.
115  115  10) Bharti Airtel Lanka (Private) Limited: 26,126,080,053 (March 31, 2014 -  525,596,420) Equity shares of SLR 10 each fully paid up (refer note 38  (ii))  13,096  2,049  11) Bharti Airtel Holdings (Singapore) Pte Limited: 1 (March 31, 2014 - 1)  Equity share of Singapore Dollar (SGD) 1 each fully paid up and  338,642,771 (March 31, 2014 - 338,642,771) Equity shares of (USD) 1  each fully paid up  15,475  15,475  12) Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Ltd: 1,699,970,000 (March 31,  2014 - 1,044,970,000) shares of USD 1 each fully paid up (refer note 38  (iv))  97,570  57,639  13) Airtel M Commerce Services Limited: 290,000,000  (March 31, 2014 -  255,000,000) Equity shares of ` 10 each fully paid up.
(refer note 38  (iii))  2,900  2,550  14) Bharti International (Singapore) Pte.
Ltd: 593,739,000 (March 31, 2014 -  593,739,000) Equity shares of USD 1 each fully paid up.
33,035  33,035  15) Bharti Airtel  International (Netherlands) B.V.: 908,443,919 (March 31,  2014 - 908,443,919) Equity shares of EURO 1 each fully paid up.
67,354  67,354  16) T elesonic Networks Limited (formerly known as Alcatel-Lucent  Network Management Service India Ltd) 89,230,796 (March 31, 2014 -  89,230,796) Equity shares of ` 10 each fully paid up.
91  91  17) Nxtra Data Limited:  5,050,000 (March 31, 2014 - 5,050,000) Equity  shares of ` 10 each fully paid up  51  51  18) Airtel Broadband Services Private Limited (formerly known as Wireless  Business Services Private Limited): 5,667,137,909 (March 31, 2014 -  5,667,137,909) Equity shares of ` 10 each fully paid up.
(refer note 38 (i))  65,270  65,270  19) Wynk Limited: 50,000 (March 31, 2014 -Nil) Equity shares of ` 10 each  fully paid up (refer note 38 (viii))  1  -    Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15146  (` Millions)  Particulars  As of  March 31, 2015   As of  March 31, 2014   Investment in Joint Ventures 1) Bridge Mobile PTE Limited: 800,000 (March 31, 2014- 2,200,000)  Equity shares of USD 1 each fully paid up.
(refer note 38 (vii))  34  92  2) FireFly Networks Limited: 1,000,000  (March 31, 2014- Nil)  Equity shares of USD 1 each fully paid up.
(refer note 38 (v))  10 - Investment in Associates 1) Bharti T eleport Limited ; 11,270,000 (March 31, 2014- 11,270,000  Equity shares of ` 10 each fully paid up.
113  113  Investment in other equity Instrument 1) IFFCO Kissan Sanchar Limited : 100,000 (March 31, 2014- 100,000)  Equity  Shares of ` 10 each fully paid up.
50  50   383,959  340,349  Other investments (at cost) "Investment in Government Securities - National Savings Certiﬁcate   (Un-quoted) : 18 units (March 31, 2014 - 18 units)"  2  2  Less: Provision for diminution in value of investments  3  3   383,958  340,348  Aggregate value of Unquoted Investments  309,450  258,169  Aggregate value of Quoted Investments  74,511  82,182  Aggregate Market value of Quoted Investments  523,600  305,100  Aggregate provision for diminution in value of investments  3  3  18.
Long-term Loans and Advances        (` Millions)  Particulars  As of  March 31, 2015    As of   March 31, 2014 Unsecured, considered good unless stated otherwise Capital Advances   Considered good*  77  54,519  Considered doubtful  184  106  Less: Provision for doubtful advances  (184)  (106)  77  54,519   Security Deposit   Considered good**  10,015  9,005   Considered doubtful  525  723   Less: Provision for doubtful deposit  (525)  10,015  (723)  9,005   Loans and advances to related parties (refer note 48)   39,640  51,019   MAT Credit Entitlement#  38,649  30,637   88,381  145,180   *Includes advance payments of ` Nil towards spectrum (March 31, 2014 – ` 53,304 Mn (refer note 38(ix))  **Includes security deposit/advance with/to related parties ` 6,950 Mn (March 31, 2014 – ` 7,308 Mn) (refer note 48)  #Reversal of MAT credit utilisation of ` 222 Mn (March 31, 2014 utilisation of ` 2,604 Mn) adjusted with Provision for tax.
Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 147Standalone Financial Statements 19.
Other Non-current Assets    (` Millions)  Particulars As of  March 31, 2015 As of  March 31, 2014 Unsecured, considered good, unless stated otherwise  Non-current bank balances (refer note 23)  529  493  Advances *  16,959  15,704  Unamortised upfront fees and Deferred Premium  1,627  1,704  T rade receivable-non-current  106  -     19,221  17,901    *Advances represent payments made to various Government authorities under protest and are disclosed net of provision of ` 27,362 Mn (March 31, 2014 ` 20,199 Mn) 20.
Current Investments   (` Millions)  Particulars As of  March 31, 2015 As of  March 31, 2014 Current investment (at lower of cost and fair market value) Investment in Mutual Funds  47,194  4,865  Investment in Deposits and Bonds  17  26   47,211  4,891  Aggregate value of Unquoted Investments  17  26  Aggregate value of Quoted Investments  47,194  4,865  Aggregate Market Value of Quoted Investments  47,550  4,881  Aggregate provision for diminution in value of investments  -    -      Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15148 Details of investments are provided below:          (` Millions, except as stated otherwise) Particulars    As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014   (No.
of Units)   Amount  (No.
of Units)   Amount  Investment in Mutual Funds (Quoted) Axis Liquid Fund - Growth  650,426  1,000  405,484  575  Baroda Pioneer T reasury Advantage Fund  Plan A - Growth  -    -    86,357  127  Birla Sun Life Cash Plus -  Growth - Regular Plan  -    -    5,948,101  1,221  L&T Liquid Fund - Growth  1,104,487  2,105  -    -    HDFC Liquid Fund - Premium Plan - Growth  31,886,747  872  -    -    HDFC Cash management Fund saving Plan Growth  82,662,081  2,400  -    -    ICICI Prudential Institutional Liquid Plan - Super  Institutional Growth  14,605,888  3,000  335,693  64  IDFC Cash Fund - Growth-(Regular Plan)  2,647,900  4,453  -    -    JM High Liquidity Fund  - Growth Option  117,989,703  4,466  -    -    JP Morgan India Liquid Fund Super Institutional Growth  69,186,380  1,250  18,484,749  306  Kotak Floater Short T erm - Growth  1,812,276  4,120  -    -    Kotak Liquid Scheme Plan A - Growth  343,026  966  -    -    BOI AXA Liquid Fund  -    -    69,211  100  Pramerica Liquid Fund - Growth  412,450  609  125,259  170  Reliance Liquidity Fund-Growth Option  242,935  508  35,475  68  Reliance Liquid Cash Plan Growth Option Fund  293,865  1,000  -    -    Religare Liquid Fund - Super Institutional Growth  943,091  1,800  417,082  733  Tata Liquid Fund Plan A - Growth  1,016,663  2,600  -    -    Tata Money Market Fund Plan A - Growth  1,742,473  3,801  249,461  502  SBI Premier Liquid Fund - Direct Plan - Growth  454,995  1,000  -    -    SBI Megnum Insta Cash Fund  573,778  1,770  -    -    UTI Liquid Cash Plan Institutional - Growth Option  -    -    476,781  1,000  Principal Cash Management - Regular Plan - Growth  1,717,915  2,311  -    -    Sundram Money Fund  56,132,271  1,650  -    -    Taurus Mutual Fund  1,903,627  2,835  -    -    Franklin India T reasury Management Account  400,595  828  -    -    LIC NOMURA MF Liquid Fund - Growth Plan  733,879  1,850  -    -    T otal 389,457,451  47,194  26,633,653  4,865  Investment in Deposits and Bonds (Unquoted) India Innovation Fund  70  7  64  6  7.30% REC Secured Bonds 2015  10  10  20  20  T otal 80  17  84  26  21.
Inventories (valued at lower of cost and net realisable value)  (` Millions)  Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015  As of    March 31, 2014  Stock-In-T rade* 94  11  T otal 94 11 * Net of provision for diminution in value ` 483 Mn (March 31, 2014 ` 411 Mn)  Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 149Standalone Financial Statements 22.
T rade Receivables  (` Millions)  Particulars  As of March 31, 2015  As of   March 31, 2014 Unsecured, unless stated otherwise Receivables outstanding for a period  exceeding six months from the date they are  due for payment Considered good  2,522  229  Considered doubtful  6,244  10,369  Less: Provision for doubtful receivables  (6,244)  2,522  (10,369)  229  Other receivables Considered good  30,549  21,426  Considered doubtful  9,985  3,162  Less: Provision for doubtful receivables  (9,985)  30,549  (3,162)  21,426  Lease  receivable ﬁnance lease  39  -     33,110  21,655    Refer note 9 on security deposit.
Includes amount receivable from related party ` 2,224 Mn (March 31, 2014 ` 1,785 Mn) (refer note 48) 23.
Cash and Bank Balances  (` Millions)  Particulars As of  March 31, 2015 As of  March 31, 2014 Cash and cash equivalents  Balances with banks  - On current accounts  878  875  - Bank deposits with original maturity of 3 months or less  2,700  3,300  - On unpaid dividend account  35  33  Cheques on hand   222  228  Cash on hand  52  22   3,887  4,458  Other bank balances  Bank deposits with original maturity of more than 3 months but less than  12 months   -    2  Bank deposits with original maturity of more than 12 months  6  7  Margin money deposit  523  486   529  495  Less: Amount disclosed under non-current assets (refer note 19)  529  493  T otal  3,887  4,460  Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15150 24.
Short-term Loans and Advances            (` Millions)  Particulars  As of    March 31, 2015  As of  March 31, 2014   Unsecured, considered good unless stated  otherwise Loans and advances to related parties (refer note 48)   40,552  12,510  Advances recoverable in cash or kind  Considered good  6,863  3,645  Considered doubtful  2,233  1,793  Less: Provision for doubtful advances  (2,233)  6,863  (1,793)  3,645  Balances with customs, excise and other authorities  6,527  5,208  Advance Tax [net of provision for tax of ` Nil  (March 31, 2014 ` 108,461 Mn) and net of ` Nil Mn  TDS receivable provided for (March 31, 2014 ` 419  Mn)]#   -    2,855   53,942  24,218   # MAT credit of ` Nil (March 31, 2014 – ` 2,604 Mn) has been utilized during the year ended March 31, 2015 and adjusted with Provision for tax.
25.
Other Current Assets    (` Millions)  Particulars As of  March 31, 2015 As of  March 31, 2014 Unsecured, considered good, unless stated otherwise  Unbilled revenue  7,490  10,715   Interest accured on loan given to related parties (refer note 48)  1,154  682   Unamortised upfront fees and deferred premium  650  704   Others  26  52   9,320  12,153  26.
Contingent Liabilities  (i) T otal Guarantees outstanding as of March 31, 2015  amounting to ` 101,379 Mn (March 31, 2014 – ` 57,582  Mn) have been issued by banks and ﬁnancial institutions  on behalf of the Company.
These guarantees include  certain ﬁnancial bank guarantees which have been given  for subjudice matters and in compliance with licensing  conditions, the amount with respect to these have been  disclosed under capital commitments, contingencies  and liabilities, as applicable, in compliance with the  applicable accounting standards.
Corporate Guarantees outstanding as of March 31, 2015  amounting to ` 857,497 Mn (March 31, 2014 - ` 770,121  Mn) have been given to banks, ﬁnancial institutions and  third parties on behalf of Group Companies at no cost to  the latter.
(ii) Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debt  (excluding cases where the possibility of any outﬂow in  settlement is remote): Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 151Standalone Financial Statements a) Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debt:       (` Millions)  Particulars  As of   March 31, 2015  As of   March 31, 2014 (i) Taxes, Duties and Other demands (under adjudication / appeal / dispute) -Sales Tax and Service Tax   11,120  10,463  -Income Tax  16,335  16,651  -Customs Duty  4,254  4,463  -Entry Tax  4,221  3,676  -Stamp Duty 411  359  -Municipal Taxes  122  122  -DoT demands *  4,766  2,487  -Other miscellaneous demands  59  59  (ii) Claims under legal cases including arbitration matters -Access Charges / Port Charges  6,952  5,781  -Others  562  557  T otal  48,802  44,618   *in addition, refer note (g) (vi), (g) (vii) and (g) (viii) below for DoT matters.
Unless otherwise stated below, the management based on legal advice, believes that, the outcome of these contingencies will be  favorable and that a loss is  not probable.
b) Sales T ax and Service T ax  Sales T ax   The claims for sales tax as of March 31, 2015 comprised  the cases relating to: i. the appropriateness of the declarations made  by the Company under the relevant sales tax  legislations which was primarily procedural in  nature;  ii.
the applicable sales tax on disposals of certain  property and equipment items;  iii.
lease circuit / broadband connectivity services;  iv.
the applicability of sales tax on sale of SIM cards,  SIM replacements, VAS, Handsets and Modem  rentals; v. In the State of J&K, the Company has disputed the  levy of General Sales Tax on its telecom services  and towards which the Company has received  a stay from the Hon’ble J&K High Court.
The  demands received to date have been disclosed  under contingent liabilities.
Service T ax  The service tax demands as of March 31, 2015 relate to: i. cenvat claimed on tower and related material, ii.
levy of service tax on SIM cards, iii.
cenvat credit disallowed for procedural lapses and  inadmissibility of credit,  iv.
disallowance of cenvat credit used in excess of 20%  limit, and  v. employee talk time c) Income tax    Income tax demands under appeal mainly included the  appeals ﬁled by the Company before various appellate  authorities against the disallowance by the income tax  authorities of certain expenses being claimed, non- deduction of tax at source with respect to dealers/ distributor’s margin and non-deduction of tax on  payments to international operators for access charges,  etc.
d) Custom Duty   The custom authorities, in some states, demanded  custom duty for the imports of special software on  the ground that this would form part of the hardware  on which it was pre-loaded at the time of import.
The  view of the Company is that such imports should not be  subject to any custom duty as it would be an operating  software exempt from any custom duty.
In response to  the application ﬁled by the Company, the Hon’ble CESTAT  has passed an order in favour of the custom authorities.
The Company has ﬁled an appeal with Hon’ble Supreme  Court against the CESTAT order.
e) Entry T ax   In certain states an entry tax is levied on receipt of  material from outside the state.
This position has been  challenged by the Company in the respective states, on  the grounds that the speciﬁc entry tax is ultra vires the  Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15152 Constitution.
Classiﬁcation issues have also been raised  whereby, in view of the Company, the material proposed  to be taxed is not covered under the speciﬁc category.
f) Access Charges (Interconnect Usage Charges)/Port  Charges (i)  Interconnect charges are based on the Interconnect  Usage Charges (IUC) agreements between the operators  although the IUC rates are governed by the IUC  guidelines issued by T elecom Regulatory Authority  of India (TRAI).
BSNL has raised a demand requiring  the Company to pay the interconnect charges at the  rates contrary to the regulations issued by TRAI.
The  Company ﬁled a petition against that demand with the  T elecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate T ribunal  (‘TDSAT’) which passed a status quo order, stating that  only the admitted amounts based on the regulations  would need to be paid by the Company.
The ﬁnal order  was also passed in our favour.
BSNL has challenged the  same in Hon’ble Supreme Court.
However, no stay has  been granted.
(ii)  In another proceeding with respect to Distance Based  Carriage Charges, the Hon’ble TDSAT in its order dated  May 21, 2010, allowed BSNL appeal praying to recover  distance based carriage charges.
On ﬁling of appeal by  the telecom operators, Hon’ble Supreme Court asked  the telecom operators to furnish details of distance- based carriage charges owed by them to BSNL.
Further,  in a subsequent hearing held on August 30, 2010 Hon’ble  Supreme Court sought the quantum of amount in dispute  from all the operators as well as BSNL and directed both  BSNL and private telecom operators to furnish Call Data  Records (CDRs) to TRAI.
The CDRs have been furnished  to TRAI.
(iii)  In another issue with respect to Port Charges, in 2001,  TRAI had prescribed slab based rate of port charges  payable by private operators which were subsequently  reduced in the year 2007 by TRAI.
On BSNL’s appeal,  TDSAT passed it’s judgement in favour of BSNL, and held  that the pre-2007 rates shall be applicable prospectively  from May 29, 2010.
The rates were further revised  downwards by TRAI in 2012.
On BSNL’s appeal, TDSAT  declined to stay the revised regulation.
Further, the Hon’ble Supreme Court vide its judgement  dated December 6, 2013, passed in another matter,  held that TRAI is empowered to issue regulations on  any matter under Section 11(1)(b) of TRAI Act and the  same cannot be challenged before TDSAT .
Accordingly,  all matters raised before TDSAT , wherein TDSAT had  interfered in Appeal and passed judgements, do not have  any signiﬁcance.
However, parties can ﬁle Writ Petitions  before High Court challenging such regulations.
The Company believes that the above said judgement  has further strengthened the position of the Company  on many issues with respect to Regulations which had  been in its favour and impugned before TDSAT .
g) Department of T elecommunications (‘DoT’) Demands i) The Company has not been able to meet its roll out  obligations fully due to certain non-controllable factors  like T elecommunication Engineering Centre testing,  Standing Advisory Committee of Radio Frequency  Allocations clearance, non availability of spectrum, etc.
The Company has received show cause notices from  DoT for 14 of its circles for non-fulﬁllment of its roll  out obligations and these have been replied to.
DoT has  reviewed and revised the criteria and there has been no  further development on this matter since then.
ii) DoT demands include demands raised for contentious  matters relating to computation of license fees and  spectrum charges.
iii) DoT demands include alleged short payment of license  fee for ﬁnancial year 06-07 and ﬁnancial year 07-08 due  to diﬀerence of interpretation of Adjusted Gross Revenue  (AGR) between the Company and DoT and interest  thereon, against which the Company has obtained  stay from appropriate Hon’ble High Courts & TDSAT .
TDSAT has pronounced its judgement on April 23, 2015,  directing DoT to rework and issues fresh demands to the  operators.
iv) DoT demands also include the contentious matters in  respect of subscriber veriﬁcation norms and regulations  including validity of certain documents allowed as Proof  of Address / Identity in certain mobility circles.
v) DoT demands also include penalty for alleged failure to  meet the procedural requirement for submission of EMF  radiation self certiﬁcation.
The above stated matters are being contested by the Company  and the Company, based on legal advice, believes that it has  complied with all license related regulations as and when  prescribed and does not expect any loss relating to these  matters.
In addition to the amount disclosed in the table above, the  contingent liability on DoT matters includes the following: vi) Post the Hon’ble Supreme Court Judgment on October  11, 2011 on components of Adjusted Gross Revenue for  computation of license fee, based on the legal advice,  the Company believes that the realised and unrealised  foreign exchange gain should not be included in Adjusted  Gross Revenue (AGR) for computation of license fee  thereon.
Accordingly, the license fee on such foreign  exchange gain has not been provided in these ﬁnancial  statements.
Also, due to ambiguity of interpretation of  ‘foreign exchange diﬀerences’, the license fee impact on  such exchange diﬀerences is not quantiﬁable and has  not been included in the table above.
Further, as per the  Order dated June 18, 2012 of the Kerala High Court, stay  has been obtained, wherein the licensee can continue  making the payment as was being done throughout the  period of license on telecom activities.
Further as stated  in point (iii) above, TDSAT has pronounced its judgement  on April 23, 2015, directing DoT to rework and issue  fresh demands to the operators.
Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 153Standalone Financial Statements vii) On January 8, 2013, the Department of  T elecommunications (‘DoT’) issued a demand on the  Company for ` 51,353 Mn towards levy of one time  spectrum charge.
The demand includes a retrospective  charges of ` 8,940 Mn for holding GSM Spectrum beyond  6.2 MHz for the period from July 1, 2008 to December 31,  2012 and also a prospective charge of ` 42,413 Mn for  GSM spectrum held beyond 4.4 MHz for the period from  January 1, 2013, till the expiry of the initial terms of the  respective licenses.
In the opinion of the Company, inter-alia, the above  demand amounts to alteration of ﬁnancial terms of the  licenses issued in the past.
Based on a petition ﬁled by  the Company, the Hon’ble High Court of Bombay, vide  its order dated January 28, 2013, has directed the DoT  to respond and not to take any coercive action until the  next date of hearing.
The DoT has ﬁled its reply and the  next date of hearing has been ﬁxed on September 9,  2015.  viii) The Department of T elecommunications (DoT) had  issued notices to the Company as well as various other  T elecom Service Providers to stop provision of services  under 3G Intra Circle Roaming (ICR) arrangements in  the service areas where such service providers had not  been allocated 3G Spectrum.
DoT also levied a ﬁnancial  penalty of ` 3,500 Mn.
Company contested the notices  and upon various rounds of litigations, ultimately, the  TDSAT , vide its judgement dated April 29, 2014, held  3G ICR arrangements to be a competent service and  compliant with the licensing conditions and quashed  the notice imposing penalty.
The DoT has challenged  the order of TDSAT in an appeal ﬁled before the Hon’ble  Supreme Court, which has been admitted.
However  Hon’ble Supreme Court has refused to grant any interim  order during the pendency of the appeal.
h) Others  Others mainly include disputed demands for  consumption tax, disputes before consumer forum and  with respect to labour cases and a potential claim for  liquidated damages.
i) Bharti Mobinet Limited (‘BMNL’) litigation   The Company is in litigation in various proceedings  at various stages and in various forums with DSS  Enterprises Private Limited (DSS) (which had 0.34 per  cent equity interest in erstwhile Bharti Cellular Limited  (BCL)) on claims of speciﬁc performance in respect of  alleged agreements to sell the equity interest of DSS in  erstwhile BMNL to the Company.
In respect of one of the  transactions with respect to purchase of 10.5% share of  DSS in Skycell by the Company, Crystal T echnologies  Private Limited (‘Crystal’), an intermediary, initiated  arbitration proceedings against the Company demanding  ` 195 Mn regarding termination of its appointment  as a consultant to negotiate with DSS for the sale of  DSS stake in erstwhile BMNL to the Company.
The Ld.
Arbitrator partly allowed the award for a sum of ` 31  Mn, 9% interest from period October 3, 2001 till date  of award (i.e May 28, 2009) and a further 18% interest  from date of award to date of payment.
The Company  appealed in Hon’ble High Court against the award.
The Single Judge while dismissing the appeal reduced  the rate of interest from 18% to 12%.
The matter was  appealed thereafter to Division Bench and ﬁnally to  Hon’ble Supreme Court wherein the matter has been  admitted on the condition that the amount as per Single  Judge Order shall be secured in Hon’ble Supreme Court,  which has been done.
The matter will now come up in  due course.
DSS has also ﬁled a suit against a previous shareholder  of BMNL and the Company challenging the transfer of  shares by that shareholder to the Company.
The matter  is to be reheard.
DSS has also initiated arbitration proceedings seeking  direction for restoration of the cellular license and the  entire business associated with it including all assets  of BCL/BMNL to DSS or alternatively, an award for  damages.
An interim stay was granted by the Hon’ble  Delhi High Court with respect to the commencement of  arbitration proceedings.
The stay was made absolute.
DSS Enterprises has preferred an SLP challenging the  order dated May 12, 2005 passed by the Hon’ble Delhi  High Court in Company Appeal No.30 of 2004.
The  Company Appeal was dismissed by Hon’ble Delhi High  Court on the grounds of non-disclosure of material facts  before the Hon’ble High Court.
This appeal has been  admitted by the Hon’ble Supreme Court and our Counter  Aﬃdavit has been ﬁled, matter is to be now listed for  hearing in due course.
The liability, if any, of the Company arising out of  above litigation cannot be currently estimated.
Since  the amalgamation of BCL and erstwhile Bharti Infotel  Limited (BIL) with the Company, DSS, a minority  shareholder in BCL, had been issued 2,722,125 equity  shares of ` 10 each (5,444,250 equity shares of ` 5 each  post split) bringing the share of DSS in the Company  down to 0.136% as of March 31, 2015.
27.
Capital and Other Commitments a) Estimated amount of contracts to be executed on capital  account and not provided for (net of advances) ` 274,832  Mn as of March 31, 2015 (March 31, 2014 - ` 159,239 Mn).
(including ` 244,040 Mn (March 31, 2014 - ` 129,129 Mn)  towards spectrum (refer note 38(ix)) b)  Under certain Outsourcing Agreements, the Company  has estimated commitments to pay ` Nil as of March 31,  2015 (March 31, 2014 - ` 311 Mn) comprising of assets  and service charges.
The amount represents total  minimum commitment over the unexpired period of  the contracts (uptill 5 years from the reporting date),  since it is not possible for the Company to determine  the extent of assets and services to be provided over the  unexpired period of the contract.
However, the actual  charges/ payments may exceed the above mentioned  minimum commitment based on the terms of contract.
Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15154 28.
The Company has undertaken to provide ﬁnancial  support, to its subsidiaries, namely, Bharti Airtel  Services Limited, Bharti T elemedia Limited, Nxtra Data  Limited, T elesonic Networks Limited, Airtel M Commerce  Services Limited, Bharti Airtel (USA) Limited, Bharti  Airtel (Hongkong) Limited, Bharti Airtel Lanka (Private)  Limited, Bharti Airtel Holdings (Singapore) Pte Limited  including its subsidiaries and Bharti Airtel International  (Netherlands) B.V. including its subsidiaries.
29.
Revenue From Operations (` Millions) Particulars For the year ended  March 31, 2015 For the year ended  March 31, 2014 Service Revenue  - Voice revenue  407,836  404,264   - Others  147,032  94,863  Sale of products  96  58   554,964  499,185  Note: Voice Revenue includes revenue from home network subscribers, roaming revenues and interconnect revenues.
30.
Other Income (` Millions) Particulars For the year ended  March 31, 2015 For the year ended  March 31, 2014 Interest income on bank deposits  867  173  Interest income on loan given to related parties  529  260  Dividend income from subsidiaries  13,700  4,588  Net gain on sale of investments*  34,698  2,096  Net foreign exchange gain  278  -    Proﬁt on sale of ﬁxed assets (net)  -    95  Other non-operating income   Lease rentals  236  66   Liabilities/Provision written back  338  114   Miscellaneous income  1,284  1,142   51,930  8,534  * includes ` 32,741 Mn (March 31, 2014 ` Nil) towards sales of shares of Bharti Infratel Limited (refer note 38(vi) 31.
Cost of Goods Sold (` Millions) Particulars For the year ended  March 31, 2015 For the year ended  March 31, 2014 (Increase)/ Decrease in inventories (638) (183) Purchase of Stock-in-T rade  714 205  76  22  Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 155Standalone Financial Statements 32.
Employee Beneﬁt Expenses (` Millions) Particulars For the year ended  March 31, 2015 For the year ended  March 31, 2014 Salaries and wages  14,578  14,565  Contribution to provident and other funds (refer note 40)  657  670  Expenses on employee stock option plan (refer note 50)  549  195  Staﬀ welfare expenses  631  572  Others  500  479   16,915  16,481  33.
Power and Fuel, Rent and Other Expenses (` Millions) Particulars For the year ended  March 31, 2015 For the year ended  March 31, 2014 Power and fuel  40,668  40,569  Network  483  1,128  Others  41,151  41,697  Rent   Network  58,331  55,911  Others  1,459  993    59,790  56,904  Other expenses Interconnect and Port charges   124  210  Insurance   Network  283  501  Others  3  0  Installation   53  89  Repairs and Maintenance  Plant and Machinery  24,499  22,837  Building  175  191  Others - Network  716  645  Others - Administrative  959  926  Leased Line and Gateway charges  1,060  1,253  Internet access and bandwidth charges  4,300  6,396  Advertisement and Marketing  7,022  6,074  Sales Commission, Customer veriﬁcation and Content cost  17,604  15,779  Indirect Selling and Distribution   2,844  3,350  Sim card utilisation   783  1,068  Legal and Professional  2,451  1,906  Rates and Taxes  2,359  441  IT and Call Centre Outsourcing  9,649  11,701  T ravelling and Conveyance  1,168  1,269  Bad debts written oﬀ  2,915  2,644  Provision for doubtful debts and advances (refer note 53)  3,103  3,220  Provision for diminution in stock/ capital work in progress  451  190  Collection and Recovery Expenses  3,133  3,984  Loss on sale of Fixed Assets (net)  550  -    Printing and Stationery  613  689  Net foreign exchange loss  -    1,417  Miscellaneous Expenses  Network  1,488  1,130  Sales and Marketing  4,906  3,858  Administrative  2,555  943   95,766  92,711    Note: Miscellaneous Expenses (Sales and Marketing) above includes goodwill waivers which are other than trade discount of ` 984 Mn (March 31, 2014  ` 716 Mn).
Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15156 34.
Finance Costs (` Millions) Particulars For the year ended  March 31, 2015 For the year ended  March 31, 2014 Interest expense  10,700  10,228  Other borrowing cost  1,033  1,036  Loss from swap arrangements (net)  625  476  Applicable net (gain)/loss on foreign currency borrowings  1,733  1,624   14,091  13,364  35.
Depreciation and Amortisation Expense (` Millions) Particulars For the year ended  March 31, 2015 For the year ended  March 31, 2014 Depreciation of tangible assets (refer note 15)  59,895  59,012  Amortisation of intangible assets (refer note 16)  15,702  13,301   75,597  72,313  36.
Exceptional Items a) During the year ended March 31, 2014, the Company  had reassessed useful life of certain categories of  network assets due to technological developments  and had revised the remaining useful life in respect of  those assets eﬀective April 1, 2013.
Out of those assets,  additional depreciation charge of ` 2,071 Mn on assets  for which the revised useful life had expired on April 1,  2013 had been recognised and disclosed as ‘Exceptional  Items’ and additional depreciation charge of ` 2,708 Mn  for balance assets had been recognised and reﬂected  as ‘Depreciation and amortisation expense’ for the year  ended March 31, 2014.  b) Tax expense for the year ended March 31, 2014 includes: i) Tax beneﬁt of ` 540 Mn on above ii) Reversal of tax provision of ` 640 Mn on account of  settlement of an uncertain tax position 37.
Prefe rential Allotment  During the year ended March 31, 2014, the Company had  issued 199,870,006 equity shares to M/s.
Three Pillars  Pte.
Ltd (belonging to non-promoter category), an  aﬃliate of Qatar Foundation Endowment, constituting  5% of the post issue share capital of the Company,  through preferential allotment at a price of ` 340 per  share aggregating to ` 67,956 Mn.
The proceeds of  the preferential allotment were utilized towards the  repayment of equivalent debt in accordance with the  objective of the preferential allotment.
38.
Acquisitions / Additional Investments / New  Developments (i) On June 25, 2013, the Company acquired additional  equity stake of 2% by way of subscription to fresh equity  in its existing 49% owned joint venture companies,  namely, Airtel Broadband Services Private Limited  (‘ABSPL’) (formerly known as Wireless Business  Services Private Limited), Wireless Broadband Business  Services (Delhi) Private Limited, Wireless Broadband  Business Services (Kerala) Private Limited and Wireless  Broadband Business Services (Haryana) Private Limited  (together referred as “BWA entities”), for a sum of ` 638  Mn, thereby increasing its equity shareholding to 51% in  each of these entities.
The Scheme of Arrangement (‘Scheme’) under Section  391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956 for amalgamation  of Wireless Broadband Business Services (Delhi) Private  Limited, Wireless Broadband Business Services (Kerala)  Private Limited and Wireless Broadband Business  Services (Haryana) Private Limited (collectively  referred to as “the transferor companies”) with ABSPL  was approved by the Hon’ble High Courts of Delhi and  Bombay vide order dated May 24, 2013 and June 28,  2013, respectively, with appointed date July 6, 2010, and  ﬁled with the Registrar of Companies on August 5, 2013,  eﬀective date of the Scheme.
Accordingly, the transferor  companies had ceased to exist and had merged into  ABSPL.
The shares issued to the Company in ABSPL in  exchange of shares in transferor companies had been  accounted for at the carrying amount of investment in  the transferor companies.
On August 30, 2013, the Company increased its equity  investment in ABSPL by way of conversion of loan  of ` 49,094 Mn, thereby increasing its shareholding  from 51% to 93.45% and on October 17, 2013 further  acquired 371,273,844 equity shares of ABSPL for a total  consideration of ` 6,257 Mn from Qualcomm Asia Paciﬁc  Pte.
Ltd., the only other shareholder of ABSPL, thereby  increasing it’s shareholding to 100%.
An amount of  ` 4,104 Mn is payable upon satisfaction of certain  conditions as per the share purchase agreement.
Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 157Standalone Financial Statements  The Scheme of Arrangement (‘Scheme’) under Sections  391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956 for amalgamation  of ABSPL with the Company, was approved by the  Hon’ble High Courts of Delhi and Bombay on January 21,  2014 and April 11, 2014, respectively.
Subsequent to the  balance sheet date, the Company has ﬁled the Scheme  under Sections 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956  for amalgamation of Airtel Broadband Services Private  Limited (‘ABSPL’) (formerly known as Wireless Business  Services Private Limited), a wholly owned subsidiary  of the Company, with the Company, as approved by the  Hon’ble High Courts of Bombay on April 11, 2014 with  Registrar of Companies (‘ROC’) on April 9, 2015 which is  the eﬀective date and appointed date of merger.
From  the ﬁling of the said Scheme with the ROC, ABSPL has  ceased to exist and have merged with the Company with  eﬀect from April 9, 2015.
DoT vide its letter dated February 2, 2015, has given its  approval for taking on record the merger of ABSPL with  the Company, subject to certain conditions as stipulated  in the letter.
One of the conditions of merger requires  payment of ` 4,361 Mn, equal to the diﬀerence between  the entry fee for Uniﬁed Access Service License and  entry fees paid for Internet Service Provider license.
The  Hon’ble TDSAT vide its interim order dated February  9, 2015 has allowed the Company to operationalize  the spectrum subject to ﬁling an undertaking that in  case the petition fails, it shall pay the sum of ` 4,361  Mn along with interest as may be determined by the  T ribunal within eight weeks from the date of judgement.
The Company based on its evaluation believes that it is  not probable that claim will materialise and therefor, no  provision has been recognised in the books of accounts.
(ii) During the year ended March 31, 2015, the Company has  increased its equity investment by way of conversion of  loan into equity of ` 11,047 Mn in Bharti Airtel Lanka  (Private) Limited.
(iii) During the year ended March 31, 2015, the Company  has made equity investment of ` 350 Mn in Airtel M  Commerce Services Limited.
(iv) During the year ended March 31, 2015, the Company has  made equity investment of ` 39,931 Mn (USD 655 Mn) in  Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Limited.
(v) During the year ended March 31, 2015, the Company has  made equity investment of ` 10 Mn in FireFly Networks  Limited.
FireFly Networks Limited is a 50:50 joint  venture of the Company and Vodafone West Limited (vi) On August 7, 2014, in order to comply with the  requirement to maintain minimum public shareholding  of 25% in terms of rule 19(2)(b)/ 19A of Securities  Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957, as amended, and  Clause 40A of the equity listing agreement, the Company  has sold 85 Mn shares in Bharti Infratel Limited (BIL)  for ` 21,434 Mn, representing 4.5% shareholding in BIL.
Subsequent to the transaction, the shareholding of the  Company in BIL has reduced to 74.86%  Further on February 25, 2015, the Company sold  55 Mn shares for ` 19,255 Mn, representing 2.91%  shareholdings in BIL.
Subsequent to the transaction,  the shareholding of the Company in BIL has reduced to  71.90%.
Excess of proceeds over the cost of investment net of  associated costs, taxes and levies, amounting to ` 32,741  Mn has been recognised in other income.
(vii) During the year ended March 31, 2015, Bridge Mobile  PTE Limited, a joint venture of the Company, has reduced  its share capital by USD 14 Mn and has proportionately  returned part of its share capital to all its joint venture  partners.
Accordingly, the Company has received ` 87  Mn (USD 1 per share for 1,400,000 shares).
(viii) During the year ended March 31, 2015, the Company has  made equity investment of ` 0.50 Mn in Wynk Limited (a  wholly owned subsidiary company).
The main objective  of the company is content procurement/aggregation  including own content and selling to B2B and B2C  customers.
(ix) During the year ended March 31, 2015, the Company has  won the auction for 95.20 MHz spectrum in 15 service  areas for an amount of ` 244,040 Mn in the auction  conducted by the Government of India.
The Company has  opted for the deferred payment option and accordingly,  subsequent to the balance sheet date, paid an advance  of ` 66,496 Mn with the balance amount of ` 177,544  Mn payable in 10 equal installments after a moratorium  period of two years.
Pending the allocation of the  spectrum by the Government of India, entire amount  outstanding as at March 31, 2015, has been disclosed  under capital commitments in the notes to the ﬁnancial  statements.
(refer note 27)  During the year ended March 31, 2014, the Company had  won the auction for 99.80 MHz spectrum in 13 service  areas for an amount of ` 182,433 Mn in the auction  conducted by the Government of India.
The Company  had opted for the deferred payment option and had paid  an advance of ` 53,304 Mn with the balance amount  of ` 129,129 Mn payable in 10 equal installments after  a moratorium of two years.
Pending the allocation  of spectrum by the Government of India, the balance  amount had been disclosed under capital commitments  as at March 31, 2014 (refer note 27).
During the year  ended March 31, 2015, the Government of India has  allocated the spectrum to the Company, accordingly the  Company has recognised deferred payment liability of  ` 129,129 Mn.
Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15158 39.
Earnings Per Share  (` Millions, except per share data and as stated otherwise)  Particulars For the year ended  March 31, 2015 For the year ended  March 31, 2014 Basic and Diluted Earnings per Share :  Nominal value of equity shares (`)  5  5  Proﬁt attributable to equity shareholders (A)  132,005  66,002  Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year  (Nos.
in Mn) (B)   3,997  3,955  Basic/ Diluted earnings per Share (`) (A/B)  33.02  16.69  40.
Employee Beneﬁts a) During the year, the Company has recognised the following amounts in the Statement of Proﬁt and Loss: i. Deﬁned Contribution Plans (` Millions) Particulars For the year ended  March 31, 2015 For the year ended  March 31, 2014 Employer’s Contribution to Provident Fund *@  650  662  Employer’s Contribution to ESI and other Funds*  7  8  *   Included in Contribution to Provident and Other Funds (Refer Note 32) @  Includes contribution to Deﬁned Contribution Plan for Key Managerial Personnel.
ii.
Deﬁned Beneﬁt Plans and Leave Encashment  For the year ended March 31, 2015: (` Millions) Particulars Gratuity # Leave Encashment # Current service cost  240  142  Interest cost  127  64  Expected return on plan assets  (6)  -    Net actuarial (gain) / loss  (84)  (133) T otal *  277  73  Actual return on plan assets  (76)  -    For the year ended March 31, 2014: (` Millions) Particulars Gratuity # Leave Encashment # Current service cost 258  171  Interest cost 117  63  Expected return on plan assets (6)  -    Net actuarial (gain) / loss 101  (62) T otal *  470  172  Actual return on plan assets - - # Included in Salaries and Wages (Refer Note 32) *Includes charges towards gratuity and leave encashment for Key Managerial Personnel as these are provided on an actuarial basis for the Company as  a whole.
Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 159Standalone Financial Statements b) The assumptions used to determine the beneﬁt obligations are as follows: For the year ended March 31, 2015: (` Millions) Particulars Gratuity Leave Encashment  Discount rate 8.50% 8.50% Expected rate of increase in compensation levels 10.00% 10.00% Expected rate of return on plan assets 8.00% N.A.
Expected average remaining working lives of employees (years) 24.38 24.38  For the year ended March 31, 2014: (` Millions) Particulars Gratuity Leave Encashment  Discount rate 8.00% 8.00% Expected rate of increase in compensation levels 10.00% 10.00% Expected rate of return on plan assets 8.00% N.A.
Expected average remaining working lives of employees (years) 24.39 24.39 c) Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of obligations and plan assets is as follows:  For the year ended March 31, 2015: (` Millions) Particulars Gratuity Leave Encashment  Change in Obligation  Present value of obligation at beginning of year  1,586  794  Current service cost  240  142  Interest cost 127  64  Beneﬁts paid  (305)  (133) Acquisitions / transfer in / transfer out  (47)  (14) Actuarial (gain) / loss  (14)  (133) Present value of obligation at year end  1,587  720  Change in plan assets : Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year  76  -  Expected return on plan assets  6  -  Actuarial gain / (loss)  70  -  Amount received on redemption of plan assets  (152)  -  Fair value of plan assets at year end  -    -    Net funded status of the plan 1,587 720 Current Liabilities  450  720  Non-Current Liabilities  1,137  -    Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15160  For the year ended March 31, 2014: (` Millions) Particulars Gratuity Leave Encashment  Change in Obligation  Present value of obligation at beginning of year  1,382  744  Current service cost  258  171  Interest cost 117  63  Beneﬁts paid  (252)  (114) Acquisitions/ transfer in/ transfer out  (14)  (8) Actuarial (gain) / loss  95  (62) Present value of obligation at year end 1,586 794 Change in plan assets : Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year  76  -  Expected return on plan assets  6  -  Actuarial gain / (loss)  (6)  -  Fair value of plan assets at year end 76  -    Net funded status of the plan 1,510 794 Current Liabilities241 794 Non-Current Liabilities 1,269  -    d) The expected rate of return on plan assets was based on the average long-term rate of return expected to prevail over  the next 15 to 20 years on the investments made by LIC.
This was based on the historical returns suitably adjusted for  movements in long-term government bond interest rates.
The discount rate is based on the average yield on government  bonds of 20 years.
e) The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inﬂation, seniority, promotion  and other relevant factors, such as supply and demand in the employment market.
f) History of experience adjustment is as follows: (` Millions) Particulars Gratuity As of   March 31, 2015 As of   March 31, 2014 As of   March 31, 2013 As of   March 31, 2012 As of   March 31, 2011 Present value of obligation  1,587  1,586  1,382  1,119  995  Plan assets  -    76  76  76  76  Surplus / (deﬁcit)  (1,587)  (1,510)  (1,306)  (1,043)  (919) Experience adjustments on  plan liabilities- gain/(loss)  (69)  (28)  (31)  (57)  (87) Experience adjustments on  plan assets- gain/(loss)  70  (6)  (6)  (6)  (6) (` Millions) Particulars Leave Encashment As of   March 31, 2015 As of   March 31, 2014 As of   March 31, 2013 As of   March 31, 2012 As of   March 31, 2011 Present value of obligation  720  794  744  652  607  Plan assets  -    -    -    -    -    Surplus / (deﬁcit)  (720)  (794)  (744)  (652)  (606) Experience adjustments on  plan liabilities- gain/(loss)  134  98  79  51  (97) Experience adjustments on  plan assets- gain/(loss)  -    -    -    -    -    Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 161Standalone Financial Statements g) Movement in other long term employee beneﬁts :  The provision for long term service award provided by the Company as of March 31, 2015 is ` 86 Mn (March 31, 2014 ` 105 Mn).
41.
Investment in Joint Ventures/Jointly Owned Assets a)  Jointly owned assets  The Company has participated in various consortiums towards supply, construction, maintenance and providing long term  technical support with regards to following Cable Systems.
The details of the same are as follows:   As of March 31, 2015 (` Millions except % share) Cable Project T otal  Contribution Capital Work In  Progress Net block % Share SMW-4  3,317  -    1,637 8.27% EIG - Project  2,677  205  1,805 7.22% IMEWE- Project  3,063  -    2,206 12.84%  As of March 31, 2014 (` Millions except % share) Cable Project T otal  Contribution Capital Work In  Progress Net block % Share SMW-4  3,382  97  1,811 13.07% EIG - Project  2,412  -    1,913 7.09% IMEWE- Project  3,063  -    2,422 12.84%  Refer note 55 for cables transferred to Network i2i Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
b)  Joint Ventures Entity i)   The Company has a Joint Venture with 9 other overseas  mobile operators to form a regional alliance called  the Bridge Mobile Alliance, incorporated in Singapore  as Bridge Mobile Pte Limited.
The principal activity of  the venture is creating and developing regional mobile  services and managing the Bridge Mobile Alliance  Programme.
As of March 31, 2015, the Company’s  investment in Bridge Mobile Pte Limited is USD 800,000,  amounting to ` 34 Mn in 800,000 ordinary shares of USD 1  each which is equivalent to an ownership interest of 10.00%  (March 31, 2014: Investment of USD 2.2 Mn, amounting to  ` 92 Mn, USD 2.2 Mn ordinary shares, ownership interest  10.00%).
During the year March 31, 2015, Bridge Mobile  PTE Limited reduced its share capital by USD 14 Mn and  has proportionately returned part of its share capital to  all its joint venture partners.
Accordingly, the Company  has received ` 87 Mn (USD 1 per share for 1,400,000  shares).
ii) During the year ended March 31, 2014, the Company  has increased its equity investment in Airtel Broadband  Services Private Limited (ABSPL) from 49% to 100%  and ABSPL became the wholly owned subsidiary of the  Company.
(refer note 38(i)) Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15162 The following represent the Company’s share of assets and liabilities, and income and results of the joint ventures.
(` Millions) Particulars As of   March 31, 2015  (Unaudited) As of   March 31, 2014  (Unaudited)* Balance Sheet Current assets  47  113  Non-current assets  4  4  Current liabilities  21  11  Non-current liabilities  -    -    Equity  30  106  (` Millions) Particulars For the year ended  March 31, 2015  (Unaudited) For the year ended   March 31, 2014  (Unaudited) Statement of Proﬁt and Loss Revenue  38  37  Other Income  -    103  Employee beneﬁt expenses  22  24  Other expenses  7  36  Finance costs  -    3  Depreciation  1  1  Proﬁt/ (loss) before tax  8  76  Tax Expense  -    26  Loss for the year  8  50  *includes shares of income and results of ABSPL till June 25, 2013, i.e., the date, it became the subsidiary of the Company.
42.
As of March 31, 2015, Bharti Airtel Employee’s Welfare T rust (‘the T rust’) holds 1,410,642 equity shares (of face value of ` 5  each) (March 31, 2014 2,374,698 equity shares) of the Company.
Particulars As of  March 31, 2015 As of  March 31, 2014 As of  March 31, 2015 As of  March 31, 2014 Number of shares ( ` Millions) Opening Balance  2,374,698  3,937,055  342  674  Purchased during the year  -    -    -    -    Issued during the year  (964,056)  (1,562,357)  (228)  (332) Closing Balance  1,410,642  2,374,698  114  342  43.
Loans and advances in the nature of loans along with  maximum amount outstanding during the year as per  Clause 32 of the Listing Agreement are as follows: (a)  Loan and advance in the nature of loan given to Bharti  T elemedia Limited at nil interest rate is ` 33,395 Mn  (March 31, 2014 ` 35,770 Mn at nil interest rate).
(b)  Loan and advance in the nature of loan given to Bharti  Airtel Lanka (Private) Limited at nil interest rate is  ` 11,047 Mn (March 31, 2014 ` 11,047 Mn at nil interest  rate) (c)  Loan and advance in the nature of loan given to Bharti  Airtel International (Netherlands) B.V at LIBOR + 1.25%  interest rate is ` 32,047 Mn (March 31, 2014 ` 10,895 Mn  at LIBOR + 1.75% interest rate).
(d)  Loan and advance in the nature of loan given to T elesonic  Networks Limited at SBI base rate is ` 90 Mn (March 31,  2014 ` 90 Mn at SBI PLR + 1% interest rate).
(e)  Loan and advance in the nature of loan given to Bharti  T eleports Limited at SBI base rate +1% interest rate is  ` 466 Mn (March 31, 2014 ` 412 Mn at SBI base rate +1%  interest rate).
Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 163Standalone Financial Statements (f)  Loan and advance in the nature of loan given to Bharti  International (Singapore) Pte Limited at LIBOR + 1.25%  interest rate is ` 8,887 Mn (March 31, 2014 ` 2,731 Mn at  LIBOR + 1.75% interest rate).
(g)  Loan and advance in the nature of loan given to Nxtra  Data Limited at nil interest rate is ` 2,000 Mn (March 31,  2014 ` 2,000 Mn at nil interest rate).
(h)  Loan and advance in the nature of loan given to Bharti  Airtel Services Limited at nil interest rate is ` 635 Mn  (March 31, 2014 ` 635 Mn at nil interest rate).
(i)  Loan and advance in the nature of loan given to Airtel  Broadband Services Private Limited at nil interest rate is  ` 5,390 Mn (March 31, 2014 ` 49,094 Mn at nil interest  rate).
Refer note 48 for outstanding balance at the end of the  year for the above entities.
44.
Expenditure / Earnings in Foreign Currency (on accrual basis) (` Millions) Particulars For the year ended  March 31, 2015 For the year ended  March 31, 2014 Expenditure  On account of :  Interest  496  295  Bank Charges  447  304  Professional & Consultation Fees  90  36  T ravelling (Net of Reimbursement)  39  26  Roaming Charges (including Commission)  1,330  1,868  Membership & Subscription  56  95  Staﬀ T raining  & Others  28  2  Network Services  464  447  Annual Maintenance  1,905  1,863  Bandwidth Charges  2,644  3,723  Access Charges  21,288  18,689  Repairs & Maintenance  13  -    Marketing 150  673  Content Charges  1,016  1,289  Directors Commission and Sitting Fees  59  49  Income Tax  147  210  T otal  30,172  29,569  Earnings  Service Revenue  36,040  34,929  Interest Income  469  208  Management Charges  765  566  T otal  37,274  35,703  45.
CIF Value of Imports (` Millions) Particulars For the year ended  March 31, 2015 For the year ended  March 31, 2014 Capital Goods  37,221 16,145 T otal  37,221 16,145 Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15164 46.
Auditors’ Remuneration (` Millions) Particulars For the year ended  March 31, 2015 For the year ended  March 31, 2014 - Audit Fee*  68  68  - Reimbursement of Expenses*  5  5  - As advisor for taxation matters*  -    -    - Other Services*  8  11  T otal  81  84   * Excluding Service Tax  47.
Details of dues to micro and small enterprises as deﬁned under the MSMED Act, 2006  Amounts due to micro and small enterprises under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development (MSMED) Act, 2006  aggregate to ` 10 Mn (March 31, 2014 – ` 38 Mn) based on the information available with the Company and the conﬁrmation  obtained from the creditors.
(` Millions) Sr  No Particulars March 31, 2015 March 31, 2014 1 The principal amount and the interest due thereon [ ` Nil (March 31,  2014 – ` Nil)] remaining unpaid to any supplier as at the end of each  accounting year   10  38  2 The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 16 of  the MSMED Act, 2006, along with the amounts of the payment made   to the supplier beyond the appointed day during each accounting  year  -    -    3 The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in  making payment (which have been paid but beyond the appointed  day during the year) but without adding the interest speciﬁed under  MSMED Act, 2006.
-    -  4 The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of  each accounting year;  -    -    5 The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even  in the succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as  above are actually paid to the small enterprise for the purpose of  disallowance as  a deductible expenditure under section 23 of the  MSMED Act, 2006.
-    -  48.
Related Party Disclosures  In accordance with the requirements of Accounting  Standard (AS) -18 on Related Party Disclosures, the  names of the related parties where control exists and/ or with whom transactions have taken place during the  year and description of relationships are: Name of the related party and related party relationship : (i)  Key Management Personnel  Sunil Bharti Mittal  Gopal Vittal (ii)  Other Related Parties (a)  Entities where control exist – Subsidiary/Subsidiaries  of subsidiary  Bharti Hexacom Limited  Bharti Airtel Services Limited   Bharti T elemedia Limited  Bharti Airtel (USA) Limited   Bharti Airtel Lanka (Private) Limited     Bharti Airtel (UK) Limited(subsidiary of  Bharti Airtel Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd)  Bharti Airtel (Canada) Limited (Under liquidation)   Bharti Airtel (Hongkong) Limited  Bharti Infratel Limited (“BIL”)  Bharti Infratel Services Limited   (subsidiary of Bharti Infratel Limited)  Network i2i Limited  Bharti Airtel Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd   Bharti Infratel Lanka (Private) Limited (subsidiary of  Bharti Airtel Lanka (Private) Limited)  Airtel M Commerce Services Limited  Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 165Standalone Financial Statements  Airtel Broadband Services Private Limited (w.e.f.
June  25, 2013.
Amalgamated with Bharti Airtel Limited  w.e.f.
April 9, 2015)  Nxtra Data Limited  Bharti Airtel (Japan) Kabushiki Kaisha (subsidiary of  Bharti Airtel Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd)  Bharti Airtel (France) SAS (subsidiary of Bharti Airtel  Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd)  Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Limited   Bharti International (Singapore) Pte Ltd  Airtel Bangladesh Limited (subsidiary of Bharti Airtel  Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd)  Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) B.V.   Bangladesh Infratel Networks Limited (subsidiary of  Airtel Bangladesh Limited)  T elesonic Networks Limited  Wynk Limited (Incorporated on January 13, 2015) ^  Wireless Broadband Business Services (Delhi) Private  Limited (w.e.f June 25,2013) *  Wireless Broadband Business Services (Haryana)  Private Limited (w.e.f June 25,2013) *  Wireless Broadband Business Services (Kerala) Private  Limited, (w.e.f June 25,2013) *  Other subsidiaries of Bharti Airtel International  (Netherlands) B.V. :  Africa T owers N.V.  Africa T owers Services Limited  Airtel (Ghana) Limited  Airtel (Seychelles) Limited   Airtel (SL) Limited #  Airtel Burkina Faso S.A. #  Airtel Congo S.A #  Airtel DTH Services (Sierra Leone) Limited  (under liquidation)  Airtel DTH Services Congo (RDC) S.p.r.l (under  liquidation)  Airtel DTH Services Nigeria Limited (under liquidation)  Airtel DTH Services Tanzania Limited  (liquidated on April 3, 2014)  Airtel Gabon S.A. #  Airtel Madagascar S.A. #  Airtel Malawi Limited #  Airtel Mobile Commerce (SL) Limited  Airtel Mobile Commerce B.V  Airtel Mobile Commerce Burkina Faso S.A.  Airtel Mobile Commerce (Ghana) Limited  Airtel Mobile Commerce Holdings B.V  Airtel Mobile Commerce Kenya Limited  Airtel Mobile Commerce Limited   Airtel Mobile Commerce Madagascar S.A.  Airtel Mobile Commerce Rwanda Limited  Airtel Mobile Commerce (Seychelles) Limited  Airtel Mobile Commerce (Tanzania) Limited  Airtel Mobile Commerce T chad SARL  Airtel Mobile Commerce Uganda Limited  Airtel Mobile Commerce Zambia Limited   Airtel Money (RDC) S.p.r.l   Airtel Money Niger S.A.  Airtel Money S.A. (Gabon)  Airtel Networks Kenya Limited #  Airtel Networks Limited   Airtel Networks Zambia Plc #  Airtel Rwanda Limited #  Airtel Tanzania Limited #  Airtel T chad S.A. #  Airtel T owers (Ghana) Limited  Airtel T owers (S.L.)
Company Limited  Airtel Uganda Limited #  Bharti Airtel Acquisition Holdings B.V.  (liquidated on March 31, 2015)  Bharti Airtel Africa B.V.  Bharti Airtel Burkina Faso Holdings B.V.  Bharti Airtel Cameroon B.V. (liquidated on March 31,  2015)  Bharti Airtel Chad Holdings B.V.   Bharti Airtel Congo Holdings B.V.  Bharti Airtel Developers Forum Limited  Bharti Airtel DTH Holdings B.V.  Bharti Airtel Gabon Holdings B.V.   Bharti Airtel Ghana Holdings B.V.   Bharti Airtel Kenya B.V.  Bharti Airtel Kenya Holdings B.V.  Bharti Airtel Madagascar Holdings B.V.   Bharti Airtel Malawi Holdings B.V.   Bharti Airtel Mali Holdings B.V.  Bharti Airtel Niger Holdings B.V.   Bharti Airtel Nigeria B.V. #  Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings B.V. (under liquidation)  Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings II B.V.   Bharti Airtel RDC Holdings B.V.   Bharti Airtel Services B.V.   Bharti Airtel Sierra Leone Holdings B.V. #  Bharti Airtel Tanzania B.V.   Bharti Airtel Uganda Holdings B.V.   Bharti Airtel Zambia Holdings B.V.  Bharti DTH Services Zambia Limited  (Liquidated on November 21, 2014) Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15166  Burkia Faso T owers S.A.  Celtel (Mauritius) Holdings Limited  Celtel Congo RDC S.a.r.l.
#  Celtel Niger S.A. #  Channel Sea Management Company Mauritius Limited  Congo RDC T owers S.p.r.l.
Congo T owers S.A.  Gabon T owers S.A.  Indian Ocean T elecom Limited  Kenya T owers Limited (held for sale)  Madagascar T owers S.A.  Malawi T owers Limited (held for sale)  Mobile Commerce Congo S.A.  Montana International  MSI-Celtel Nigeria Limited (under liquidation)  Niger T owers S.A.  Partnership Investments Sprl  Rwanda T owers Limited (divested during the year)  Société Malgache de T elephonie Cellulaire SA  Tanzania T owers Limited  T chad T owers S.A.  T owers Support Nigeria Limited  Uganda T owers Limited (held for sale)  Warid Congo S.A.  Warid T elecom Uganda Limited (merger in process)  Zambian T owers Limited (held for sale)  Zap T rust Company Nigeria Limited  Bharti Airtel Rwanda Holdings Ltd  (formerly known as Zebrano (Mauritius) Limited) (b)  Associates / Associate of subsidiary  Bharti T eleports Limited   Tanzania T elecommunications Company Limited  (Associate of Bharti Airtel Tanzania B.V.)  Seychelles Cable Systems Company Limited  (Associate of Airtel (Seychelles) Limited) (c) Joint Ventures /Joint Venture of Subsidiary   Forum I Aviation Limited (Joint Venture of Bharti Airtel  Services Limited)  Indus T owers Limited (Joint Venture of Bharti Infratel  Limited)  Bridge Mobile Pte Limited  FireFly Networks Limited  Wireless Broadband Business Services (Delhi) Private  Limited (till June 24, 2013)*  Wireless Broadband Business Services (Haryana)  Private Limited (till June 24, 2013)*   Wireless Broadband Business Services (Kerala) Private  Limited, (till June 24, 2013)*   Airtel Broadband Services Private Limited (formerly  known as Wireless Business Services Private Limited)  (till June 24, 2013)* (d)  Entities where Key Management Personnel and their  relatives exercise signiﬁcant inﬂuence  Bharti Foundation  Bharti Airtel Employees Welfare T rust  Hike Limited  Mobinteco Limited  Cedar Support Services Limited (e) Entities having signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the Company   Singapore T elecommunications Limited  Pastel Limited  Bharti T elecom Limited (f) Group Companies **  Beetel T eletech Limited   Bharti Axa General Insurance Company Limited  Bharti Axa Life Insurance Company Limited  Bharti Realty Holdings Limited  Bharti Realty Limited  Bharti Retail Limited  Bharti Softbank Holdings Pte Limited  BSB Gaming Private Limited  Ignite World Private Limited (formerly known as BSB  Portal Limited)  BSB Innovation India Limited  BSY Pte Limited   Centum Learning Limited  Fieldfresh Foods Private Limited  Indian Continent Investment Limited  Jersey Airtel Limited   Mehrauli Realty and Consultants Limited   Nile T ech Limited  Y2CF Digital Media Limited   Bharti Enterprises Limited  Atrium Restaurants India Private Limited **  “Group Companies” though not ‘Related Parties’ as per the deﬁnition under AS 18, have been included by way of a voluntary d isclosure, following the best  corporate governance practices.
#  T ransactions of similar nature with such subsidiaries have been clubbed and shown under the head ‘Other African Subsidiaries ’ as their contribution to  total transaction value is less than 10%.
^  Refer note 38 above for details of new operations during the year.
*  Merged w.e.f August 5, 2013 with Airtel Broadband Services Private Limited (formerly known as Wireless Business Services Private Limited) Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 167Standalone Financial Statements The details of amounts due to or due from the related parties as of March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014 are as follows: (` Millions) S.No Particulars As of   March 31, 2015 As of   March 31, 2014  1 Loans & Advances (including accrued interest, wherever applicable) Entities where control exist Bharti Airtel (Services) Limited  -    634  Airtel Broadband Services Pvt.
Ltd.*  5,390  3,800  Bharti T elemedia Ltd.  31,694  33,226  Bharti Airtel Lanka (Pvt.)
Ltd.  470  11,517  Nxtra Data Limited  2,000  2,000  T elesonic Networks Limited  90  90  Bharti International (Singapore) Pte Ltd.  8,949  2,467  Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) B.V.  32,189  9,831  Associate Bharti T eleports Ltd.  466  320  Entities where Key Management Personnel and their relatives exercise  signiﬁcant inﬂuence  Bharti Airtel Employees Welfare T rust  98  326   81,346  64,211  * refer note 38(i) 2 Security Deposit/Advances given Entities where control exist Bharti Airtel (Services) Limited  729  729  Bharti Infratel Ltd.  1,808  1,777  Joint Venture of Subsidiary Indus T owers Limited  3,513  3,813  Group Companies Bharti Realty Limited  359  358  Bharti Realty Holdings Limited  86  86  Centum learning Limited  60  60  Nile T ech Ltd. 395  395  Bharti Enterprises Limited  -    90   6,950  7,308  3 T rade Receivables Entities where control exist Bharti Hexacom Ltd.  406  278  Bharti T elemedia Ltd.  98  26  Airtel Broadband Services Pvt.
Ltd.*  684  151  Bharti Airtel (USA) Ltd.  62  182  Bharti Airtel (Hongkong) Ltd.  33  -    Bharti Airtel (Canada) Ltd.  25  26  Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Ltd.  3  2  Bharti Airtel Holdings (Singapore) Pte Limited  7  1  Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15168 (` Millions) S.No Particulars As of   March 31, 2015 As of   March 31, 2014  Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) B.V.  132  355  Nxtra Data Limited  -    182  Airtel Bangladesh Ltd.  16  -    Airtel Networks Ltd.  57  76  Airtel (Seychelles) Limited  4  -    Bharti Airtel Lanka (Pvt.)
Ltd.  -    3  Airtel Ghana Ltd. 2  68  Other African Subsidiaries  425  -    Associate Bharti T eleports Ltd.  114  81  Entities where Key Management Personnel and their relatives exercise  signiﬁcant inﬂuence  Hike Limited  60  14  Mobinteco Limited  1  2  Entity having signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the Company Singapore T elecommunications Ltd.  -    294  Group Companies Bharti Realty Limited  31  -    Bharti Retail Ltd. 46  37  Bharti AXA Life Insurance Company Limited  4  5  Bharti AXA General Insurance Co Ltd  5  2  Fieldfresh Foods Private Limited  1 0 Jersey Airtel Limited 6  -    Nile T ech Ltd. 0  -    BSB Innovation India Limited  2  -     2,224  1,785  * refer note 38(i) 4 T rade Payables Entities where control exist Bharti Airtel (Services) Limited  (392)  (757) Bharti Infratel Ltd.  (2,803)  (2,692) Airtel M Commerce Services Limited  (40)  (36) T elesonic Networks Limited  (1,153)  (318) Network i2i Limited  (265)  (137) Nxtra Data Limited  (213)  -    Bharti Airtel (UK) Ltd.  (768)  (543) Bharti Airtel (Hongkong) Ltd.  -    (31) Bharti Airtel (Japan) Kabushiki Kaisha  (7)  (4) Airtel Bangladesh Ltd.  -    (2) Bharti Airtel (France) SAS  (6)  (46) Bharti International (Singapore) Pte Ltd.  (46)  (778) Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 169Standalone Financial Statements (` Millions) S.No Particulars As of   March 31, 2015 As of   March 31, 2014  Airtel (Seychelles) Limited  -    (4) Bharti Airtel Lanka (Pvt.)
Ltd.  (27)  -    Other African Subsidiaries  -    (40) Joint Venture/ Joint Venture of Subsidiary Forum 1 Aviation Ltd  (1)  (3) Indus T owers Limited  (7,733)  (7,394) Bridge Mobile Pte Limited  (6)  (4) Entity having signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the Company Singapore T elecommunications Ltd.  (32)  -    Group Companies Beetel T eletech Limited  (121)  (41) Bharti Realty Limited  -    (1) Bharti Realty Holdings Limited  (6)  (7) Bharti Enterprises Limited  (45)  (56) Jersey Airtel Limited -   0 Ignite World Private Limited (Previously known as BSB Portal Limited)  (151)  (1) Centum learning Limited  (95)  (66) Y2CF Digital Media Pvt.
Ltd.  (2)  -     (13,912)  (12,961) The details of the related party transactions entered into by the Company for the years ended March 31, 2015 and  March 31, 2014 are as follows: (` Millions) S.No Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2015  For the year ended   March 31, 2014  1 Purchase of ﬁxed assets/ bandwidth Entities where control exist Bharti Hexacom Ltd.  111  158  Bharti Airtel (Services) Limited  507 0 Network i2i Limited  488  -    T elesonic Networks Limited  3,483  1,993  Bharti Airtel (France) SAS  -    47  Bharti International (Singapore) Pte Ltd.  556  296  Airtel Broadband Services Pvt.
Ltd.*  18  -    Group Companies Ignite World Private Limited (Previously known as BSB Portal Limited)  53  -    Beetel T eletech Limited  1,162  422   6,378  2,916  * refer note 38(i) 2 Sale of ﬁxed assets/ IRU given Entities where control exist Bharti Hexacom Ltd.  1,119  773  Network i2i Limited  24  2,547  Nxtra Data Limited0  1,771  Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15170 (` Millions) S.No Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2015  For the year ended   March 31, 2014  Bharti International (Singapore) Pte Ltd.  18  101  Airtel Broadband Services Pvt.
Ltd.*  95  -    Entity having signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the Company Singapore T elecommunications Ltd.  -    9  Group Companies Bharti Enterprises Limited  -    2  Bharti Retail Ltd.  -    20  Mehrauli Realty and Consultants Limited  -    72   1,256  5,295  * refer note 38(i) 3 Purchase of Investments/Subscription to share capital Entities where control exist Bharti Airtel Lanka Pvt.
Ltd.*  11,047  -    Wynk Limited *  1  -    Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Ltd.*  39,931  9,518  Network i2i Limited  -    2,609  Airtel Broadband Services Pvt.
Ltd.  -    49,732  Nxtra Data Limited  -    51  Airtel M Commerce Service Limited.
*  350  990  Joint Venture FireFly Networks Limited  10  -     51,339  62,900  * refer note 38 4 Sale of Investments Joint Venture Bridge Mobile Pte Limited  87  -     87  -    5 Rendering of Services Entities where control exist Bharti Hexacom Ltd.  9,092  7,745  Bharti Airtel (Services) Limited  58  115  Bharti Airtel (USA) Ltd.  209  217  Bharti Airtel (UK) Ltd.  3,374  131  Airtel Broadband Services Pvt.
Ltd.* 0  8  Bharti Airtel (Hongkong) Ltd.  49  98  Bharti Airtel Holdings (Singapore) Pte Limited  15  12  Nxtra Data Limited  256  -    Airtel Bangladesh Ltd.  25  -    Bharti T elemedia Ltd.  198  49  Bharti Infratel Ltd.  134  159  Bharti Airtel Lanka (Pvt.)
Ltd.  386  363  Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 171Standalone Financial Statements (` Millions) S.No Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2015  For the year ended   March 31, 2014  Network i2i Limited  145  106  Airtel M Commerce Services Limited  66  3  T elesonic Networks Limited  58  121  Bharti Airtel (Japan) Kabushiki Kaisha 0  1  Bharti Airtel (France) SAS  1  2  Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Ltd.  1  1  Bharti International (Singapore) Pte Ltd.  536  562  Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) B.V.  557  506  Airtel (Seychelles) Limited  10  40  Airtel (Ghana) Ltd.  126  242  Airtel Networks Ltd.  130  218  Other African Subsidiaries  2,020  1,267  Associate Bharti T eleports Ltd.  14  5  Joint Venture of Subsidiary Indus T owers Limited  39  22  Entities where Key Management Personnel and their relatives exercise  signiﬁcant inﬂuence Bharti Foundation  2  -    Mobinteco Limited 0  2  Hike Limited  114  66  Cedar Support Services Limited  1  -    Entity having signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the Company Singapore T elecommunications Ltd.  1,374  1,555  Group Companies Bharti Wal-Mart Private Limited  -    4  Fieldfresh Foods Private Limited  6  -    Bharti AXA Life Insurance Company Limited  27  15  Jersey Airtel Limited  22  29  Bharti Retail Ltd.  71  35  Ignite World Private Limited (Previously known as BSB Portal Limited)  (0)  3  Beetel T eletech Limited  3  -    Bharti Realty Holdings Limited  2  -    Bharti AXA General Insurance Co Ltd  30  -    BSB Innovation India Limited  2  -    Bharti Enterprises Limited  3  -    Centum learning Limited  7  -    Atrium Restaurants India Private Limited 0  -    Bharti Realty Limited  1  -     19,164  13,702  * refer note 38(i) Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15172 (` Millions) S.No Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2015  For the year ended   March 31, 2014  6 Receiving of services Entities where control exist Bharti Hexacom Ltd.  2,986  2,549  Bharti Airtel (Services) Limited  3,138  3,343  Bharti Airtel (USA) Ltd.  581  477  Bharti Airtel (UK) Ltd.  5,316  743  Bharti Airtel (Hongkong) Ltd.  75  110  Airtel Bangladesh Ltd.  15  2  Bharti T elemedia Ltd.  64  59  Bharti Infratel Ltd.  17,924  14,085  Bharti Airtel Lanka (Pvt.)
Ltd.  478  727  Network i2i Limited  1,277  1,233  Airtel M Commerce Services Limited  894  161  Nxtra Data Limited  1,805  395  T elesonic Networks Limited  3,969  2,612  Bharti Airtel (Japan) Kabushiki Kaisha  30  10  Bharti Airtel (France) SAS  157  96  Bharti International (Singapore) Pte Ltd.  1,208  1,379  Airtel (Seychelles) Limited  26  44  Airtel (Ghana) Ltd. 12  188  Airtel Networks Ltd.  63  170  Other African Subsidiaries  704  1,272  Associate Bharti T eleports Ltd. -    2  Joint Venture/ Joint Venture of Subsidiary Forum 1 Aviation Ltd  -    45  Indus T owers Limited  33,348  32,350  Bridge Mobile Pte Limited  26  29  Entity having signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the Company Singapore T elecommunications Ltd.  314  480  Group Companies Bharti Wal-Mart Private Limited  -    3  Beetel T eletech Limited  119  395  Bharti Realty Limited  539  548  Nile T ech Ltd.  553  596  Ignite World Private Limited (Previously known as BSB Portal Limited)  712  307  Y2CF Digital Media Pvt.
Ltd.  4  8  Bharti Realty Holdings Limited  169  194  Bharti AXA Life Insurance Company Limited  1  1  Jersey Airtel Limited  1  1  Centum learning Limited  233  216  Bharti Retail Ltd. 3  7  Bharti AXA General Insurance Co Ltd  15  40   76,759  64,877  Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 173Standalone Financial Statements (` Millions) S.No Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2015  For the year ended   March 31, 2014  7 Fund transferred/Expenses incurred on behalf of others Entities where control exist Bharti Hexacom Ltd.  1,129  1,356  Bharti Airtel (Services) Limited  226  299  Airtel Bangladesh Ltd. 0  -    Airtel Broadband Services Pvt.
Ltd.* 524  105  Bharti T elemedia Ltd.  583  633  Bharti Infratel Ltd. -    7  Network i2i Limited  -    7  Airtel M Commerce Services Limited  51  78  Nxtra Data Limited  44  102  T elesonic Networks Limited  120  128  Joint Venture/ Joint Venture of Subsidiary Forum 1 Aviation Ltd  1  -    Wireless Business Services Pvt.
Ltd.*  -    18  Associate Bharti T eleports Ltd.  23  16  Entity having signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the Company Singapore T elecommunications Ltd.  -    1  Group Companies Bharti Retail Ltd. 2  15   2,703  2,765  * refer note 38(i) 8 Fund received/Expenses incurred on  behalf of the Company Entities where control exist Bharti Hexacom Ltd.  4  103  Bharti Airtel (Services) Limited  56  9  Bharti Airtel Holdings (Singapore) Pte Limited 0  3  Bharti International (Singapore) Pte Ltd.  37  -    Bharti T elemedia Ltd.  22  74  Airtel M Commerce Services Limited  132  211  Airtel Broadband Services Pvt.
Ltd.* 0  -    Nxtra Data Limited 5  -    Associate Bharti T eleports Ltd.  -    2  Joint Venture of subsidiary Forum 1 Aviation Ltd  48  -    Group Companies Bharti Retail Ltd.  1  -    Bharti Enterprises Limited  710  638   1,015  1,040  * refer note 38(i) Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15174 (` Millions) S.No Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2015  For the year ended   March 31, 2014  9 Employee related expenses incurred on behalf of others Entities where control exist Bharti Hexacom Ltd.  37  138  Bharti Airtel (Services) Limited  104  307  Bharti T elemedia Ltd.  40  173  Bharti Infratel Ltd. 0  -    Airtel M Commerce Services Limited  86  142  Nxtra Data Limited  2  12  Associate Bharti T eleports Ltd.  -    13   269  785  10 Employee related expenses incurred on behalf of the Company Entities where control exist Bharti Hexacom Ltd.  25  15  Bharti Airtel (Services) Limited  40  54  Bharti Infratel Ltd.  1  -    Bharti T elemedia Ltd.  33  25  Airtel M Commerce Services Limited  4  -    Group Companies Bharti Enterprises Limited  127  92  Bharti Retail Ltd.  1  -    Centum learning Limited  1  -    Beetel T eletech Limited 0  -     232  186  11 Donation Entities where Key Management Personnel and their relatives exercise  signiﬁcant inﬂuence  Bharti Foundation  411  196   411  196  12 Security deposit given/Advances paid Entities where control exist Bharti Infratel Ltd.  34  24  Joint Venture of Subsidiary Indus T owers Limited  68  86  Associate Bharti T eleports Ltd. 0  -    Group Companies Bharti Realty Limited 0  -    Bharti Retail Limited  5  -    Nile T ech Ltd. 0  -    Bharti Enterprises Limited  -    90  Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 175Standalone Financial Statements (` Millions) S.No Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2015  For the year ended   March 31, 2014  Entity having signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the Company Bharti T elecom Ltd.  1  -     108  200  13.
Refund of Capital Advance Entity where control exist Airtel Broadband Services Pvt.
Ltd.*  -    4,757   -    4,757  * refer note 38(i)  14 Advance received/Refund of Security deposit given Entity where control exist Bharti Infratel Ltd.  3  16  Joint Venture of Subsidiary Indus T owers Limited  368  -    Group Companies Bharti Realty Limited 0  -    Bharti Retail Limited  5  -    Entity having signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the Company Bharti T elecom Ltd.  1  -     377  16  15 Repayment of Loan taken Entity where control exist Bharti Infratel Ltd.  -    22,990   -    22,990  16 Loans given Entities where control exist Bharti Airtel (Services) Limited  32  634  Airtel Broadband Services Pvt.
Ltd.*  1,590  22,728  Bharti T elemedia Ltd.  5,820  1,520  Nxtra Data Limited  180  2,000  Bharti International (Singapore) Pte Ltd.  5,902  2,211  Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) B.V.  21,174  9,045  Associate Bharti T eleports Ltd.  154  110  Joint Venture  Wireless Business Services Pvt.
Ltd.*  -    14,904  Wireless Broadband Business Services (Delhi) Pvt.
Ltd.*  -    13,016  Wireless Broadband Business Services (Haryana) Pvt.
Ltd.*  -    693  Wireless Broadband Business Services (Kerala) Pvt.
Ltd.*  -    1,556   34,852  68,417  * refer note 38(i)  17 Repayment of Loans given Entity where control exist Bharti Airtel (Services) Limited  667  -    Bharti T elemedia Ltd.  7,352  3,320  Nxtra Data Limited  180  -    Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15176 (` Millions) S.No Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2015  For the year ended   March 31, 2014  Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) B.V.  294  -    Associate Bharti T eleports Ltd.  -    100  Entities where Key Management Personnel and their relatives exercise  signiﬁcant inﬂuence  Bharti Airtel Employees Welfare T rust  228  338   8,721  3,758  18 Interest charged by others Entities where control exist Bharti Hexacom Ltd.  2  19  Bharti Infratel Ltd.  -    485   2  504  19 Interest charged by the Company Entities where control exist T elesonic Networks Limited  13  14  Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Ltd.  -    -    Bharti International (Singapore) Pte Ltd.  119  40  Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) B.V.  351  164  Associates Bharti T eleports Ltd.  47  35   530  253  20 Dividend Income Entities where control exist Interim Dividend for FY 2014-15 Bharti Infratel Ltd.  6,750  -     6,750  -    Final Dividend for FY 2013-14 Bharti Hexacom Ltd.  350  -    Bharti Infratel Ltd.  6,600  -     6,950  -    Final Dividend for FY 2012-13 Bharti Hexacom Ltd. Bharti Infratel Ltd.  -    88   -    4,500   -    4,588  21 Dividend Paid Group Companies Indian Continent Investment Ltd.  912  266  Entities having signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the Company Pastel Ltd.  2,028  591  Bharti T elecom Ltd.  5,994  1,738  Key Management Personnel Gopal Vittal 0.17  -    Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 177Standalone Financial Statements (` Millions) S.No Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2015  For the year ended   March 31, 2014  Entities where Key Management Personnel and their relatives exercise  signiﬁcant inﬂuence  Bharti Airtel Employees Welfare T rust  7  4   8,941  2,599  22 Reimbursement of energy expenses Entity where control exist Bharti Infratel Ltd.  13,972  17,440  Joint Venture of Subsidiary Indus T owers Limited  21,958  21,961   35,930  39,401  23 Guarantees and collaterals given on behalf of others (Including Performance guarantees) Entity where control exist Bharti Hexacom Ltd.  3,301  2,171  Bharti T elemedia Ltd.  669  727  Airtel Bangladesh Ltd.  14,396  26,444  Bharti Airtel (Services) Limited  160  -    Bharti Airtel  International (Netherlands) B.V  814,413  684,320  Nxtra Data Limited  26  -    Bharti International (Singapore) Pte.
Limited  25,193  56,486  Associate Bharti T eleports Ltd.  1  -     858,159  770,148  24 Key Management Personnel Remuneration ^ Salaries and allowances  221  128  Performance linked incentive (‘PLI’)#  99  189  Perquisites  5    8   325  325  ^ Excludes an amount of ` 35 Mn (March 31, 2014 ` 25 Mn) towards expenses recognised in statement of proﬁt and loss during the year ended March 31, 2015 with  respect to stock options granted.
# Value of PLI considered above represents incentive at 100% performance level.
However, same will be paid on the basis of actual performance parameters in next  year.
Additional provision of ` 23 Mn (March 31, 2014: Reversal of provision of ` 2 Mn) has been recorded in the books towards PLI for the year ended March 31, 2015.
During the year ended March 31, 2015, PLI of ` 220.50 Mn (March 31, 2014: ` 144.95 Mn) pertaining to previous year has been paid.
Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15178 49.
Operating Lease  Operating lease as a lessee  The lease rentals charged during the year for cancellable/non-cancellable leases relating to rent of building premises and  cell sites as per the agreements and maximum obligation on long-term non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: (` Millions) Particulars  As of  March 31, 2015   As of   March 31, 2014 Lease Rentals [Excluding Lease Equalisation Reserve - ` 2,339 Mn (March 31,  2014 ` 3,079 Mn)]   57,451  53,825  Obligations on non cancellable leases :  Not later than one year  60,478  56,538  Later than one year but not later than ﬁve years  218,622  228,617  Later than ﬁve years  111,760  130,621  T otal 390,860  415,776   The escalation clause includes escalation ranging from 0 to 25%, includes option of renewal from 1 to 15 years and there  are no restrictions imposed by lease arrangements.
Operating Lease – As a Lessor i)   The Company has entered into non–cancellable lease arrangements to provide dark ﬁber on indefeasible right of use  (IRU) basis and certain premises on lease.
Due to the nature of the transaction, it is not possible to compute gross  carrying amount, depreciation for the year and accumulated depreciation of the asset given on operating lease as of  March 31, 2015 and accordingly, disclosures required by AS 19 are not provided.
ii)  The future minimum lease payments receivable are: (` Millions) Particulars  As of  March 31, 2015   As of   March 31, 2014 Not later than one year  328  319  Later than one year but not later than ﬁve years  1,207  1,305  Later than ﬁve years  904  1,134  T otal 2,439  2,758  b) Finance Lease i)  Finance Lease obligation of the Company as lessee as of March 31, 2015 is as follow:- (` Millions) Particulars  Future minimum  lease payments   Interest  Present value  Not later than one year  42  12  30  Later than one year but not later than ﬁve years  117  16  101  Later than ﬁve years  -    -    -    T otal  159  28  131  ii)  The future minimum lease payments receivable of the Company as of March 31, 2015 is as follows (` Millions) Particulars  Future minimum  lease payments   Interest  Present value  Not later than one year  45  13  32  Later than one year but not later than ﬁve years  123  17  106  Later than ﬁve years  -    -    -    T otal  168  30  138  Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 179Standalone Financial Statements 50.
Employee Stock Compensation (i)  Pursuant to the shareholders’ resolutions dated  February 27, 2001 and September 25, 2001, the  Company introduced the “Bharti T ele-Ventures  Employees’ Stock Option Plan” (hereinafter called “the  Old Scheme”) under which the Company decided to  grant, from time to time, options to the employees of  the Company and its subsidiaries.
The grant of options  to the employees under the Old Scheme is on the basis  of their performance and other eligibility criteria.
(ii)  On August 31, 2001 and September 28, 2001, the  Company issued a total of 1,440,000 (face value  ` 10 each) equity shares at a price of ` 565 per equity  share (2,880,000 equity shares post split of one equity  share of ` 10 each into 2 equity shares of ` 5 each) to  the T rust.
The Company issued bonus shares in the  ratio of 10 equity shares for every one equity share  held as at September 30, 2001, as a result of which the  total number of shares allotted to the trust increased  to 15,840,000 (face value ` 10 each) equity shares  (31,680,000 equity shares post share split of one equity  share of ` 10 each into 2 equity shares of ` 5 each).
(iii) Pursuant to the shareholders’ resolution dated  September 6, 2005, the Company announced a new  Employee Stock Option Scheme (hereinafter called “the  New Scheme”) under which the maximum quantum  of options was determined at 9,367,276 (face value  ` 10 each) options to be granted to the employees from  time to time on the basis of their performance and  other eligibility criteria.
(18,734,552 equity shares post  share split of one equity share of ` 10 each into 2 equity  shares of ` 5 each) (iv) The following table provides an overview of all existing share option plans of the Company:  As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014  Scheme Plan Y ear of  issuance  of plan Vesting  period  (years) Contractual   term  (years) Share options  granted  (thousands) Weighted  average  exercise  price (`) Share  options  granted  (thousands) Weighted  average  exercise  price (`) Equity settled  Plans Scheme I 2001 Plan * 2002 1 - 4 7 30,893 21.25 30,893 21.25 Scheme I 2004 Plan * 2004 1 - 4 7 4,380 35.00 4,380 35.00 Scheme I Superpot * 2004 1 - 3 7 143 - 143 - Scheme I 2006 Plan 2006 1 - 5 7 5,489 5.48 5,264 5.50 Scheme 2005 2005 Plan 2005 1 - 4 7 11,260 237.06 11,260 237.06 Scheme 2005 2008 Plan &  Annual   Grant Plan (AGP) 2008 1 - 3 7 8,817 352.13 8,817 352.13 Scheme 2005 Performance  Share Plan (PSP)  2009 Plan 2009 3 - 4 7 1,691 5.00 1,691 5.00 Scheme 2005 Special ESOP &  Restricted Share  Units (RSU) Plan 2010 1 - 5 7 3,615 5.00 3,615 5.00 Scheme 2005 Long T erm  Incentive (LTI)  Plan  2011 1 - 3 7 433 5.00 422 5.00 Scheme 2005 LTI Plan 2012 1 - 3 7 1,649 5.00 1,593 5.00 Cash settled  Plans Performance  Unit Plan (PUP)  2013 Performance Unit  Plan (PUP) 2013 2013 1 - 3 3 2,283 - 2,167 - Performance  Unit Plan (PUP)  2014 Performance Unit  Plan (PUP) 2014 2014 1 - 5 3-5 4,006  -  -  -   * Contractual term has expired Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15180  (v) The following table exhibits the net compensation expenses arising from share based payment transaction:  (` Millions)  Particulars Y ear ended March  31, 2015 Y ear ended March  31, 2014 Expenses arising from equity-settled share-based payment  transactions  (6)  (42) Expenses arising from Cash-settled share-based payment  transactions  555   237    549  195   (vi)  The total carrying value of cash settled share based compensation liability is ` 658 Mn and ` 266 as of March 31, 2015  and March 31, 2014, respectively.
(vii) The information concerning stock options granted, exercised, forfeited and outstanding at the year-end is as follows: As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Particulars Number of   share options  (thousands) Weighted average   exercise price  (`) Number of   share options  (thousands) Weighted average   exercise price  (`) Equity Settled Plans Scheme I - 2006 Plan Outstanding at beginning of year  539  6.74  1,185  5.89  Granted  225  5.00  150  5.00  Exercised  (98)  14.38  (320)  5.36  Forfeited / Expired  (276)  5.00  (476)  5.00  Outstanding at end of year  390  5.00  539  6.74  Exercisable at end of year  65  5.00  223  9.21  Scheme 2005 - 2005 Plan Outstanding at beginning of year  1,008  436.06  1,736  384.72  Granted  -    -    -    -    Exercised  -    -    (130)  201.88  Forfeited / Expired  (1,008)  436.06  (598)  339.18  Outstanding at end of year  -    -    1,008  436.06  Exercisable at end of year - -  1,008  436.06  Scheme 2005 - 2008 Plan & AGP Outstanding at beginning of year  3,439  354.54  4,314  355.80  Granted  -    -    -    -    Exercised  (173)  327.20  (10)  301.47  Forfeited / Expired  (732)  357.85  (865)  361.04  Outstanding at end of year  2,534  355.45  3,439  354.54  Exercisable at end of year  2,534  355.45  3,439  354.54  Scheme 2005 - PSP 2009 Plan Outstanding at beginning of year  242  5.00  569  5.00  Granted  -   -  -    -    Exercised  (159)  5.00     (217)  5.00  Forfeited / Expired  -    5.00  (110)  5.00  Outstanding at end of year  83  5.00  242  5.00  Exercisable at end of year  83  5.00  154  5.00  Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 181Standalone Financial Statements As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Particulars Number of   share options  (thousands) Weighted average   exercise price  (`) Number of   share options  (thousands) Weighted average   exercise price  (`) Scheme 2005 - Special ESOP & RSU  Plan Outstanding at beginning of year  408  5.00  1,470  5.00  Granted  -    -    -    -    Exercised  (178)  5.00  (610)  5.00  Forfeited / Expired  (41)  5.00  (452)  5.00  Outstanding at end of year  189  5.00  408  5.00  Exercisable at end of year  189  5.00  369  5.00  Scheme 2005 - L TI Plan (2011 & 2012) Outstanding at beginning of year  1,072  5.00  1,815  5.00  Granted  67  5.00  -    -    Exercised  (356)  5.00  (275)  5.00  Forfeited / Expired  (260)  5.00  (468)  5.00  Outstanding at end of year  523  5.00  1,072  5.00  Exercisable at end of year  230  5.00  183  5.00  Cash Settled Plan PUP 2013  Outstanding at beginning of year  1,978  -    -    -    Granted  116  -    2,167  -  Exercised  (589)  -    -    -    Forfeited / Expired  (542)  -    (189)  -    Outstanding at end of year  962  -    1,978  -    Exercisable at end of year  -    -    -    -    PUP 2014  Outstanding at beginning of year  -    -    -    -    Granted  4,006  -    -    -    Exercised  -    -    -    -    Forfeited / Expired  (167)  -    -    -    Outstanding at end of year  3,839  -    -    -    Exercisable at end of year - - - - Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15182 (viii) The following table summarises information about options exercised and granted during the year and about options  outstanding and their remaining contractual life: March 2015 Options Outstanding  as of March 31, 2015 Options Granted  during the year ended   March 31, 2015 Options Excercised  during the year ended  March 31, 2015 Plan Options   (thousands) Exercise  price  (`) Weighted  average  remaining  contractual  life (years) Options  (thousands) Weighted  average  Fair Value  (`) Options  (thousands) Weighted  average  share  price  (`) Equity settled Plans 2006 Plan  390  5.00 to  110.50  5.86  225  361.19  98  371.70  2008 Plan & AGP  2,534  295.00  to  402.50  0.63  -    -    173  383.30  PSP 2009 Plan  83  5.00 1.87  -    -    159  352.26  Special ESOP & RSU Plan  189  5.00 2.26  -    -    178  350.09  LTI Plan (2011 & 2012)  523  5.00 4.27  67  291.63  356  368.36  Cash settled Plans PUP 2013  962 - 1.37  116  379  589  354.24  PUP 2014  3,839  - 2.89  4,006  390  -    -    March 2014 Options Outstanding  as of March 31, 2014 Options Granted  during the year ended   March 31, 2014 Options Excercised  during the year ended  March 31, 2014 Plan Options   (thousands) Exercise  price  (`)  Weighted  average  remaining  contractual  life (years) Options  (thousands) Weighted  average  Fair Value   (`) Options  (thousands) Weighted  average  share  price  (`) Equity settled Plans 2006 Plan  539  5.00 to  110.50  4.40  150  329.14 320  301.16  2005 Plan  1,008  110.50  to  461.00  0.43  -    -   130  316.90  2008 Plan & AGP  3,439  295.00  to  402.50  1.62  -    -   10  320.55  PSP 2009 Plan  242  5 .00 2.77  -    -   217  326.62  Special ESOP & RSU Plan  408  5 .00 3.20  -    -   610  324.96  LTI Plan (2011 & 2012)  1,072  5 .00 2.66  -    -   275  327.05  Cash settled Plans PUP 2013  1,978 - 2.36  2,167  316.85  -    -    Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 183Standalone Financial Statements  (ix)  The fair value of the options granted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black- Sholes/Monte Carlo Lattice  valuation model with the following assumptions:     Particulars Y ear Ended March 31, 2015 Y ear Ended March 31, 2014 Risk free interest rates  7.64% to 8.65%  8.38% to 8.53%  Expected life  11 to 72 months  16 to 60 months  Volatility  27.36% to 30.73%  36.31% to 39%  Dividend yield  0.46% to 0.48%  0.31% to 0.32%  Wtd average share price on measurement date (`)  373.7 to 393.9  318.9 to 337.4  Wtd average exercise price on measurement date (`) 0 to 5 0 to 5  The volatility of the options is based on the historical volatility of the share price since the Company’s equity shares  became publicly traded.
(x) Bharti Infratel Limited (BIL) has given stock options to certain employees of the Company and the corresponding  compensation cost is borne by BIL.
51.
Forward Contracts & Derivative Instruments and Unhedged Foreign Currency Exposure  The Company’s activities expose it to a variety of ﬁnancial risks, including the eﬀects of changes in foreign currency  exchange rates and interest rates.
The Company uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments such as foreign exchange contracts,  option contracts and interest rate swaps to manage its exposures to foreign exchange ﬂuctuations and changes in interest  rate.
The following table details the status of the Company’s exposure: (` Millions) Sr No Particulars Notional Value  (March 31, 2015) Notional Value  (March 31, 2014) A For Loan related exposures * a) Forwards  7,023  7,272  b) Options  19,115  11,958  c) Interest Rate Swaps  -    -    T otal  26,138  19,230  B For T rade related exposures * a) Forwards  9,326  7,452  b) Options  3,818  2,404  c) Interest Rate Swaps  -    -    T otal  13,144  9,856  C Unhedged foreign currency borrowing  26,075  18,484  D Unhedged foreign currency payables  33,468  26,941  E Unhedged foreign currency receivables  2,648  166   *All derivatives are taken for hedging purposes only and trade related exposure includes hedges taken for forecasted receivabl es.
The Company has accounted for derivatives, which are covered under the Announcement issued by the ICAI, on marked- to-market basis and has recorded reversal of loss ` 258 Mn (including reversal of loss of ` 196 Mn towards embedded  derivatives) for the year ended March 31, 2015 [recorded net loss of ` 73 Mn (including reversal of loss of ` 8 Mn towards  embedded derivatives) for the year ended March 31, 2014].
Notes to ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15184 52. a)  The Board of Directors, in its meeting held on April 29, 2014, proposed a ﬁnal dividend of ` 1.80 per equity share of   ` 5.00 each (36% of face value) for ﬁnancial year 2013-14 which was duly approved by the shareholders of the Company  in the Annual General Meeting held on September 5, 2014.  b)  During the year ended March 31, 2015, on August 13, 2014, the Board of Directors declared an interim dividend for  ` 1.63 per equity of ` 5.00 (32.6% of face value)   c)  Net dividend remitted in foreign exchange: (` Millions) Particulars  During the year ended  March 31, 2015   During the year ended  March 31, 2014  Number of non-resident shareholders  4  5  Number of equity shares held on which dividend was due (Nos.
in Million)  862  862  Amount remitted (` in Millions)  2,958  862  Amount remitted (USD in Millions)  49  13   d)  Dividend of ` 2.22 per share (Face value per share ` 5) proposed for the year 2014-15.
53.
Movement in Provision a)  Doubtful Debts/Advances (` Millions) Particulars For the year ended  March 31, 2015 For the year ended  March 31, 2014 Balance at the beginning of the year#  16,466  13,262  Addition- Provision for the year  6,018  5,864  Application- Write oﬀ of bad debts (net of recovery)  (2,915)  (2,644) Others  -    (16)*  Balance at the end of the year#  19,569  16,466  * ` 16 Mn provision for doubtful receivable transferred to Nxtra Data Limited, as part of slump sale, during the year ended March 31, 2014 # includes provision for doubtful TDS receivable of ` 582 Mn (March 31, 2014 ` 419 Mn) grouped under Advance tax  b)  Subjudice Matters  The Company is involved in various litigations, the outcomes of which are considered probable, and in respect of which  the company has made aggregate provisions of ` 55,205 Mn as at March 31, 2015 (March 31, 2014 ` 42,296 Mn).
The movement of provision towards subjudice matters disclosed under other non-current assets (refer note 19) and  other current liabilities (refer note 13) (` Millions) Particulars For the year ended  March 31, 2015 For the year ended  March 31, 2014 Opening Balance  42,296  33,163  Additions (net)  12,909  9,133  Closing Balance  55,205  42,296  Notes to ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 185Standalone Financial Statements 54.
Details of debt covenant w.r.t.
the Company’s 3G/BWA  borrowings:   The loan agreements with respect to 3G/BWA borrowings  contains a negative pledge covenant that prevents the  Company to create or allow to exit any security interest  on any of its assets without prior written consent of the  lenders except in certain agreed circumstances.
(refer  note 4) 55.
During the year ended March 31, 2014, the Company  has transferred co-ownership of three undersea cables  having net WDV of ` 2,725 Mn to its wholly owned  subsidiary Network i2i Limited, a company incorporated  and existing under the laws of Mauritius, with the  intention to aggregate certain international undersea  cables under a single entity.
56.
The Company has completed an independent evaluation  for all international and domestic transactions for the  year ended March 31, 2015 to determine whether the  transactions with associated enterprises are undertaken  at “arm’s length price”.
Based on the internal and  external transfer pricing review and validation, the  Company believes that all transactions with associate  enterprises are undertaken on the basis of arm’s length  principle.
57.
The Company (M/s J T Mobiles Limited subsequently  merged with the Company) was awarded license by  DoT to operate cellular services in the state of Punjab  in December 1995.
On April 18, 1996, the Company  obtained the permission from DoT to operate the Punjab  license through its wholly owned subsidiary, Evergrowth  T elecom Limited (ETL).
In December 1996, DoT raised  argument that the permission dated April 18, 1996 has  not become eﬀective and cancelled the permission to  operate, which was subsequently reinstated on March  10, 1998 (the period from April 18, 1996 to March 10, 1998  has been hereinafter referred to as ‘blackout period’).
On July 15, 1999, license was terminated due to alleged  non-payment of license fees, liquidated damages and  related penal interest relating to blackout period.
In September 2001, in response to the demand raised by  DoT , the Company had paid ` 4,856 Mn to DoT under  protest subject to resolution of the dispute through  arbitration.
Consequently, the license was restored  and an arbitrator was appointed for settlement of the  dispute.
Arbitrator awarded an unfavourable order,  which was challenged by the Company before Hon’ble  Delhi High Court.
On September 14, 2012, Hon’ble Delhi High court  passed an order setting aside the award passed by  the arbitrator.
DoT in the meanwhile has preferred  an Appeal, including condonation of delay in ﬁling of  appeal, which is presently pending before the Division  Bench of the Delhi High Court.
The Appeal of DoT on the  issue of condonation of delay was allowed on July 16,  2013.
However, the Company on October 30, 2013 has  ﬁled the writ Petition for recovery of License fee in Delhi  High Court, notice issued by HC and listed for hearing  on May 6, 2015.
58.
Previous year ﬁgures have been regrouped / reclassiﬁed  where necessary to conform to current year’s  classiﬁcation.
Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15186 Consolidated Financial Statements Particulars Page  Nos.
Independent Auditor’s Report 187 Consolidated Income Statement 188 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 188 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 189 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 190 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 191 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Corporate Information 192 2.
Basis of Preparation 192 3.
Summary of Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies 192 4.
Signiﬁcant Accounting Judgements, Estimates  and Assumptions 204 5.
Standards Issued But Not yet Eﬀective up to  the Date of Issuance of the Group’s Financial  Statements 206 6.
Segment Reporting 208 7. Business Combination / Disposal of Subsidiary /  Other Acquisitions / T ransaction with Non- controlling Interest 212 8.
Operating Expenses 214 9.
Other Expenses 220 10.
Depreciation and Amortisation 220 11.
Finance Income and Costs 220 12.
Exceptional Items 221 13.
Income Taxes 221 14.
Property, Plant and Equipment 225 15.
Intangible Assets 226 16.
Impairment Reviews 227 17.
Investment in Associates, Joint Ventures and  Subsidiaries 228 Particulars Page  Nos.
18.
Derivative Financial Instruments 232 19.
Other Financial Assets 233 20 Other Non-ﬁnancial Assets, Non-current 233 21.
Inventories 234 22.
T rade and Other Receivables 234 23.
Prepayments and Other Assets 235 24.
Other Investments 235 25.
Cash and Cash Equivalents 235 26.
Borrowings 236 27.
Provisions 240 28.
Other Financial Liabilities, Non-current 241 29.
Other Non-Financial Liabilities 241 30.
T rade and Other Payables 242 31.
Equity 242 32.
Employee Beneﬁts 244 33.
Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities 247 34.
Related Party T ransactions 253 35.
Lease Disclosure 254 36.
Commitments and Contingencies 256 37.
Earnings Per Share 260 38.
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies 260 39.
New Developments 265 40.
Companies in the Group, Joint Ventures and  Associates 266 41.
Other Signiﬁcant Matters 271 42.
Non-current Assets held for sale 272 43.
Regrouping / Reclassiﬁcation 272 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 187 T o the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited We have audited the accompanying consolidated ﬁnancial  statements (‘ﬁnancial statements’) of Bharti Airtel Limited  (‘the Company’) and its subsidiaries (together referred to as ‘the  Group’) as at March 31, 2015, comprising of the consolidated  statement of ﬁnancial position as at March 31, 2015 and the  related consolidated income statement and consolidated  statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement  of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash  ﬂows for the year then ended, and a summary of signiﬁcant  accounting policies and other explanatory  notes.
Management’s Responsibility for the Financial  Statements Management is responsible for the preparation of these  consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with the  requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards.
This responsibility includes the design, implementation and  maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation  of the ﬁnancial statements that are free from material  misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these ﬁnancial  statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in  accordance with the Standards on Auditing issued by the  Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
Those standards  require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan  and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about  whether the ﬁnancial statements are free from material  misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit  evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial  statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s  judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material  misstatement(s) of the ﬁnancial statements, whether due  to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the  auditor considers internal control relevant to the Company’s  preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated  ﬁnancial statements in order to design audit procedures  that are appropriate in the circumstances but not for the  purpose of expressing an opinion on the  eﬀectiveness  of the entity’s internal control.
An audit also includes  evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used  and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates made by  management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation  of the ﬁnancial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence  we have obtained is suﬃcient and appropriate to provide a  basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion In our opinion and to the best of our information and  according to the explanations given to us and based on  the consideration of the report of the other auditors on the  ﬁnancial statements of the joint venture of the Company as  noted below, these ﬁnancial statements present fairly, in all  material respects, the ﬁnancial position of the Group as at  March 31, 2015, and its ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂows  for the year then ended in accordance with International  Financial Reporting Standards.
Emphasis of Matter We draw attention to Note 36(ii)(f)(vii) to the consolidated  ﬁnancial statements which describe the uncertainties related  to the legal outcome of Department of T elecommunications’  demand with respect to One Time Spectrum Charge.
Our  opinion is not qualiﬁed in respect of this matter.
Other Matters  We did not audit the share of gain in a joint venture of ` 7,276  million for the year ended March 31, 2015, included in the  accompanying ﬁnancial statements in respect of the joint  venture, whose ﬁnancial statements and other ﬁnancial  information have been audited by other auditors and whose  report has been furnished to us by the management.
Our  opinion, in so far as it relates to the aﬀairs of such joint  venture is based solely on the report of other auditors.
For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W per Nilangshu Katriar                                                  Partner  Membership No: 58814 Place: New Delhi  Date: April 28, 2015 Independent Auditor’s Report  Independent Auditor’s Report Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15188    (` Millions, except per share data) Particulars Notes Y ear ended  March 31, 2015 Y ear ended  March 31, 2014 Revenue 6  920,394  857,461  Other operating income  957  1,174  Operating expenses 8  (607,468)  (580,205)  313,883  278,430  Depreciation and amortisation 10  (155,311)  (156,496) Proﬁt from operating activities before exceptional items  158,572  121,934  Share of results of joint ventures and associates 17  7,223  5,211  Proﬁt before ﬁnance income, ﬁnance costs, other expenses, exceptional items  and  tax   165,795  127,145  Finance income 11  24,788  10,408  Finance costs 11  (73,252)  (58,788) Other expenses 9  (1,669)  (660) Exceptional items, net 12  (8,532)  538   Proﬁt before tax  107,130  78,643  Income tax expense (including exceptional items) 13  (54,047)  (48,449)  Net proﬁt for the year  53,083  30,194   Attributable to :  Equity holders of the Parent  51,835  27,727  Non-controlling interests (including exceptional items)  1,248  2,467  Net proﬁt   53,083  30,194  Earnings per share (In `) 37 Basic, proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the Parent  12.97  7.02  Diluted, proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the Parent  12.97  7.01  The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
(` Millions) Particulars Y ear ended  March 31, 2015 Y ear ended  March 31, 2014 Net proﬁt for the year  53,083  30,194  Other comprehensive income :  Items that may be reclassiﬁed subsequently to proﬁt or loss :  Exchange diﬀerences on translation of foreign operations  (69,186)  15,716  Income tax eﬀect  -    (150) Gains/(losses) on hedge of net investments  32,925  -    Income tax eﬀect  -    -    Gains/(losses) on cash ﬂow hedge  (5,350)  -    Income tax eﬀect  -    -     (41,611)  15,566  Items that will not be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss :  Re-measurement gains/(losses) on deﬁned beneﬁt plans  75  (197) Income tax eﬀect  (18)  49   57  (148) Other comprehensive income / (loss) for the year, net of tax  (41,554)  15,418  T otal comprehensive income / (loss) for the year, net of tax  11,529  45,612   Attributable to :  Equity holders of the Parent  12,448  43,373  Non-controlling interests  (919)  2,239   T otal comprehensive income   11,529  45,612  The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP                                          For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W per Nilangshu Katriar                                                 Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Partner  Membership No: 58814 Chairman Managing Director   & CEO (India & South Asia) Place: New Delhi Rajendra Chopra Srikanth Balachandran  Date: April 28, 2015 Company Secretary Global Chief Financial Oﬃcer  Consolidated Income Statement Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 189  (` Millions)  Particulars Notes As of As of March 31, 2015 March 31, 2014 Assets Non-current assets  Property, plant and equipment 14  579,157  596,429  Intangible assets 15  922,283  809,716  Investment in joint ventures and associates 17  46,257  56,702  Other investments 24  31,260  36,341  Derivative ﬁnancial assets 18  7,303  2,761  Other ﬁnancial assets 19  16,018  17,330  Other non-ﬁnancial assets 20  28,383  26,009  Deferred tax asset 13  59,502  62,627   1,690,163  1,607,915  Current assets  Inventories 21  1,339  1,422  T rade and other receivables 22  67,252  62,441  Derivative ﬁnancial assets 18  1,207  819  Prepayments and other assets 23  31,828  29,656  Income tax recoverable  5,750  9,319  Other investments 24  92,840  62,265  Other ﬁnancial assets 19  10,075  8,127  Cash and cash equivalents 25  11,719  49,808   222,010  223,857  Assets of disposal group classiﬁed as held for sale 42  45,645  -     267,655  223,857   T otal assets  1,957,818  1,831,772   Equity and liabilities  Equity    Issued capital 31  19,987  19,987  T reasury shares 31  (114)  (342) Share premium  123,456  123,456  Retained earnings  473,025  437,167  Other reserves 31  3,210  17,292  Equity attributable to equity holders of the Parent  619,564  597,560  Non-controlling interests  48,525  42,102  T otal equity  668,089  639,662  Non-current liabilities  Borrowings 26  452,283  549,919  Deferred revenue   17,917  14,010  Provisions 27  6,248  10,044  Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities 18  164  4,313  Deferred tax liability 13  15,110  16,850  Other ﬁnancial liabilities 28  162,106  27,464  Other non-ﬁnancial liabilities 29  1,466  1,460   655,294  624,060  Current liabilities  Borrowings 26  211,389  209,039  Deferred revenue  50,074  44,899  Provisions 27  2,061  1,725  Other non-ﬁnancial liabilities 29  15,897  15,277  Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities 18  628  1,097  Income tax liabilities  9,271  12,032  T rade & other payables 30  339,670  283,981   628,990  568,050  Liabilities of disposal group classiﬁed as held for sale 42  5,445  -     634,435  568,050  T otal liabilities  1,289,729  1,192,110  T otal equity and liabilities  1,957,818  1,831,772  The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP                                          For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W per Nilangshu Katriar                                                 Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Partner  Membership No: 58814 Chairman Managing Director   & CEO (India & South Asia) Place: New Delhi Rajendra Chopra Srikanth Balachandran  Date: April 28, 2015 Company Secretary Global Chief Financial Oﬃcer  Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Consolidated Financial Statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15190   ( ` Millions, except as stated otherwise) Particulars Attributable to equity holders of the Parent No of  shares  (in ‘000)  (Note 31) Share  capital  (Note 31) T reasury  shares  (Note 31) Share  premium Retained  earnings Other  Reserves  (Note 31) T otal Non- controlling  interests T otal  equity As of April 1, 2013  3,797,530  18,988  (674)  56,499  414,027  14,377  503,217  40,886  544,103  Net proﬁt / (loss) for the year  -    -    -    -    27,727  -    27,727  2,467  30,194  Other comprehensive income / (loss)  -    -    -    -    (148)  15,794  15,646  (228)  15,418  T otal comprehensive income / (loss)  -    -    -    -    27,579  15,794  43,373  2,239  45,612  Share based compensation  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    8  8  Issue of share capital  199,870  999  -    66,957  -    -    67,956  -    67,956  Non-controlling interest arising on a business combination /   liability for purchase of non-controlling interests (refer note 7)   -    -    -    -    -    (7,534)  (7,534)  820  (6,714) Receipt on exercise of share options (refer note 8.2)  -    -    332  -    -    (295)  37  61  98  T ransaction with non-controlling interests (refer note 7)  -    -    -    -    -    (5,050)  (5,050)  355  (4,695) Dividend paid (including tax) to Company's shareholders (refer note 31)  -    -    -    -    (4,439)  -    (4,439)  -    (4,439) Dividend paid (including tax) to non-controlling Interests  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (2,296)  (2,296) Others (refer note 7)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    29  29  As of March 31, 2014 3,997,400  19,987  (342)  123,456  437,167  17,292  597,560  42,102  639,662  Net proﬁt / (loss) for the year  -    -    -    -    51,835  -    51,835  1,248  53,083  Other comprehensive income / (loss)  -    -    -    -    57  (39,444)  (39,387)  (2,167)  (41,554) T otal comprehensive income / (loss)  -    -    -    -    51,892  (39,444)  12,448  (919)  11,529  Share based compensation  -    -    -    -    -    (7)  (7)  3  (4) Receipt on exercise of share options (refer note 8.2)  -    -    228  -    -    (173)  55  497  552  T ransaction with non-controlling interests (refer note 7)  -    -    -    -    -    25,542  25,542  12,207  37,749  Dividend paid (including tax) to Company's shareholders (refer note 31)  -    -    -    -    (16,034)  -    (16,034)  -    (16,03 4) Dividend paid (including tax) to non-controlling Interests  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (5,365)  (5,365) As of March 31, 2015 3,997,400  19,987  (114)  123,456  473,025  3,210  619,564  48,525  668,089  The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP                                          For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited Chartered AccountantsICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W per Nilangshu Katriar                                                 Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Partner  Membership No: 58814 Chairman Managing Director   & CEO (India & South Asia) Place: New Delhi Rajendra Chopra Srikanth Balachandran  Date: April 28, 2015 Company Secretary Global Chief Financial Oﬃcer  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 191 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP                                          For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W per Nilangshu Katriar                                                 Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Partner  Membership No: 58814 Chairman Managing Director   & CEO (India & South Asia) Place: New Delhi Rajendra Chopra Srikanth Balachandran  Date: April 28, 2015 Company Secretary Global Chief Financial Oﬃcer  (` Millions) Particulars Y ear ended   March 31, 2015 Y ear ended   March 31, 2014 Cash ﬂows from operating activities Proﬁt before tax  107,130  78,643  Adjustments for -   Depreciation and amortisation  155,311  156,496   Finance income  (24,788)  (10,408)  Finance costs  73,252  58,788   Share of results of joint ventures and associates  (7,223)  (5,211)  Exceptional items (net)  1,941  (2,481)  Amortisation of share based compensation  (4)  8   Other non-cash items  (45)  (789) Operating cash ﬂow before changes in assets and liabilities  305,574  275,046   T rade & other receivables and prepayments  (11,144)  2,072   Inventories  (2)  (147)  T rade and other payables  14,203  16,818   Provisions  1,144  2,511   Other ﬁnancial and non ﬁnancial liabilities  (99)  10,506   Other ﬁnancial and non ﬁnancial assets  (5,741)  (14,227) Cash generated from operations  303,935  292,579   Interest received  1,307  1,688   Dividend from mutual funds  480  898   Dividend received  16,407  2,200   Income tax paid  (46,111)  (35,039) Net cash inﬂow from operating activities  276,018  262,326  Cash ﬂows from investing activities  Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (146,411)  (114,159)  Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  2,595  4,360   Purchase of intangible assets  (65,970)  (64,860)  Short term investments (net)  (13,821)  (21,998)  Purchase of non-current investments  (3,078)  (8,842)  Sale of non-current investments  5,618  -     Investment in subsidiary, net of cash acquired (refer note 7)  (358)  (6,044)  Sale / Demerger of subsidiary 1,021  (8,009)  Investment in joint venture / associate  (10)  (2)  Proceeds from Joint venture on account of capital reduction  87  -     Loan given to joint venture / associate (Refer note 34)  (154)  (30,179) Net cash outﬂow from investing activities  (220,481)  (249,733) Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities  Proceeds from borrowings  344,586  361,215   Repayment of borrowings  (420,325)  (348,425)  Short term borrowings (net)  3,288  1,462   Repayment of loan to joint venture  (9,173)  -     Interest and other ﬁnance charges paid  (33,887)  (37,620)  Proceeds from exercise of share options  552  98   Dividend paid (including tax) to Company's shareholders (refer note 31)  (16,034)  (4,439)  Dividend paid (including tax) to non - controlling interests  (5,365)  (2,296)  Proceeds from issuance of equity shares to institutional investor  -    67,956   Sale of interest in a subsidiary to non-controlling interest (refer note 7)  40,412  -     Acquisition of non-controlling interests (refer note 7)  (624)  (10,207) Net cash inﬂow/ (outﬂow) from ﬁnancing activities  (96,570)  27,744  Net increase/ (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents during the year  (41,033)  40,337  Eﬀect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents  43  (2,073) Add : Balance as at the beginning of the year  39,575  1,311  Balance as at the end of the year (refer note 25)  (1,415)  39,575  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15192 1.
Corporate Information   Bharti Airtel Limited (”Bharti Airtel” or “the Company”  or “the Parent”) is domiciled and incorporated in India  and its shares are publicly traded on the National Stock  Exchange (“NSE”) and the Bombay Stock Exchange  (“BSE”), India.
The Registered oﬃce of the Company is  situated at Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,  Vasant Kunj, Phase – II, New Delhi – 110070.
Bharti Airtel together with its subsidiaries is hereinafter  referred to as “the Group”.
The Group is a leading  telecommunication service provider in India and also  has strong presence in Africa and South Asia.
The  services provided by the Group are further detailed in  Note 6 under segment reporting.
The principal activities of the Group, its joint ventures  and associates consist of provision of telecommunication  systems and services, tower infrastructure services and  direct to home digital TV services.
The principal activities  of the subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are  disclosed in Note 40.
The Group’s principal shareholders as of March 31,  2015 are Bharti T elecom Limited, Pastel Limited (part  of Singapore T elecommunication International Pte.
Limited Group), Indian Continent Investment Limited  and Three Pillars Pte.
Limited.
2.
Basis of Preparation  The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been  prepared in accordance with the International  Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as issued by the  International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”).
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements were authorised  for issue in accordance with a resolution passed by the  Board of Directors on April 28, 2015.
The preparation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements  requires management to make judgements, estimates  and assumptions.
Actual results could vary from these  estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions  are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to  accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which  the estimate is revised if the revision aﬀects only that  year or in the year of the revision and future years, if  the revision aﬀects both current and future years (refer  Note 4 on signiﬁcant accounting judgements, estimates  and assumptions).
The signiﬁcant accounting policies used in preparing the  consolidated ﬁnancial statements are set out in Note 3  of the notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
3.
Summary of Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies  The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous ﬁnancial year except for adoption of the following  new Standards, interpretations and amendments eﬀective from the current year S.  No.
Interpretation/ Amendments Month of Issue Eﬀective date -  annual periods  beginning on or after 1 Amendments to IAS 32, “Financial Instruments : Presentation” December, 2011 January 1, 2014 2 Amendments to IFRS 10, “Consolidated Financial Statements”, IFRS  12, “Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities” and IAS 27, “Separate  Financial Statements” October, 2012 January 1, 2014 3 Amendments to IAS 36, “Impairment of Assets” May, 2013 January 1, 2014 4 IFRIC 21, “Levies” May, 2013 January 1, 2014 5 Amendments to IAS 39, “Financial Instruments: Recognition and  Measurement” June, 2013 January 1, 2014 The adoption of the new interpretations / amendments to the  Standards mentioned above does not have any signiﬁcant  impact on the ﬁnancial position or performance of the Group.
The Group has not early adopted any Standard, interpretation  or amendment that has been issued but is not yet eﬀective.
The Group plans to adopt these Standards, interpretations  and amendments as and when they are eﬀective.
3.1 Basis of measurement   The consolidated ﬁnancial statements are prepared on  a historical cost basis, except for ﬁnancial instruments  classiﬁed as fair value through proﬁt or loss and  liability for cash settled share based options that have  been measured at fair value.
The carrying values of  recognised liabilities that are designated as hedged  items in fair value hedges that would otherwise be  carried at amortised cost are adjusted to record changes  in the fair values attributable to the risks that are being  hedged in eﬀective hedge relationships.
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements are presented in  Indian Rupees (‘Rupees’ or ‘ `’), which is the Company’s  functional and Group’s presentation currency and all  amounts are rounded to the nearest million, except as  stated otherwise.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 193Consolidated Financial Statements 3.2 Basis of consolidation   The consolidated ﬁnancial statements comprise the  ﬁnancial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries  as disclosed in Note 40.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the parent has power over the  entity, is exposed, or has rights to variable returns  from its involvement with the entity and has the ability  to aﬀect those returns by using its power over entity.
Power is demonstrated through existing rights that  give the ability to direct relevant activities, those which  signiﬁcantly aﬀect the entity’s returns.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on  which Group obtains control over the subsidiary and  ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the ﬁnancial  statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting  policies and accounting period in line with those used  by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances,  income and expenses and cash ﬂows are eliminated on  consolidation.
Non-controlling interests is the equity in a subsidiary  not attributable, directly or indirectly, to a parent.
Non- controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated  subsidiaries are identiﬁed separately from the Group’s  equity therein.
Non-controlling interests consist of the  amount of those interests at the date of the business  combination and the non-controlling interests’ share of  changes in equity since that date.
Proﬁt or loss and other comprehensive income or loss  are attributed to the controlling and non-controlling  interests in proportion to their ownership interests.
T otal  comprehensive income is attributed to the controlling  and non-controlling interests even if this results in  the non-controlling interests having a deﬁcit balance.
However, in case where there are binding contractual  arrangements that determine the attribution of the  earnings, such as proﬁt-sharing agreement, the  attribution speciﬁed by such arrangement is considered.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary,  without a change of control, is accounted for as an  equity transaction.
When the Group ceases to have control over a  subsidiary, it derecognises the carrying value of assets  (including goodwill), liabilities, the attributable value  of non-controlling interests, if any, and the cumulative  translation diﬀerences previously recognised in other  comprehensive income.
The proﬁt or loss on disposal  is recognised in the income statement and is calculated  as the diﬀerence between (i) the aggregate of the fair  value of consideration received and the fair value of  any retained interest, and (ii) the previous carrying  amount of the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities  of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests.
Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive  income in relation to the subsidiary are accounted for  (i.e.
reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss or transferred directly  to retained earnings) in the same manner as would  be required if the relevant assets or liabilities were  disposed oﬀ.
The fair value of any residual interest in  the erstwhile subsidiary at the date when control is  lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition  for subsequent accounting under IAS 39, “Financial  Instruments: Recognition and Measurement” , or,  when applicable, the cost on initial recognition of an  investment in an associate or jointly controlled entity.
3.3 Business Combinations   The acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using  the acquisition method.
The cost of the acquisition is  measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the  date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or  assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group  in exchange for control of the acquiree.
The acquiree’s  identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities  that meet the condition for recognition are recognised  at their fair values at the acquisition date except certain  assets and liabilities required to be measured as per the  applicable standard.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an  asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of  the cost of the business combination over the Group’s  interest in the net fair value of the identiﬁable assets  acquired, liabilities recognised and contingent liabilities  assumed.
In the case of bargain purchase, the resultant gain is  recognised directly in the income statement.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders in the  acquiree is initially measured at the non-controlling  shareholders proportionate share of the acquiree’s  identiﬁable net assets.
Acquisition related costs, such as ﬁnder’s fees, advisory,  legal, accounting, valuation and other professional or  consulting fees are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the  acquirer is recognised at fair value at the acquisition  date.
Contingent consideration classiﬁed as an asset  or liability that is a ﬁnancial instrument and within the  scope of IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition  and Measurement”, is measured at fair value with  changes in fair value recognised either in proﬁt or loss  or as a change to other comprehensive income.
If the  contingent consideration is not within the scope of IAS  39, it is measured in accordance with the appropriate  IFRS.
Contingent consideration that is classiﬁed as  equity is not re-measured and its subsequent settlement  is accounted for within equity.
Where the Group increases its interest in an entity such  that control is achieved, previously held equity interest  in the acquired entity is revalued to  fair value as at the  date of acquisition, being the date at which the Group  obtains control of the acquiree and a gain or loss is  recognised in the income statement.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15194   A contingent liability recognised in a business  combination is initially measured at its fair value.
Subsequently, it is measured at the higher of the amount  that would be recognised in accordance with IAS 37,  “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent  Assets”, or amount initially recognised less, when  appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in  accordance with IAS 18 “Revenue”.
3.4 Interest in joint ventures and associates   A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby  the parties that have joint control of the arrangement  have rights to the net assets of the joint venture.
Joint  control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of  an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about  the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the  parties sharing control.
An associate is an entity over which the Group has  signiﬁcant inﬂuence.
Signiﬁcant inﬂuence is the power  to participate in the ﬁnancial and operating policy  decisions of the investee but is not control or joint  control over those policies.
The Group’s investments in its joint ventures and  associates are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method, investments in joint ventures  and associates are carried in the consolidated statement  of ﬁnancial position at cost as adjusted for post- acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net assets  of the joint ventures and associates, less any impairment  in the value of the investments.
Losses of a joint venture  and an associate in excess of the Group’s interest in that  joint venture or associate are not recognised.
Additional  losses are provided for, and a liability is recognised,  only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or  constructive obligation or made payments on behalf of  the joint venture or associate.
Joint ventures and associates are accounted for from the  date on which Group obtains joint control over the joint  venture/ starts exercising signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the  associate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to  the ﬁnancial statements of joint ventures and associates  to bring their accounting policies and accounting period  in line with those used by the Group.
Goodwill relating to the joint venture and associate  is included in the carrying amount of the investment  and is neither amortised nor individually tested for  impairment.
3.5 Current versus non-current classiﬁcation    The Group presents assets and liabilities in statement  of ﬁnancial position based on current/non-current  classiﬁcation.
An asset is classiﬁed as current when it is:   a)  expected to be realised or intended to sold or  consumed in normal operating cycle,   b) held primarily for the purpose of trading,   c)  expected to be realised within twelve months after  the reporting period, or  d)  cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from  being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at  least twelve months after the reporting period   All other assets are classiﬁed as non-current.
A liability is classiﬁed as current when:   a)  it is expected to be settled in normal operating  cycle,   b) it is held primarily for the purpose of trading,  c)  it is due to be settled within twelve months after  the reporting period, or   d)  there is no unconditional right to defer the  settlement of the liability for at least twelve  months after the reporting period     The Group classiﬁes all other liabilities as non- current.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classiﬁed as non- current assets and liabilities.
3.6 Intangible Assets   Identiﬁable intangible assets are recognised when the  Group controls the asset, it is probable that future  economic beneﬁts attributed to the asset will ﬂow  to the Group and the cost of the asset can be reliably  measured.
At initial recognition, the separately acquired intangible  assets are recognised at cost.
The cost of intangible  assets that are acquired in a business combination is its  fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial  recognition, the intangible assets are carried at cost  less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated  impairment losses, if any.
Amortisation is recognised in proﬁt or loss on a straight- line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible  assets from the date they are available for use.
The  amortisation period and the amortisation method for an  intangible asset (except goodwill) is reviewed at least at  each ﬁnancial year end.
Changes in the expected useful  life or the expected pattern of consumption of future  economic beneﬁts embodied in the asset are accounted  for by changing the amortisation period or method, as  appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting  estimates.
a.
Goodwill   Goodwill is initially recognised at cost and is  subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated  impairment losses.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the  attributable amount of goodwill is included in the  determination of the proﬁt or loss recognised in the  income statement on disposal.
b. Softwares   Softwares are capitalised at the amounts paid  to acquire the respective license for use and are  amortised over the period of license, generally not  exceeding three years.
Software costing Rupees ﬁve  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 195Consolidated Financial Statements hundred thousand or less, which has an independent  use, is amortised over a period of twelve months from  the date placed in service.
c.  Bandwidth   Payments for bandwidth capacities are classiﬁed  as pre-payments in service arrangements or under  certain conditions as an acquisition of a right.
In the  latter case it is accounted for as an intangible asset  and the cost is amortised over the period of the  agreement.
Bandwidth is amortised over a period  of ﬁfteen years to eighteen years, depending on the  period of the speciﬁc agreement.
d. Licenses (including spectrum)   Acquired licenses and spectrum are initially  recognised at cost.
Subsequently, licenses and  spectrum are measured at cost less accumulated  amortisation and accumulated impairment loss, if  any.
Amortisation is recognised in proﬁt or loss on  a straight-line basis over the unexpired period of the  license/spectrum commencing from the date when  the related network is available for intended use in  the respective jurisdiction and is disclosed under  ‘depreciation and amortisation’.
The amortisation  period relating to licenses/spectrum acquired in a  business combination is determined primarily by  reference to their unexpired period.
The useful lives  of licenses/spectrum range from two years to twenty  ﬁve years.
The revenue-share fee on licenses and spectrum  is computed as per the licensing agreement and is  expensed as incurred.
e. Other acquired intangible assets    Other acquired intangible assets include right  acquired for unlimited access to various applications  and are capitalised at the amount paid to acquire  such rights.
Other intangible assets also include  assets acquired in business combinations, comprising,  brands, customer relationships and distribution  networks and are capitalised at fair values on the date  of acquisition.
Estimated useful life of other acquired  intangibles is as follows:   Rights acquired for unlimited license access: Over the  period of the agreement which ranges upto ﬁve years.
Brand: Over the period of their expected beneﬁts, not  exceeding the life of the licenses and are written oﬀ       in their entirety when no longer in use.
Distribution network:  Over estimated useful life of  one year to two years.
Customer base:  Over the estimated life, of such  relationships which ranges from one year to ﬁve years.
Amortisation is recognised in proﬁt or loss on a straight- line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible  assets from the date they are available for use.
3.7 Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’)   Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of  accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment  losses, if any.
Such cost includes the cost of replacing  part of the plant and equipment and borrowing costs  for long term construction projects if the recognition  criteria are met.
When signiﬁcant parts of property,  plant and equipment are required to be replaced in  intervals, the Group recognises such parts as separate  component of assets with speciﬁc useful lives and  provides depreciation over their useful life.
Subsequent  costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or  recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only  when it is probable that future economic beneﬁts  associated with the item will ﬂow to the Group and the  cost of the item can be measured reliably.
The carrying  amount of the replaced part is derecognised.
All other  repair and maintenance costs are recognised in proﬁt or  loss as incurred.
Where assets are installed on the premises of customers  (commonly called Customer premise equipment  -“CPE”), such assets continue to be treated as PPE as the  associated risks and rewards remain with the Group and  the management is conﬁdent of exercising control over  them.
The Group also enters into multiple element contracts  whereby the vendor supplies plant and equipment and  IT related services.
These are recorded on the basis of  relative fair values.
Gains and losses arising from retirement or disposal  of property, plant and equipment are determined as  the diﬀerence between the net disposal proceeds and  the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in  proﬁt or loss on the date of retirement or disposal.
Assets are depreciated to the residual values on a  straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives.
The  assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed at  each ﬁnancial year end or whenever there are indicators  for review, and adjusted prospectively.
Freehold land is  not depreciated.
Estimated useful lives of the assets are  as follows:  Y ears Buildings 20 T echnical equipment and  machinery - Network equipment 3 – 20 -  Customer premise  equipment  5-6 -  Assets taken on ﬁnance  lease Period of lease or 10  years, as applicable,   whichever is less Other equipment, operating  and oﬃce equipment - Computer equipment 3 -  Oﬃce furniture and  equipment 2 - 5 - Vehicles 3 - 5 Leasehold improvements Period of lease or 10-20  years, as applicable,   whichever is less Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15196 Assets individually costing Rupees ﬁve thousand or less  are fully depreciated over a period of twelve months  from the date placed in service.
3.8 Impairment of non-ﬁnancial assets  Assets that have an indeﬁnite useful life, for example  goodwill, are not subject to amortisation and are  tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are  subject to depreciation and amortisation are reviewed  for impairment, whenever events or changes in  circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may  not be recoverable or when annual impairment testing  for an asset is required.
Such circumstances include,  though are not limited to, signiﬁcant or sustained  decline in revenues or earnings and material adverse  changes in the economic environment.
Impairment test for goodwill is performed at the level  of each Cash Generating Unit (‘CGU’) or groups of CGUs  expected to beneﬁt from acquisition-related synergies  and represent the lowest level within the entity at which  the goodwill is monitored for internal management  purposes, within an operating segment.
A CGU is the  smallest identiﬁable group of assets that generates cash  inﬂows that are largely independent of the cash inﬂows  from other assets or group of assets.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying  amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds  its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an  asset is the greater of its fair value less costs to sell and  value in use.
T o calculate value in use, the estimated  future cash ﬂows are discounted to their present value  using a pre-tax discount rate that reﬂects current market  rates and the risks speciﬁc to the asset.
For an asset that  does not generate largely independent cash inﬂows,  the recoverable amount is determined for the cash- generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Fair value  less costs to sell is the price that would be received to  sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly  transaction between market participants, less the costs  of disposal.
Impairment losses, if any, are recognised  in proﬁt or loss as a component of depreciation and  amortisation expense.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
Other impairment losses are only reversed to the extent  that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the  carrying amount that would have been determined if no  impairment loss had previously been recognised.
3.9 Non-current assets (or disposal groups) held for sale Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classiﬁed  as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is  to be recovered principally through a sale transaction  and a sale is considered highly probable.
The sale is  considered highly probable only when the asset or  disposal group is available for immediate sale in its  present condition, it is unlikely that the sale will be  withdrawn and sale is expected within one year from the  date of the classiﬁcation.
Disposal groups classiﬁed as  held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount  and fair value less costs to sell.
Property, plant and  equipment and intangible assets are not depreciated  or amortised once classiﬁed as held for sale.
Assets  and liabilities classiﬁed as held for sale are presented  separately as current items in the statement of ﬁnancial  position.
3.10 Cash and Cash Equivalents  Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and  on hand, call deposits and other short term highly  liquid investments with an original maturity of three  months or less that are readily convertible to a known  amount of cash and are subject to an insigniﬁcant risk  of changes in value.
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash  ﬂows, cash and cash equivalents include, outstanding  bank overdrafts shown within the borrowings in current  liabilities in the statement of ﬁnancial position and  which are considered an integral part of the Group’s  cash management.
3.11 Inventories  Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (determined  on a ﬁrst in ﬁrst out (‘FIFO’) basis) and estimated net  realisable value.
Inventory costs include purchase price,  freight inwards and transit insurance charges.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in  the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of  completion and the estimated costs necessary to make  the sale.
3.12 Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is,  or contains, a lease is based on the substance of an  arrangement at inception date: whether fulﬁllment of  the arrangement is dependent on the use of a speciﬁc  asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a right to  use the asset, even if that right is not explicitly speciﬁed  in an arrangement.
a.
Group as a lessee   Finance leases, which transfer to the Group  substantially all the risks and rewards incidental  to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at  the commencement of the lease at the fair value of  the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of  the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are  apportioned between ﬁnance charges and reduction  of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate  of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised in the proﬁt or loss.
Leased assets are depreciated over the useful life of the  asset.
However, if there is no reasonable certainty that  the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease  term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the  estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 197Consolidated Financial Statements   Operating lease payments are recognised as an  expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Contingent rents are recognised as expense in the  period in which they are incurred.
b.
Group as a lessor   Assets leased to others under ﬁnance lease are  recognised as receivables at an amount equal to  the net investment in the leased assets.
The ﬁnance  income is recognised based on the periodic rate of  return on the net investment of the Group outstanding  in respect of the ﬁnance lease.
Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially  all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership  of the asset are classiﬁed as operating lease.
Initial  direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease  are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset  and recognised over the lease term on the same basis  as rental income.
Lease rentals under operating leases are recognised  as income on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Contingent rents are recognised as income in the  period in which they are earned.
c. Indefeasible right to use (‘IRU’)   As part of the operations, the Group enters into  agreement for leasing assets under “Indefeasible right  to use” with third parties.
Under the arrangement  the assets are given on lease over the substantial  part of the asset life.
However, the title to the assets  and signiﬁcant risk associated with the operation  and maintenance of these assets remains with the  lessor.
Hence, such arrangements are recognised as  operating lease.
The contracted price is received in advance and  is recognised as revenue during the tenure of the  agreement.
Unearned IRU revenue net of the amount  recognisable within one year is disclosed as deferred  revenue in non-current liabilities and the amount  recognisable within one year is disclosed as deferred  revenue in current liabilities.
d. Sale and leaseback transactions   Sale and leaseback transaction involves the sale of  an asset and the leasing back of the same asset.
If a  sale and leaseback transaction results in a ﬁnance  lease, any excess of sales proceeds over the carrying  amount shall not be immediately recognised as  income, instead, the asset leased back is retained at  its carrying value and the amount received towards  the leased back portion is recorded as a ﬁnance lease  obligation.
If a sale and leaseback transaction results  in an operating lease, and transaction is established  at fair value, any proﬁt or loss shall be recognised  immediately.
3.13 Financial Instruments  A.
Financial instruments – initial recognition and  measurement   Financial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are recognised  in the Group’s statement of ﬁnancial position when the  Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions  of the instrument.
The Group determines the  classiﬁcation of its ﬁnancial assets and liabilities at  initial recognition.
All ﬁnancial assets and liabilities  are initially recognised at fair value plus directly  attributable transaction costs in case of ﬁnancial  assets and liabilities not at fair value through proﬁt  or loss.
Financial assets and liabilities carried at fair  value through proﬁt or loss are initially recognised at  fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the  income statement.
Purchases or sales of ﬁnancial assets that require  delivery of assets within a time frame established by  regulation or convention in the marketplace (regular  way trades) are recognised on the trade date, i.e., the  date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the  asset.
B.
Financial Assets 1.
Subsequent measurement   The subsequent measurement of ﬁnancial assets  depends on their classiﬁcation as follows: a.
Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss   Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss  include ﬁnancial assets held for trading and those  designated upon initial recognition at fair value  through proﬁt or loss.
Financial assets are classiﬁed  as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose  of selling in the near term.
Derivatives, including  separated embedded derivatives are classiﬁed as held  for trading unless they are designated as eﬀective  hedging instruments.
Financial assets are designated  upon initial recognition at fair value through proﬁt  or loss when the same are managed by the Group on  the basis of their fair value and their performance  is evaluated on fair value basis in accordance with a  documented risk management or investment strategy.
Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss are  carried in the statement of ﬁnancial position at fair  value with changes in fair value recognised in ﬁnance  income or ﬁnance costs in the income statement.
Derivatives embedded in host contracts are accounted  for as separate derivatives and recorded at fair value  if their economic characteristics and risks are not  closely related to those of the host contracts and the  host contracts are not held for trading or designated  at fair value though proﬁt or loss.
Reassessment only  occurs if there is a change in the terms of the contract  that signiﬁcantly modiﬁes the cash ﬂows that would  otherwise be required.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15198 b.
Financial assets measured at amortised cost   Loans and receivables are non-derivative ﬁnancial  assets with ﬁxed or determinable payments that are  not quoted in an active market.
T rade receivables  do not carry any interest and are stated at their  nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances  for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Estimated  irrecoverable amounts are based on the ageing of  the receivables balance and historical experience.
Additionally, a large number of minor receivables are  grouped into homogenous groups and assessed for  impairment collectively.
Individual trade receivables  are written oﬀ when management deems them not to  be collectible.
After initial measurement, ﬁnancial assets measured  at amortised cost are measured using the eﬀective  interest rate method (EIR), less impairment, if any.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account  any discount or premium on acquisition and fee or  costs that are an integral part of the EIR.
The EIR  amortisation is included in ﬁnance income in the  income statement.
The Group does not have any held-to-maturity and  available for sale investments.
2.
Derecognition   The Group derecognises a ﬁnancial asset only when  the contractual rights to the cash ﬂows from the  asset expires or it transfers the ﬁnancial asset and  substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership  of the asset.
C. Financial liabilities 1.
Subsequent measurement   The subsequent measurement of ﬁnancial liabilities  depends on their classiﬁcation as follows: a.
Financial liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or loss   Financial liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or  loss include ﬁnancial liabilities held for trading.
The  Group has not designated any ﬁnancial liabilities  upon initial recognition at fair value through proﬁt  or loss.
Financial liabilities are classiﬁed as held  for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of  repurchasing in the near term.
Derivatives, including  separated embedded derivatives are classiﬁed as held  for trading unless they are designated as eﬀective  hedging instruments.
Financial liabilities at fair value  through proﬁt or loss are carried in the statement of  ﬁnancial position at fair value with changes in fair  value recognised in ﬁnance income or ﬁnance costs in  the income statement.
b.
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost   After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and  borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised  cost using the eﬀective interest rate method (‘EIR’)  except for those designated in an eﬀective hedging  relationship.
The carrying value of borrowings that  are designated as hedged items in fair value hedges  that would otherwise be carried at amortised cost are  adjusted to record changes in fair values attributable  to the risks that are being hedged in eﬀective hedging  relationships (refer Note 3.13 D).
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account  any discount or premium on acquisition and fee or  costs that are an integral part of the EIR.
The EIR  amortisation is included in ﬁnance costs in the income  statement.
2.
Derecognition   A ﬁnancial liability is derecognised when the  obligation under the liability is discharged or  cancelled or expires.
When an existing ﬁnancial  liability is replaced by another from the same lender  on substantially diﬀerent terms, or the terms of an  existing liability are substantially modiﬁed, such an  exchange or modiﬁcation is treated as a derecognition  of the original liability and the recognition of a new  liability, and the diﬀerence in the respective carrying  amounts is recognised in the income statement.
D. Hedge accounting 1.
Fair value hedge   The Group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments  such as foreign exchange contracts and interest rate  swaps to manage its exposures to foreign exchange  ﬂuctuations and interest rate movement.
These  are initially recognised at fair value on the date on  which a derivative contract is entered into and are  subsequently re-measured at fair value.
The Group applies fair value hedge accounting for  hedging risk of change in fair value of the borrowings  attributable to the hedged interest rate risk.
The Group  designates certain interest rate swaps to hedge the  risk of changes in fair value of recognised borrowings.
The Group documents at the time of designation  the relationship between hedging instruments  and hedged items, as well as its risk management  objectives and strategy for undertaking various  hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its  assessment, both at the inception of the hedge and  on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that  are used in hedging transactions are highly eﬀective  in oﬀsetting changes in fair values of hedged items.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are  designated and qualify as fair value hedges are  recorded in the income statement within ﬁnance  income / ﬁnance costs, together with any changes  in the fair value of the hedged liability that are  attributable to the hedged risk.
If the hedge no  longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the  adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item  for which the eﬀective interest method is used is  amortised to proﬁt or loss over the period to maturity.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 199Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Cash ﬂow hedge   The Group applies cash ﬂow hedge accounting for  hedge of foreign currency risk in a highly probable  forecast transaction.
Any foreign exchange gain  or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the  eﬀective portion of the hedge is recognised in other  comprehensive income.
The ineﬀective portion of the  gain or loss on these hedges is immediately recognised  in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in  equity are reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss in the periods  when the hedged item aﬀects proﬁt or loss (for  example, when the forecast sale that is hedged takes  place).
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold,  or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge  accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in  equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised  when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised  in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction  is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain  or loss that was recognised in equity is immediately  transferred to the income statement.
3.
Net investment hedge   The Group hedges certain net investment in foreign  subsidiaries.
Hedges of net investments in foreign  operations are accounted for similar to cash ﬂow  hedges.
Any foreign exchange gain or loss on the  hedging instrument relating to the eﬀective portion  of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive  income to oﬀset the change in the value of the net  investment being hedged.
The ineﬀective portion  of the gain or loss on these hedges is immediately  recognised in the income statement.
Gains and losses  accumulated in equity are included in the income  statement when the foreign operation is partially  disposed of or sold.
E. Oﬀsetting ﬁnancial instruments   Financial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are oﬀset  and the net amount reported in the consolidated  statement of ﬁnancial position if, and only if, there  is a currently enforceable legal right to oﬀset the  recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle  on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the  liabilities simultaneously.
F. Derivative ﬁnancial instruments - Current versus  non-current classiﬁcation   Derivative instruments that are not designated as  eﬀective hedging instruments (economic hedge) and  will be held for a period beyond twelve months after  the reporting date, are classiﬁed as non-current (or  separated into current and non-current portions)  consistent with the classiﬁcation of the underlying  item.
These are classiﬁed as current, when the  remaining holding period is upto twelve months after  the reporting date.
Embedded derivatives that are not closely related to  the host contract are classiﬁed consistent with the  cash ﬂows of the host contract.
Full fair value of derivative instruments designated as  eﬀective hedging instruments are classiﬁed as non- current asset or liability when the remaining maturity  of the hedged item is more than twelve months, and as  current asset or liability when the remaining maturity  of the hedged item is upto twelve months.
G. Fair value measurement   The Group measures certain ﬁnancial instruments,  such as, derivatives at fair value at each reporting  date.
Fair value is the price that would be received  to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an  orderly transaction between market participants at  the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is  based on the presumption that the transaction to sell  the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:    in the principal market for the asset or liability, or     in the absence of a principal market, in the most  advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must  be accessible to the Group.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured  using the assumptions that market participants would  use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming  that market participants act in their economic best  interest.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are  appropriate in the circumstances and for which  suﬃcient data are available to measure fair value,  maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and  minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
3.14 T reasury shares Own equity instruments which are reacquired (treasury  shares) through Bharti Airtel Employees’ Welfare T rust  are recognised at cost and deducted from equity.
No  gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the  purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Company’s  own equity instruments.
Any diﬀerence between the  carrying amount and the consideration is recognised in  share based payment transaction reserve.
3.15 Share-based compensation The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share- based options to certain employees.
These are measured  at fair value on the date of grant.
The fair value determined on the grant date of the equity  settled share based options is expensed over the vesting  period, based on the Group’s estimate of the shares that  will eventually vest.
The fair value determined on the grant date of the  cash settled share based options is expensed over the  vesting period, based on the Group’s estimates of the  shares that will eventually vest.
At the end of the each  reporting period, until the liability is settled, and at the  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15200 date of settlement, liability is re-measured at fair value,  with any changes in fair value pertaining to the vesting  period till the reporting date is recognised immediately  in proﬁt or loss.
At the vesting date, the Group’s estimate of the shares  expected to vest is revised to equal the number of equity  shares that ultimately vest.
Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes / Lattice  / Monte Carlo Simulation valuation model and is  recognised as an expense, together with a corresponding  increase in equity/ liability, as appropriate, over the  period in which the options vest using the graded vesting  method.
The expected life used in the model is adjusted,  based on management’s best estimate, for the eﬀects of  non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioral  considerations.
The expected volatility and forfeiture  assumptions are based on historical information.
Where the terms of a share-based compensation are  modiﬁed, the minimum expense recognised is the expense  as if the terms had not been modiﬁed, if the original  terms of the award are met.
An additional expense is  recognised for any modiﬁcation that increases the total  fair value of the share-based payment transaction, or is  otherwise beneﬁcial to the employee as measured at the  date of modiﬁcation.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated  as if it is vested on the date of cancellation, and any  expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised  immediately.
This includes any award where non- vesting conditions within the control of either the entity  or the employee are not met.
However, if a new award is  substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as  a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the  cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a  modiﬁcation of the original award, as described in the  previous paragraph.
3.16 Employee Beneﬁts The Group’s post-employment beneﬁts include deﬁned  beneﬁt plan and deﬁned contribution plans.
The Group  also provides other beneﬁts in the form of deferred  compensation and compensated absences.
Under the deﬁned beneﬁt retirement plan, the Group  provides retirement obligation in the form of Gratuity.
Under the plan, a lump sum payment is made to eligible  employees at retirement or termination of employment  based on respective employee salary and years of  experience with the Group.
For deﬁned beneﬁt retirement plans, the diﬀerence  between the fair value of the plan assets and the  present value of the plan liabilities is recognised as an  asset or liability in the statement of ﬁnancial position.
Scheme liabilities are calculated using the projected  unit credit method and applying the principal actuarial  assumptions as at the date of statement of ﬁnancial  position.
Plan assets are assets that are held by a long- term employee beneﬁt fund or qualifying insurance  policies.
All expenses excluding remeasurements of the net  deﬁned beneﬁt liability (asset), in respect of deﬁned  beneﬁt plans are recognised in the proﬁt or loss as  incurred.
Remeasurements, comprising actuarial gains  and losses and the return on the plan assets (excluding  amounts included in net interest on the net deﬁned  beneﬁt liability (asset)), are recognised immediately in  the statement of ﬁnancial position with a corresponding  debit or credit to retained earnings through other  comprehensive income in the period in which they  occur.
Remeasurements are not reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or  loss in subsequent periods.
The amount charged to the income statement in respect  of these plans is included within operating costs.
The Group’s contributions to deﬁned contribution plans  are recognised in proﬁt or loss as they fall due.
The  Group has no further obligations under these plans  beyond its periodic contributions.
The employees of the Group are entitled to compensated  absences based on the unavailed leave balance as well  as other long term beneﬁts.
The Group records liability  based on actuarial valuation computed under projected  unit credit method.
3.17 Foreign Currency T ransactions a. Functional and presentation currency   Consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been  presented in Indian Rupees (‘Rupees’), which is  the Company’s functional currency and Group’s  presentation currency.
Each entity in the Group  determines its own functional currency (the currency  of the primary economic environment in which the  entity operates) and items included in the ﬁnancial  statements of each entity are measured using that  functional currency.
b. T ransactions and balances   T ransactions in foreign currencies are initially  recorded by the Group entities at their respective  functional currency rates prevailing at the date of the  transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign  currencies are translated at the functional currency  spot rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date with  resulting exchange diﬀerence recognised in proﬁt or  loss.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms  of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated  using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial  transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 201Consolidated Financial Statements value in a foreign currency are translated using the  exchange rates at the date when the fair value is  determined.
Exchange component of the gain or loss  arising on fair valuation of non-monetary items is  recognised in line with the gain or loss of the item that  gave rise to such exchange diﬀerence.
Exchange diﬀerences arising on a monetary item  that forms part of a Group entity’s net investment  in a foreign operation is recognised in proﬁt or loss  in the separate ﬁnancial statements of the Group  entity or the individual ﬁnancial statements of the  foreign operation, as appropriate.
In the consolidated  ﬁnancial statements, such exchange diﬀerences are  recognised in other comprehensive income.
c. T ranslation of foreign operations’ ﬁnancial  statements   The assets and liabilities of foreign operations  are translated into Rupees at the rate of exchange  prevailing at the reporting date and their income  statements are translated at average exchange rates  prevailing during the year.
The exchange diﬀerences  arising on the translation are recognised in other  comprehensive income.
On disposal of a foreign  operation (that is, a disposal of the group’s entire  interest in a foreign operation, or a disposal involving  loss of control over a subsidiary, a disposal involving  loss of joint control over a jointly controlled entity, or  a disposal involving loss of signiﬁcant inﬂuence over  an associate), the component of other comprehensive  income relating to that particular foreign operation is  reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss.
d. T ranslation of goodwill and fair value adjustments   Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the  acquisition of foreign entities are treated as assets  and liabilities of the foreign entities and are recorded  in the functional currencies of the foreign entities  and translated at the exchange rates prevailing at  the date of statement of ﬁnancial position and the  resultant change is recognised in statement of other  comprehensive income.
3.18 Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable  that the economic beneﬁts will ﬂow to the Group and the  revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured  at the fair value of the consideration received/receivable  net of discounts, process waivers, and VAT , service tax  or duty.
The Group assesses its revenue arrangements  against speciﬁc criteria, i.e., whether it has exposure  to the signiﬁcant risks and rewards associated with the  sale of goods or the rendering of services, in order to  determine if it is acting as a principal or as an agent.
a.
Service revenues   Service revenues include amounts invoiced for usage  charges, ﬁxed monthly subscription charges and  internet and VSAT services usage charges, bandwidth  services, roaming charges, activation fees, processing  fees and fees for value added services (‘VAS’).
Service  revenues also include revenues associated with access  and interconnection for usage of the telephone network  of other operators for local, domestic long distance  and international calls and data messaging services.
Service revenues are recognised as the services are  rendered and are stated net of discounts, process  waivers and taxes.
Revenues from pre-paid customers  are recognised based on actual usage.
Processing fees  on recharge coupons is recognised over the estimated  customer relationship period or coupon validity  period, whichever is lower.
Activation revenue and  related activation costs, not exceeding the activation  revenue, are deferred and amortised over the  estimated customer relationship period.
The excess  of activation costs over activation revenue, if any, are  expensed as incurred.
Billings in excess of revenue  recognised is treated as unearned and reported  as deferred revenue in the statement of ﬁnancial  position.
Service revenues from the internet and VSAT business  comprise revenues from registration, installation and  provision of internet and VSAT services.
Registration  fee and installation charges are deferred and  amortised over the period of agreement with the  customer.
Service revenue is recognised from the date  of satisfactory installation of equipment and software  at the customer site and provisioning of internet and  VSAT services.
Revenues from national and international long  distance operations comprise revenue from provision  of voice services which are recognised on provision of  services while revenue from provision of bandwidth  services (including installation) is recognised over the  period of arrangement.
Unbilled revenue represent revenues recognised from  last bill cycle date to the end of reporting period.
These are billed in subsequent periods based on the  terms of the billing plans/contractual arrangements.
b.
Equipment sales   Equipment sales consist primarily of revenues from  sale of telecommunication equipment and related  accessories.
Revenue from equipment sales which  does not have value to the customer on standalone  basis, forming part of multiple-element revenue  arrangements are deferred and recognised over the  customer relationship period.
Revenue from other  equipment sales transactions are recognised when  the signiﬁcant risks and rewards of ownership are  transferred to the buyer.
c.   Capacity Swaps   The exchange of network capacity is measured at  fair value unless the transaction lacks commercial  substance or the fair value of neither the capacity  received nor the capacity given is reliably measurable.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15202 d. Multiple element arrangements   The Group has entered into certain multiple- element revenue arrangements.
These arrangements  involve the delivery or performance of multiple  products, services or rights to use assets including  VSAT and internet equipment, internet and VSAT  services, set top boxes and subscription fees on DTH,  indefeasible right to use and hardware and equipment  maintenance.
The Group evaluates all deliverables in  an arrangement to determine whether they represent  separately identiﬁable components at the inception  of the arrangement.
The evaluation is done based  on the criteria as to whether the deliverables in  the arrangement have value to the customer on a  standalone basis.
T otal consideration related to the multiple element  arrangements is allocated among the diﬀerent  components based on their relative fair values  (i.e., ratio of the fair value of each element to the  aggregated fair value of the bundled deliverables).
In  case the relative fair value of diﬀerent components  cannot be determined on a reasonable basis, the total  consideration is allocated to the diﬀerent components  on a residual value method.
e. Interest income   For all ﬁnancial instruments measured at amortised  cost and interest bearing ﬁnancial assets, classiﬁed  as ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt or  loss, interest income is recognised using the eﬀective  interest rate (EIR), which is the rate that exactly  discounts the estimated future cash receipts through  the expected life of the ﬁnancial instrument or a  shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying  amount of the ﬁnancial asset.
Interest income is  included in ‘ﬁnance income’ in the income statement.
f. Dividend income   Dividend income is recognised when the Group’s right  to receive the payment is established.
3.19 T axes a.
Current income tax   Current income tax assets and liabilities for the  current and prior periods are measured at the  amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the  taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used  to compute the amount are those that are enacted or  substantively enacted, by the reporting date, in the  countries where the Group operates and generates  taxable income.
Current income tax relating to items recognised  directly in equity is recognised in equity.
The Group  periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax  returns with respect to situations in which applicable  tax regulations are subject to interpretation and  establishes provisions where appropriate.
b.
Deferred tax   Deferred tax liability is provided on temporary  diﬀerences at the reporting date between the tax base  of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for  ﬁnancial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities  are recognised for all taxable temporary diﬀerences,  except:     when the deferred tax liability arises from the  initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or  liability in a transaction that is not a business  combination and, at the time of the transaction,  aﬀects neither the accounting proﬁt nor taxable  proﬁt / (tax loss).
in respect of taxable temporary diﬀerences  associated with investments in subsidiaries,  associates and interests in joint ventures, where  the timing of the reversal of the temporary  diﬀerences can be controlled and it is probable  that the temporary diﬀerences will not reverse in  the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible  temporary diﬀerences, carry forward of unused tax  credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is  probable that taxable proﬁt will be available against  which the deductible temporary diﬀerences, and the  carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax  losses can be utilised except:     when the deferred tax asset relating to the  deductible temporary diﬀerence arises from the  initial recognition of an asset or liability in a  transaction that is not a business combination and,  at the time of the transaction, aﬀects neither the  accounting proﬁt nor taxable proﬁt / (tax loss).
in respect of deductible temporary diﬀerences  associated with investments in subsidiaries,  associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred  tax assets are recognised only to the extent that  it is probable that the temporary diﬀerences will  reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable proﬁt  will be available against which the temporary  diﬀerences can be utilised.
In the situations where the Group is entitled to a tax  holiday under the tax laws prevailing in the respective  tax jurisdictions where it operates, no deferred tax  (asset or liability) is recognised in respect of timing  diﬀerences which reverse during the tax holiday  period.
Deferred tax in respect of timing diﬀerences  which reverse after the tax holiday period is recognised  in the year in which the timing diﬀerences originate.
Tax beneﬁts acquired as part of a business combination,  but not satisfying the criteria for separate recognition  on the date of acquisition, are recognised within  the measurement period, if it results from new  information about facts and circumstances that  existed at the acquisition date with a corresponding  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 203Consolidated Financial Statements reduction in goodwill.
All other acquired tax beneﬁts  are recognised in proﬁt or loss on satisfaction of the  recognition criteria.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed  at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that  it is no longer probable that suﬃcient taxable proﬁt  will be available to allow all or part of the deferred  tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred tax  assets are reassessed at each reporting date and are  recognised to the extent that it has become probable  that future taxable proﬁts will allow the deferred tax  asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the  tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when  the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based  on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or  substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside  proﬁt or loss is recognised outside proﬁt or loss.
Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the  underlying transaction either in other comprehensive  income or directly in equity.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are  oﬀset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set oﬀ   current income tax assets against current income tax  liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same  taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
3.20 Borrowing Costs Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs  that the Group incurs in connection with the borrowing  of funds.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the  acquisition, construction or production of an asset that  necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get  ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part  of the cost of the respective assets.
All other borrowing  costs are expensed in the period in which they occur.
3.21 Exceptional Items Exceptional items refer to items of income or expense  within the income statement from ordinary activities  which are non-recurring and are of such size, nature or  incidence that their separate disclosure is considered  necessary to explain the performance of the Group.
3.22 Dividends Paid  Dividends paid/ payable are recognised in the year  in which the related dividends are approved by the  shareholders or Board of Directors, as appropriate.
3.23 Earnings Per Share The Group’s Earnings per Share (‘EPS’) is determined  based on the net proﬁt attributable to the shareholders’  of the Parent.
Basic earnings per share is computed using  the weighted average number of shares outstanding  during the year excluding shares purchased by the  group and held as treasury shares.
Diluted earnings per  share is computed using the weighted average number  of common and dilutive common equivalent shares  outstanding during the year including share options  (using the treasury stock method for options), except  where the result would be anti-dilutive.
3.24 Provisions a.
General   Provisions are recognised when the Group has a  present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of  a past event, it is probable that an outﬂow of resources  embodying economic beneﬁts will be required to  settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be  made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision  to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised  as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement  is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any  provision is presented in the income statement net of  any reimbursement.
If the eﬀect of the time value of money is material,  provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate  that reﬂects, where appropriate, the risks speciﬁc to  the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in  the provision due to the passage of time is recognised  as a ﬁnance cost.
b. Contingencies   Contingent liabilities are recognised at their fair  value only, if they were assumed as part of a  business combination.
Contingent assets are not  recognised.
However, when the realisation of income  is virtually certain, then the related asset is no longer  a contingent asset, and is recognised as an asset.
Information on contingent liabilities is disclosed in the  notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, unless  the possibility of an outﬂow of resources embodying  economic beneﬁts is remote.
A contingent asset is  disclosed where an inﬂow of economic beneﬁts is  probable.
c. Asset retirement obligation   Asset retirement obligations (ARO) are provided for  those operating lease arrangements where the Group  has a binding obligation at the end of the lease period  to restore the leased premises in a condition similar  to inception of lease.
ARO are provided at the present  value of expected costs to settle the obligation using  discounted cash ﬂows and are recognised as part of  the cost of that particular asset.
The cash ﬂows are  discounted at a current pre-tax rate that reﬂects the  risks speciﬁc to the decommissioning liability.
The  unwinding of the discount is recognised in the income  statement as a ﬁnance cost.
The estimated future  costs of decommissioning are reviewed annually and  adjusted as appropriate.
Changes in the estimated  future costs or in the discount rate applied are added  to or deducted from the cost of the asset.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15204 4.
Signiﬁcant Accounting Judgements, Estimates  and Assumptions  The preparation of the Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial  statements requires management to make judgements,  estimates and assumptions that aﬀect the reported  amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities,  and the disclosure of contingent liabilities, at the end of  the reporting period.
However, uncertainty about these  assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes  that require a material adjustment to the carrying  amount of the assets or liabilities in future periods.
4.1  Signiﬁcant judgements in applying the Group’s  accounting policies  In the process of applying the Group’s accounting  policies, management has made the following  judgements, which have the most signiﬁcant eﬀect on  the amounts recognised in the consolidated ﬁnancial  statements: a.
Arrangement containing lease    The Group applies IFRIC 4, “Determining Whether an  Arrangement Contains a Lease”, to contracts entered  with telecom operators / passive infrastructure  services providers to share tower infrastructure  services.
IFRIC 4 deals with the method of identifying  and recognising service, purchase and sale contracts  that do not take the legal form of a lease but convey a  right to use an asset in return for a payment or series  of payments.
The Group has determined, based on an evaluation of  the terms and conditions of the arrangements, that  such contracts are in the nature of operating leases.
However, in some arrangements, where the term of  the agreement is for the major part of the estimated  economic life of the leased asset, and therefore, risks  and rewards have substantially been transferred  to the Group, as a lessee, such arrangements are  accounted for as ﬁnance lease.
b.
Revenue recognition and presentation   The Group assesses its revenue arrangements against  speciﬁc criteria, i.e.
whether it has exposure to the  signiﬁcant risks and rewards associated with the  sale of goods or the rendering of services, in order to  determine if it is acting as a principal or as an agent.
The Group has concluded that in certain geographies  its revenue arrangements are on a principal to  principal basis.
When deciding the most appropriate basis for  presenting revenue or costs of revenue, both the  legal form and substance of the agreement between  the Group and its business partners are reviewed  to determine each party’s respective role in the  transaction.
c.  Multiple element contracts with vendors   The Group has entered into multiple element  contracts with vendors for supply of goods and  rendering of services.
The consideration paid is/may  be determined independent of the value of supplies  received and services availed.
Accordingly, the  supplies and services are accounted for based on their  relative fair values to the overall consideration.
The  supplies with ﬁnite life under the contracts (as deﬁned  in the signiﬁcant accounting policies) have been  accounted under Property, plant and equipment and/ or as Intangible assets, since the Group has economic  ownership in these assets.
The Group believes that  the current treatment represents the substance of the  arrangement.
d. Determination of functional currency   Each entity in the Group determines its own functional  currency (the currency of the primary economic  environment in which the entity operates) and items  included in the ﬁnancial statements of each entity  are measured using that functional currency.
IAS 21,  “The Eﬀects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates”  prescribes the factors to be considered for the purpose  of determination of functional currency.
However, in  respect of certain intermediary foreign operations of  the Group, the determination of functional currency  might not be very obvious due to mixed indicators  like the currency that inﬂuences the sales prices for  goods and services, currency that inﬂuences labour,  material and other costs of providing goods and  services, the currency in which the borrowings have  been raised and the extent of autonomy enjoyed by  the foreign operation.
In such cases management uses  its judgement to determine the functional currency  that most faithfully represents the economic eﬀects  of the underlying transactions, events and conditions.
e.  T axes   The Group does not recognise deferred tax liability  with respect to unremitted retained earnings and  associated foreign currency translation reserve of  Group subsidiaries and joint ventures wherever it  controls the timing of the distribution of proﬁts and  it is probable that the subsidiaries and joint ventures  will not distribute the proﬁts in the foreseeable future.
Also, the Group does not recognises deferred tax  liability on the unremitted earnings of its subsidiaries  wherever it believes that it would avail the tax credit  for the dividend distribution tax payable by the  subsidiaries on its dividend distribution.
4.2 Signiﬁcant accounting estimates and assumptions The key assumptions concerning the future and other  key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting  date, that have a signiﬁcant risk of causing a material  adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and  liabilities within the next ﬁnancial year, are described  below.
Actual results could diﬀer from these estimates.
a.  Impairment reviews   An impairment exists when the carrying value of  an asset or cash generating unit (‘CGU’) exceeds its  recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the  higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value  in use.
The value in use calculation is based on a  discounted cash ﬂow model.
In calculating the value  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 205Consolidated Financial Statements in use, certain assumptions are required to be made  in respect of highly uncertain matters, including  management’s expectations of growth in EBITDA,  long term growth rates; and the selection of discount  rates to reﬂect the risks involved.
Also, judgement  is involved in determining the CGU and grouping of  CGUs for goodwill allocation and impairment testing.
The Group prepares and internally approves formal  ten year plans, as applicable, for its businesses and  uses these as the basis for its impairment reviews.
The Group mainly operates in developing markets  and in such markets, the plan for shorter duration is  not indicative of the long term future performance.
Considering this and the consistent use of such robust  ten year information for management reporting  purpose, the Group uses ten year plans for the  purpose of impairment testing.
Since the value in use  exceeds the carrying amount of CGU, the fair value  less costs to sell is not determined.
The key assumptions used to determine the recoverable  amount for the CGUs, including sensitivity analysis,  are disclosed and further explained in Note 16.
The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually  on December 31 and whenever there are indicators of  impairment.
If some or all of the goodwill, allocated  to a CGU, is recognised in a business combination  during the year, that unit is tested for impairment  before the end of that year.
b.
Allow ance for uncollectible trade receivables   T rade receivables do not carry any interest and are  stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate  allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Estimated irrecoverable amounts are based on the ageing  of the receivable balances and historical experience.
Additionally, a large number of minor receivables is  grouped into homogeneous groups and assessed for  impairment collectively.
Individual trade receivables  are written oﬀ when management deems them not to  be collectible.
The carrying amount of allowance for  doubtful debts is ` 27,795 Mn and ` 25,868 Mn as of  March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively.
c.  Asset retirement obligations (ARO)   In measuring the provision for ARO the Group uses  technical estimates to determine the expected  cost to dismantle and remove the infrastructure  equipment from the site and the expected timing of  these costs.
Discount rates are determined based on  the government bond rate of a similar period as the  liability.
The carrying amount of provision for ARO is  ` 4,722 Mn and ` 8,343 Mn as of March 31, 2015 and   March 31, 2014, respectively.
d. T axes   Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation  of complex tax regulations and the amount and  timing of future taxable income.
Given the wide range  of international business relationships and the long- term nature and complexity of existing contractual  agreements, diﬀerences arising between the actual  results and the assumptions made, or future changes  to such assumptions, could necessitate future  adjustments to tax income and expense already  recorded.
The Group establishes provisions, based on  reasonable estimates, for possible consequences of  audits by the tax authorities of the respective countries  in which it operates.
The amount of such provisions  is based on various factors, such as experience of  previous tax audits and diﬀering interpretations of tax  regulations by the taxable entity and the responsible  tax authority.
Such diﬀerences of interpretation  may arise on a wide variety of issues depending on  the conditions prevailing in the respective Group  company’s domicile.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all unused tax  losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable  proﬁt will be available against which the losses can  be utilised.
Signiﬁcant management judgement  is required to determine the amount of deferred  tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the  likely timing and the level of future taxable proﬁts,  future tax planning strategies and recent business  performances and developments.
Also refer Note 13 – Income taxes.
e. Assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired  in a business combination   The amount of goodwill initially recognised as a  result of a business combination is dependent on the  allocation of the purchase price to the fair value of  the identiﬁable assets acquired and the liabilities  assumed.
The determination of the fair value of  the assets and liabilities is based, to a considerable  extent, on management’s judgement.
The Group has considered all pertinent factors  and applied its judgement in determining whether  information obtained during the measurement period  should result in an adjustment to the provisional  amounts recognised at acquisition date or its impact  should be accounted as post-acquisition transaction.
Allocation of the purchase price aﬀects the results of  the Group as ﬁnite lived intangible assets are amortised,  whereas indeﬁnite lived intangible assets, including  goodwill, are not amortised and could result in diﬀering  amortisation charges based on the allocation to  indeﬁnite lived and ﬁnite lived intangible assets.
Identiﬁable intangible assets acquired under  business combination include license, customer base,  distribution network and brands.
The fair value of these  assets is determined based on valuation techniques  which require an estimate of future net cash ﬂows,  where no active market for the asset exists.
The use  of diﬀerent assumptions for the expectations of future  cash ﬂows and the discount rate would change the  valuation of the intangible assets.
The relative size  of the Group’s intangible assets, excluding goodwill,  makes the judgements surrounding the estimated  useful lives critical to the Group’s ﬁnancial position  and performance.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15206   Further details on purchase price allocation have  been disclosed in Note 7.  f. Intangible assets   Refer Note 3.6 for the estimated useful life of  intangible assets.
The carrying value of intangible  assets has been disclosed in Note 15. g. Property, plant and equipment   Refer Note 3.7 for the estimated useful life of property,  plant and equipment.
The carrying value of property,  plant and equipment has been disclosed in Note 14.  h. Activation and installation fees   The Group receives activation and installation fees  from new customers.
These fees together with  directly attributable costs are amortised over the  estimated duration of customer life.
The customer life  is reviewed periodically.
The estimated customer life  principally reﬂects management’s view of the average  economic life of the customer base and is assessed  by reference to key performance indicators (KPIs)  which are linked to establishment/ ascertainment of  customer life.
A change in such KPIs may lead to a  change in the estimated useful life and an increase/  decrease in the amortisation income/ charge.
The  Group believes that the change in such KPIs will not  have any material eﬀect on the ﬁnancial statements.
i. Contingencies   Refer Note 36 (ii) for details of contingencies.
5.
Standards issued but not yet eﬀective up to  the date of issuance of the Group’s ﬁnancial  statements   The new Standards, interpretations and amendments to  Standards that are issued, but not yet eﬀective, up to  the date of issuance of the Group’s ﬁnancial statements  are disclosed below.
The Group intends to adopt these  Standards, if applicable, when they become eﬀective.
a. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments   In July 2014, the IASB issued the ﬁnal version of IFRS  9 Financial Instruments which reﬂects all phases of  the ﬁnancial instruments project and replaces IAS 39  Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement  and all previous versions of IFRS 9.
The standard  introduces new requirements for classiﬁcation and  measurement, impairment, and hedge accounting.
The eﬀective date of IFRS 9 is annual periods beginning  on or after January 1, 2018, with early adoption  permitted.
Retrospective application is required,  but comparative information is not compulsory.
The Group is required to adopt the standard by the  ﬁnancial year commencing April 1, 2018.
The Group is  currently evaluating the requirements of IFRS 9, and  has not yet determined the impact on the consolidated  ﬁnancial statements.
b.
Amendments to IAS 19 Deﬁned Beneﬁt Plans:  Employee Contributions   In November 2013, IASB issued amendments to IAS  19 Employee Beneﬁts.
IAS 19 requires an entity to  consider contributions from employees or third  parties when accounting for deﬁned beneﬁt plans.
Where the contributions are linked to service, they  should be attributed to periods of service as a negative  beneﬁt.
These amendments clarify that, if the amount  of the contributions is independent of the number of  years of service, an entity is permitted to recognise  such contributions as a reduction in the service cost in  the period in which the service is rendered, instead of  allocating the contributions to the periods of service.
This amendment is applicable to annual periods  beginning on or after July 1, 2014, with early adoption  permitted.
The Group is required to adopt the  amendments by the ﬁnancial year commencing April  1, 2015.
The Group does not expect that the adoption  of the amendments will have any signiﬁcant impact  on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
c. IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts    In January 2014, IASB issued an interim standard,  IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts.
The aim of  this interim standard is to enhance the comparability  of ﬁnancial reporting by entities that are engaged in  rate-regulated activities.
IFRS does not provide any  speciﬁc guidance for rate-regulated activities.
The  IASB has a project to consider the broad issue of rate  regulation and plans to publish a Discussion Paper  on this subject in 2014.
Pending the outcome of this  comprehensive Rate-regulated Activities project,  the IASB decided to develop IFRS 14 as an interim  measure.
The eﬀective date of IFRS 14 is annual periods  beginning on or after January 1, 2016, with early  adoption permitted.
The Group is required to adopt  the standard by the ﬁnancial year commencing  April 1, 2016.
The Group is currently evaluating the  requirements of IFRS 14, and has not yet determined  the impact on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
d. Amendments to IFRS 11 : Accounting for Acquisitions  of Interests   In May 2014, IASB issued amendments to IFRS 11 Joint  Arrangements which requires that a joint operator,  who is accounting for the acquisition of an interest  in a joint operation, in which the activity of the joint  operation constitutes a business must apply the  relevant IFRS 3 principles for business combinations  accounting.
The amendments also clarify that a  previously held interest in a joint operation is not  remeasured on the acquisition of an additional  interest in the same joint operation while joint control  is retained.
In addition, a scope exclusion has been  added to IFRS 11 to specify that the amendments  do not apply when the parties sharing joint control,  including the reporting entity, are under common  control of the same ultimate controlling party.
The amendments are applicable to annual periods  beginning on or after January 1, 2016, with early  adoption permitted.
The Group is required to adopt  the amendments by the ﬁnancial year commencing  April 1, 2016.
The Group does not expect that the  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 207Consolidated Financial Statements adoption of the amendments will have any signiﬁcant  impact on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
e. Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clariﬁcation  of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and  Amortisation   In May 2014, IASB issued amendments to IAS 16  Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible  Assets.
The amendments clarify the principle in IAS 16  and IAS 38 that revenue reﬂects a pattern of economic  beneﬁts that are generated from operating a business  (of which the asset is part) rather than the economic  beneﬁts that are consumed through use of the asset.
As a result, a revenue-based method cannot be used  to depreciate property, plant and equipment and may  only be used in very limited circumstances to amortise  intangible assets.
This amendment is applicable to annual periods  beginning on or after January 1, 2016, with early  adoption permitted.
The Group is required to adopt  the amendments by the ﬁnancial year commencing  April 1, 2016.
The Group does not expect that the  adoption of the amendments will have any signiﬁcant  impact on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
f. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers   In May 2014, IASB issued standard, IFRS 15 Revenue  from Contract with Customers.
The Standard  establishes a new ﬁve-step model that will apply to  revenue arising from contracts with customers.
Under  IFRS 15, revenue is recognised at an amount that  reﬂects the consideration to which an entity expects  to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods  or services to a customer.
The principles in IFRS 15  provide a more structured approach to measuring  and recognising revenue.
The new revenue standard  is applicable to all entities and will supersede all  current revenue recognition requirements under IFRS.
The eﬀective date of IFRS 15 is annual periods  beginning on or after January 1, 2017, with early  adoption permitted.
The Group is required to adopt  the standard by the ﬁnancial year commencing  April 1, 2017.
The Group is currently evaluating the  requirements of IFRS 15, and has not yet determined  the impact on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
g. Amendment to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or  Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its  Associate or Joint Venture   In September 2014, IASB issued amendments to  IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS  28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures  to address a conﬂict between the requirements of  these two Standards and clarify that in a transaction  involving an associate or joint venture the extent  of gain or loss recognition depends on whether the  assets sold or contributed constitute a business.
This amendment is applicable to annual periods  beginning on or after January 1, 2016, with early  adoption permitted.
The Group is required to adopt  the amendments by the ﬁnancial year commencing  April 1, 2016.
The Group does not expect that the  adoption of the amendments will have any signiﬁcant  impact on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
h. Amendments to IAS 1: Amendments Resulting from  the Disclosure Initiative   In December 2014, IASB issued Amendments to IAS  1 Presentation of Financial Statements with respect  to disclosure requirements.
The amendments aim at  clarifying IAS 1 to address perceived impediments to  preparers exercising their judgement in presenting  their ﬁnancial reports.
This amendment is applicable to annual periods  beginning on or after January 1, 2016, with early  adoption permitted.
The Group is required to adopt  the amendments by the ﬁnancial year commencing  April 1, 2016.
The Group does not expect that the  adoption of the amendments will have any signiﬁcant  impact on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
i.
The following other improvements and amendments to standards have been issued upto the date of issuance of the Group’s  ﬁnancial statements, but not yet eﬀective and have not yet been adopted by the Group.
These are not expected to have any  signiﬁcant impact on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements: S.  No.
Improvement/Amendments to Standards Month of Issue Eﬀective date -  annual periods  beginning on or  after 1 Annual Improvements 2011-13 Cycle December, 2013 July 1, 2014 2 Annual Improvements 2010-12 Cycle December, 2013 July 1, 2014 3 Amendments to IAS 16, "Property, Plant and Equipment" and IAS 41,  "Agriculture" for bearer plants June, 2014 January 1, 2016 4 Amendment to IAS 27, "Separate Financial Statements" with respect to  equity method as an accounting option for investments in subsidiaries,  joint ventures and associates in an entity's separate ﬁnancial statements August, 2014 January 1, 2016 5 Annual Improvements 2012-14 Cycle September, 2014 January 1, 2016 6 Amendment to IFRS 10, "Consolidated Financial Statements", IFRS  12 "Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities" and IAS 28 "Investments  in Associates and Joint Ventures" with respect to application of the  consolidation exception December, 2014 January 1, 2016 Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15208 6.
Segment Reporting  The Group’s operating segments are organised and  managed separately through the respective business  managers, according to the nature of products and  services provided and geographies in which services are  provided, with each segment representing a strategic  business unit.
These business units are reviewed by the  Chairman of the Group (Chief operating decision maker).
During the year ended March 31, 2015, in order to  better reﬂect the underlying business performance,  the Group has changed the presentation of regulatory  levies applicable to ﬁnance income from “Operating  expenses” to “Other expenses”.
Accordingly previous  year’s segment ﬁgures have been restated.
The reporting segments of the Group are as below:  Mobile Services India:  These services cover voice  and data telecom services provided through wireless  technology (2G/3G/4G) in India.
This includes the  captive national long distance networks which primarily  provide connectivity to the mobile services business in  India.
This also includes intra city ﬁbre networks and  Mobile commerce services.
Mobile Services-South Asia: These services cover voice  and data telecom services provided through wireless  technology (2G/3G) in Sri Lanka and Bangladesh.
Mobile Services Africa: These services cover provision  of voice and data telecom services oﬀered to customers  in Africa continent.
This also includes corporate  headquarter costs of the Group’s Africa operations.
T elemedia Services: These services cover voice and data  communications based on ﬁxed network and broadband  technology.
Digital TV Services: This includes digital broadcasting  services provided under the Direct-to-home platform.
Airtel Business:  These services cover end-to-end  telecom solutions being provided to large Indian and  global corporations by serving as a single point of  contact for all telecommunication needs across data and  voice (domestic as well as international long distance),  network integration and managed services.
T ower Infrastructure Services: These services include  setting up, operating and maintaining wireless  communication towers in India.
Others: These include administrative and support  services provided to other segments.
The measurement principles for segment reporting are  based on IFRSs adopted in the consolidated ﬁnancial  statements.
Segment’s performance is evaluated based  on segment revenue and proﬁt or loss from operating  activities including share of result of joint ventures and  associates i.e.
segment results.
Operating revenues and expenses related to both third  party and inter-segment transactions are included in  determining the segment results of each respective  segment.
Finance income earned, ﬁnance expense  incurred and other expense are not allocated to  individual segment and the same has been reﬂected at  the Group level for segment reporting.
Inter-segment  pricing and terms are reviewed and changed by the  management to reﬂect changes in market conditions  and changes to such terms are reﬂected in the period  the change occurs.
Segment information prior to the  change in terms is not restated.
These transactions  have been eliminated on consolidation.
The total assets  disclosed for each segment represent assets directly  managed by each segment, and primarily include  receivables, property, plant and equipment, intangibles,  inventories, operating cash and bank balances, inter- segment assets and exclude derivative ﬁnancial assets,  deferred tax assets and income tax recoverable.
Segment liabilities comprise operating liabilities and  exclude external borrowings, provision for taxes,  deferred tax liabilities and derivative ﬁnancial liabilities.
Segment capital expenditure comprises additions to  property, plant and equipment and intangible assets  (net of rebates, where applicable).
Unallocated expenses/ results, assets and liabilities  include expenses/ results, assets and liabilities  (including inter-segment assets and liabilities) of  corporate headquarters of the Group and other  activities not allocated to the operating segments.
These also include current taxes, deferred taxes and  certain ﬁnancial assets and liabilities not allocated to  the operating segments.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 209Consolidated Financial Statements Summary of the segmental information as of and for the year ended March 31, 2015 is as follows:  (` Millions)  Particulars  Mobile  Services  India  Mobile  Services   South  Asia Mobile  Services  Africa T elemedia  Services  Airtel  Business   Digital  TV  Services   T ower  Infrastructure   Services   Others             Unallocated   Eliminations  Consolidated  Revenue from external  customers 500,673 15,379 264,128 40,550 52,429 24,699 22,530 6 - - 920,394 Inter segment revenue 18,963 380 4,942 3,775 14,701 60 31,752 2,908 - (77,481) - T otal revenues 519,636 15,759 269,070 44,325 67,130 24,759 54,282 2,914 - (77,481) 920,394 Share of results of  joint ventures and associates 8 - (53) (10) - - 7,269 9 - - 7,223 Segment result 124,703 (6,138) 11,727 8,689 7,713 (1,581) 21,731 16 (1,064) (1) 165,795 Finance income 24,788 Finance costs (73,252) Other expenses (1,669) Exceptional items, net* (8,532) Proﬁt before tax 107,130 Other segment itemsPeriod capital  expenditure (285,667) (3,353) (82,873) (7,786) (6,409) (7,912) (10,133) - (950) 7,110 (397,973) Depreciation and  amortisation (70,290) (5,943) (49,341) (9,263) (6,257) (8,333) (11,109) - - 5,225 (155,311) As of March 31, 2015 Segment assets 1,251,137 47,416 680,586 106,731 169,346 19,125 207,433 789 237,472 (762,217) 1,957,818 Segment liabilities 408,419 29,076 205,193 51,977 88,025 54,550 20,645 1,124 1,191,726 (761,006) 1,289,729 ‘Exceptional items, net’ shown separately comprises of one time translation impact of certain foreign currency liabilities in N igeria, costs relating to post-acquisition integration activities, other costs attributable to  restructuring activities, income due to premature termination of an agreement by a telecom operator, income on account of dives tment of telecom towers in one of the countries in Africa and charges on account of  settlement of various disputes (Refer Note 12).
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15210 Summary of the segmental information as of and for the year ended March 31, 2014 is as follows:  (` Millions)  Particulars  Mobile  Services  India  Mobile  Services   South  Asia Mobile  Services  Africa T elemedia  Services  Airtel  Business   Digital  TV  Services   T ower  Infrastructure   Services   Others             Unallocated   Eliminations  Consolidated  Revenue from external  customers 446,896 16,945 269,287 36,492 48,025 20,709 19,105 2 - - 857,461 Inter segment revenue 19,939 458 3,201 2,860 15,336 62 31,982 3,195 - (77,033) - T otal revenues 466,835 17,403 272,488 39,352 63,361 20,771 51,087 3,197 - (77,033) 857,461 Share of results of  joint ventures and associates 325 - (158) - - - 5,034 10 - - 5,211 Segment result 91,298 (4,271) 16,983 5,541 8,078 (4,812) 16,185 62 (1,644) (275) 127,145 Finance income 10,408 Finance costs (58,788) Other expenses (660) Exceptional items, net* 538 Proﬁt before tax 78,643 Other segment itemsPeriod capital  expenditure (103,727) (13,555) (41,634) (8,856) (7,648) (6,235) (7,568) - (212) 12,448 (176,987) Depreciation and  amortisation (66,673) (5,307) (54,265) (9,230) (5,729) (8,159) (11,699) - - 4,566 (156,496) As of March 31, 2014 Segment assets 933,083 51,537 788,468 70,854 130,199 19,626 211,850 967 172,525 (547,337) 1,831,772Segment liabilities 214,531 40,450 159,070 24,154 54,898 52,943 28,323 1,281 1,162,523 (546,063) 1,192,110 * ‘Exceptional items, net’ shown separately mainly relates to gain on account of demerger of a subsidiary, reassessment of residual useful lives of certain assets, new regulatory levy in one of the operations and integration  costs arising due to business combination (Refer Note 12).
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 211Consolidated Financial Statements (` Millions)  Particulars As of   As of    March 31, 2015 March 31, 2014 Unallocated Assets comprise of : Derivative ﬁnancial assets 8,510 3,580 Deferred tax asset 59,502 62,627 Income tax recoverable 5,750 9,319 Inter-segment loans/ receivables 100,194 77,297 Short term investments 47,567 5,388 Others 15,949 14,314 T otal 237,472 172,525 (` Millions)  Particulars As of   As of    March 31, 2015 March 31, 2014 Unallocated Liabilities comprise of :    Borrowings 663,672 758,958 Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities 792 5,410 Deferred tax liability 15,110 16,850 Income tax liabilities 9,271 12,032 Inter-segment loans/ payables 491,026 361,533 Others 11,855 7,740 T otal 1,191,726 1,162,523 Borrowings include amount borrowed for the acquisition of 3G and BWA Licenses (including spectrum) ` 45,153 Mn and ` 70,900  Mn and for funding the acquisition of Africa operations and other borrowings of Africa operations ` 554,776 Mn and ` 640,237  Mn as of March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively.
Geographical Information: Information concerning geographical areas by location of the entity is as follows: (a) Revenue from external customers:      (` Millions) Particulars  Y ear ended  March 31, 2015  Y ear ended  March 31, 2014 India 626,319 559,696 Africa 264,128 269,287 Rest of the world 29,947 28,478 T otal 920,394 857,461 (b)  Non-current Assets (Property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets):       (` Millions) Particulars As of  March 31, 2015 As of  March 31, 2014 India 870,167 658,771 Africa 578,238 691,788 Rest of the World 53,035 55,586 T otal 1,501,440 1,406,145 Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15212 7. Business Combination/ Disposal of Subsidiary/  Other Acquisitions/ T ransaction with Non- controlling Interests a) Sale of stake in Bharti Infratel Limited (BIL)   On August 7, 2014, in order to comply with the  requirement to maintain minimum public shareholding  of 25% in terms of rule 19(2)(b)/ 19A of Securities  Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957, as amended, and  clause 40A of the equity listing agreement, the Company  sold 85 million shares in Bharti Infratel Limited (BIL)  for ` 21,434 Mn, representing 4.5% shareholding in BIL.
Subsequent to the transaction, the shareholding of the  Company in BIL has reduced to 74.86%.
Further on February 26, 2015, the Company sold 55  million shares for ` 19,255 Mn, representing 2.91%  shareholding in BIL.
Subsequent to the transaction,  the shareholding of the Company in BIL has reduced to  71.90%.
The carrying amounts of the controlling and non- controlling interests have been adjusted to reﬂect  the changes in their relative interests in BIL.
Excess  of proceeds over the change in non-controlling  interests net of associated transaction costs, taxes  and regulatory levies, amounting to ` 25,816 Mn has  been recognised directly in equity as attributable to the  equity shareholders of the parent.
b) Purchase of Shares of BIL by Bharti Infratel Employees’  Welfare T rust   Bharti Infratel Employees’ Welfare T rust acquired  1.65 Mn number of shares of Bharti Infratel Limited  from non-controlling interests during the year ended  March 31, 2015 for a consideration of ` 624 Mn.
The  carrying amounts of non-controlling interests have  been adjusted to reﬂect the changes in their relative  interests in BIL.
Excess of cost over the change in non- controlling interests, amounting to ` 468 Mn has been  recognised directly in equity as attributable to the  equity shareholders of the parent.
c) Acquisition of interest in Airtel Broadband Services  Private Limited (‘ABSPL’) (formerly known as Wireless  Business Services Private Limited), erstwhile Wireless  Broadband Business Services (Delhi) Pvt.
Ltd.,  erstwhile Wireless Broadband Business Services  (Kerala) Pvt.
Ltd. and erstwhile Wireless Broadband  Business Services (Haryana) Pvt.
Ltd.  (together  referred as “BWA entities”) i.
During the year ended March 31, 2013, pursuant  to a deﬁnitive agreement dated May 24, 2012, the  Company had acquired 49% stake for a consideration  of ` 9,281 Mn in BWA entities mentioned above, Indian  subsidiaries of Qualcomm Asia Paciﬁc (Qualcomm AP)  partly by way of acquisition of 26% equity interest from  its existing shareholders and balance 23% by way of  subscription of fresh equity in the referred entities.
The agreement contemplated that once commercial  operations are launched, subject to certain terms and  conditions, the Company had the option to assume  complete ownership and ﬁnancial responsibility for the  BWA entities by the end of 2014.
With this acquisition,  the Group had secured high speed data leadership.
During the three month period ended June 30, 2012, the  BWA entities were accounted for as associates.
Eﬀective July 1, 2012, the Group had started exercising  its right of joint control over the activities of the BWA  entities and had accordingly accounted for them as  Joint Ventures.
The diﬀerence of ` 1,175 Mn between  the purchase consideration of ` 7,646 Mn (net of  ` 812 Mn to be adjusted against the amount to be  paid for the purchase of balance shares and ` 823 Mn  of the consideration identiﬁed towards fair value of  the contract for the purchase of balance shares) and  its share of the fair value of net assets of ` 6,471 Mn  was recognised as goodwill, recorded as part of the  investment in joint ventures.
ii.
During the year ended March 31, 2014, on June 25, 2013,  the Company acquired additional equity stake of 2% by  way of subscription to fresh equity of ` 638 Mn, thereby  acquiring control over the BWA entities.
The acquisition  was accounted for in the books, using the acquisition  method and accordingly, all the assets and liabilities  were measured at their fair values as on the acquisition  date and the purchase consideration has been allocated  to the net assets.
The Company has fair valued its existing 49% equity  interest at ` 8,740 Mn and recognised a net gain of  ` 201 Mn (net of loss on fair valuation of contract for  the purchase of balance shares).
The diﬀerence of  ` 8,329 Mn between the purchase consideration of  ` 9,182 Mn (including fair valuation of existing equity  interest and fair value of contract for the purchase  of balance shares ` 196 Mn (liability)) and fair value  of net assets of ` 853 Mn (including cash acquired of  ` 2,413 Mn and net of non-controlling interests of  ` 820 Mn) has been recognised as goodwill.
The  goodwill recognised in the transaction consists largely  of the synergies and economies of scale expected from  the combined operation of the Group and BWA entities.
None of the goodwill recognised is deductible for  income tax purpose.
The present value of the liability  of ` 6,722 Mn to be paid for the purchase of balance  shares and the advance of ` 812 Mn was recognised  against the ‘Other components of equity’.
The fair value  and the carrying amount of the acquired receivables as  of the date of acquisition was Nil.
From the date of acquisition, BWA entities have  contributed revenue of less than ` one million and loss  before tax of ` 94 Mn to the consolidated revenue and  proﬁt before tax of the Group, respectively, for the year  ended March 31, 2014.
On August 30, 2013, the Group increased its equity  investment in ABSPL by way of conversion of loan  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 213Consolidated Financial Statements of ` 49,094 Mn, thereby increasing its shareholding  from 51% to 93.45%.
Considering other terms of the  deﬁnitive agreement, as the non-controlling interests is  no longer bearing the risks and rewards of ownership,  the entire carrying amount of non-controlling interests  of ` 800 Mn has been derecognised and has been  recognised in ‘Other components of equity’.
On October 17, 2013, the Group acquired remaining  stake of ABSPL from Qualcomm AP for a total  consideration of ` 6,903 Mn (in addition to ` 812 Mn  paid during the year ended March 31, 2013 (refer (i)  above), thereby increasing its shareholding to 100%.
An amount of ` 2,154 Mn after adjustment of the  amount paid for retirement of borrowings of ` 4,104 Mn  and interest there on of ` 645 Mn has been paid.
An  amount of ` 6,379 Mn (excluding the interest recovered  for the period till June 25, 2013, the date of acquisition  of control) has been disclosed in the statement of cash  ﬂows under ‘cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities’.
iii.
The Scheme of Arrangement (‘Scheme’) under Sections  391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956 for amalgamation  of Wireless Broadband Business Services (Delhi) Private  Limited, Wireless Broadband Business Services (Kerala)  Private Limited and Wireless Broadband Business  Services (Haryana) Private Limited (collectively  referred to as “the transferor companies”) with Airtel  Broadband Services Private Limited (‘ABSPL’) (formerly  known as Wireless Business Services Private Limited)  was approved by the Hon’ble High Courts of Delhi and  Bombay vide order dated May 24, 2013 and June 28,  2013, respectively, with appointed date July 6, 2010,  and ﬁled with the Registrar of Companies on August  5, 2013, eﬀective date of the Scheme.
Accordingly, the  transferor companies have ceased to exist and have  merged into ABSPL.
The Scheme of Arrangement (‘Scheme’) under Sections  391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956 for amalgamation  of ABSPL with the Company, was approved by the  Hon’ble High Courts of Delhi and Bombay on January 21,  2014 and April 11, 2014, respectively.
Subsequent to the  balance sheet date, the Company has ﬁled the Scheme  under Sections 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956  for amalgamation of Airtel Broadband Services Private  Limited (‘ABSPL’) (formerly known as Wireless Business  Services Private Limited), a wholly owned subsidiary  of the Company, with the Company, as approved by the  Hon’ble High Courts of Bombay on April 11, 2014 with  Registrar of Companies (‘ROC’) on April 9, 2015 which is  the eﬀective date and appointed date of merger.
From  the ﬁling of the said Scheme with the ROC, ABSPL shall  cease to exist and have merged with the Company with  eﬀect from April 9, 2015.
DoT vide its letter dated February 2, 2015, has given  its approval for taking on record the merger of ABSPL  with the Company, subject to certain conditions  as stipulated in the letter.
One of the conditions of  merger requires payment of ` 4,361 Mn, equal to the  diﬀerence between the entry fee for Uniﬁed Access  Service License and entry fees paid for Internet Service  Provider license.
The Hon’ble T elecom Disputes  Settlement and Appellate T ribunal (‘TDSAT’) vide its  interim order dated February 9, 2015 has allowed the  Company to operationalise the spectrum subject to  ﬁling an undertaking that in case the petition fails, it  shall pay the sum of ` 4,361 Mn along with interest as  may be determined by the T ribunal within eight weeks  from the date of judgement.
The Company has ﬁled an  undertaking before Hon’ble TDSAT for the same.
The  Company based on its evaluation believes that it is not  probable that claim will materialise and therefore, no  provision has been recognised in the books of accounts.
d) Acquisition of 100% interest in Warid T elecom Uganda  Limited   The Group entered into a share purchase agreement  with Warid T elecom Uganda LLC and Warid Uganda  Holding Inc to acquire 100% equity interest in Warid  T elecom Uganda Limited to consolidate its position  as the second largest mobile operator in Uganda.
The transaction was closed on May 13, 2013.
The  acquisition was accounted for in the books, using the  acquisition method and accordingly, all the assets  and liabilities were measured at their preliminary fair  values as on the acquisition date and the purchase  consideration has been allocated to the net assets.
The diﬀerence of ` 2,394 Mn between the purchase  consideration and preliminary fair value of net assets  has been recognised as goodwill.
None of the goodwill  recognised is deductible for income tax purpose.
The  goodwill recognised in the transaction consists largely  of synergies and economies of scale expected from the  combined operation of the Group and Warid T elecom  Uganda Limited.
During the three month period ended June 30, 2014,  the end of the measurement period, the Group has  completed the fair valuation of net assets acquired as  at the acquisition date.
There are no changes in the fair  valuation subsequent to March 31, 2014.
The fair value, gross contractual amount and best  estimate of the amount not expected to be collected,   of the acquired receivables as of the date of acquisition  was ` 436 Mn, ` 510 Mn and ` 74 Mn respectively.
Operations of Warid T elecom Uganda Limited have  been merged into Airtel Uganda Limited, an indirect  subsidiary of the Company, w.e.f.
February 1, 2014.
From the date of acquisition till January 31, 2014, Warid  T elecom Uganda Limited has contributed revenue  of ` 6,006 Mn and loss before tax of ` 578 Mn to the  consolidated revenue and proﬁt before tax of the Group,  respectively.
e) Acquisition of 100% interest in Warid Congo S.A   The Group entered into a share purchase agreement  with Warid T elecom Congo LLC and Warid Congo  Holding Inc to acquire 100% equity interest in Warid  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15214 Congo S.A.
The acquisition made the Group the largest  mobile operator in Congo Brazzaville.
The transaction  was closed on March 12, 2014.
The acquisition was  accounted for in the books, using the acquisition  method and accordingly, all the assets and liabilities  were measured at their fair values as on the acquisition  date and the purchase consideration has been allocated  to the net assets.
The diﬀerence of ` 1,291 Mn between  the purchase consideration and fair value of net assets  has been recognised as goodwill.
None of the goodwill  recognised is deductible for income tax purpose.
The  goodwill recognised in the transaction consists largely  of synergies and economies of scale expected from the  combined operation of the Group and Warid Congo S.A.
The fair value, gross contractual amount and best  estimate of the amount not expected to be collected,   of the acquired receivables as of the date of acquisition  was ` 243 Mn, ` 261 Mn and ` 18 Mn respectively.
From the date of acquisition, Warid Congo S.A has  contributed revenue of ` 286 Mn and proﬁt before tax  of ` 60 Mn to the consolidated revenue and proﬁt before  tax of the Group, respectively, for the year ended March  31, 2014. f) Acquisition of additional interest in Airtel Bangladesh  Limited   On June 12, 2013, the Group acquired 30% equity stake  in Airtel Bangladesh Limited, thereby, increasing its  shareholding to 100%.
The excess of consideration over  the carrying value of the interest acquired, ` 5,850 Mn  (including transaction costs), has been recognised in  ‘Other components of equity’.
g) Demerger of Bharti Infratel Ventures Limited    The Scheme of Arrangement (‘Scheme’) under Section  391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956 for transfer of  all assets and liabilities as deﬁned in the Scheme from  Bharti Infratel Ventures Limited (BIVL) (an indirect  subsidiary of the Company), Vodafone Infrastructure  Limited (VIL) (formerly known as Vodafone Essar  Infrastructure Limited), and Idea Cellular T ower  Infrastructure Limited (ICTIL) (collectively referred to  as “the transferor companies”) to Indus T owers Limited  (Indus), a joint venture of the Group, was approved by  the Hon’ble High Court of Delhi vide order dated April  18, 2013 and ﬁled with the Registrar of Companies on  June 11, 2013, eﬀective date of the Scheme.
Accordingly,  eﬀective this date, the transferor companies have  ceased to exist and have merged into Indus.
The  Scheme has, accordingly, been given eﬀect to in the  consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Group.
As a result of the transaction, the Group has lost control  of BIVL and recorded an additional investment in Indus  and accordingly the Group has:  (i)  derecognised the assets and liabilities of BIVL from  its consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position (net  ` 43,631 Mn) (including cash & cash equivalents of  ` 8,009 Mn);  (ii)  recognised additional investment in Indus at ` 52,581  Mn, i.e., the Group’s share of the aggregate of (a) fair  value of the net assets contributed by the other joint  venturers and (b) book value of net assets of BIVL  contributed by the Group; and  (iii) recognised resultant gain of ` 8,950 Mn as an  exceptional income (refer Note 12 (ii) (a)).
h)  During the year ended March 31, 2014, the Group has  reduced goodwill by ` 926 Mn and increased non- controlling interests by ` 29 Mn with respect to a past  business combination transaction.
8.
Operating Expenses     (` Millions)  Particulars Notes Y ear ended  March 31, 2015 Y ear ended  March 31, 2014 Access charges  112,759  111,923  Licence fees, revenue share and spectrum charges  87,391  75,971  Network operations cost  203,372  197,202  Employee costs 8.1  47,123  46,228  Selling, general and administrative expenses  155,533  147,979  Charity & donations *  1,290  902  T otal 607,468  580,205   * including expenses incurred toward corporate social responsibility.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 215Consolidated Financial Statements  Selling, general and administrative expenses include the following:  (` Millions)  Particulars Y ear ended  March 31, 2015 Y ear ended  March 31, 2014 T rading inventory consumption  4,288  4,728  Dimunition in value of inventory  515  381  Provision for doubtful debts  8,405  5,781  8.1 Employee costs     (` Millions)  Particulars Notes Y ear ended  March 31, 2015 Y ear ended  March 31, 2014 Salaries, allowances & others  43,914  42,852  Deﬁned contribution plan  1,757  2,124  Deﬁned beneﬁt plan/ other long term beneﬁts  734  848  Share based compensation 8.2  718  404  T otal  47,123  46,228  8.2 Share Based Compensation Plans The following table provides an overview of all existing share option plans of the Group: As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Entity Scheme Plan Y ear of  issuance  of plan Vesting  period  (years) Contractual  term  (years) Share  options  granted  (thousands) Weighted  average  exercise  price (`) Share options  granted  (thousands) Weighted  average  exercise price  (`) Equity settled Plans Bharti Airtel Scheme I 2001 Plan * 2002 1 - 4 7 30,893 21.25 30,893 21.25 Bharti Airtel Scheme I 2004 Plan * 2004 1 - 4 7 4,380 35.00 4,380 35.00 Bharti Airtel Scheme I Superpot * 2004 1 - 3 7 143 - 143 - Bharti Airtel Scheme I 2006 Plan 2006 1 - 5 7 5,489 5.48 5,264 5.50 Bharti Airtel Scheme 2005 2005 Plan 2005 1 - 4 7 11,260 237.06 11,260 237.06 Bharti Airtel Scheme 2005 2008 Plan &  Annual   Grant Plan  (AGP) 2008 1 - 3 7 8,817 352.13 8,817 352.13 Bharti Airtel Scheme 2005 Performance  Share Plan  (PSP) 2009  Plan 2009 3 - 4 7 1,691 5.00 1,691 5.00 Bharti Airtel Scheme 2005 Special ESOP  & Restricted  Share Units  (RSU) Plan 2010 1 - 5 7 3,615 5.00 3,615 5.00 Bharti Airtel Scheme 2005 Long T erm  Incentive (LTI)  Plan  2011 1 - 3 7 433 5.00 422 5.00 Bharti Airtel Scheme 2005 LTI Plan 2012 1 - 3 7 1,649 5.00 1,593 5.00 Bharti Infratel Infratel plan 2008 Plan 2008 1 - 5 7 9,913 109.67 9,913 109.67 Bharti Infratel Infratel plan LTI Plan (Part  of 2008 plan) 2012 1 - 3 7 34 10.00 34 10.00 Cash settled Plans Bharti Airtel Scheme 2005 LTI Plan Africa 2011 1 - 3 3 560 5.00 560 5.00 Bharti Airtel Performance  Unit Plan  (PUP) 2013 Performance  Unit Plan  (PUP) 2013 2013 1 - 3 3 3,435 - 3,295 - Bharti Airtel Performance  Unit Plan  (PUP) 2014 Performance  Unit Plan  (PUP) 2014 2014 1 - 5 3-5 5,909 - - - Bharti Infratel Infratel plan PUP 2013 1 - 3 7 309 - 171 - * Contractual term has expired Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15216 The following table exhibits the net compensation expenses arising from share based payment transaction:  (` Millions)  Particulars Y ear ended  March 31, 2015 Y ear ended  March 31, 2014 Expenses arising from equity-settled share-based payment  transactions  (4)  8  Expenses arising from Cash-settled share-based payment  transactions  722  396  T otal  718  404  Information concerning the share options issued is presented below: As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 (Share options in thousands) Number of   share options  Weighted average   exercise price (`) Number of   share options  Weighted average   exercise price (`) Equity Settled Plans Scheme I - 2006 Plan Outstanding at beginning of year  539  6.74  1,185  5.89  Granted  225  5.00  150  5.00  Exercised  (98)  14.38  (320)  5.36  Forfeited / Expired  (276)  5.00  (476)  5.00  Outstanding at end of year  390  5.00  539  6.74  Exercisable at end of year  65  5.00  223  9.21  Scheme 2005 - 2005 Plan Outstanding at beginning of year  1,008  436.06  1,736  384.72  Granted  -    -    -    -    Exercised  -    -    (130)  201.88  Forfeited / Expired  (1,008)  436.06  (598)  339.18  Outstanding at end of year  -    -    1,008  436.06  Exercisable at end of year  -    -    1,008  436.06  Scheme 2005 - 2008 Plan & AGP Outstanding at beginning of year  3,439  354.54  4,314  355.80  Granted  -    -    -    -    Exercised  (173)  327.20  (10)  301.47  Forfeited / Expired  (732)  357.85  (865)  361.04  Outstanding at end of year  2,534  355.45  3,439  354.54  Exercisable at end of year  2,534  355.45  3,439  354.54  Scheme 2005 - PSP 2009 Plan Outstanding at beginning of year  242  5.00  569  5.00  Granted  -    -    -    -    Exercised  (159)  5.00  (217)  5.00  Forfeited / Expired  -    5.00  (110)  5.00  Outstanding at end of year  83  5.00  242  5.00  Exercisable at end of year  83  5.00  154  5.00  Scheme 2005 - Special ESOP & RSU Plan Outstanding at beginning of year  408  5.00  1,470  5.00  Granted  -    -    -    -    Exercised  (178)  5.00  (610)  5.00  Forfeited / Expired  (41)  5.00  (452)  5.00  Outstanding at end of year  189  5.00  408  5.00  Exercisable at end of year  189  5.00  369  5.00  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 217Consolidated Financial Statements As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 (Share options in thousands) Number of   share options  Weighted average   exercise price (`) Number of   share options  Weighted average   exercise price (`) Scheme 2005 - L TI Plan (2011 & 2012) Outstanding at beginning of year  1,072  5.00  1,815  5.00  Granted  67  5.00  -    -    Exercised  (356)  5.00  (275)  5.00  Forfeited / Expired  (260)  5.00  (468)  5.00  Outstanding at end of year  523  5.00  1,072  5.00  Exercisable at end of year  230  5.00  183  5.00  Bharti Infratel : 2008 Plan  Outstanding at beginning of year  8,554  109.67  9,147  109.67  Granted  -   -  -    -    Exercised  (4,463)  109.67  (554)  109.67  Forfeited / Expired  (257)  109.67  (39)  109.67  Outstanding at end of year  3,834  109.67  8,554  109.67  Exercisable at end of year  3,607  109.67  7,662  109.67  Bharti Infratel : L TI Plan (Part of 2008 Plan) Outstanding at beginning of year  16  10.00  20  10.00  Granted  -    -    -    -    Exercised  (5)  10.00  (4)  10.00  Forfeited / Expired  (5)  10.00  -    -    Outstanding at end of year  6  10.00  16  10.00  Exercisable at end of year  3  10.00  4  10.00  Cash Settled Plan Scheme 2005 - L TI Plan Africa Outstanding at beginning of year  107  5.00  395  5.00  Granted  -    -    -    -    Exercised  -    -    (43)  5.00  Forfeited  (107)  5.00  (245)  5.00  Outstanding at end of year  -    -    107  5.00  Exercisable at end of year  -    -    -    -    PUP 2013  Outstanding at beginning of year  3,004  -    -    -    Granted  140  -    3,295  -    Exercised  (589)  -    -    -    Forfeited / Expired  (1,120)  -    (291)  -    Outstanding at end of year  1,435  -    3,004  -    Exercisable at end of year  -    -    -    -    PUP 2014  Outstanding at beginning of year  -    -    -    -    Granted  5,909  -    -    -    Exercised  -    -    -    -    Forfeited / Expired  (361)  -    -    -    Outstanding at end of year  5,548  -    -    -    Exercisable at end of year  -    -    -    -    Bharti Infratel : Performance Unit Plan Outstanding at beginning of year  171  -    -    -    Granted  138  -    171  -    Exercised  (46)  -    -    -    Forfeited / Expired  (25)  -    -    -    Outstanding at end of year  238  -    171  -    Exercisable at end of year  2  -    -    -    Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15218 The following table summarises information about options exercised and granted during the year and about options outstanding  and their remaining contractual life: March 31, 2015 Options Outstanding  as of March 31, 2015 Options Granted during  the year ended   March 31, 2015 Options Excercised  during the year ended  March 31, 2015 Entity Plan Options   (thousands) Exercise  price (`) Weighted  average  remaining  contractual  life (years) Options  (thousands) Weighted  average  Fair Value  (`) Options  (thousands) Weighted  average  share  price  (`) Equity settled Plans Bharti Airtel 2006 Plan  390  5.00 to  110.50  5.86  225  361.19  98  371.70  Bharti Airtel 2008 Plan &  AGP  2,534  295.00  to  402.50  0.63  -    -    173  383.30  Bharti Airtel PSP 2009  Plan  83  5.00 1.87  -    -    159  352.26  Bharti Airtel Special ESOP  & RSU Plan  189  5.00 2.26  -    -    178  350.09  Bharti Airtel LTI Plan  (2011 & 2012)  523  5.00 4.27  67  291.63  356  368.36  Bharti Infratel 2008 Plan  3,834 109.67 0.84  -    -  4,463  262.40  Bharti Infratel LTI Plan  (Part of 2008  Plan)  6 10.00 4.42  -    -  5  262.40  Cash settled Plans Bharti Airtel PUP 2013  1,435 - 1.37  140  378.92  589  354.24  Bharti Airtel PUP 2014  5,548 - 2.81  5,909  383.98  -    -    Bharti Infratel Performance  Unit Plan  238 - 5.34  138  336.29  46  262.40  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 219Consolidated Financial Statements March 31, 2014 Options Outstanding  as of March 31, 2014 Options Granted during  the year ended   March 31, 2014 Options Excercised  during the year ended  March 31, 2014 Entity Plan Options   (thousands) Exercise  price (`) Weighted  average  remaining  contractual  life (years) Options  (thousands) Weighted  average  Fair  Value (`) Options  (thousands) Weighted  average  share  price  (`) Equity settled Plans Bharti Airtel 2006 Plan  539  5.00 to  110.50  4.40  150  329.14  320  301.16  Bharti Airtel 2005 Plan  1,008  110.50  to  461.00  0.43  -    -    130  316.90  Bharti Airtel 2008 Plan &  AGP  3,439  295.00  to  402.50  1.62  -    -    10  320.55  Bharti Airtel PSP 2009  Plan  242  5.00 2.77  -    -    217  326.62  Bharti Airtel Special ESOP  & RSU Plan  408  5.00 3.20  -    -    610  324.96  Bharti Airtel LTI Plan  (2011 & 2012)  1,072  5.00 2.66  -    -    275  327.05  Bharti Infratel 2008 Plan  8,554 109.67 1.86  -    -    554  189.00  Bharti Infratel LTI Plan  (Part of 2008  Plan)  16 10.00 5.41  -    -    4  154.00  Cash settled Plans Bharti Airtel LTIP Plan  Africa  107 5.00 0.35  -    -    43  311.00  Bharti Airtel PUP 2013  3,004  -   2.36  3,295  316.85  -    -    Bharti Infratel Performance  Unit Plan  171  -   6.34  171  201.00  -    -    The total carrying value of cash settled share based compensation liability is ` 799 Mn and ` 465 Mn as of March 31, 2015 and  March 31, 2014, respectively.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15220 The fair value of options granted was estimated on the date of grant and at each reporting date (for cash-settled share based  options) using the Black-Scholes / Lattice / Monte Carlo Simulation valuation model with the following assumptions: Particulars Y ear ended  March 31, 2015 Y ear ended  March 31, 2014 Risk free interest rates  7.64% to 8.65%  8.38% to 8.80%  Expected life  10  to 72 months  16 to 60 months  Volatility  27.36% to 32.59%  30.96% to 39%  Dividend yield  0.46% to 0.6%  0.31% to 0.50%  Wtd.
average share price on measurement date exluding Infratel (`)  373.7 to 393.9  318.9 to 337.4  Wtd.
average exercise price on measurement date exluding Infratel (`)  0 to 5  0 to 5  Wtd.
average share price on measurement date - Infratel (`) 378.00 197.60 Wtd.
average exercise price on measurement date - Infratel (`)- - The expected life of the share option is based on historical  data & current expectation and not necessarily indicative of  exercise pattern that may occur.
The volatility of the options  is based on the historical volatility of the share price since  the respective entity’s equity shares became publicly traded.
Bharti Infratel Limited (the subsidiary of the Company) has issued  fresh equity shares to its employees under the equity settled  share based compensation plan and has received an amount of  ` 497 Mn  (March 31, 2014: ` 61 Mn), resulting in increase in the  holding of non-controlling shareholders by 0.19%.
9.
Other Expenses  Other expenses comprise regulatory levies applicable to ﬁnance income in some of the geographies.
10.
Depreciation and Amortisation   (` Millions)  Particulars Notes Y ear ended  March 31, 2015 Y ear ended  March 31, 2014 Depreciation 14  128,932  132,118  Amortisation 15  26,379  24,378  T otal  155,311  156,496  11.
Finance Income and Costs   (` Millions)  Particulars Y ear ended  March 31, 2015 Y ear ended  March 31, 2014 Finance income Dividend from mutual funds  480  898  Interest Income on deposits  674  632  Interest Income on loans to associates  47  38  Interest Income on others  1,021  1,862  Net gain on mutual funds  13,753  3,703  Net fair value gain on ﬁnancial instruments  - Fair value hedges  -    3,275  Net gain on derivative ﬁnancial instruments *  8,813  -    T otal 24,788  10,408 Finance costs Interest on borrowings and deferred payment liability  36,992  36,382  Unwinding of discount on provisions  416  548  Net exchange loss  22,718  10,596  Net fair value loss on ﬁnancial instruments - Fair value hedges  7,454  -    Net loss on derivative ﬁnancial instruments *  -    5,088  Other ﬁnance charges  5,672  6,174  T otal 73,252  58,788    * Refer Note 18 for details of interest rate swaps designated as hedging instruments and Note 33 for details of ﬁnancial asse ts and liabilities categorised within  level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 221Consolidated Financial Statements “Dividend from mutual funds” includes ` 14 Mn and ` 210  Mn and “Net gain on mutual funds” includes net gain of  ` 8 Mn and ` 96 Mn relating to investments in mutual funds  designated at fair value through proﬁt or loss for the years  ended March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively.
“Interest income on others” includes ` 365 Mn and ` 329  Mn towards unwinding of discount on other ﬁnancial assets  for the years ended March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014,  respectively.
“Other ﬁnance charges” comprise bank charges, trade  ﬁnance charges, charges relating to derivative instruments  and interest charges towards sub judice matters and also  includes ` 63 Mn and ` 894 Mn towards unwinding of discount  on other ﬁnancial liabilities for the years ended March 31,  2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively.
12.
Exceptional Items   Exceptional items comprises of the following: (i)  For the year ended March 31, 2015 :- a)  Charge of ` 2,082 Mn on account of one time translation  impact of certain foreign currency liabilities in Nigeria  from the Central bank administered rates to the open  market exchange rates, consequent to a notiﬁcation  dated November 6, 2014. b)  Charge of ` 2,598 Mn on account of settlement of  various disputes.
c)  Charge of ` 4,397 Mn related to restructuring activities  in a few countries.
d)  Gain of ` 403 Mn on account of premature termination  of an agreement by a telecom operator.
e)  Gain of ` 142 Mn on account of gain recognised on  divestment of telecom towers in one of the countries in  Africa.
(ii)  For the year ended March 31, 2014 :- a)  Gain of ` 8,950 Mn on account of demerger of Bharti  Infratel Ventures Limited, a subsidiary of the Group  (refer Note 7(g)).
b)   Charge of ` 6,469 Mn resulting from reassessment of  the residual useful lives of certain categories of network  assets of the Group due to technological developments.
c)   Charge of ` 374 Mn arising from a new regulatory levy  in one of the Group’s international operations.
d)  Charge of ` 1,569 Mn arising primarily from integration  cost due to business combination.
Tax expense includes: i)  Tax beneﬁt of ` 97 Mn and expense of ` 1,055 Mn during  the year ended March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014,  respectively, on above, and  ii)   Tax expense of ` 1,218 Mn and ` 2,915 Mn during the year  ended March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively,  on account of settlement of various disputes /uncertain  tax position.
Proﬁt/(loss) attributable to non-controlling interests  includes beneﬁt of ` 658 Mn and expense of ` 1,558 Mn  during the year ended March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014,  respectively, relating to the above exceptional items.
13.
Income T axes The major components of the income tax expense are: (` Millions) Particulars Y ear ended  March 31, 2015 Y ear ended  March 31, 2014 Current income tax - India  45,533  24,667  - Overseas  11,903  17,402   57,436  42,069  Deferred tax* - Relating to origination & reversal of temporary diﬀerences  (7,447)  6,227  - Relating to change in tax rate  537  -    T ax expense attributable to current year’s proﬁt  50,526  48,296  Adjustments in respect of income tax of previous year - Current income tax India  (217)  (1,003) Overseas  658  204   441  (799) - Deferred tax*  3,080  952   3,521  153  Income tax expense recorded in the consolidated income statement  54,047  48,449  * Includes tax credit recoverable on account of minimum alternate tax (MAT) of ` 8,012 Mn and tax credit utilisation of ` 2,999 Mn during years ended  March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively.
During the year ended March 31, 2015, the group had recognised additional tax charge of ` 537 Mn on account of changes  in tax rates (including ` 336 Mn relating to India on account of change in tax rate from 33.99% to 34.61% as proposed in  Finance Bill, 2015).
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15222 The reconciliation between tax expense and product of net income before tax multiplied by enacted tax rates in India is  summarised below: (` Millions) Particulars Y ear ended  March 31, 2015 Y ear ended  March 31, 2014 Net income before taxes  107,130  78,643  Enacted tax rates in India 33.99% 33.99% Computed tax expense  36,414  26,731  Increase/(reduction) in taxes on account of: Share of (proﬁts)/losses in associates and joint ventures  (2,455)  (1,771) Net deduction claimed under tax holiday provisions of income tax act  (14,711)  (11,318) Losses and deductible temporary diﬀerences reversed during the tax  holiday period  1,532  1,791  Eﬀect of changes in tax rate  537  -    Tax on undistributed retained earnings  1,712  3,984  Adjustment in respect to current income tax of previous years  441  (799) Adjustment in respect to MAT credit of previous years  (364)  191  Adjustment in respect to deferred tax of previous years  3,444  761  Additional Tax/Tax for which no credit is allowed  4,219  4,121  Eﬀect of diﬀerent tax rate  770  803  Losses and deductible temporary diﬀerence against which no deferred tax  asset recognised  17,231  15,385  (Income)/expenses (net) not taxable/deductible  2,657  3,577  (Beneﬁt)/expense (net) on account of settlement of various disputes/ uncertain tax position*  2,100  4,756  Others  520  237  Income tax expense recorded in the consolidated income statement  54,047  48,449   * includes exceptional charge of ` 1,218 Mn and ` 2,915 Mn during the year ended March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively (refer note 12) The components that gave rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:  (` Millions) Particulars As of   March 31, 2015 As of   March 31, 2014 Deferred tax asset/(liabilities) Provision for impairment of debtors/advances and other provisions  11,510  9,402  Losses available for oﬀset against future taxable income  3,733  5,582  Employee share options  281  846  Post employment beneﬁts  787  676  Minimum tax credit  38,668  30,656  Lease rent equalisation - expense  6,944  6,024  Fair valuation of ﬁnancial assets/derivative instruments/other investments  and unrealised exchange ﬂuctuation  (1,547)  1,295  Accelerated depreciation/amortisation for tax purposes  (11,021)  (675) Fair valuation of intangibles/property plant & equipments on business  combination  855  1,176  Lease rent equalisation - income  (5,032)  (4,518) Unearned Income  628  956  Deferred tax liability on undistributed retained earnings  (1,237)  (5,478) Others  (177)  (165) Net deferred tax asset/(liabilities)  44,392  45,777  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 223Consolidated Financial Statements (` Millions) Particulars Y ear ended  March 31, 2015 Y ear ended  March 31, 2014 Deferred tax (expense)/income Provision for impairment of debtors/advances and other provisions  2,639  1,988  Losses available for oﬀset against future taxable income  (1,867)  (1,341) Employee share options  (565)  (338) Post employment beneﬁts  131  19  Minimum tax credit  8,012  (2,999) Lease rent equalisation - expense  929  946  Fair valuation of ﬁnancial assets/derivative instruments/other investments  and unrealised exchange ﬂuctuation  (2,354)  (38) Accelerated depreciation/amortisation for tax purposes  (5,157)  15  Fair valuation of intangibles/property plant & equipments on business  combination  (376)  (1,667) Lease rent equalisation - income  (514)  (657) Unearned income  (231)  (20) Deferred tax liability on undistributed retained earnings  3,594  (2,793) Others  (411)  (294) Net deferred tax (expense)/income  3,830  (7,179) Reﬂected in the statement of ﬁnancial position as follows: (` Millions) Particulars As of  March 31, 2015 As of  March 31, 2014 Deferred tax assets 59,502  62,627  Deferred tax liabilities (15,110)  (16,850) Deferred tax assets (net) 44,392  45,777  The reconciliation of deferred tax assets (net) is as follows:  (` Millions) Particulars Y ear ended  March 31, 2015 Y ear ended  March 31, 2014 Opening balance  45,777  45,935  Tax Income / (expense) during the year recognised in proﬁt or loss  3,830  (7,179) Deferred tax liabilities of subsidiary (BIVL) transferred upon demerger**  -    1,511  Deferred tax on undistributed retained earnings of joint venture  -    374  T ranslation adjustment and others  (5,215)  5,136  Closing balance  44,392  45,777  **Refer Note 7 (g) Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15224  Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it  is probable that taxable proﬁt will be available against  which the deductible temporary diﬀerences, carry  forward of unabsorbed depreciation and unused tax  losses can be utilised.
Accordingly, the Group has not  recognised deferred tax assets in respect of deductible  temporary diﬀerences, carry forward of unabsorbed  depreciation and unused tax losses of ` 229,893 Mn and  ` 176,035 Mn as of March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014,  respectively as it is not probable that taxable proﬁts will  be available in future.
The tax rates applicable to these unused tax losses,  unabsorbed depreciation and deductible temporary  diﬀerences vary from 3% to 45% depending on the  jurisdiction in which the respective Group entity  operates.
Of the above balance as of March 31, 2015 and  March 31, 2014, tax losses, unabsorbed depreciation  and deductible temporary diﬀerences to the extent of  ` 143,308 Mn and ` 66,692 Mn, respectively have an  indeﬁnite carry forward period and the balance amount  expires unutilised as follows:  (` Millions)  March 31, As of   March 31, 2015 2016  5,955  2017  5,597  2018  8,672  2019  8,924  2020  3,944  Thereafter  53,493   86,585   (` Millions)  March 31, As of   March 31, 2014 2015  8,244  2016  6,188  2017  7,770  2018  10,045  2019  6,879  Thereafter  70,217   109,343   The Group has not recognised deferred tax liability  with respect to unremitted retained earnings and  associated foreign currency translation reserve with  respect to certain of its subsidiaries and joint ventures  where the Group is in a position to control the timing  of the distribution of proﬁts and it is probable that the  subsidiaries and joint ventures will not distribute the  proﬁts in the foreseeable future.
Also, the Group does  not recognises deferred tax liability on the unremitted  retained earnings of its subsidiaries wherever it believes  that it would avail the tax credit for the dividend  distribution tax payable by the subsidiaries on its  dividend distribution.
The taxable temporary diﬀerence  associated with respect to unremitted retained earnings  and associated foreign currency translation reserve is  ` 96,364 Mn and ` 73,054 Mn as of March 31, 2015 and  March 31, 2014, respectively.
The distribution of the  same is expected to attract tax in the range of NIL to  20% depending on the tax rates applicable as of March  31, 2015 in the jurisdiction in which the respective Group  entity operates.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 225Consolidated Financial Statements 14.
Property, Plant and Equipment  (` Millions)  Particulars Land and  buildings T echnical  equipment  and  machinery Other  equipment,  operating  and oﬃce  equipment Advance  payments and  construction  in progress T otal Cost As of April 1, 2013  20,589  992,407  71,245  28,361  1,112,602  Additions  2,699  -    9,884  92,550  105,133  Acquisition through Business Combinations^  542  3,233  345  843  4,963  Disposals / adjustment  (644)  (13,029)  (1,321)  -    (14,994) Eﬀect of Demerger of BIVL^  -    (63,660)  -    -    (63,660) Currency translation  930  24,943  3,547  1,534  30,954  Reclassiﬁcation *  (115)  100,406  578  (99,890)  979  As of March 31, 2014  24,001  1,044,300  84,278  23,398  1,175,977  Additions  1,774  -    8,651  184,227  194,652  Disposals / adjustment  (702)  (11,556)  (2,590)  -    (14,848) T ransferred to assets held for sale @  (231)  (77,723)  -    (2,065)  (80,019) Currency translation  (1,957)  (62,950)  (10,546)  (9,813)  (85,266) Reclassiﬁcation*  (12)  143,172  1,404  (145,920)  (1,356) As of March 31, 2015  22,873  1,035,243  81,197  49,827  1,189,140  Accumulated Depreciation   As of April 1, 2013  4,785  416,229  53,311  -    474,325  Charge #  1,518  124,506  12,563 -  138,587  Disposals / adjustment  (238)  (9,016)  (1,191) -  (10,445) Eﬀect of Demerger of BIVL ^  -    (32,024)  -   -  (32,024) Currency translation  111  6,516  2,104 -  8,731  Reclassiﬁcation *  (84)  37  421 -  374  As of March 31, 2014  6,092  506,248 67,208  -    579,548  Charge  1,000  115,362  12,570  -    128,932  Disposals / adjustment  (85)  (10,431)  (2,427) -  (12,943) T ransferred to assets held for sale @  -    (37,380)  -   -  (37,380) Currency translation  (899)  (37,629)  (9,363) -  (47,891) Reclassiﬁcation*  (36)  (1,106)  859 -  (283) As of March 31, 2015  6,072  535,064  68,847  -    609,983  Net Carrying Amount As of April 1, 2013  15,804  576,178  17,934  28,361  638,277  As of March 31, 2014  17,909  538,052  17,070  23,398  596,429  As of March 31, 2015  16,801  500,179  12,350  49,827  579,157   *  ` 1,356 Mn and ` 283 Mn gross block and accumulated depreciation respectively, has been reclassiﬁed mainly from technical equipment and machinery to  bandwidth during the year ended March 31, 2015 and ` 979 Mn and ` 374 Mn gross block and accumulated depreciation respectively, has been reclassiﬁed  mainly from licenses to technical equipment and machinery during the year ended March 31, 2014.
^ Refer Note 7  # Includes exceptional items of ` 6,469 Mn w.r.t technical equipment and machinery (Refer Note 12 (ii) (b))  @ Refer Note 42   “T echnical equipment and machinery” includes gross block of assets capitalised under ﬁnance lease ` 435 Mn and ` Nil as  of March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014 respectively and the corresponding accumulated depreciation for the respective years  ` 7 Mn and ` Nil.
“Other equipment, operating and oﬃce equipment” includes gross block of assets capitalised under ﬁnance lease ` 831 Mn  and ` 1,301 Mn as of March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014 respectively and the corresponding accumulated depreciation for  the respective years ` 431 Mn and ` 340 Mn.
“Land and Building” includes gross block of assets capitalised under ﬁnance lease ` Nil and ` 287 Mn as of March 31, 2015  and March 31, 2014 respectively and the corresponding accumulated depreciation for the respective years ` Nil and ` 17 Mn.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15226 The “Advance payments and construction in progress” includes ` 48,777 Mn and ` 22,541 Mn towards technical equipment and  machinery and ` 1,050 Mn and ` 857 Mn towards other assets as of March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014 respectively.
The Group has taken borrowings from banks and ﬁnancial institutions which carry charge over certain of the above assets (refer  Note 26 for details towards security and pledge).
15.
Intangible Assets  (` Millions)  Particulars Goodwill Software Bandwidth Licenses  (including  spectrum) Other  acquired  intangibles Advance  Payment and  assets under  development T otal Cost As of April 1, 2013  415,060  12,371  10,064  278,751  18,822  1,558  736,626  Additions  -   3,336  1,181  8,745  29  58,563 #  71,854  Acquisition through  Business Combinations^  12,014  -   -   234  868  49,155  62,271  Adjustments relating to Fair  value remeasurement ^  (926)  -   -   -   -   -   (926) Disposals / adjustment  -   (7)  (43)  -   -   -   (50) Currency translation  45,625  201  481  9,614  1,261  -   57,182  Reclassiﬁcation *  -   382  276  488  (567)  (1,558)  (979) As of March 31, 2014  471,773  16,283  11,959  297,832  20,413  107,718  925,978 Additions  -   1,579  3,236  7,895  3,284  187,327#  203,321  Disposals / adjustment **  -   -   -   (4,278)  (18,688)  -   (22,966) T ransferred to assets held  for sale @  -   -   -   (15)  -   -   (15) Currency translation  (54,313)  (116)  17  (22,339)  (712)  -   (77,463) Reclassiﬁcation*  -   (33)  1,361  129,303  28  (129,303)  1,356  As of March 31, 2015  417,460  17,713  16,573  408,398  4,325  165,742 1,030,211 Accumulated amortisation As of April 1, 2013  -   7,864  2,009  57,305  18,425  -   85,603 Charge  -   2,923  744  20,189  522  -   24,378  Disposals / adjustment  -   (7)  (8)  -   -   -   (15) Currency translation  -   103  80  2,696  1,154  -   4,033  Reclassiﬁcation *  -   637  20  (633)  (398)  -   (374) As of March 31, 2014  -   11,520  2,845  79,557  19,703 -  113,625 Charge  -   2,680  908  21,961  830  -   26,379  Disposals / adjustment **  -   -   -   (4,274)  (18,688)  -   (22,962) T ransferred to assets held  for sale @  -   -   -   (3)  -   -   (3) Currency translation  -   (134)  85  (11,355)  (627)  -   (12,031) Reclassiﬁcation*  -   50  123  (5)  115  -   283  As of March 31, 2015  -   14,116  3,961  85,881  1,333  -   105,291 Accumulated impairment As of April 1, 2013  2,637  -   -   -   -   -   2,637 As of March 31, 2014  2,637 - - - - -  2,637  As of March 31, 2015  2,637 - - - - -  2,637  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 227Consolidated Financial Statements  (` Millions)  Particulars Goodwill Software Bandwidth Licenses  (including  spectrum) Other  acquired  intangibles Advance  Payment and  assets under  development T otal Net Carrying Amount As of April 1, 2013  412,423  4,507  8,055  221,446  397  1,558  648,386  As of March 31, 2014  469,136  4,763  9,114  218,275  710  107,718  809,716  As of March 31, 2015  414,823  3,597  12,612  322,517  2,992  165,742  922,283    * ` 1,356 Mn and ` 283 Mn gross block and accumulated depreciation respectively, has been reclassiﬁed mainly from technical equipment and machinery to  bandwidth during the year ended March 31, 2015 and ` 979 Mn and ` 374 Mn gross block and accumulated depreciation respectively, has been reclassiﬁed  mainly from licenses to technical equipment and machinery during the year ended March 31, 2014.
** Gross block and accumulated amortisation of licences and other acquired intangibles have been oﬀ set upon being fully amort ised.
# Includes advance payments of ` 47,251 Mn and ` 55,257 Mn towards spectrum as at March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively (Refer Note 39 (a)).
^ Refer Note 7.
@ Refer Note 42   During the years ended March 31, 2015 and March  31, 2014, the Group has capitalised borrowing cost of  ` 2,808 Mn and ` 2,266 Mn, respectively.
The Group has taken borrowings from banks and  ﬁnancial institutions which carry charge over certain  of the above assets (refer Note 26 for details towards  security and pledge).
Weighted average remaining amortisation period of  license as of March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014 is 15.69  years and 13.65 years, respectively.
16.
Impairment Reviews  The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually  on December 31 and whenever there are indicators of  impairment (refer Note 4).
Impairment test is performed  at the level of each Cash Generating Unit (‘CGU’) or  groups of CGUs expected to beneﬁt from acquisition- related synergies and represent the lowest level within  the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal  management purposes, within an operating segment.
The impairment assessment is based on value in use  calculations.
During the year, the testing did not result in any  impairment in the carrying amount of goodwill.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated to  the following CGU/ Group of CGUs: (` Millions) Particulars As of  March 31,  2015 As of  March 31,  2014 Mobile Services - India  39,524  39,524  Mobile Services -  Bangladesh  8,479  8,211  Airtel business  5,597  5,382  Mobile Services - Africa  360,879  415,675  T elemedia Services  344  344  T otal  414,823  469,136  The measurement of the cash generating units’ value  in use is determined based on ten year ﬁnancial  plans (planning period) that have been approved by  management and are also used for internal purposes.
The planning horizon reﬂects the assumptions for short- to-mid term market developments.
Cash ﬂows beyond  the planning period are extrapolated using appropriate  terminal growth rates.
The terminal growth rates used  do not exceed the long term average growth rates of  the respective industry and country in which the entity  operates and are consistent with forecasts included in  industry reports.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15228 Key assumptions used in value-in-use calculations:   Operating margins (Earnings before interest and  taxes)  Discount rate  Growth rates  Capital expenditures Operating margins:  Operating margins have been  estimated based on past experience after considering  incremental revenue arising out of adoption of valued  added and data services from the existing and new  customers, though these beneﬁts are partially oﬀset  by decline in tariﬀs in a hyper competitive scenario.
Margins will be positively impacted from the eﬃciencies  and initiatives driven by the Company; at the same time,  factors like higher churn, increased cost of operations  may impact the margins negatively.
Discount rate: Discount rate reﬂects the current market  assessment of the risks speciﬁc to a CGU or group of  CGUs.
The discount rate is estimated based on the  weighted average cost of capital for respective CGU or  group of CGUs.
Pre-tax discount rate used ranged from  14.3% to 21.3% (higher rate used for CGU group ‘Mobile  Services – Africa’) for the year ended March 31, 2015  and ranged from 13.5% to 20.2% (higher rate used for  CGU group ‘Mobile Services – Africa’) for the year ended  March 31, 2014.
Growth rates: The growth rates used are in line with  the long term average growth rates of the respective  industry and country in which the entity operates and  are consistent with the forecasts included in the industry  reports.
The average growth rates used in extrapolating  cash ﬂows beyond the planning period ranged from  3.5% to 5.6% (higher rate used for CGU group ‘Mobile  Services – Bangladesh’ CGU) for the year ended March  31, 2015 and ranged from 3.5% to 5.5% (higher rate used  for CGU group ‘Mobile Services – Bangladesh’ CGU) for  the year ended March 31, 2014.
Capital expenditures: The cash ﬂow forecasts of capital  expenditure are based on past experience coupled with  additional capital expenditure required for roll out  of incremental coverage requirements and to provide  enhanced voice and data services adjusted where  applicable for the impact of proposed divestment of  towers in Africa.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions With regard to the assessment of value-in-use for  Mobile Services – India, Mobile Services – Bangladesh,  T elemedia Services and Airtel Business, no reasonably  possible change in any of the above key assumptions  would cause the carrying amount of these units to  exceed their recoverable amount.
For Mobile Services -  Africa CGU group, the recoverable amount exceeds the  carrying amount by approximately 8.7% as of December  31, 2014 and approximately 10.0% as of December 31,  2013.
An increase of 1.3% (December 31, 2013: 1.2%) in  discount rate shall equate the recoverable amount with  the carrying amount of the Mobile Services – Africa  CGU group as of December 31, 2014.
Further, for Mobile  Services – Africa CGU group, no reasonably possible  change in the terminal growth rate beyond the planning  horizon would cause the carrying amount to exceed the  recoverable amount.
17.
Investment in Associates, Joint Ventures and  Subsidiaries 17.1 Investments accounted for using the equity method  The Group’s interests in joint ventures and associates are  accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
The details (Principal place of operation/ country of  incorporation, principal activities and percentage of  ownership interest and voting power (direct/ indirect)  held by the Group) of joint ventures and associates are  set out in Note 40.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated statement  of ﬁnancial position are as follows:- (` Millions) Particulars As of   March 31,  2015 As of   March 31,  2014 Joint Ventures  46,257  56,615  Associates  -   87  T otal 46,257  56,702  The amounts recognised in the consolidated income  statement are as follows:-   (` Millions) Particulars Y ear ended  March 31,  2015 Y ear ended  March 31,  2014 Joint Ventures  7,276  5,369  Associates  (53)  (158) T otal 7,223  5,211  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 229Consolidated Financial Statements 17.1.1 Investments in Joint Ventures 17.1.1 (a) Investments in Indus T owers Limited Summarised ﬁnancial information of Indus T owers Limited based on its IFRS ﬁnancial statements and reconciliation with the  carrying amount of the investment in consolidated ﬁnancial statements is as follows:- Summarised information on statement of ﬁnancial position (` Millions) Particulars As of   March 31, 2015 As of   March 31, 2014 Assets Non Current Assets  243,926  265,003  Current Assets Cash and Cash Equivalents  533  2,775  Other Current Assets (Excluding cash and cash equivalents)  18,868  29,716  T otal Current Assets  19,401  32,491  Liabilities Non Current Liabilities Non Current Financial Liabilities (Other than trade and other payables and  provisions) - Loans and borrowings  37,206  61,378  Other Non Current Liabilities  26,052  18,694  T otal Non Current Liabilities  63,258  80,072  Current Liabilities Current Financial Liabilities (Other than trade and other payables and  provisions) - Loans and borrowings  24,186  18,047  Other Current Liabilities  29,467  26,099  T otal Current Liabilities  53,653  44,146  Equity  146,416  173,276  Percentage of Group's ownership interest 42% 42% Interest in Joint Venture  61,495  72,776  Fair valuation adjustment with regard to property, plant and equipment on  consolidation (refer note 7 (g)) (net of depreciation impact thereon ` 1,804 Mn  (March 31, 2014: ` 804 Mn))  (7,985)  (8,973) Other fair value adjustments on consolidation  (7,376)  (7,376) Carrying amount of investment  46,134  56,427  Summarised information on income statement (` Millions) Particulars Y ear ended  March 31, 2015 Y ear ended   March 31, 2014 Revenue  153,522  142,264  Depreciation and amortisation  32,459  29,690  Finance income (including Interest income of ` 394 Mn   (March 31, 2014 - ` 1,806 Mn))  802  2,055  Finance cost (including Interest expense of ` 7,861 Mn  (March 31, 2014 - ` 9,842 Mn))  7,872  9,864  Income tax expense  13,280  6,363  Proﬁt for the year  14,927  13,228  Percentage of Group’s ownership interest 42% 42% Group’s share in Joint Venture’s proﬁt for the year  6,269  5,556  Consolidation adjustments  1,000  (522) Group’s share in Joint ventures’ proﬁt recognised  7,269  5,034  Dividend received from Joint venture  16,407  2,200  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15230 17.1.1 (b) Information of other joint ventures Aggregate information of joint ventures that are not individually material is as follows:-   (` Millions) Particulars As of  March 31, 2015 As of  March 31, 2014 Carrying amount of investment  123  188  Cumulative unrecognised losses  2  -    (` Millions) Group’s share in Joint ventures’ Y ear ended  March 31, 2015 Y ear ended  March 31, 2014 Net proﬁt / (loss)  5  335  Other comprehensive income  4  10  T otal comprehensive income  9  345  Unrecognised losses  2 - Refer note 36 for Group’s share of joint ventures commitments and contingencies.
17.1.2 Investments in Associates   The Group does not have any individually material associate.
Aggregate information of associates that are not individually  material is as follows:- (` Millions) Particulars As of  March 31, 2015 As of  March 31, 2014 Carrying amount of investment  -   87 Cumulative unrecognised losses  1,559  1,328  (` Millions) Group’s share in Associates’ Y ear ended  March 31, 2015 Y ear ended  March 31, 2014 Net proﬁt / (loss)  (284)  (412) Other comprehensive income / (loss)  (34)  3  T otal comprehensive income / (loss)  (318)  (409) Unrecognised losses  231  254  Refer note 36 for Group’s share of associates commitments.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 231Consolidated Financial Statements 17.2   Investments in subsidiaries   The details (Principal place of operation/country of incorporation, principal activities and percentage of ownership interest   and voting power (direct / indirect) held by the Group) of subsidiaries are set out in Note 40.
Summarised ﬁnancial information of subsidiaries (including fair valuation adjustments made at the time of acquisition, if  any) having material non-controlling interests is as follows:- (` Millions) Bharti Infratel Limited* Bharti Hexacom Limited Airtel Networks Limited Particulars As of   March 31,  2015 As of   March 31,  2014 As of   March 31,  2015 As of   March 31,  2014 As of   March 31,  2015 As of   March 31,  2014 Assets Non Current Assets  157,508  172,424  77,311  28,319  97,130  142,720  Current Assets  51,706  41,392  4,973  25,659  19,610  6,400  Liabilities Non Current Liabilities  16,974  22,101  16,636  1,903  37,249  63,755  Current Liabilities  13,797  14,457  12,385  8,613  85,573  76,397  Equity  178,443  177,258  53,263  43,462  (6,082)  8,968  Percentage of ownership interest  held by non-controlling interests 28.12% 20.61% 30% 30% 20.94% 20.94% Accumulated non-controlling  interests   50,183  36,525  15,977  13,034  (1,274)  1,878  (` Millions) Bharti Infratel Limited* Bharti Hexacom Limited Airtel Networks Limited Particulars Y ear Ended   March 31,  2015 Y ear Ended   March 31,  2014 Y ear Ended   March 31,  2015 Y ear Ended   March 31,  2014 Y ear Ended   March 31,  2015 Y ear Ended   March 31,  2014 Revenue  54,081  50,987  47,105  40,763  87,751  86,677  Net Proﬁt/(loss)  20,995  18,638  10,382  6,368  (7,289)  (5,045) Other Comprehensive Income  (2)  (7)  (1)  -    (7,761)  1,369  T otal Comprehensive Income  20,993  18,631  10,381  6,368  (15,050)  (3,676) Proﬁt / (loss) allocated to Non- controlling interests  5,012  3,835  3,118  1,867  (3,153)  (1,056) (` Millions) Bharti Infratel Limited* Bharti Hexacom Limited Airtel Networks Limited Particulars Y ear Ended   March 31,  2015 Y ear Ended   March 31,  2014 Y ear Ended   March 31,  2015 Y ear Ended   March 31,  2014 Y ear Ended   March 31,  2015 Y ear Ended   March 31,  2014 Net cash inﬂow/(outﬂow) from  operating activities  34,266  27,715  10,859  9,810  20,411  26,212  Net cash inﬂow/(outﬂow) from  investing activities  (5,695)  (20,714)  (25,429)  (9,354)  (11,214)  (8,525) Net cash inﬂow/(outﬂow) from  ﬁnancing activities  (28,981)  (6,580)  14,324  (330)  (9,929)  (14,230) Net cash inﬂow/(outﬂow)  (410)  421  (246)  126  (731)  3,457  Dividend paid to Non-controlling  interests (including tax)  4,062  1,364  175  175  -    -     * Based on consolidated ﬁnancial statements, also refer Note 7(a).
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15232 18.
Derivative Financial Instruments  The Group uses foreign exchange option contracts, swap contracts, forward contracts and interest rate swaps to manage  some of its transaction exposures.
These derivative instruments (except for certain interest rate swaps, refer below,  ‘Hedging instruments’) are not designated as cash ﬂow, fair value or net investment hedges and are entered into for periods  consistent with currency and interest exposures.
The details of derivative ﬁnancial instruments are as follows:-  (` Millions)  Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015  As of    March 31, 2014 Assets Currency swaps, forward and option contracts  280  100  Interest rate swaps  5,598  277  Embedded derivatives  2,632  3,203   8,510  3,580  Liabilities Currency swaps, forward and option contracts  381  861  Interest rate swaps  73  3,822  Embedded derivatives  338  727   792  5,410  Bifurcation of above derivative instruments into current and non current Non-current derivative ﬁnancial assets  7,303  2,761  Current derivative ﬁnancial assets  1,207  819  Non-current derivative ﬁnancial liabilities  (164)  (4,313) Current derivative ﬁnancial liabilities  (628)  (1,097)  7,718  (1,830) Embedded derivative The Group entered into agreements denominated/ determined  in foreign currencies.
The value of these contracts changes  in response to the changes in speciﬁed foreign currencies.
Some of these contracts have embedded foreign currency  derivatives having economic characteristics and risks that  are not closely related to those of the host contracts.
These  embedded foreign currency derivatives have been separated  and carried at fair value through proﬁt or loss.
Hedging instruments Beginning April 1, 2013, the Group has applied fair value  hedge accounting, and started designating certain interest  rate swaps (exchanging ﬁxed rate of interest for ﬂoating rate  of interest) as a hedging instrument for hedging the risk of  change in fair value of the non-convertible bonds with respect  to changes in the USD LIBOR/ EURIBOR zero coupon curve.
The fair value of such interest rate swaps is net asset of  ` 4,955 Mn and net liability of ` 3,592 Mn as of March 31,  2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively.
The gain of ` 8,528 Mn  and loss of ` 3,041 Mn has been recognised on the interest  rate swaps and loss of ` 7,454 Mn and gain of ` 3,275 Mn has  been recognised on the non-convertible bonds on account  of changes in fair value with respect to the hedged risk  during the year ended March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014,  respectively.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 233Consolidated Financial Statements 19.
Other Financial Assets  (a) Non-current  (` Millions)  Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015  As of    March 31, 2014 Security deposits  7,937  7,232  Restricted cash  1,296  68  Rent equalisation  3,517  2,919  Claims recoverable  1,227  5,656  Others  2,041  1,455  T otal  16,018  17,330   Security deposits primarily include security deposits given towards rented premises, cell sites, interconnect ports and  other miscellaneous deposits.
The Group has taken borrowings from banks and ﬁnancial institutions.
Details towards security and pledge of the above  assets are given under Note 26.
Restricted cash represents amount given as collateral for legal cases or/and bank guarantees for disputed matters issued  in usual course of business.
(b) Current  (` Millions)  Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015  As of    March 31, 2014 Restricted Cash  10,075  8,127  T otal  10,075  8,127  Restricted cash represents amount given as collateral for legal cases or/and bank guarantees for disputed matters issued  in usual course of business and cash received from subscribers of Mobile Commerce Services.
20.
Other Non-ﬁnancial Assets, Non-current  (` Millions)  Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015  As of    March 31, 2014 Fair valuation adjustments - ﬁnancial assets  2,131  2,287  Advances  25,449  22,417  Others  803  1,305  T otal  28,383  26,009  Fair valuation of ﬁnancial assets represents unamortised portion of the diﬀerence between the fair value of the ﬁnancial  assets (security deposits) on initial recognition and the amount paid.
Advances represent payments made to various Government authorities under protest and are disclosed net of provision of  ` 34,424 Mn and ` 25,992 Mn as of March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15234 21.
Inventories  (` Millions)  Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015  As of    March 31, 2014 T ransmission equipment  160  421  Handsets  949  965  Others  230  36  T otal  1,339  1,422  The Group has taken borrowings from banks and ﬁnancial institutions.
Details towards security and pledge of the above  assets are given under Note 26.
22.
T rade and Other Receivables  (` Millions)  Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015  As of    March 31, 2014 T rade receivable*  89,999  83,640  Less: Allowance for doubtful debts  (27,795)  (25,868) T otal T rade receivables  62,204  57,772  Other receivables Due from related party  224  245  Receivables from joint ventures  236  266  Interest accrued on investments  68  61  Claim receivables 4,481  4,097  Others  39  -   T otal  67,252  62,441   Movement in allowances for doubtful debts  (` Millions)  Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2015  For the year ended   March 31, 2014  Balance, beginning of the year  25,868  21,571  Additions - Provision for the year  8,405  5,781  Currency translation adjustment  (2,232)  1,197  Application - Write oﬀ of bad debts (net of recovery)  (4,246)  (2,681) Balance, end of the year  27,795  25,868   *T rade receivables include unbilled receivables.
The Group has taken borrowings from banks and ﬁnancial institutions which carry charge over certain of the above assets.
Details towards security and pledge of the above assets are given under Note 26.
Refer Note 38 on credit risk of trade receivables.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 235Consolidated Financial Statements 23.
Prepayments and Other Assets  (` Millions)  Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015  As of    March 31, 2014 Prepaid expenses  10,212  8,539  Employee receivables  847  562  Advances to suppliers  6,360  10,252  Taxes receivable  12,504  9,991  Others  1,905  312  T otal  31,828  29,656  Employee receivables principally consist of advances given for business purposes.
Advance to Suppliers are disclosed net of provision of ` 3,003 Mn and ` 1,963 Mn as of March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014,  respectively.
Taxes receivables include customs duty, excise duty, service tax, sales tax and other recoverable.
24.
Other Investments (a) Non-current   (` Millions)  Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015  As of    March 31, 2014 Held for trading securities - quoted *  23,970  27,883  Designated at fair value through proﬁt or loss - quoted  7,290  8,458  T otal 31,260  36,341   * Include investments reclassiﬁed from current investments to non-current investments basis the future utilisation plan of fun ds.
(b) Current  (` Millions)  Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015  As of    March 31, 2014 Held for trading securities - quoted  82,918  61,574  Designated at fair value through proﬁt or loss - quoted  1,099  690  Loans and receivables - ﬁxed deposits with banks  8,823  1  T otal 92,840  62,265  The market values of quoted investments were assessed on the basis of the quoted prices as at the date of statement of  ﬁnancial position.
Held for trading investments primarily comprises debt linked mutual funds and quoted liquid debt  instruments in which the Group invests surplus funds to manage liquidity and working capital requirements.
Investments  designated at fair value through proﬁt or loss comprises investments in debt linked mutual funds.
The Group has taken borrowings from banks and ﬁnancial institutions which carry charge over certain of the above assets.
Details towards security and pledge of the above assets are given under Note 26.
25.
Cash and Cash Equivalents  (` Millions)  Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015  As of    March 31, 2014 Cash and bank balances  8,869  44,505  Fixed deposits with banks  2,850  5,303  T otal  11,719  49,808  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15236 For the purpose of the consolidated cash ﬂow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise of following:-  (` Millions)  Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015  As of    March 31, 2014 Cash and bank balances  8,869  44,505  Fixed deposits with banks  2,850  5,303  Add :- Included in the assets of the disposal group  73  -   Less :- Bank overdraft (refer note 26.2)  (13,207)  (10,233) T otal (1,415)  39,575  26.
Borrowings 26.1 Long term debts   (` Millions)  Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015  As of    March 31, 2014 Secured T erm loans *  68,943  106,539  Others  19  13  T otal  68,962  106,552  Less: Current portion **  (37,323)  (21,680) T otal secured loans, net of current portion  31,639  84,872  Unsecured T erm loans  209,366  361,618  Non-convertible bonds # @  298,664  193,321  T otal  508,030  554,939  Less: Current portion **  (87,386)  (89,892) T otal unsecured loans, net of current portion  420,644  465,047  T otal 452,283  549,919   * Includes loan of ` Nil and ` 2,469 Mn for which charge over underlying assets is yet to be created as of March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively.
** Refer Note 26.7   # Refer Note 26.6   @ Increased by ` 3,977 Mn and reduced by ` 3,491 Mn as of March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively, for the impact of change in fair value with respect  to the hedged risk.
26.2 Short term debts and current portion of long term debts  (` Millions)  Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015  As of    March 31, 2014 Secured T erm loans  10,396  8,907  Bank overdraft  987  410  T otal  11,383  9,317  Add: Current portion of long term debts **  37,323  21,680  T otal secured loans, including current portion  48,706  30,997  Unsecured T erm loans  63,077  78,327  Bank overdraft  12,220  9,823  T otal  75,297  88,150  Add: Current portion of long term debts **  87,386  89,892  T otal unsecured loans, including current portion  162,683  178,042  T otal  211,389  209,039   ** Refer Note 26.7 Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 237Consolidated Financial Statements 26.3   The Group borrowed ` 344,586 Mn and ` 361,215 Mn during the year ended March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014,  respectively, (including amount received against senior unsecured guaranteed notes during the year ended March 31,  2015 and March 31, 2014, refer note 26.6 below).
The Group repaid borrowings of ` 420,325 Mn and ` 348,425 Mn during  the year ended March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively.
Other short term borrowings (net proceeds) (maturity  upto three months) amounted to ` 3,288 Mn and ` 1,462 Mn during the year ended March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014,  respectively.
26.4  Analysis of Borrowings   The details given below are gross of debt origination cost and fair valuation adjustments with respect to the hedged risk.
26.4.1 Maturity of Borrowings   The table below summarises the maturity proﬁle of the Group’s borrowings based on contractual undiscounted  payments.
(` Millions)  Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015  As of    March 31, 2014 Within one year  212,184  210,163  Between one and two years  32,108  123,589  Between two and ﬁve years  187,904  301,480  Over ﬁve years  232,435  132,612  T otal 664,631  767,844  26.4.2 Interest rate & currency of borrowings The below details do not necessarily represents foreign currency or interest rate exposure to the income statement, since  the Group has taken derivatives for oﬀsetting the foreign currency & interest rate exposure.
For foreign currency and  interest rate sensitivity refer Note 38.
(` Millions)  Particulars T otal borrowings Floating rate borrowings Fixed rate borrowings INR  35,226  35,207  19  USD  403,878  243,833  160,045  Euro  135,796  18,639  117,157  CHF  22,544  -   22,544  NGN  31,864  31,423  441  XAF  11,077  -   11,077  XOF  7,710  -   7,710  BDT  10,297  242  10,055  Others  6,239  2,981  3,258  March 31, 2015  664,631  332,325  332,306  INR  64,913  64,900  13  USD  460,859  367,518  93,341  Euro  111,917  29,235  82,682  CHF  23,808  -   23,808  NGN  70,460  70,460  -   XAF  12,082  -   12,082  XOF  8,434  -   8,434  BDT  8,311  410  7,901  Others  7,060  5,095  1,965  March 31, 2014  767,844  537,618  230,226  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15238 26.5 Other loans   Others include vehicle loans taken from banks which were secured by hypothecation of the vehicles ` 19 Mn and ` 13 Mn  as of March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively.
The amounts payable for these obligations, excluding interest expense is ` 9 Mn and ` 8 Mn for the years ending on March  31, 2016 and 2017, respectively.
26.6   Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) BV, a subsidiary of the Company, issued following senior unsecured guaranteed  notes (Non-convertible bonds or Notes).
These notes are guaranteed by the Company.
During the year ended March 31, 2015: Particulars Issue price Due in Listed on stock exchange 5.35% USD 1,000 Mn (` 58,746 Mn) 99.916% 2024 Singapore / Frankfurt 3.375% Euro 750 Mn (` 60,395 Mn) 99.248% 2021 Singapore / Frankfurt   During the year ended March 31, 2014: Particulars Issue price Due in Listed on stock exchange 3% CHF 350 Mn (` 23,631 Mn) 100.108% 2020 SWISS (SIX) 4% Euro 750 Mn (` 62,924 Mn) 99.756% 2018 Frankfurt 4% Euro 250 Mn (` 20,933 Mn) 100.374% 2018 Frankfurt    Further, in addition to the above, part of the proceeds of USD Notes due in 2023, USD 500 Mn ( ` 27,200 Mn) issued during  the year ended March 31, 2013, were received during the year ended March 31, 2014.
The Euro Notes due in 2018 and USD Notes due in 2023 which were issued during the year ended March 31, 2014 and March  31, 2013, respectively, contain certain covenants relating to limitation on Indebtedness and all notes carry a restriction on  incurrence of any lien on its assets other than as permitted under the agreement, unless an eﬀective provision is made to  secure the Notes and guarantee equally and ratably with such Indebtedness for so long as such Indebtedness is so secured  by such lien.
The limitation on indebtedness covenant on Euro Notes due 2018 and USD Notes due 2023 gets suspended on  Notes meeting certain agreed criteria.
The debt covenants remained suspended as of the date of the authorisation of the  ﬁnancial statements.
The other notes issued do not carry any restrictions on the limitation on indebtedness.
26.7   Considering the utilisation plan of the expected sale consideration receivable from the highly probable forecasted  transaction relating to the sale of telecom towers (Refer Note 42), the Group has reclassiﬁed ` 80,190 Mn, from “Long term  debts” to “Short term debts and current portion of long term debts” during the year ended March 31, 2015.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 239Consolidated Financial Statements 26.8  Security details    The Group has taken borrowings in various countries towards funding of its acquisition and working capital requirements.
The borrowings comprise of funding arrangements with various banks and ﬁnancial institutions taken by the Parent and  subsidiaries.
The details of security provided by the Group in various countries, to various banks on the assets of Parent  and subsidiaries are as follows:  (` Millions) Entity Relation Outstanding loan amount Security DetailAs of March   31, 2015 As of March  31, 2014 Bharti Airtel Ltd Parent  19  13  Hypothecation of vehicles (i) Deed of Hypothecation by way of ﬁxed charge creating  a ﬁrst-ranking pari passu ﬁxed charge over listed  machinery and equipment of the company, favouring  the Bank / FIIs investors and the Oﬀshore Security Agent  and ﬁled with the Registrar of Joint Stock Companies.
Third Modiﬁcation to Deed of Hypothecation for   EKN-1, EKN-2, SCB Mauritius & HDFC loan facilities.
(ii) Deed of Hypothecation by way of ﬂoating charge  creating a ﬁrst-ranking pari passu ﬂoating charge  over plant, machinery and equipment, both present  and future, excluding machinery and equipment  covered under the foregoing Deed of Hypothecation  by way of ﬁxed charge and a ﬁrst-ranking pari  passu ﬂoating charge over all current assets of the  company, both present and future, including but not  limited to stock, book debts, receivables and accounts  of the company, entered into or to be entered into  by the company, favouring the Bank / FIIs Facility  Investors and Oﬀshore Security Agent and ﬁled  with the Registrar of Joint Stock Companies for  EKN-1, EKN-2, SCB Mauritius & HDFC loan facility.
(iii) Corporate Guarantee by BAHSPL (Bharti Airtel  Holdings Pte.
Ltd.) to Airtel Bangladesh Limited for  EKN-1, EKN-2, HDFC & SCB Mauritius loan facility.
Counter Guarantee to BAHSPL by BAL (Bharti Airtel  Limited) for EKN-1, EKN-2, HDFC loan facility.
(iv) Register Hypothecations of all present and  future book debts, receivables, monies, and movable  property of the Borrower consisting of raw materials,  stocks, inventory work in progress, ﬁnished goods  and insurance proceeds thereof, of Airtel Bangladesh  on Pari Passu basis with other Lenders, under a  Letter of Hypothecation dated February 8, 2012 and  its subsequent modiﬁcations to the hypothecation  executed in favor of the existing lenders and ﬁled with  the Registrar of Joint Stock Companies.
(For Short  T erm Working Capital Lenders (STL & OD) except  Citibank N.A).
Airtel  Bangladesh Ltd Subsidiary  21,731  18,020  Bharti Airtel  Africa BV and its  subsidiaries Subsidiary  59,349  98,126 (i) Pledge of all ﬁxed and ﬂoating assets - Kenya,  Nigeria, Tanzania, Uganda, DRC, Ghana (ii) Pledge on speciﬁc ﬁxed assets - Chad T otal  81,099  116,159  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15240 Africa operations acquisition related borrowing: Loans outstanding as at the balance sheet date includes  certain loans which have been taken to reﬁnance the  Africa operations acquisition related borrowing.
These loan  agreements contain a negative pledge covenant that prevents  the Group (excluding Airtel Bangladesh Limited, Bharti  Airtel Africa B.V, Bharti Infratel Limited, and their respective  subsidiaries) to create or allow to exist any security interest  on any of its assets without prior written consent of the  majority lenders except in certain agreed circumstances.
The Company’s 3G/BWA borrowings:  The INR term loan agreements with respect to 3G/BWA  borrowings contain a negative pledge covenant that prevents  the Company to create or allow to exist any security interest  on any of its assets without prior written consent of the  lenders except in certain agreed circumstances.
26.9 Unused lines of credit *  (` Millions)  Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015  As of    March 31, 2014 Secured  20,253  25,959  Unsecured  160,722  142,321  T otal Unused lines of credit  180,975  168,280    * Excluding non fund based facilities.
27.
Provisions    (` Millions)  Particulars Employee beneﬁts Asset retirement  obligation* T otal As of March 31, 2013  3,098  8,414  11,512  Of which: current  1,768 -  1,768  Provision during the year  848  1,335  2,183  Remeasurement losses accounted for in OCI  197  -   197  Payment during the year  (717)  -   (717) Interest charge  -   548  548  Business combination*  -   27  27  Demerger of BIVL*  -   (1,981)  (1,981) As of March 31, 2014  3,426  8,343  11,769  Of which: current  1,725  1,725  Provision during the year  734  44  778  Remeasurement losses accounted for in OCI  (75)  -   (75) Payment during the year  (498)  -   (498) Interest charge  -   416  416  Derecognised due to sale (refer Note 42)  -   (20)  (20) Classiﬁed as held for sale (refer Note 42)  -   (4,061)  (4,061) As of March 31, 2015  3,587  4,722  8,309  Of which: current  2,061  2,061    *Refer Note 7       “Provision during the year” for asset retirement obligation is after considering the impact of change in discount rate.
Due to large number of lease arrangements of the Group, the range of expected period of outﬂows of provision for asset  retirement obligation is signiﬁcantly wide.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 241Consolidated Financial Statements   The movement of provision towards subjudice matters disclosed under other non-ﬁnancial assets, non-current (refer  Note 20), other non - ﬁnancial liabilities, current (refer Note 29) and trade and other payables (refer Note 30) is as below:  (` Millions)  Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2015  For the year ended   March 31, 2014  Opening Balance  74,674  59,142  Additions (Net)  11,857  15,532  Closing Balance  86,531  74,674  28.
Other Financial Liabilities, Non-current  (` Millions)  Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015  As of    March 31, 2014 Equipment supply payable - non current  939  3,149  Security deposits  5,152  4,924  Lease rent equalisation  11,107  9,349  Deferred payment liability * #  143,167  1,026  Others  1,741  9,016  T otal  162,106  27,464    # including accrued interest    * refer Note 39(a)    “Others” includes ` Nil and ` 7,413 Mn payable to a joint venture as of March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively.
29.
Other Non-ﬁnancial Liabilities  (` Millions)  Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015  As of    March 31, 2014 Non - current Fair valuation adjustments - ﬁnancial liabilities*  630  624  Others  836  836   1,466  1,460  Current Taxes payable  15,897  15,277   15,897  15,277  T otal  17,363  16,737    * represents unamortised portion of the diﬀerence between the fair value of the ﬁnancial liability (security deposit) on init ial recognition and the amount  received.
Taxes payable include service tax, sales tax and other taxes payable and also include provision of ` 3,529 Mn as of  March 31, 2015 and ` 2,334 Mn as of March 31, 2014 towards sub judice matters.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15242 30.
T rade and Other Payables  (` Millions)  Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015  As of    March 31, 2014 T rade creditors  103,291  105,763  Equipment supply payables  102,787  61,584  Dues to employees  4,212  4,521  Accrued expenses  112,719  96,820  Interest accrued but not due  6,802  6,071  Due to related parties  528  797  Others 9,331  8,425  T otal  339,670  283,981  “Others” include non-interest bearing advance received from customers and international operators.
T rade creditors, accrued expenses and equipment supply payable include provision of ` 48,578 Mn as of March 31, 2015 and  ` 46,348 Mn as of March 31, 2014 towards sub judice matters.
31.
Equity (i) Shares  (` Millions)  Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015  As of    March 31, 2014 Authorised shares 5,000,000,000 (March 31, 2014 - 5,000,000,000) equity shares of ` 5 each  25,000  25,000  Issued, Subscribed and fully paid-up shares 3,997,400,102 (March 31, 2014- 3,997,400,102) equity shares of ` 5 each  19,987  19,987  T reasury shares 1,410,642 (March 31, 2014- 2,374,698) equity shares of ` 5 each  (114)  (342) a) Prefer ential Allotment   During the year ended March 31, 2014, the Company has issued 199,870,006 equity shares to M/s.
Three Pillars Pte.
Ltd  (belonging to non-promoter category), an aﬃliate of Qatar Foundation Endowment, constituting 5% of the post issue  share capital of the Company, through preferential allotment at a price of ` 340 per share aggregating to ` 67,956 Mn.
The proceeds of the preferential allotment were utilised towards the repayment of equivalent debt in accordance with the  objective of the preferential allotment.
b) T reasury Shares   (Shares in Thousands)  ( ` Millions) Particulars  As of  March 31, 2015   As of   March 31, 2014  As of   March 31, 2015  As of  March 31, 2014  Opening balance  2,375  3,937  342  674  Purchased during the year  -   -   -   -   Issued during the year  (964)  (1,562)  (228)  (332) Closing balance  1,411  2,375  114  342  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 243Consolidated Financial Statements (ii) Other Reserves  (` Millions)  Particulars Foreign  currency  translation  reserve Hedge of net  investment  in foreign  operation Cash ﬂow  hedge  reserve Reserve arising   on transactions with   non-controlling  interests Share-based  payment  transcations T otal As of April 1, 2013  (32,571)  -   -   41,668  5,280  14,377  Exchange diﬀerences on  translation of foreign operations   15,794  -   -   -   -   15,794  Non-controlling interest arising on  a business combination / liability  for purchase of non-controlling  interests (refer note 7)   -   -   -   (7,534)  -   (7,534) Receipt on exercise of share options  (refer note 8.2)   -   -   -   -   (295)  (295) T ransaction with non-controlling  interests (refer note 7)   -   -   -   (5,050)  -   (5,050) As of March 31, 2014  (16,777)  -   -   29,084  4,985  17,292  Exchange diﬀerences on  translation of foreign operations   (68,165)  -   -   -   -   (68,165) Gain / (loss) on eﬀective portion on  hedge of net investment   -   32,925  -   -   -   32,925  Gain / (loss) on eﬀective portion on  cash ﬂow hedge   -   -   (4,204)  -   -   (4,204) Share based compensation  -   -   -   -   (7)  (7) Receipt on exercise of share options  (refer note 8.2)   -   -   -   -   (173)  (173) T ransaction with non-controlling  interests (refer note 7)   -   -   -   25,542  -   25,542  As of March 31, 2015  (84,942)  32,925  (4,204)  54,626  4,805  3,210  a) Foreign currency translation reserve   Foreign currency translation reserve represents  exchange diﬀerences arising from the translation of the  ﬁnancial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
b) Hedge of net investment in foreign operation   During the year ended March 31, 2015, the Group  formally designated, for accounting purposes, certain  Euro borrowings as a hedge against net investments  in subsidiaries (in 5 Francophone countries where  the local currency is pegged to the Euro).
Any foreign  exchange gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating  to the eﬀective portion of the hedge is recognised  in other comprehensive income, net of income taxes,  to oﬀset the change in the value of the net investment  being hedged.
Foreign exchange gain of ` 32,925 Mn  and ` Nil has been recognised in other comprehensive  income during the year ended March 31, 2015 and March  31, 2014, respectively.
The ineﬀective portion of gain  of ` 162 Mn and ` Nil has been recognised as gain in the  consolidated income statement during the year ended  March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively.
c) Cash ﬂow hedge reserve   During the year ended March 31, 2015, the Group has  designated certain of its foreign currency borrowings as  a cash ﬂow hedge of the foreign currency risk arising  from the expected sale consideration receivable from  the highly probable forecasted transaction relating to  the sale of telecom towers (Refer Note 42).
Any foreign  exchange gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating  to the eﬀective portion of the hedge is recognised in  other comprehensive income, net of income tax.
Foreign  exchange loss of ` 5,350 Mn (` 4,204 Mn, net of tax and  non-controlling interests) and ` Nil has been recognised  in other comprehensive income during the year ended  March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively.
The  forecast transaction is expected to occur in the next  ﬁnancial year and these will aﬀect income statement on  sale of towers / over the lease term, as appropriate.
d) Reserves arising on transactions with non-controlling  interests   The transactions with non-controlling interests are  accounted for as transactions with equity owners of  the Group.
Gains or losses on transactions with holders  of non-controlling interests which does not result in  the change of control are recorded in equity.
Further  liability for purchase of non-controlling interests is  recognised against equity.
Refer Note 7 for details.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15244 e) Share-based payment transactions   The share-based payment transactions reserve comprise the value of equity-settled share-based payment transactions  provided to employees including key management personnel, as part of their remuneration.
(iii) Dividends paid and proposed  (` Millions)  Particulars Y ear ended  March 31, 2015 Y ear ended  March 31, 2014 A Declared and paid during the year:  Interim dividend : ` 1.63 per share of ` 5 each  7,620  -   Dividend on treasury shares  3  -   (including dividend distribution tax of ` 1,107 Mn) Final dividend for 2013-14 : ` 1.80 per share of ` 5 each  8,414  -   Dividend on treasury shares  4  -   (including dividend distribution tax of ` 1,223 Mn) Final dividend for 2012-13 : ` 1 per share of ` 5 each  -   4,439  Dividend on treasury shares  -   4  (including dividend distribution tax of ` 645 Mn)  16,041  4,443  B Proposed for approval at the annual general meeting (not recognised  as a liability): Final dividend for 2014-15 : ` 2.22 per share (2013-14 : ` 1.80 per share)  of ` 5 each   8,874  7,195  Dividend distribution tax  1,807  1,223    10,681  8,418  32.
Employee Beneﬁts The following table sets forth the changes in the projected beneﬁt obligation and plan assets and amounts recognised in  the consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position as of March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, being the respective measurement  dates: Movement in Deﬁned Beneﬁt Obligation   (` Millions)  Particulars Gratuity Compensated  absence Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation - April 1, 2013 1,979  1,128  Current service cost 336  194  Interest cost 172  101  Beneﬁts paid  (345)  (271) Acquisitions / T ransfer in/ T ransfer out 1  -   Remeasurements - actuarial loss/ (gain) 191  (29) Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation - March 31, 2014  2,334  1,123  Projected beneﬁt obligation - April 1, 2014 2,334 1,123 Current service cost354 220 Interest cost 187 90 Beneﬁts paid  (405)  (184) Acquisitions / T ransfer in/ T ransfer out  (44)  (3) Remeasurements - actuarial loss/ (gain)  (0)  (175) Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation - March 31, 2015 2,426  1,071  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 245Consolidated Financial Statements Movement in Plan Assets - Gratuity  (` Millions)  Particulars For the year ended  March 31, 2015 For the year ended  March 31, 2014 Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year  179  183  Interest income  13  15  Employer contributions  -   1  Beneﬁts paid  (2)  (14) Amount received on redemption of plan assets  (161)  -   Acquisitions / T ransfer in/ T ransfer out  -   -   Actuarial gain / (loss)  75  (6) Fair value of plan assets at end of year  104  179  Net funded status of plan  (2,322)  (2,155) Actual return on plan assets  88  9  The components of the gratuity & compensated absence cost were as follows: Recognised in proﬁt or loss   (` Millions)  Particulars Gratuity Compensated  absence Current service cost  354  220  Interest cost / (income) (net)  174  90  Remeasurements - actuarial loss/ (gain)  -   (175) For the year ended March 31, 2015 528  135  Current service cost 336 194 Interest cost / (income) (net) 157 101 Remeasurements - actuarial loss/ (gain)  -   (29) For the year ended March 31, 2014  493  266  Recognised in other comprehensive income   (` Millions)  Particulars Gratuity Compensated  absence Remeasurements - actuarial loss/ (gain)  (75) - For the year ended March 31, 2015  (75) - Remeasurements - actuarial loss/ (gain)  197 - For the year ended March 31, 2014  197 - The principal actuarial assumptions used for estimating the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt obligations are set out below:  Weighted average actuarial assumptions  As of     March 31, 2015   As of    March 31, 2014  Discount Rate 8.50% 8.00% Expected Rate of increase in Compensation levels 10.00% 10.00% Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets 8.00% 8.00% Expected Average remaining working lives of employees (years) 24.95 years 25.47 years Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15246 Sensitivity analysis:  For the year ended March 31, 2015    Particulars Change in   assumption Eﬀect on Gratuity  obligation Eﬀect on Compensated  absence obligation Discount Rate +1% (237) (103) -1% 277 123 Salary Growth Rate +1% 294 131 -1% (253) (114)  For the year ended March 31, 2014    Particulars Change in   assumption Eﬀect on Gratuity  obligation Eﬀect on Compensated  absence obligation Discount Rate +1% (136) (63) -1% 164 102 Salary Growth Rate +1% 161 100 -1% (135) (63) The above sensitivity analysis is based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
When calculating the  sensitivity of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation to signiﬁcant actuarial assumptions the same method (projected unit credit  method) has been applied as when calculating the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation recognised within the statement of ﬁnancial  position.
History of experience adjustments is as follows: (` Millions)  Particulars Gratuity Compensated  absence For the year ended March 31, 2015 Plan Liabilities - (loss)/gain  (139)  110  Plan Assets - (loss)/gain  75  -   For the year ended March 31, 2014 Plan Liabilities - (loss)/gain  (64)  69  Plan Assets - (loss)/gain  (6)  -   Disclosure of other long term employee beneﬁts: Deferred incentive plan  (` Millions)  Particulars For the year ended  March 31, 2015 For the year ended  March 31, 2014 Opening Balance  -   -   Addition  1  1  Utilisation  (1)  (1) Closing Balance  -   -   Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 247Consolidated Financial Statements Long term service award (` Millions) Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015   As of    March 31, 2014  Estimated liability  194  148  Statement of Employee beneﬁt provision  (` Millions)  Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015  As of    March 31, 2014   Gratuity  2,322  2,155   Compensated absences  1,071  1,123   Other employee beneﬁts  194  148   T otal  3,587  3,426  33.
Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities  Set out below is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments that are  recognised in the ﬁnancial statements.
(` Millions) Carrying Amount Fair Value Particulars As of  March 31, 2015 As of  March 31, 2014 As of  March 31, 2015 As of  March 31, 2014 Financial Assets Assets carried at fair value through proﬁt or loss Derivatives - not designated as hedging instruments - Currency swaps, forward and option contracts  280  100  280  100  - Interest rate swaps  619  277  619  277  - Embedded derivatives  2,632  3,203  2,632  3,203  Derivatives - designated as hedging instruments in  Fair value Hedge - Interest rate swaps  4,979  -   4,979  -   Held for trading securities - quoted  106,888  89,457  106,888  89,457  Designated at fair value through proﬁt or loss - quoted  8,389  9,148  8,389  9,148  Assets carried at amortised cost Fixed deposits with banks  11,673  5,304  11,673  5,304  Cash and bank balances  8,869  44,505  8,869  44,505  T rade and other receivables  67,252  62,441  67,252  62,441  Other ﬁnancial assets  26,093  25,457  26,070  25,126   237,674  239,892  237,651  239,561  Financial Liabilities Liabilities carried at fair value through proﬁt or loss Derivatives - not designated as hedging instruments - Currency swaps, forward and option contracts  381  861  381  861  - Interest rate swaps  49  230  49  230  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15248 Fair Values The Group maintains policies and procedures to value  ﬁnancial assets or ﬁnancial liabilities using the best and most  relevant data available.
In addition, the Group internally  reviews valuation, including independent price validation for  certain instruments.
Further, in other instances, the Group  retains independent pricing vendors to assist in corroborating  the valuation of certain instruments.
The fair values of the ﬁnancial assets and liabilities are  included at the amount that would be received to sell an  asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction  between market participants at the measurement date.
The following methods and assumptions were used to  estimate the fair values:  i.
Cash and short-term deposits, trade receivables,  trade payables, and other current ﬁnancial assets and  liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely  due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
ii.
Long-term ﬁxed-rate and variable-rate receivables  / borrowings are evaluated by the Group based on  parameters such as interest rates, speciﬁc country risk  factors, credit risk and other risk characteristics.
Based  on this evaluation, allowances are taken to account for  the expected losses of these receivables.
As of March  31, 2015, the carrying amounts of such receivables, net  of allowances, are not materially diﬀerent from their  calculated fair values.
iii.
Fair value of quoted mutual funds is based on price  quotations at the reporting date.
Fair value of quoted  non – convertible bonds is based on the quoted market  prices.
The fair value of unquoted instruments, loans  from banks and other ﬁnancial liabilities, obligations  under ﬁnance leases as well as other non-current  ﬁnancial liabilities is estimated by discounting future  cash ﬂows using rates currently available for debt on  similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities.
iv.
The fair values of derivatives are estimated by using  pricing models, where the inputs to those models  are based on readily observable market parameters.
The valuation models used by the Group reﬂect the  contractual terms of the derivatives, including the  period to maturity, and market-based parameters such  as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and volatility.
These models do not contain a high level of subjectivity  as the valuation techniques used do not require  signiﬁcant judgement, and inputs thereto are readily  observable from actively quoted market prices.
Market practice in pricing derivatives initially assumes  all counterparties have the same credit quality.
Credit  valuation adjustments are necessary when the market  parameter (for example, a benchmark curve) used to  value derivatives is not indicative of the credit quality  of the Group or its counterparties.
The Group manages  derivative counterparty credit risk by considering  the current exposure, which is the replacement  (` Millions) Carrying Amount Fair Value Particulars As of  March 31, 2015 As of  March 31, 2014 As of  March 31, 2015 As of  March 31, 2014 - Embedded derivatives  338  727  338  727  Derivatives - designated as hedging instruments in  Fair value Hedge - Interest rate swaps  24  3,592  24  3,592  Liabilities carried at amortised cost Borrowings designated as hedging instruments -  Fixed rate - In hedge of net investment  118,364  -   125,682  -   Borrowings designated as hedging instruments -  Floating rate  -   - In cash ﬂow hedge  41,131  -   41,131  -   - In hedge of net investment  5,015  -   5,015  -   Other borrowings- ﬁxed rate  216,311  229,278  229,144  231,797  Other borrowings- ﬂoating rate  282,851  529,680  282,851  529,680  T rade & other payables  339,670  283,981  339,670  283,981  Other ﬁnancial liabilities  162,106  27,464  162,046  27,395   1,166,240  1,075,813  1,186,331  1,078,263  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 249Consolidated Financial Statements cost of contracts on the measurement date, as well  as estimating the maximum potential value of the  contracts over their remaining lives, considering such  factors as maturity date and the volatility of the  underlying or reference index.
The Group mitigates  derivative credit risk by transacting with highly rated  counterparties.
Management has evaluated the credit  and non-performance risks associated with its derivative  counterparties and believe them to be insigniﬁcant and  not warranting a credit adjustment.
Fair value hierarchy The following table provides the fair value measurement  hierarchy of Group’s asset and liabilities, grouped into Level 1  to Level 3 as described below: Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for  identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a  signiﬁcant eﬀect on the recorded fair values are observable,  either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a signiﬁcant  eﬀect on the recorded fair values that are not based on  observable market data.
Derivative assets and liabilities included in Level 2 primarily  represent interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps, foreign  currency forward and option contracts and embedded  derivatives.
Assets / Liabilities measured at fair value (` Millions) Particulars As of March 31, 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets Derivatives - not designated as hedging instruments - Currency swaps, forward and option contracts  -   280  -   - Interest rate swaps  -   619  -   - Embedded derivatives  -   147  2,485  Derivatives - designated as hedging instruments - Interest rate swaps  -   4,979  -   Held for trading securities - quoted  106,888  -   -   Designated at fair value through proﬁt or loss - quoted  8,389  -   -   Financial liabilities Derivatives - not designated as hedging instruments - Currency swaps, forward and option contracts  -   381  -   - Interest rate swaps  -   49  -   - Embedded derivatives  -   338  -   Derivatives - designated as hedging instruments - Interest rate swaps  -   24  -   Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15250 (` Millions) Particulars As of March 31, 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets Derivatives - not designated as hedging instruments - Currency swaps, forward and option contracts  -   100  -   - Interest rate swaps  -   277  -   - Embedded derivatives  -   189  3,014  Held for trading securities - quoted  89,457  -   -   Designated at fair value through proﬁt or loss - quoted  9,148  -   -   Financial liabilities Derivatives - not designated as hedging instruments - Currency swaps, forward and option contracts  -   861  -   - Interest rate swaps  -   230  -   - Embedded derivatives  -   710  17   Derivatives - designated as hedging instruments - Interest rate swaps  -   3,592  -   Assets / Liabilities for which fair value is disclosed (` Millions) Particulars As of March 31, 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets Other ﬁnancial assets -  26,070 - Financial liabilities Borrowings designated as hedging instruments - Fixed rate - In hedge of net investment -  125,682 - Other borrowings- ﬁxed rate  229,144  Other ﬁnancial liabilities -  162,046 - (` Millions) Particulars As of March 31, 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets Other ﬁnancial assets -  25,126 - Financial liabilities Other borrowings- ﬁxed rate -  231,797 - Other ﬁnancial liabilities -  27,395 - During the year ended March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value  measurements, and no transfer into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 251Consolidated Financial Statements Following table describes the valuation techniques used and key inputs to valuation within level 2 and 3, and quantitative  information about signiﬁcant unobservable inputs for fair value measurements within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy as of  March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively: a) Assets / Liabilities measured at fair value Particulars Fair value  hierarchy Valuation  technique Inputs used Quantitative information  about signiﬁcant  unobservable inputs Financial assets Derivatives - not designated  as hedging instruments - Currency swaps, forward  and option contracts  Level 2 Market valuation  techniques  Forward foreign currency  exchange rates, Interest rates to  discount future cash ﬂow  - - Interest rate swaps  Level 2 Market valuation  techniques  Prevailing/forward interest  rates in market, Interest rates to  discount future cash ﬂow - - Embedded derivatives  Level 3 Discounted Cash  Flow  Expected future payouts  to vendor, Forward foreign  currency exchange rates,  Interest rates to discount future  cash ﬂow  Expected future payouts to  vendor ranging from USD  31 Mn to USD 46 Mn and  USD 31 Mn to USD 49 Mn  per quarter as of March 31,  2015 and as of March 31,  2014, respectively - Embedded derivatives  (others)  Level 2 Discounted Cash  Flow  Amount payable in future,  Forward foreign currency  exchange rates, Interest rates to  discount future cash ﬂow - Derivatives - designated as  hedging instruments - Interest rate swaps  Level 2 Market valuation  techniques  Prevailing/forward interest  rates in market, Interest rates to  discount future cash ﬂow - Financial liabilities Derivatives - not designated  as hedging instruments - Currency swaps, forward  and option contracts  Level 2 Market valuation  techniques  Forward foreign currency  exchange rates, Interest rates to  discount future cash ﬂow - - Interest rate swaps  Level 2 Market valuation  techniques  Prevailing/forward interest  rates in market, Interest rates to  discount future cash ﬂow  - - Embedded derivatives  Level 3 Discounted Cash  Flow  Expected future payouts  to vendor, Forward foreign  currency exchange rates,  Interest rates to discount future  cash ﬂow Expected future payouts  to vendor approximately  USD Nil and USD 1 Mn per  quarter as of March 31,  2015 and as of March 31,  2014, respectively - Embedded derivatives  (others)  Level 2 Discounted Cash  Flow  Amount payable in future,  Forward foreign currency  exchange rates, Interest rates to  discount future cash ﬂow  - Derivatives - designated as  hedging instruments - Interest rate swaps  Level 2 Market valuation  techniques  Prevailing/forward interest  rates in market, Interest rates to  discount future cash ﬂow - Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15252 b) Assets / Liabilities for which fair value is disclosed Particulars Fair value  hierarchy Valuation technique Inputs used Financial assets Other ﬁnancial assets Level 2 Discounted Cash Flow Prevailing interest  rates to discount  future cash ﬂows  Financial liabilities Borrowings designated as hedging instruments - Fixed rate - In hedge of net investment Level 2 Discounted Cash Flow Prevailing interest  rates in market,  Future payouts  Other borrowings- ﬁxed rate Level 2 Discounted Cash Flow Prevailing interest  rates in market,  Future payouts Other ﬁnancial liabilities Level 2 Discounted Cash Flow Prevailing interest  rates to discount  future cash ﬂows  Reconciliation of fair value measurements categorised within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy – Financial assets /  (liabilities) (net) (` Millions) Particulars For the year ended  March 31, 2015 For the year ended  March 31, 2014 Opening balance  2,997  3,583  Gain / (losses) recognised in consolidated income statement  (including settlements)* (Recognised in net gain / (losses) on derivative  ﬁnancial instruments)  (181)  (713) Exchange diﬀerence on translation of foreign operation recognised in OCI  (331)  127  Closing balance  2,485  2,997    * Out of these gains / (losses), loss of ` 342 Mn and gain of ` 801 Mn relates to assets/liabilities held at the end of March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014,  respectively.
Valuation process used for fair value measurements  categorised within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy The Group has entered into technology outsourcing contract  under which payouts are linked to revenue during the contract  period.
The portion of the payout payable at spot rate of foreign  currency, results in an embedded derivative.
The signiﬁcant  inputs to the valuation model of these embedded derivatives  are future revenue projections and foreign exchange forward  rates over the contract period.
The revenue projections, being  based on the rolling ten year ﬁnancial plan approved by  management, constitute a signiﬁcant unobservable input to  the valuation, thereby resulting in the embedded derivative  being classiﬁed as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
The Group engages external, independent and qualiﬁed  valuers to determine the fair value of the Group’s embedded  derivative categorised within level 3.
The value of embedded  derivative is the diﬀerential of the present value of future  payouts on the reporting date, over that determined based on  the forward rates prevailing at the inception of the contract.
The present value is calculated using a discounted cash ﬂow  model.
Narrative description of sensitivity of fair value changes to  changes in unobservable inputs The fair value of embedded derivative is directly proportional  to the expected future payouts to vendor (considered for the  purpose of valuation of the embedded derivative).
If future  payouts to vendor were to increase/ decrease by 5% with all  the other variables held constant, the fair value of embedded  derivative would increase/ decrease by 5%.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 253Consolidated Financial Statements 34.
Related Party T ransactions  Related party transactions represent transactions entered into by the Group with entities having signiﬁcant inﬂuence over  the Group (‘signiﬁcant inﬂuence entities’), associates, joint ventures and other related parties.
The transactions with the  related parties for the years ended March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively, are described below: a) T ransactions for the year (` Millions) Relationship Y ear ended March 31, 2015 Y ear ended March 31, 2014 Signiﬁcant  inﬂuence  entities   Associates Joint  Ventures  Other  related  parties Signiﬁcant  inﬂuence  entities Associates Joint  Ventures* Other  related  parties Purchase of assets  -   (111)  -   (1,297)  (399)  (2)  -   (2,647) Sale / transfer of assets  -   -   -   -   9  -   34  88  Purchase of Investment  -   -   (10)  -   -   -   0  -   Reduction of share capital #  -   -   87  -   -   -   -   -   Sale / Rendering of Services  1,444  140  -   274  1,566  83  903  103  Purchase of goods / Receiving  of Services   (614)  (305)  (35,096)  (3,769)  (527)  (209)  (33,921)  (2,564) Reimbursement of energy expenses  -   -   (23,300)  (3)  -   -   (23,157)  -   Loans to related party  -   154  -   -   -   110  30,169 **  -   Loan repayment  -   -   (9,173)  -   -   (100)  (1,577)  -   Expenses incurred by the Group  on behalf of Related Party  -   23  -   2  1  26  -   15  Expenses incurred by Related Party  for the Group  -   -   (114)  (949)  -   (1)  (44)  (896) Security deposit paid  1  0  73  0  -   -   93  0  Refund of security deposit  (1)  -   (384)  -   -   -   -   -   Interest Income on Loan  -   47  -   -   -   38  -   -   Claim received  -   -   -   46  -   -   -   -   Dividend Paid  (8,022)  -   -   (912)  (2,329)  -   -   (266) Dividend Received  -   -   16,407  -   -   -   2,200  -   b) Closing Balances (` Millions) Relationship Closing balance as of March 31, 2015 Closing balance as of March 31, 2014 Signiﬁcant  inﬂuence  entities   Associates Joint  Ventures  Other  related  parties Signiﬁcant  inﬂuence  entities Associates Joint  Ventures Other  related  parties Due From  342  591  3,925  1,223  336  407  4,255  1,039  Due T o  (436)  (146)  (8,928)  (759)  (76)  (393)  (17,465)  (163)  (94)  445  (5,003)  464  260  14  (13,210)  876  * Also refer note 7(g)  ** Relates to ‘BWA entities’, which became subsidiaries w.e.f June 25, 2013, refer note 7(c).
# Refer note 39(b).
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15254  (1) “Other Related Parties” includes certain entities  belonging to the overall Bharti group which, though not  covered as ‘Related Parties’ as per the deﬁnition under  IAS 24, have been included voluntarily for disclosure  purpose.
(2) Outstanding balances at period end are unsecured  and settlement occurs in cash.
There have been no  guarantees provided or received for any related party  receivables or payables.
The Group has not recorded  any impairment of receivables relating to amounts  owed by related parties.
This assessment is taken each  year through examining the ﬁnancial position of the  related party and the market in which the related party  operates.
(3) In addition to the above, ` 633 Mn and ` 198 Mn  donation has been given to Bharti Foundation during  the year ended March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014,  respectively.
Purchase of assets – includes primarily purchase of  bandwidth, computer software, telephone instruments  and network equipments.
Expenses incurred by/for the Group – include expenses  of general and administrative nature.
Sale of services – includes primarily billing for  broadband, international long distance services, mobile,  access and roaming services.
Purchase of services – includes primarily billing for  broadband, international long distance services, billing  for tower infrastructure services, maintenance charges  towards network equipments and leasing of premises.
Remuneration to key management personnel were as follows:  (` Millions) Particulars Y ear ended  March 31, 2015 Y ear ended  March 31, 2014 Short-T erm employee beneﬁts #  460  376  Post-Employment beneﬁts Deﬁned contribution plan  22  14  Deﬁned beneﬁt plan*  -   -   Other long-term beneﬁts*  -   -   Share-based payment**  35  25  T otal  517  415   # Includes Performance-Linked Incentive (PLI) on accrual basis.
*As the liabilities for deﬁned beneﬁt plan i.e.
gratuity and other long term beneﬁts i.e.
compensated absences are provided o n actuarial basis for the Company  as a whole, the amounts pertaining to key management personnel are not included above.
**It represents expense recognised in the income statement for options granted.
In addition to above ` 167 thousand during the year ended March 31, 2015 and ` 276 thousand during the year ended March 31, 2014 has been paid as equity  dividend to key management personnel.
35.
Lease Disclosure  Operating Lease    As lessee, the Group’s obligations arising from non-cancellable lease are mainly related to lease arrangements for passive  infrastructure and real estate.
These leases have various extension options and escalation clause.
As per the agreements  maximum obligation on long-term non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:  The future minimum lease payments obligations, as lessee are as follows:- (` Millions) Particulars As of  March 31, 2015 As of  March 31, 2014 Obligations on non-cancellable leases : Not later than one year 51,007 48,404 Later than one year but not later than ﬁve years 174,444 184,885 Later than ﬁve years 82,463 79,508 T otal307,914 312,797 Lease Rentals (Excluding Lease Equalisation Adjustment of ` 1,909 Mn and  ` 2,241 Mn for the year ended March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014) 60,449 51,131 Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 255Consolidated Financial Statements The future minimum lease payments obligation disclosed above include the below future minimum lease payments  obligations payable to joint ventures, which mainly pertain to amounts payable under the Master Services Agreement  entered by the Parent and its subsidiaries, with Indus T owers Limited, a joint venture of the Group.
(` Millions) Particulars As of  March 31, 2015 As of  March 31, 2014 Obligations to joint venture on non-cancellable lease : Not later than one year 35,511 33,594 Later than one year but not later than ﬁve years 117,671 136,179 Later than ﬁve years 24,640 27,231 T otal177,822 197,004 The escalation clause includes escalation ranging from 0 to 25%, includes option of renewal from 1 to 15 years and there  are no restrictions imposed by lease arrangements.
As lessor, the Group’s receivables arising from non-cancellable lease are mainly related to lease arrangements for passive  infrastructure.
The future minimum lease payments receivable, as lessor are as follows:- (` Millions) Particulars As of  March 31, 2015 As of  March 31, 2014 Receivables on non-cancellable leases : Not later than one year 16,761 13,569 Later than one year but not later than ﬁve years 64,870 55,500 Later than ﬁve years 29,777 25,642 T otal 111,408 94,711 Finance Lease     (i) Finance lease obligation of the Group as lessee as of March 31, 2015 is as follows:-  (` Millions)  Particulars Future minimum  lease payments   Interest  Present value  Not later than one year 721 164 557 Later than one year but not later than ﬁve years 1,083 421 662 Later than ﬁve years 575 166 409 T otal 2,379 751 1,628  Finance lease obligation of the Group as lessee as of March 31, 2014 is as follows:-  (` Millions)  Particulars Future minimum  lease payments   Interest  Present value  Not later than one year 538 60 478 Later than one year but not later than ﬁve years 1,006 245 761 Later than ﬁve years - - - T otal 1,544 305 1,239 The escalation clause includes escalation ranging from 0% to 7.5%, includes option of renewal in block of 3 years.
(ii)  The future minimum lease payments receivable of the Group as lessor as of March 31, 2015 is as follows:-  (` Millions)  Particulars Future minimum  lease payments   Interest  Present value  Not later than one year 45 13 32 Later than one year but not later than ﬁve years 123 17 106 Later than ﬁve years - - - T otal 168 30 138 Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15256 36.
Commitments and Contingencies (i)  Commitments a.
Capital commitments (` Millions) Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015   As of    March 31, 2014  Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided for in the  ﬁnancial statements (refer note 39(a)) 343,859 239,146    The above includes ` 38,083 Mn as of March 31, 2015 ( ` 46,576 Mn as of March 31, 2014), pertaining to certain  outsourcing agreements, under which the vendor supplies assets as well as services to the Group.
The amount  represents total minimum commitment over the unexpired period of the contracts (upto six years from the reporting  date), since it is not possible for the Group to determine allocation between assets and services to be provided over the  unexpired period of the contract.
However, the actual charges/ payments may exceed the above mentioned minimum  commitment based on the terms of the agreements.
In addition to the above, the Group’s share of joint ventures and associates capital commitments is ` 1,214 Mn and  ` 1,395 Mn as of March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively.
b.
Guarantees (` Millions) Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015   As of    March 31, 2014  Financial bank guarantees* # 109,395 65,167 Guarantees to third parties 3,130 3,005   * The Company has issued corporate guarantees of ` 3,365 Mn and ` 2,741 Mn as of March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014 respectively, to banks and  ﬁnancial institutions for issuing bank guarantees on behalf of the Group companies at no cost to the latter.
# Includes certain ﬁnancial bank guarantees which have been given for subjudice matters and in compliance with licensing condi tions, the amount with  respect to these have been disclosed under capital commitments, contingencies and ﬁnancial liabilities, as applicable, in compliance with the applicable  accounting standards.
(ii) Contingencies (` Millions) Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015  As of    March 31, 2014  (i) Taxes, Duties and Other demands  (under adjudication / appeal / dispute) -Sales Tax and Service Tax  38,225  22,332  -Income Tax  20,130  20,704  -Customs Duty  6,136  6,053  -Entry Tax  6,957  5,999  -Stamp Duty  603  629  -Municipal Taxes  863  1,132  -DoT demands *  5,020  2,656  -Other miscellaneous demands  2,133  1,533  (ii) Claims under legal cases including arbitration matters -Access Charges / Port Charges  7,443  6,194  -Others  5,703  6,432  T otal  93,213  73,664  *in addition, refer Note f(vi), f(vii) and f(viii) below for other DoT matters.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 257Consolidated Financial Statements In addition to the above, the Group’s share of joint ventures  contingent liabilities is ` 9,083 Mn and ` 10,933 Mn as of  March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively.
The contingent liabilities mentioned in the table above  represent disputes with various government authorities in  the respective jurisdiction where the operations are based  and it is not possible for the Group to predict the timing of  ﬁnal outcome of these contingent liabilities.
Currently, the  Group has operations in India, South Asia region and Africa  region.
Based on the Company’s evaluation, it believes that it is  not probable that the claim will materialise for the cases  discussed below and therefore, no provision has been  recognised.
a)  Sales and Service T ax  The claims for sales tax as of March 31, 2015 and as  of March 31, 2014 comprised of cases relating to the  appropriateness of declarations made by the Company  under relevant sales tax legislation which was primarily  procedural in nature and the applicable sales tax on  disposals of certain property and equipment items.
Pending ﬁnal decisions, the Company has deposited  amounts with statutory authorities for certain cases.
Further, in the State of J&K, the Company has disputed  the levy of General Sales Tax on its telecom services and  towards which the Company has received a stay from  the Hon’ble J&K High Court.
The demands received to  date have been disclosed under contingent liabilities.
The service tax demands as of March 31, 2015 and March  31, 2014 relate to cenvat claimed on tower and related  material, levy of service tax on SIM cards, cenvat credit  disallowed for procedural lapses and inadmissibility  of credit, disallowance of cenvat credit used in excess  of 20% limit and service tax demand on employee talk  time.
b) Income T ax Demand   Income tax demands under appeal mainly included  the appeals ﬁled by the Group before various appellate  authorities against the disallowance by income tax  authorities of certain expenses being claimed, non- deduction of tax at source with respect to dealers/ distributor’s margin and non-deduction of tax on payments  to international operators for access charges, etc.
c)   Access Charges (Interconnect Usage Charges)/ Port  Charges    Interconnect charges are based on the Interconnect  Usage Charges (IUC) agreements between the operators  although the IUC rates are governed by the IUC  guidelines issued by TRAI.
BSNL has raised a demand  requiring the Company to pay the interconnect charges  at the rates contrary to the regulations issued by TRAI.
The Company ﬁled a petition against that demand with  the T elecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate T ribunal  (TDSAT) which passed a status quo order, stating that  only the admitted amounts based on the regulations  would need to be paid by the Company.
The ﬁnal order  was also passed in our favour.
BSNL has challenged the  same in Hon’ble Supreme Court.
However, no stay has  been granted.
In another proceeding with respect to Distance Based  Carriage Charges, the Hon’ble TDSAT in its order dated  May 21, 2010, allowed BSNL appeal praying to recover  distance based carriage charges.
On ﬁling of appeal by  the T elecom Operators, Hon’ble Supreme Court asked  the T elecom Operators to furnish details of distance- based carriage charges owed by them to BSNL.
Further,  in a subsequent hearing held on August 30, 2010,  Hon’ble Supreme Court sought the quantum of amount  in dispute from all the operators as well as BSNL and  directed both BSNL and Private telecom operators to  furnish Call Data Records (CDRs) to TRAI.
The CDRs  have been furnished to TRAI.
In another issue with respect to Port Charges, in 2001,  TRAI had prescribed slab based rate of port charges  payable by private operators which were subsequently  reduced in the year 2007 by TRAI.
On BSNL’s appeal,  TDSAT passed its judgement in favour of BSNL, and held  that the pre-2007 rates shall be applicable prospectively  from May 29, 2010.
The rates were further revised  downwards by TRAI in 2012.
On BSNL’s appeal, TDSAT  declined to stay the revised Regulation.
Further, the Hon’ble Supreme Court vide its judgement  dated December 6, 2013, passed in another matter,  held that TRAI is empowered to issue regulations on  any matter under Section 11(1)(b) of TRAI Act and the  same cannot be challenged before TDSAT .
Accordingly,  all matters raised before TDSAT , wherein TDSAT had  interfered in Appeal and passed judgements, do not have  any signiﬁcance.
However, parties can ﬁle Writ Petitions  before High Court challenging such regulations.
The Company believes that the above said judgement  has further strengthened the position of the Company  on many issues with respect to Regulations which had  been in its favour and impugned before TDSAT .
d) Customs Duty  The custom authorities, in some states, demanded  custom duty for the imports of special software on the  ground that this would form part of the hardware along  with which the same has been imported.
The view of  the Company is that such imports should not be subject  to any custom duty as it would be operating software  exempt from any custom duty.
In response to the  application ﬁled by the Company, the Hon’ble CESTAT  has passed an order in favour of the custom authorities.
The Company has ﬁled an appeal with Hon’ble Supreme  Court against the CESTAT order.
e)  Entry T ax   In certain states, an entry tax is levied on receipt of  material from outside the state.
This position has been  challenged by the Company in the respective states, on  the grounds that the speciﬁc entry tax is ultra vires the  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15258 Constitution.
Classiﬁcation issues have also been raised,  whereby, in view of the Company, the material proposed  to be taxed is not covered under the speciﬁc category.
f)  Department of T elecommunications (“DoT”) Demands  i.
The Company has not been able to meet its roll out  obligations fully due to certain non-controllable  factors like T elecommunication Engineering Centre  testing, Standing Advisory Committee of Radio  Frequency Allocations clearance, non availability  of spectrum, etc.
The Company has received show  cause notices from DoT for 14 of its circles for non- fulﬁllment of its roll out obligations and these have  been replied to.
DoT has reviewed and revised the  criteria and there has been no further development  on this matter since then.
ii.
DoT demands include demands raised for contentious  matters relating to computation of license fees and  spectrum charges.
iii.
DoT demands include alleged short payment of  license fee for FY06-07 and FY07-08 due to diﬀerence  of interpretation of Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR)  between Group and DoT and interest thereon,  against which the Group has obtained stay from  appropriate Hon’ble High Courts and TDSAT .
TDSAT  has pronounced its judgement on April 23, 2015,  directing DoT to rework and issue fresh demands to  the operators.
iv.
DoT demands also include the contentious matters  in respect of subscriber veriﬁcation norms and  regulations including validity of certain documents  allowed as Proof of Address / Identity in mobility  circles.
v. DoT demands also include penalty for alleged failure  to meet the procedural requirement for submission  of EMF radiation self-certiﬁcation.
The matters stated above are being contested by the Company  and based on legal advice, the Company believes that it has  complied with all license related regulations as and when  prescribed and does not expect any loss relating to these  matters.
In addition to the amounts disclosed in the table above, the  contingent liability on DoT matters includes the following: vi.
Post the Hon’ble Supreme Court Judgement on  October 11, 2011 on components of Adjusted Gross  Revenue for computation of license fee, based on the  legal advice, the Company believes that the realised  and unrealised foreign exchange gain should not  be included in Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) for  computation of license fee thereon.
Accordingly, the  license fee on such foreign exchange gain has not  been provided in these ﬁnancial statements.
Also, due  to ambiguity of interpretation of ‘foreign exchange  diﬀerences’, the license fee impact on such exchange  diﬀerences is not quantiﬁable and has not been  included in the table above.
Further, as per the Order  dated June 18, 2012 of the Kerala High Court, stay  has been obtained, wherein the licensee can continue  making the payment as was being done throughout  the period of license on telecom activities.
Further as  stated in point (iii) above, TDSAT has pronounced its  judgement on April 23, 2015, directing DoT to rework  and issue fresh demands to the operators.
vii.
On January 8, 2013, DoT issued a demand on the  Company and one of its subsidiaries for ` 52,013  Mn towards levy of one time spectrum charge.
The  demand includes a retrospective charge of ` 9,090  Mn for holding GSM Spectrum beyond 6.2 MHz for  the period from July 1, 2008 to December 31, 2012  and also a prospective charge of ` 42,923 Mn for GSM  spectrum held beyond 4.4 MHz for the period from  January 1, 2013, till the expiry of the initial terms of  the respective licenses.
In the opinion of the Company, inter-alia, the above  demand amounts to alteration of ﬁnancial terms of  the licenses issued in the past.
Based on a petition  ﬁled by the Company, the Hon’ble High Court of  Bombay, vide its order dated January 28, 2013, has  directed the DoT to respond and not to take any  coercive action until the next date of hearing.
The  DoT has ﬁled its reply and the next date of hearing  has been ﬁxed on September 9, 2015. viii.
The Department of T elecommunications (DoT) had  issued notices to the Company as well as various  other T elecom Service Providers to stop provision  of services under 3G Intra Circle Roaming (ICR)  arrangements in the service areas where such service  providers had not been allocated 3G Spectrum.
DoT  also levied a ﬁnancial penalty of ` 3,500 Mn.
Company  contested the notices and upon various rounds of  litigations, ultimately, the TDSAT , vide its judgement  dated April 29, 2014, held 3G ICR arrangements to be  a competent service and compliant with the licensing  conditions and quashed the notice imposing penalty.
The DoT has challenged the order of TDSAT in an  appeal ﬁled before the Hon’ble Supreme Court, which  has been admitted.
However, the Hon’ble Supreme  Court has refused to grant any interim order during  the pendency of the appeal.
g)  Airtel Networks Limited – Ownership  Airtel Networks Limited (“Airtel Networks”) (formerly  known as Celtel Nigeria Limited) was incorporated on  December 21, 2000 as Econet Wireless Nigeria Limited  and is a subsidiary of Bharti Airtel Nigeria BV (BANBV)  (formerly, Celtel Nigeria BV), which in turn, is an indirect  subsidiary of Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands)  BV, a subsidiary of Bharti Airtel Limited.
Airtel Networks and/or BANBV are defendants in cases  ﬁled by Econet Wireless Limited (EWL) where EWL  is claiming, amongst others, a breach of its alleged  pre-emption rights against erstwhile and current  shareholders.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 259Consolidated Financial Statements Under the transaction to acquire 65% controlling stake  in Airtel Networks Limited in 2006, the erstwhile selling  shareholders were obliged under the pre-emption right  provision contained in the shareholders’ agreement dated  April 30, 2002 (the “Shareholders Agreement”) to ﬁrst oﬀer  the shares to each other before oﬀering the shares to a third  party.
The sellers waived the pre-emption rights amongst  themselves and the shares were oﬀered to EWL despite the  fact that EWL’s status as a shareholder itself was in dispute.
However, the oﬀer to EWL lapsed since EWL did not meet its  payment obligations to pay for the shares within the 30 days  deadline as speciﬁed in the shareholders’ agreement and  the shares were acquired by Celtel Nigeria BV (now, Bharti  Airtel Nigeria BV) in 2006.
EWL has inter alia commenced  arbitral proceedings in Nigeria contesting the acquisition.
BANBV, which is the current owner of approximately 79.059%  (increased from 65.7% to 79.059% in March, 2013) of the  equity in Airtel Networks Limited has been defending these  cases and the arbitration since it was commenced.
On December 22, 2011, the T ribunal in the Arbitration  commenced by EWL issued a Partial Final Award stating,  amongst others, that the Shareholders Agreement had been  breached by the erstwhile shareholders and, accordingly,  the acquisition was null and void.
However, the T ribunal has  rejected EWL’s claim for reversal of the 2006 transaction.
Instead, the T ribunal ordered a damages hearing.
On February 3, 2012, BANBV ﬁled an application before the  Lagos State High Court to set aside the Partial Final Award.
In addition, BANBV ﬁled an application for an injunction  to restrain the parties to the Arbitration from further  convening the arbitration for the purposes of considering the  quantum of damages that could be awarded to EWL until the  conclusion of the matter to set aside the Partial Final Award.
The application to set aside the Partial Final Award was  heard by the Lagos State High Court on June 4, 2012 and by a  Judgement delivered on October 4, 2012, the Lagos State High  Court dismissed BANBV’s application to set aside the Partial  Final Award against which, BANBV lodged an appeal at the  Court of Appeal in Lagos, Nigeria.
The appeal was dismissed  by the Court of Appeal on February 14, 2014.
BANBV not  satisﬁed with the judgement of the Court of Appeal, Lagos,  on March 27, 2014 has ﬁled its appeal with the Supreme Court  of Nigeria.
Without prejudice to the application by BANBV before the  Nigerian courts to set aside the Partial Final Award, the  T ribunal has taken steps in relation to the damages hearing  in the Arbitration.
The damages claim was heard by the  T ribunal during October 2013 and the parties submitted their  closing arguments on December 20, 2013.
The T ribunal issued its Final Award on damages dated June  30, 2014 on July 4, 2014.
The T ribunal found that EWL has  suﬀered losses as a result of breaches of the Shareholders’  Agreement and calculated the losses against BANBV to be an  amount of USD 132.8 Mn and costs of USD 10.9 Mn, totaling  USD 143.7 Mn.
The Company has ﬁled an application for setting aside of the  Final Award before the High Court in Nigeria.
On the other  hand, EWL has ﬁled applications before the High Court in  Nigeria to seek to enforce both the Final Award and the Partial  Final Award.
The Company is contesting these enforcement  applications.
These matters are currently adjourned to June  10, 2015.
In addition, EWL has ﬁled conservatory attachment  proceedings and proceedings for enforcement of the Final  Award, inter alia, against BANBV in the Netherlands.
On January 22, 2015 the District Court in Amsterdam,  Netherlands has denied EWL’s request for attachment  proceedings.
EWL has preferred an appeal before the Court  of Appeal of Netherlands, against this.
The Company is in the  process of ﬁling its statement of defense against the appeal.
Meanwhile, the District Court of Amsterdam, vide its order  dated April 15, 2015 has conﬁrmed that the proceedings  before it stand suspended till the appeal is decided by the  Court of Appeal of Netherland.
Based on Company’s assessment and indemnities under the  Share Sale Agreement with Zain Group, this Award is not  likely to have any material adverse eﬀect on the Company’s  consolidated ﬁnancial position as of March 31, 2015.
In addition, Airtel Networks Limited is a defendant in an action  where EWL is claiming entitlement to 5% of the issued share  capital of Airtel Networks Limited.
This case was commenced  by EWL in 2004 (prior to the Vee Networks Limited acquisition  in 2006).
The Court at ﬁrst instance on January 24, 2012  held that EWL should be reinstated as a 5% shareholder in  Airtel Networks Limited.
Despite the fact that the 5% shares  claimed by EWL had been set aside in escrow since 2006 and  therefore will not impact the present ownership of BANBV  on a fully diluted basis in Airtel Networks Limited, the  company believed that there were good grounds to appeal  the ﬁrst instance judgement and accordingly, ﬁled a Notice of  Appeal and made applications before the Federal High Court  for a stay of execution of judgement pending appeal and a  motion for injunction.
These applications were heard on  March 13, 2012 and on May 7, 2012, the High Court held that  the company had failed to make out a case for the Court to  exercise its discretion in its favour of granting the application  and accordingly refused it.
Immediately, a similar application for injunction and stay of  execution were ﬁled at the Court of Appeal, Kaduna on May 7,  2012.
After several adjournments, the substantive appeal was  heard on October 3, 2013 and on November 1, 2013 the Court  of Appeal dismissed the appeal.
On June 20, 2014, the Company ﬁled its appeal to the Supreme  Court of Nigeria together with an application for injunction  and stay of execution of the judgement of the Court of Appeal.
The Appeal and the Applications are pending before the  Supreme Court.
The date for the hearing has not yet been  ﬁxed.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15260 37.
Earnings Per Share  The following is a reconciliation of the equity shares used in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per equity  share: (Shares in Millions) Particulars  Y ear ended  March 31, 2015 Y ear ended  March 31, 2014 Weighted average shares outstanding- Basic  3,996  3,952  Eﬀect of dilutive securities on account of ESOP  2  3  Weighted average shares outstanding- diluted  3,998  3,955  Net proﬁt available to equity holders of the Parent used in the basic and diluted earnings per share was determined as  follows: (` Millions) Particulars  Y ear ended  March 31, 2015 Y ear ended  March 31, 2014 Net proﬁt available to equity holders of the Parent  51,835  27,727  Eﬀect on account of ESOP on proﬁts for the year - - Net proﬁt available for computing diluted earnings per share  51,835  27,727  Basic Earnings per share  12.97  7.02  Diluted Earnings per share  12.97  7.01  The number of shares used in computing basic EPS is the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year.
The diluted EPS is calculated on the same basis as basic EPS, after adjusting for the eﬀects of potential dilutive equity  shares unless the impact is anti-dilutive.
38.
Financial Risk Management Objectives and  Policies  The Group’s principal ﬁnancial liabilities, other than  derivatives, comprise borrowings, trade and other  payables, and ﬁnancial guarantee contracts.
The main  purpose of these ﬁnancial liabilities is to manage  ﬁnances for the Group’s operations.
The Group has loan  and other receivables, trade and other receivables, and  cash and short-term deposits that arise directly from  its operations.
The Group also enters into derivative  transactions.
The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and  liquidity risk.
The Group’s senior management oversees the  management of these risks.
The senior professionals  working to manage the ﬁnancial risks and the  appropriate ﬁnancial risk governance frame work  for the Group are accountable to the Board Audit  Committee.
This process provides assurance to the  Group’s senior management that the Group’s ﬁnancial  risk-taking activities are governed by appropriate  policies and procedures and that ﬁnancial risks are  identiﬁed, measured and managed in accordance with  Group policies and Group risk appetite.
All derivative  activities for risk management purposes are carried  out by specialist teams that have the appropriate skills,  experience and supervision.
It is the Group’s policy that  no trading in derivatives for speculative purposes shall  be undertaken.
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for  managing each of these risks which are summarised below:  Market risk  Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash  ﬂows of a ﬁnancial instrument will ﬂuctuate because  of changes in market prices.
Market prices comprise  three types of risk: currency rate risk, interest rate risk  and other price risks, such as equity risk.
Financial  instruments aﬀected by market risk include loans  and borrowings, deposits, investments, and derivative  ﬁnancial instruments.
The sensitivity analysis have been prepared on the  basis that the amount of net debt, the ratio of ﬁxed  to ﬂoating interest rates of the debt and derivatives  and the proportion of ﬁnancial instruments in foreign  currencies are all constant.
The analysis excludes the impact of movements  in market variables on the carrying value of post- employment beneﬁt obligations, provisions and on the  non-ﬁnancial assets and liabilities.
The sensitivity of the relevant income statement item  is the eﬀect of the assumed changes in the respective  market risks.
This is based on the ﬁnancial assets and  ﬁnancial liabilities held as of March 31, 2015 and March  31, 2014.
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of ﬁnancial  risks, including the eﬀects of changes in foreign  currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 261Consolidated Financial Statements uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments such as foreign  exchange forward contracts, options, currency swaps  and interest rate swaps & options to manage its  exposures to foreign exchange ﬂuctuations and interest  rate.
Foreign currency risk  Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value  or future cash ﬂows of a ﬁnancial instrument will  ﬂuctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Group transacts business in local currency and  in foreign currency, primarily U.S. dollars.
The Group  has obtained foreign currency loans and has foreign  currency trade payables and receivables and is therefore,  exposed to foreign exchange risk.
The Group may use  foreign exchange options, currency swaps or forward  contracts towards hedging risk resulting from changes  and ﬂuctuations in foreign currency exchange rate.
These  foreign exchange contracts, carried at fair value, may  have varying maturities varying depending upon the  primary host contract requirement and risk management  strategy of the company.
The Group manages its foreign currency risk by  hedging appropriate percentage of its foreign currency  exposure, as approved by Board as per established risk  management policy.
Foreign currency sensitivity  The following table demonstrates the sensitivity in the USD,  Euro, CHF and other currencies to the functional currency of  the respective entity, with all other variables held constant.
The impact on the Group’s proﬁt before tax is due to changes  in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities including  foreign currency derivatives (excluding options and currency  swaps).
The impact on Group’s equity is due to change in the  fair value of intra-group monetary items that form part of net  investment in foreign operation and other foreign currency  monetary items designated as a hedge of the net investment  in foreign operations or cash ﬂow hedge of a highly probable  forecast transaction.
(` Millions) Particulars Change in  currency  exchange rate Eﬀect on proﬁt  before tax Eﬀect on equity  (OCI) For the year ended March 31, 2015 US Dollars +5%  (11,732)  (4,035) -5%  11,732  4,035  Euro +5%  (642)  (6,073) -5%  642  6,073  CHF +5%  (1,127)  -   -5%  1,127  -   Others +5%  (1)  -   -5%  1  -   For the year ended March 31, 2014 US Dollars +5%  (8,495)  (2,305) -5%  8,495  2,305  Euro +5%  (5,507)  -   -5%  5,507  -   CHF +5%  (1,190)  -   -5%  1,190  -   Others +5%  (6)  -   -5%  6  -   Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15262  Interest rate risk   Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future  cash ﬂows of a ﬁnancial instrument will ﬂuctuate  because of changes in market interest rates.
The Group’s  exposure to the risk of changes in market interest  rates relates primarily to the Group’s debt interest  obligations.
Further, the Group engages in ﬁnancing  activities at market linked rates, any changes in the  interest rates environment may impact future rates of  borrowing.
T o manage this, the Group may enter into  interest rate derivatives like swap and option contracts.
The management also maintains a portfolio mix of  ﬂoating and ﬁxed rate debt.
As of March 31, 2015, after  taking into account the eﬀect of interest rate swaps,  approximately 23.50% of the Group’s borrowings are at  a ﬁxed rate of interest (March 31, 2014: 12.20%).
Interest rate sensitivity of borrowings   With all other variables held constant, the following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in  interest rates on ﬂoating rate portion of loans and borrowings after considering the impact of interest rate swaps.
(` Millions) Interest rate sensitivity Increase / decrease  in basis points Eﬀect on proﬁt  before tax For the year ended March 31, 2015 INR - borrowings +100  (352) -100  352  US Dollar -borrowings +100  (3,629) -100  3,629  Nigerian Naira - borrowings +100  (314) -100  314  Euro - borrowings +100  (757) -100  757  Other Currency -borrowings +100  (32) -100  32  For the year ended March 31, 2014 INR - borrowings +100  (649) -100  649  US Dollar -borrowings +100  (4,338) -100  4,338  Nigerian Naira - borrowings +100  (705) -100  705  Euro - borrowings +100  (995) -100  995  Other Currency -borrowings +100  (55) -100  55   The assumed movement in basis points for interest rate sensitivity analysis is based on the currently observable market  environment.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 263Consolidated Financial Statements  Price risk  The Group invests its surplus funds in various  debt instruments and debt mutual funds.
These  comprise of mainly liquid schemes of mutual  funds (liquid investments), short term debt funds  & income funds (duration investments) and ﬁxed  deposits.
Mutual fund investments are susceptible to market  price risk, mainly arising from changes in the  interest rates or market yields which may impact  the return and value of such investments.
However  due to the very short tenor of the underlying  portfolio in the liquid schemes, these do not pose  any signiﬁcant price risk.
On the duration investment balance, an increase/ decrease of 25 basis points in market yields  (parallel shift of the yield curves), will result in  decrease/increase in the marked to market value  of the investments by ` 965 Mn and ` 770 Mn as on  March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively.
The adverse marked to market movement on these  schemes is notional and gets recouped through the  ﬁxed coupon accruals on the underlying portfolio  since some of the asset management companies  have adopted the strategy of holding the underlying  securities to maturity to ensure stability of actual  realised returns without realising any adverse  marked to market movement on the underlying  asset.
Accordingly, in case the Group continues to  hold such investments having negative marked to  market value, the overall realised yield over the  entire tenor of the investment shall turn out to be  positive.
Credit risk  Credit risk is the risk that a counter party will not  meet its obligations under a ﬁnancial instrument or  customer contract, leading to a ﬁnancial loss.
The  Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating  activities (primarily trade receivables) and from  its ﬁnancing activities, including deposits with  banks, mutual funds and ﬁnancial institutions,  foreign exchange transactions and other ﬁnancial  instruments.
1) T rade receivables  Customer credit risk is managed by each business  unit subject to the Group’s established policy,  procedures and control relating to customer credit  risk management.
T rade receivables are non- interest bearing and are generally on 14 days to 30  days credit term except in case of balances due from  trade receivables in Airtel Business Segment which  are generally on 7 days to 90 days credit terms.
Credit limits are established for all customers  based on internal rating criteria.
Outstanding  customer receivables are regularly monitored.
The Group has no concentration of credit risk  as the customer base is widely distributed both  economically and geographically.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables as of the reporting date is as follows:     (` Millions) Particulars Neither past  due nor  impaired  (including  unbilled) Past due but not impaired T otal Less Than  30 days 30 to 60  days 60 to 90  days Above 90  days T rade Receivables as of  March 31, 2015  34,523  12,498  6,075  5,896  3,212  62,204  T rade Receivables as of  March 31, 2014  24,990  14,771  6,400  4,465  7,146  57,772   The requirement for impairment is analysed at each reporting date.
Refer Note 22 for details on the impairment of  trade receivables.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15264 2) Financial instruments and cash deposits  Credit risk from balances with banks and ﬁnancial  institutions is managed by Group’s treasury in  accordance with the Board approved policy.
Investments of surplus funds are made only with  approved counterparties who meet the minimum  threshold requirements under the counterparty  risk assessment process.
The Group monitors  ratings, credit spreads and ﬁnancial strength of its  counter parties.
Based on its on-going assessment  of counterparty risk, the Group adjusts its exposure  to various counterparties.
The Group’s maximum  exposure to credit risk for the components of the  statement of ﬁnancial position as of March 31,  2015 and March 31, 2014 is the carrying amounts  as disclosed in Note 33 except for ﬁnancial  guarantees.
The Group’s maximum exposure for  ﬁnancial guarantees is given in Note 36.
Liquidity risk  Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group may  not be able to meet its present and future cash  and collateral obligations without incurring  unacceptable losses.
The Group’s objective is to,  at all times maintain optimum levels of liquidity  to meet its cash and collateral requirements.
The  Group closely monitors its liquidity position and  deploys a robust cash management system.
It  maintains adequate sources of ﬁnancing including  bilateral loans, debt, and overdraft from both  domestic and international banks at an optimised  cost.
It also enjoys strong access to domestic and  international capital markets across debt, equity  and hybrids.
(` Millions) As of March 31, 2015 Particulars Carrying  amount On  Demand Less  than   6 months 6 to 12   months 1 to 2   years > 2   years T otal Interest bearing borrowings*#  670,474  13,207  185,330  45,890  51,327  494,525  790,279  Financial derivatives  792  -   545  83  153  11  792  Other liabilities*  162,106  -   -   -   27,483  246,419  273,902  T rade and other payables#  332,868  -   332,050  818  -   -   332,868  T otal  1,166,240  13,207  517,925  46,791  78,963  740,955  1,397,841  (` Millions) As of March 31, 2014 Particulars Carrying  amount On  Demand Less  than   6 months 6 to 12   months 1 to 2   years > 2   years T otal Interest bearing borrowings*#  765,029  10,233  134,919  100,009  147,134  486,045  878,340  Financial derivatives  5,410  -   919  178  543  3,770  5,410  Other liabilities*  27,464  -   -   -   3,627  24,637  28,264  T rade and other payables#  277,910  -   277,372  538  -   -   277,910  T otal  1,075,813  10,233  413,210  100,725  151,304  514,452 1,189,924      * Includes contractual interest payment based on interest rate prevailing at the end of the reporting period after adjustme nt for the impact of interest  rate swaps, over the tenor of the borrowings.
# Interest accrued but not due of ` 6,802 Mn and ` 6,071 Mn as of March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively, has been included in interest bearing  borrowings and excluded from trade and other payables.
The derivative ﬁnancial instruments disclosed in the above table represent fair values of the instrument.
However, those amounts may be settled gross  or net.
The table below summarises the maturity proﬁle of the Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted  payments:- Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 265Consolidated Financial Statements  Capital management  Capital includes equity attributable to the equity  holders of the Parent.
The primary objective of the  Group’s capital management is to ensure that it  maintains an eﬃcient capital structure and healthy  capital ratios in order to support its business and  maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes  adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic  conditions or its business requirements.
T o  maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group  may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders,  return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies  or processes during the year ended March 31, 2015  and March 31, 2014.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt.
Net debt is  calculated as loans and borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
(` Millions) Particulars  As of     March 31, 2015   As of    March 31, 2014  Loans & Borrowings  663,672  758,958  Less: Cash and Cash Equivalents  11,719  49,808  Net Debt  651,953  709,150  Equity  619,564  597,560  T otal Capital  619,564  597,560  Capital and Net Debt  1,271,517  1,306,710  Gearing Ratio 51.3% 54.3% 39.
New Developments a.
During the year ended March 31, 2015, the Group has  won the auction for 111.60 MHz spectrum in 17 service  areas for an amount of ` 291,291 Mn in the auction  conducted by the Government of India.
The Group has  opted for the deferred payment option in 15 service  areas and accordingly, subsequent to the balance sheet  date, paid an advance of ` 66,496 Mn with the balance  amount of ` 177,544 Mn payable in 10 equal installments  after a moratorium period of two years.
Pending the  allocation of the spectrum by the Government of India,  entire amount outstanding as at March 31, 2015, has  been disclosed under capital commitments in the notes  to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
For the other  2 service areas, entire amount of ` 47,251 Mn has been  paid as an advance.
During the year ended March 31, 2014, the Group had  won the auction for 115 MHz spectrum in 15 service  areas in the auction conducted by the Government of  India.
The Group had opted for the deferred payment  option in 13 service areas and had paid an advance of  ` 53,304 Mn with the balance amount of ` 129,129 Mn  payable in 10 equal installments after a moratorium of  two years.
Pending the allocation of spectrum by the  Government of India, the balance amount was disclosed  as capital commitment as of March 31, 2014.
For the  other 2 service areas, the entire amount of ` 1,953 Mn  had been paid as an advance.
During the year ended  March 31, 2015, the Government of India has allocated  the spectrum to the Group, accordingly the Group has  recognised deferred payment liability of ` 129,129 Mn.
b.
During the year ended March 31, 2015, Bridge Mobile  PTE Limited, a joint venture of the Company, has reduced  its share capital by USD 14 Mn and has proportionately  returned part of its share capital to all its joint venture  partners.
Accordingly, the Company has received ` 87  Mn (USD 1 per share for 1,400,000 shares).
c. During the year ended March 31, 2015, the Company has  increased its equity investment by ` 11,047 Mn in Bharti  Airtel Lanka (Private) Limited by way of conversion of  loan into equity.
d. During the year ended March 31, 2015, the Group has  made equity investment of ` 10 Mn in FireFly Networks  Limited.
FireFly Networks Limited is a 50:50 joint  venture of the Group and Vodafone West Limited.
e. On August 29, 2014, the Group entered into a Business  T ransfer Agreement with Essar T elecom Kenya Limited,  which was completed on December 23, 2014.
Intangible  assets net of related liabilities including license, brand  and subscribers aggregating to ` 2,077 Mn (USD 32.8  Mn) have been recognised in the transaction.
f. On January 13,  2015, Wynk Limited has been incorporated  as wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
The main  objective of the company is content procurement/ aggregation and selling to B2B and B2C customers.
g. On January 29,  2015, Airtel M Commerce Services Limited  (AMSL), wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, has  applied to Reserve Bank of India to convert its existing  Prepaid Payment Instrument license into a Payments  Bank license.
Subject to grant of a Payments Bank  license and other regulatory approvals, Kotak Mahindra  Bank Limited (Kotak) will acquire 19.90% stake in AMSL.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15266 40.
Companies in the Group, Joint Ventures and Associates  The Group conducts its business through Bharti Airtel and its directly and indirectly held subsidiaries, joint ventures and  associates.
Information about the composition of the Group is as follows:- S. No.
Principal Activity Principal place of operation /  country of incorporation Number of wholly-owned  subsidiaries As of   March 31, 2015 As of   March 31, 2014 1 T elecommunication services Africa  10  10  2 T elecommunication services India  4  3  3 T elecommunication services South Asia  2  2  4 T elecommunication services Other  7  7  5 Mobile commerce services Africa  17  17  6 Mobile commerce services India  1  1  7 Infrastructure services Africa  9  10  8 Infrastructure services South Asia  2  2  9 Investment company Africa  3  3  10 Investment company Netherlands  25  27  11 Investment company Mauritius  6  6  12 Investment company Other  2  2  13 Direct to Home services Africa  3  5  14 Submarine cable system Mauritius  1  1  15 Holding, ﬁnance services and  management services Netherlands  1  1  16 Other India  1  1   94  98  S. No.
Principal Activity Principal place of operation /  country of incorporation Number of Non-wholly-owned  subsidiaries As of   March 31, 2015 As of   March 31, 2014 1 T elecommunication services Africa  9  9  2 T elecommunication services India  1  1  3 Infrastructure services India  2  2  4 Infrastructure services Africa  7  7  5 Direct to Home services India  1  1   20  20  Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 267Consolidated Financial Statements  Additionally the Group also controls the trusts as mentioned in Note 40(b) below.
Information of Group’s directly and indirectly held subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is as follows:  (a) Details of subsidiaries:- S.  No.
Name of Subsidiary Principal place  of operation  / Country of  Incorporation Principal Activities Percentage of ownership  interest and voting  power (direct / indirect)- eﬀective shareholding  held by the Group As of   March 31,  2015   % As of   March 31,  2014  % 1 Airtel Bangladesh Limited Bangladesh T elecommunication services 100 100 2 Airtel M Commerce Services Limited India Mobile commerce services 100 100 3 Bangladesh Infratel Networks Limited Bangladesh Passive infrastructure Services 100 100 4 Bharti Airtel (Canada) Limited# Canada T elecommunication services 100 100 5 Bharti Airtel (France) SAS France T elecommunication services 100 100 6 Bharti Airtel (Hongkong) Limited Hongkong T elecommunication services 100 100 7 Bharti Airtel (Japan) Kabushiki Kaisha Japan T elecommunication services 100 100 8 Bharti Airtel Services Limited India Administrative support to  Group companies and trading  activities 100 100 9 Bharti Airtel (UK) Limited United Kingdom T elecommunication services 100 100 10 Bharti Airtel (USA) Limited United States of  America T elecommunication services 100 100 11 Bharti Airtel Holdings (Singapore) Pte  Ltd Singapore Investment Company 100 100 12 Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius)  Limited Mauritius Investment Company 100 100 13 Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands)  B.V. Netherlands Holding, Finance Services and  Management Services 100 100 14 Bharti Airtel Lanka (Private) Limited Sri Lanka T elecommunication services 100 100 15 Bharti Hexacom Limited India T elecommunication services 70 70 16 Bharti Infratel Lanka (Private) Limited Sri Lanka Passive infrastructure Services 100 100 17 Bharti Infratel Limited ("BIL") India Passive infrastructure Services 71.88 79.39 18 Bharti Infratel Services Limited  (subsidiary w.e.f.
June 4, 2013)* India Passive infrastructure Services 71.88 79.39 19 Bharti International (Singapore) Pte.
Ltd Singapore T elecommunication services 100 100 20 Bharti T elemedia Limited India Direct T o Home services 95 95 21 Network i2i Limited Mauritius Submarine Cable System 100 100 22 T elesonic Networks Limited India Network Services 100 100 23 Airtel Broadband Services Private  Limited (formerly known as Wireless  Business Services Private Limited)  (subsidiary w.e.f.
June 25, 2013) ^^ India T elecommunication services 100 100 24 Nxtra Data Limited (subsidiary w.e.f.
July  2, 2013) India Data Centre and Managed  Services 100 100 25 Wynk Limited (subsidiary w.e.f.
January  13, 2015) India Content Procurement and  Selling 100  -  26 Africa T owers N.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 27 Africa T owers Services Limited Kenya Infrastructure sharing services 100 100 28 Airtel Ghana Limited^ Ghana T elecommunication services 75 75 29 Airtel (Seychelles) Limited Seychelles T elecommunication services 100 100 Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15268 S.  No.
Name of Subsidiary Principal place  of operation  / Country of  Incorporation Principal Activities Percentage of ownership  interest and voting  power (direct / indirect)- eﬀective shareholding  held by the Group As of   March 31,  2015   % As of   March 31,  2014  % 30 Airtel (SL) Limited Sierra Leone T elecommunication services 100 100 31 Airtel Burkina Faso S.A. Burkina Faso T elecommunication services 100 100 32 Airtel Congo S.A. Congo  Brazzavile T elecommunication services 90 90 33 Airtel DTH Services (SL) Limited# Sierra Leone Direct T o Home services 100 100 34 Airtel DTH Services Congo (RDC) S.p.r.l.# Democratic  Republic of  Congo Direct T o Home services 100 100 35 Airtel DTH Services Nigeria Limited# Nigeria Direct T o Home services 100 100 36 Airtel DTH Services Tanzania Limited## Tanzania Direct T o Home services  - 100 37 Airtel Gabon S.A. Gabon T elecommunication services 90 90 38 Airtel Madagascar S.A. Madagascar T elecommunication services 100 100 39 Airtel Malawi Limited Malawi T elecommunication services 100 100 40 Airtel Mobile Commerce (SL) Limited Sierra Leone Mobile commerce services 100 100 41 Airtel Mobile Commerce B.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 42 Airtel Mobile Commerce Burkina Faso  S.A. Burkina Faso Mobile commerce services 100 100 43 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Ghana) Limited Ghana Mobile commerce services 100 100 44 Airtel Mobile Commerce Holdings B.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 45 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Kenya) Limited Kenya Mobile commerce services 100 100 46 Airtel Mobile Commerce Limited Malawi Mobile commerce services 100 100 47 Airtel Mobile Commerce Madagascar  S.A. Madagascar Mobile commerce services 100 100 48 Airtel Mobile Commerce Rwanda Limited Rwanda Mobile commerce services 100 100 49 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Seychelles)  Limited (subsidiary w.e.f.
August 9, 2013) Seychelles Mobile commerce services 100 100 50 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Tanzania)  Limited Tanzania Mobile commerce services 100 100 51 Airtel Mobile Commerce T chad S.a.r.l.
Chad Mobile commerce services 100 100 52 Airtel Mobile Commerce Uganda Limited Uganda Mobile commerce services 100 100 53 Airtel Mobile Commerce Zambia Limited Zambia Mobile commerce services 100 100 54 Airtel Money (RDC) S.p.r.l.
Democratic  Republic of  Congo Mobile commerce services 100 100 55 Airtel Money Niger S.A. Niger Mobile commerce services 100 100 56 Airtel Money S.A. (Gabon) Gabon Mobile commerce services 100 100 57 Airtel Networks Kenya Limited^ Kenya T elecommunication services 100 100 58 Airtel Networks Limited Nigeria T elecommunication services 79.059 79.059 59 Airtel Networks Zambia Plc Zambia T elecommunication services 96.36 96.36 60 Airtel Rwanda Limited Rwanda T elecommunication services 100 100 61 Airtel Tanzania Limited Tanzania T elecommunication services 60 60 62 Airtel T chad S.A. Chad T elecommunication services 100 100 63 Airtel T owers (Ghana) Limited Ghana Infrastructure sharing services 75 75 Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 269Consolidated Financial Statements S.  No.
Name of Subsidiary Principal place  of operation  / Country of  Incorporation Principal Activities Percentage of ownership  interest and voting  power (direct / indirect)- eﬀective shareholding  held by the Group As of   March 31,  2015   % As of   March 31,  2014  % 64 Airtel T owers (SL) Company Limited Sierra Leone Infrastructure sharing services 100 100 65 Airtel Uganda Limited^ Uganda T elecommunication services 100 100 66 Bharti Airtel Acquisition Holdings B.V.## Netherlands Investment Company  - 100 67 Bharti Airtel Africa B.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 68 Bharti Airtel Burkina Faso Holdings B.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 69 Bharti Airtel Cameroon B.V.## Netherlands Investment Company  - 100 70 Bharti Airtel Chad Holdings B.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 71 Bharti Airtel Congo Holdings B.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 72 Bharti Airtel Developers Forum Limited Zambia Investment Company 100 100 73 Bharti Airtel DTH Holdings B.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 74 Bharti Airtel Gabon Holdings B.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 75 Bharti Airtel Ghana Holdings B.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 76 Bharti Airtel Kenya B.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 77 Bharti Airtel Kenya Holdings B.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 78 Bharti Airtel Madagascar Holdings B.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 79 Bharti Airtel Malawi Holdings B.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 80 Bharti Airtel Mali Holdings B.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 81 Bharti Airtel Niger Holdings B.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 82 Bharti Airtel Nigeria B.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 83 Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings B.V.# Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 84 Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings II B.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 85 Bharti Airtel RDC Holdings B.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 86 Bharti Airtel Services B.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 87 Bharti Airtel Sierra Leone Holdings B.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 88 Bharti Airtel Tanzania B.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 89 Bharti Airtel Uganda Holdings B.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 90 Bharti Airtel Zambia Holdings B.V. Netherlands Investment Company 100 100 91 Bharti DTH Services Zambia Limited## Zambia Direct T o Home services  - 100 92 Burkina Faso T owers S.A. Burkina Faso Infrastructure sharing services 100 100 93 Celtel (Mauritius) Holdings Limited Mauritius Investment Company 100 100 94 Airtel Congo (RDC) S.A. ((formerly known  as Celtel Congo (RDC) S.a.r.l.)
Democratic  Republic of  Congo T elecommunication services 98.5 98.5 95 Celtel Niger S.A. Niger T elecommunication services 90 90 96 Channel Sea Management Company  (Mauritius) Limited Mauritius Investment Company 100 100 97 Congo RDC T owers S.p.r.l.
Democratic  Republic of  Congo Infrastructure sharing services 100 100 98 Congo T owers S.A. Congo  Brazzavile Infrastructure sharing services 90 90 99 Gabon T owers S.A. Gabon Infrastructure sharing services 90 90 Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15270 S.  No.
Name of Subsidiary Principal place  of operation  / Country of  Incorporation Principal Activities Percentage of ownership  interest and voting  power (direct / indirect)- eﬀective shareholding  held by the Group As of   March 31,  2015   % As of   March 31,  2014  % 100 Indian Ocean T elecom Limited Jersey Investment Company 100 100 101 Kenya T owers Limited @ Kenya Infrastructure sharing services 100 100 102 Madagascar T owers S.A. Madagascar Infrastructure sharing services 100 100 103 Malawi T owers Limited @ Malawi Infrastructure sharing services 100 100 104 Mobile Commerce Congo S.A. Congo  Brazzavile Mobile commerce services 100 100 105 Montana International Mauritius Investment Company 100 100 106 MSI-Celtel Nigeria Limited# Nigeria Investment Company 100 100 107 Niger T owers S.A. Niger Infrastructure sharing services 90 90 108 Partnership Investments S.p.r.l.
Democratic  Republic of  Congo Investment Company 100 100 109 Rwanda T owers Limited ## Rwanda Infrastructure sharing services  - 100 110 Société Malgache de T éléphone  Cellulaire S.A. Mauritius Investment Company 100 100 111 Tanzania T owers Limited Tanzania Infrastructure sharing services 60 60 112 T chad T owers S.A. Chad Infrastructure sharing services 100 100 113 T owers Support Nigeria Limited Nigeria Infrastructure sharing services 79.059 79.059 114 Uganda T owers Limited @ Uganda Infrastructure sharing services 100 100 115 Warid T elecom Uganda Limited  (subsidiary w.e.f.
May 13, 2013) Uganda T elecommunication services 100 100 116 Warid Congo S.A. (Subsidiary w.e.f.
March 12, 2014) Congo  Brazzavile T elecommunication services 90 90 117 Zambian T owers Limited @ Zambia Infrastructure sharing services 96.36 96.36 118 Zap T rust Company Nigeria Limited Nigeria Mobile commerce services 100 100 119 Bharti Airtel Rwanda Holdings Limited  (formerly known as Zebrano (Mauritius)  Limited) Mauritius Investment Company 100 100 ^ The Group also holds 100% preference shareholding in these companies.
The preference shares does not carry any voting rights.
^^ Subsequent to the balance sheet date, merged with Bharti Airtel Limited.
# Under Liquidation.
@ entities of disposal group classiﬁed as held for sale.
## Dissolved / sold during the year ended March 31,2015.
(b) Details of controlled trust: S. No.
Name of trust Principal place of operation /  country of incorporation 1 Bharti Airtel Employees’ Welfare T rust India 2 Bharti Infratel Employees’ Welfare T rust India   Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 271Consolidated Financial Statements (c) Details of joint ventures: S.  No.
Name of Joint Ventures Principal place of  operation / Country  of Incorporation Principal Activities Percentage of  ownership interest and  voting power (direct  / indirect) - eﬀective  shareholding held by  the Group As of   March 31,  2015  % As of   March 31,  2014  % 1 Indus T owers Limited * India Passive infrastructure services 30.19 33.35 2 Bridge Mobile Pte Limited Singapore Provision of regional mobile  services 10 10 3 Forum I Aviation Ltd India Aircraft chartering services 16.67 16.67 4 FireFly Networks Limited (w.e.f.
February 4, 2014) (Refer note  39 (d)) India T elecommunication services 50 50 * Bharti Infratel Limited (“BIL”), in which the Group has 71.88% equity interest (79.39% as of March 31, 2014), owns 100% of Bharti Infratel Services Limited and 42%  of Indus T owers Limited (100% of Bharti Infratel Services Limited and 42% of Indus T owers Limited as of March 31, 2014).
(d) Details of associates: S.  No.
Name of Associates Principal place of  operation / Country  of Incorporation Principal Activities Percentage of  ownership interest and  voting power (direct  / indirect) - eﬀective  shareholding held by  the Group As of   March 31,  2015  % As of   March 31,  2014  % 1 Bharti T eleports Limited India Uplinking channels for  broadcasters 49 49 2 Tanzania T elecommunications  Company Limited Tanzania T elecommunication services 35 35 3 Seychelles Cable Systems  Company Limited Seychelles Submarine Cable System 26 26     41.
Other Signiﬁcant Matters (a) The Company has completed an independent evaluation  for all international and domestic transactions for the  year ended March 31, 2015 to determine whether the  transactions with associated enterprises are undertaken  at “arm’s length price”.
Based on the internal and  external transfer pricing review and validation, the  Company believes that all transactions with associated  enterprises are undertaken on the basis of arm’s length  principle.
(b) The Company (M/s J T Mobiles Limited subsequently  merged with the Company) was awarded license by  DoT to operate cellular services in the state of Punjab  in December 1995.
On April 18, 1996, the Company  obtained the permission from DoT to operate the Punjab  license through its wholly owned subsidiary, Evergrowth  T elecom Limited (ETL).
In December 1996, DoT raised  argument that the permission dated April 18, 1996 has  not become eﬀective and cancelled the permission to  operate, which was subsequently reinstated on March  10, 1998 (the period from April 18, 1996 to March 10, 1998  has been hereinafter referred to as ‘blackout period’).
On July 15, 1999, license was terminated due to alleged  non-payment of license fees, liquidated damages and  related penal interest relating to blackout period.
In September 2001, in response to the demand raised by  DoT , the Company had paid ` 4,856 Mn to DoT under  protest subject to resolution of the dispute through  arbitration.
Consequently, the license was restored  and an arbitrator was appointed for settlement of the  dispute.
Arbitrator awarded an unfavourable order,  which was challenged by the Company before Hon’ble  Delhi High Court.
Notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15272  On September 14, 2012, Hon’ble Delhi High court  passed an order setting aside the award passed by  the arbitrator.
DoT in the meanwhile has preferred  an Appeal, including condonation of delay in ﬁling of  appeal, which is presently pending before the Division  Bench of the Delhi High Court.
The Appeal of DoT on  the issue of condonation of delay was allowed on July  16, 2013.
The next date of hearing is yet to be ﬁxed.
However, the Company on October 30, 2013 has ﬁled  the writ Petition for recovery in Delhi High Court, notice  issued by High Court and listed for May 6, 2015.
42 Non-current Assets Held for Sale a.
During the year ended March 31, 2015, the Group  decided to sell and lease back a dedicated portion of  towers under long term lease contracts, considered as  ﬁnance lease in following countries:  approximately 4,800 telecom towers in Nigeria to  American T owers Cooperation / its subsidiaries (ATC);  approximately 1100 telecom towers in Zambia and  Rwanda to IHS;  approximately 3,500 telecom towers in six countries  (Burkina Faso, Ghana, Kenya, Malawi, Niger and Uganda)  to Eaton T owers Limited/ its subsidiaries (Eaton); and   approximately 3,100 telecom towers in four countries  (Tanzania, Congo Brazzavile, Democratic Republic of  Congo and Chad) to Helios T owers Africa / its subsidiaries  (Helios).
b.
The Group, on the basis of approval by Board of Directors  of respective subsidiaries/BAIN, considers that the  criteria stated by IFRS 5 “Non-current Assets Held for  Sale and Discontinued Operations” have been met, and  accordingly has classiﬁed the assets and associated  liabilities (collectively referred to as “disposal group”)  that are part of the sale and will not be leased back as  “assets of disposal group classiﬁed as held for sale” and  “liabilities of disposal group classiﬁed as held for sale”  in the statement of ﬁnancial position.
These assets and  liabilities are included under “Mobile Services Africa”  segment in Segment Reporting.
The Group has ceased depreciation and amortisation on the  telecom tower assets, to the extent it has estimated such  assets would not be leased back, from the respective dates  of classiﬁcation as held for sale.
Had the Group not decided  to sell these assets, depreciation and amortisation for year  ended March 31, 2015 would have been higher by ` 4,325 Mn.
The completion of the transactions is subject to certain  customary closing conditions and is expected to be completed  within a period of one year from the date of classiﬁcation as  held for sale.
The major classes of assets and liabilities classiﬁed as held for sale as of March 31, 2015 are as follows: (` Millions) Assets of disposal group classiﬁed as held for sale  As of     March 31, 2015   As of    March 31, 2014  Non current assets  42,677  -   Other current assets  2,968  -    45,645  -   (` Millions) Liabilities of disposal group classiﬁed as held for sale  As of     March 31, 2015   As of    March 31, 2014  Non current liabilities  (4,164)  -   Current liabilities  (1,281)  -    (5,445)  -   c.  On February 1, 2015, the sale and lease back of 200  towers in Rwanda was completed for a consideration  of ` 1,153 Mn.
The portion leased back, classiﬁed as  ﬁnance lease, representing the technical capacities of  the dedicated part of the towers on which Company’s  equipment are located, has been retained at the carrying  value of ` 431 Mn and the ﬁnance lease obligation has  been recorded at ` 609 Mn, being the fair value of  the leased back portion.
Accordingly, the gain on the  portion sold and not leased back amounting to ` 142 Mn  has been recognised in the income statement.
43  During the year ended March 31, 2015, the Group has  changed the presentation of regulatory levies applicable  to ﬁnance income from “Operating expenses” to “Other  expenses” in order to better reﬂect the underlying  business performance.
Previous year’s ﬁgures in the consolidated ﬁnancial  statements, including the notes thereto, have been  reclassiﬁed wherever required to conform to the current  year’s presentation/classiﬁcation.
These do not aﬀect  the previously reported net proﬁt or equity.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 273 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 273 (` Millions) Sr.  No.
Name of the Subsidiary Note Country of  Registration Reporting  Currency Reporting Period Financial Y ear End Exchange  Rate as of  March 31,  2015  Share  Capital    Reserves   T otal  Assets   T otal  Liabilities  Investments *  T urnover  Proﬁt/  (Loss)  Before  T axation   Provision  for  T axation   Proﬁt/  (Loss)  After  T axation   Proposed  Dividend  % of  shareholding 1 Bharti Airtel Services Limited  b India INR Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015  1.000  1  (944)  2,994  3,937  371  5,217  (92)  (4)  ( 88)  -   100% 2 Network i2i Limited  b Mauritius USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015  62.591  3,269  15,977  32,794  13,548  -    5,513  3,787  106  3,681  -   100% 3 Bharti Airtel (USA) Limited  b United States  of America USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015  62.591  -    (177)  941  1,118  -    1,381  54  6  48  -   100% 4 Bharti Airtel (UK) Limited  b United  Kingdom  GBP Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015  92.459  31  603  2,465  1,831  -    8,737  408  84  324  -   100% 5 Bharit Airtel (Canada) Limited  b, c Canada CAD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015  49.014  4  (31)  0  27  -    -    (3)  -    (3)  -   100% 6 Bharti Airtel (Hongkong) Limited  b Hongkong HKD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015  8.072  40  (341)  405  706  -    249  (15)  4  (1 9)  -   100% 7 Bharti Airtel Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd  b Singapore SGD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015  45.560  21,494  (961)  39,119  18,586   -    -    (362)  20  (382)  -   100% 8 Bharti Airtel Lanka (Private) Limited  b Sri Lanka LKR Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015  0.469  14,418  (16,566)  7,309  9,457  -    4,171  (2,118)  1  (2,119)  -   100% 9 Bharti Hexacom Limited  b, e India INR Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015  1.000  2,500  49,787  81,722  29,435  0  47,003  16,132  5,340  10,792  1,083 70% 10 Bharti Infratel Limited  b, e India INR Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015  1.000  18,938  160,697  222,215  42,580  119,241  53,88 9  32,737  5,485  27,252  14,815 71.88% 11 Bharti T elemedia Limited  b India INR Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015  1.000  102  (35,495)  19,228  54,621  -    24,759  (1,906)  -    (1,906)  -   95% 12 Airtel Bangladesh Limited  b Bangladesh BDT Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015  0.802  36,875  (49,855)  32,600  45,580  -    11,838  (6,739)  7  (6,746)  -   100% 13 Bharti International (Singapore) Pte Ltd  b Singapore USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015  62.591  85,961  (11,101)  116,684  4 1,824  99,408  5,408  230  157  73  -   100% 14 Airtel M Commerce Services Limited  b India INR Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015  1.000  2,900  (2,229)  2,058  1,387  1,112  394  45  -    45  -   100% 15 Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Limited  b Mauritius INR Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015  1.000  97,567  33  97,603  3  97,602  -    (2)  -    (2)  -   100% 16 Bharti Airtel (Japan) Kabushiki Kaisha  b Japan JPY Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015  0.521  0  11  29  18  -    28  17  1  16  -    100% 17 Bharti Airtel (France) SAS  b France EUR Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015  67.510  1  46  234  187  -    142  34  11  23  -   100 % 18 Bangladesh Infratel Networks Limited  b Bangladesh BDT Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015  0.802  0  (0)  0  0  -    -    (0)  -    ( 0)  -   100% 19 T elesonic Networks Limited   b  India  INR Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015  1.000  892  (1,099)  2,069  2,276  -    6,672  299   80  219  -   100% 20 Nxtra Data Limited  b  India  INR Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015  1.000  51  (81)  2,947  2,977  0  2,428  (28)  50  (78)  -   1 00% 21 Bharti Infratel Services Limited  b  India  INR Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015  1.000  1  (0)  1  0  -    -    (0)  -    (0)  -   71.88% 22 Airtel Broadband Services Private Limited  (formerly known as Wireless Business Services Private Limited)   b  India  INR Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015  1.000  56,671  (718)  64,837  8,884  -    0  (265)  (31)  (234)  -   100% 23 Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) B.V.  i Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  147,679  95,716 695,182  451,787  -   4,261  29,832  1,025  28,807  -   100% 24 Bharti Airtel Africa B.V.  i Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  30,371  39,741  347,609 277,497  -    -    3,6 49  6  3,643  -   100% 25 Bharti Airtel Burkina Faso Holdings B.V.  b Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  1  7,589 7,636  46  -    -    2,520  -    2,520  -   100% 26 Airtel Burkina Faso S.A.  a Burkina faso XOF Jan ‘14 to Dec'14 December 31, 2014 0.102  256  1,057  17,145  15,832  -    11,449  1, 292  674  618  -   100% 27 Bharti Airtel Chad Holdings B.V.  b Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  1  269 8,817  8,547  -    -    5  -    5  -   100% 28 Airtel T chad S.A.  i Chad XOF Jan ‘14 to Dec'14 December 31, 2014 0.102  2,799  (3,854)  13,382  14,437  -    7,955  (940)  519  (1, 459)  -   100% 29 Bharti Airtel Gabon Holdings B.V.  b Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  1  7,730  7,804  73  -    -    4,520   -    4,520  -   100% 30 Airtel Gabon S.A.  b Gabon XOF Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.102  614  (167)  12,822  12,375  -    11,836  (1,194)  118  (1, 312)  -   90% 31 Bharti Airtel Congo Holdings B.V.  b Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  1  5,415  9,151  3,735  -    -    (4 6)  -    (46)  -   100% 32 Airtel Congo S.A.  i Congo  Brazzavile XOF Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.102  532  (4,179)  14,444  18,091  -    9,947  (2,678)  124  (2,802)  -   90% 33 Bharti Airtel RDC Holdings B.V.  b Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  1  1,492  45,706  44,213  -    -    (9 22)  -    (922)  -   100% 34 Airtel Congo (RDC) S.A. (formerly Celtel Congo  RDC S.a.r.l.)
b Democratic  Republic of Congo CDF Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.067  7  (20,422) 45,944  66,359  -    20,702  (20,259)  203  (20,462)  -   98.50% Consolidated Financial Statements | Statement Pursuant to Section 129 of the Companies Act, 2013 Salient features of the ﬁnancial statement of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures for the year ended March 31, 2015 pursuant to Section 129  of the Companies Act, 2013 Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15274 (` Millions) Sr.  No.
Name of the Subsidiary Note Country of  Registration Reporting  Currency Reporting Period Financial Y ear End Exchange  Rate as of  March 31,  2015  Share  Capital    Reserves   T otal  Assets   T otal  Liabilities  Investments *  T urnover  Proﬁt/  (Loss)  Before  T axation   Provision  for  T axation   Proﬁt/  (Loss)  After  T axation   Proposed  Dividend  % of  shareholding 35 Bharti Airtel Mali Holdings B.V.  b Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  1  223  622  398  -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 36 Bharti Airtel Kenya Holdings B.V.  b Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  1  (2,309)  63,390  65,698  -    -    (60)  -    (60)  -   100% 37 Bharti Airtel Kenya B.V.  b Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  1  (3,971)  59,419  63,389  -    -    (1,029)  -    (1,029)  -   100% 38 Airtel Networks Kenya Limited  b, f Kenya KES Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.678  17,104  (36,480)  19,205  38,581  -    10,3 58  (4,502)  304  (4,806)  -   100% 39 Bharti Airtel Malawi Holdings B.V.  b Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  1  312  5,576  5,263  -    -    68  -    68  -   100% 40 Airtel Malawi Limited  i Malawi MWK Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.143  0  833 6,175  5,342  -    7,674  2,314  827  1,487  -    100% 41 Bharti Airtel Niger Holdings B.V.  b Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  1  8,572  8,617  44  -    -    2,178   -    2,178  -   100% 42 Celtel Niger S.A.  b Niger XOF Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.102  154  5,206  28,800  23,440  -    12,741  3,050  1,262  1, 788  -   90% 43 Bharti Airtel Sierra Leone Holdings BV  b Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  1  39  5,571  5,531  -    -    128  -    128  -   100% 44 Airtel (SL) Limited  i Sierra Leone SLL Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.014  115  (437)  6,941  7,263  -    6,169  408  149  2 59  -   100% 45 Airtel Networks Zambia Plc  b Zambia ZMW Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 8.261  9  2,564  19,737  17,164  -    13,281  1,008  4 34  574  -   96.36% 46 Bharti Airtel Uganda Holdings B.V.  b Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  1  (4,983)  19,391  24,373  -    -    (662)  -    (662)  -   100% 47 Airtel Uganda Limited  i, f Uganda UGS Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.021 265  (4,949)  14,079  18,763  -    14,656  (1,252)  -    (1,252)  -   100% 48 Bharti Airtel Tanzania B.V. b Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  1  (4,646)  16,638  21,283  -  -    200  -    200  -   100% 49 Airtel Tanzania Limited i Tanzania TZS Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.034  1,376  (10,593)  23,939  33,156  -    17,222  (4,21 7)  1,074  (5,291)  -   60% 50 Bharti Airtel Madagascar Holdings B.V. b Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  1  (671)  12,402  13,072  -    -    (179)  -    (179)  -   100% 51 Channel Sea Management Company   Mauritius Limited  b Mauritius USD Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 62.591  1  38  40  1  -    -    (2)  -    (2)  -   100% 52 Bharti Airtel Rwanda Holdings Limited (formerly  Zebrano (Mauritius) Limited  b Mauritius USD Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 62.591  3  177  8,972  8,792  -    -    (13)  -    (13)  -   100% 53 Montana International  b Mauritius USD Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 62.591  0  (9)  3  12  -    -    (1)  -    (1)  -   100% 54 Airtel Madagascar S.A.  b Madagascar MGA Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.021  63  (1,204)  8,999  10,140  -    4,624  321  259   62  -   100% 55 Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings B.V. (In liquidation)  c, g Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 56 MSI-Celtel Nigeria Limited (In liquidation)  c Nigeria NGN Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.314  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 57 Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings II B.V. b Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  1  (113)  112,418  112,530  -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 58 Bharti Airtel Nigeria B.V.  b Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  1  (29,530)  84,496  114,025  -    -    (4,2 72)  -    (4,272)  -   100% 59 Bharti Airtel Ghana Holdings B.V.  b Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  1  (4,363)  41,191  45,553  -    -    (1,089)  -    (1,089)  -   100% 60 Airtel Ghana Limited  i, f Ghana GHS Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 16.537  2,651  (24,061)  12,313  33,723  -    8,295  (8,377)  -    (8,377)  -   75% 61 Bharti Airtel Services BV  b Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  1  309  356  46  -    -    13  -    13  -   1 00% 62 Airtel Networks Limited  b   Nigeria NGN Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.314  63  (1,162)  114,701  115,800  -    75,131  (7,8 98)  2,503  (10,401)  -   79.059% 63 Bharti Airtel Zambia Holdings B.V.  b Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  1  26,434  26,521  86  -    -    5, 891  -    5,891  -   100% 64 Airtel Mobile Commerce Limited  b Malawi MWK Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.143  0  0  0  -    -    -    184  -    184  -   100% 65 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Kenya) Limited  a Kenya KES Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.678  0  -    386  386  -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 66 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Ghana) Limited  b Ghana GHS Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 16.537  1  -    224  223  -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 67 Celtel (Mauritius) Holdings Limited  b Mauritius USD Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 62.591  1  1,716  7,898  6,181  -    494  323  49  274  -   100% Salient features of the ﬁnancial statement of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures for the year ended March 31, 2015 pursuant to Section 129  of the Companies Act, 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 275 (` Millions) Sr.  No.
Name of the Subsidiary Note Country of  Registration Reporting  Currency Reporting Period Financial Y ear End Exchange  Rate as of  March 31,  2015  Share  Capital    Reserves   T otal  Assets   T otal  Liabilities  Investments *  T urnover  Proﬁt/  (Loss)  Before  T axation   Provision  for  T axation   Proﬁt/  (Loss)  After  T axation   Proposed  Dividend  % of  shareholding 68 Airtel Mobile Commerce Zambia Limited (formerly  ZMP Limited)  b Zambia ZMW Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 8.261  17  (421)  252  656  -    60  (143)  (0)  (143)  -   100% 69 Airtel Mobile Commerce (SL) Limited  i Sierra Leone SLL Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.014  0  -    148  148  -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 70 Airtel Mobile Commerce T chad S.a.r.l.
a Chad XOF Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.102  0  -    95  95  -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 71 Airtel Mobile Commerce B.V.  b Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  2  17  246  227  -    -    (7)  -    (7)  -    100% 72 Airtel Money S.A. (Gabon)  i Gabon XOF Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.102  1  (260)  454  713  -    72  (102)  0  (102)  -   10 0% 73 Malawi T owers Limited  i Malawi MWK Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.143  1  (464)  2,942  3,405  -    442  (425)  -    (425)  -   100% 74 Airtel Money Niger S.A. b Niger XOF Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.102  1  0  512  511  -    1  0  0  0  -   100% 75 Société Malgache de T éléphone Cellulaire S.A.  b Mauritius USD Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 62.591  3  143  159  13  -    -    (2)  -    (2)  -   100% 76 Airtel Mobile Commerce Holdings B.V.  b Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  2  (0)  2  0  -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 77 Indian Ocean T elecom Limited  b Jersey USD Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 62.591  156  761  922  5  -    -    (1)  -    (1)  -   100% 78 Airtel (Seychelles) Limited a Seychelles SCR Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 4.552  5  173  2,401  2,223  185  1,186  (53)  (63)  (116)  -   100% 79 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Tanzania) Limited  b  Tanzania TZS Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.034  0  -    2,393  2,393  -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 80 Airtel Mobile Commerce Uganda Limited a Uganda UGS Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.021  0  -    1,091  1,091  -    -    -    -     -    -   100% 81 Uganda T owers Limited  b Uganda UGS Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.021  0  (502)  2,562  3,064  -    1,480  (493)  -    (493)  -   100% 82 Africa T owers N.V.  i Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  4  (54)  24  74  -    163  12  66  (54)  -   100% 83 Airtel T owers (Ghana) Limited i Ghana GHS Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 16.537  1  (33)  5  37  -    -    (2)  -    (2)  -   75%84 Bharti Airtel DTH Holdings B.V.  b Netherlands USD Apr '14 to Mar '15 March 31, 2015 62.591  2  (7)  -    5  -    -    (1)  -    (1)  -   100% 85 Airtel DTH Services (SL) Limited (in liquidation) c,g Sierra Leone SLL Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.014  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 86 Airtel DTH Services Nigeria Limited (In liquidation) c Nigeria NGN Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.314  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 87 Airtel T owers (SL) Company Limited i Sierra Leone SLL Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.014  0  (29)  18  47  -    -    11  -    11  -   100% 88 Burkina Faso T owers S.A.  a Burkina faso XOF Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.102  1  (29)  1  29  -    -    3  -    3  -   100 % 89 Congo T owers S.A.  i Congo  Brazzavile XOF Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.102  1  (35)  1  35  -    -    2  -    2  -   90% 90 Kenya T owers Limited b Kenya KES Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.678  357  42  3,129  2,730  -    2,084  (48)  0  (48)  -   100% 91 Madagascar T owers S.A.  b Madagascar MGA Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.021  0  709  4,017  3,308  -    933  61  37  24  -   100% 92 Mobile Commerce Congo S.A.  i Congo  Brazzavile XOF Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.102  1  -    102  101  -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 93 Niger T owers S.A. b Niger XOF Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.102  1  (28)  1  28  -    -    4  -    4  -   90% 94 Tanzania T owers Limited b Tanzania TZS Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.034  0  (54)  0  54  -    -    (16)  -    (16)  -   60% 95 T chad T owers S.A. a Chad XOF Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.102  1  (96)  1  96  -    -    (38)  0  (38)  -   100%96 T owers Support Nigeria Limited  b Nigeria NGN Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.314  3  (3)  38  38  -    11  (1)  (0)  (1)  -   79 .059% 97 Zambian T owers Limited  b Zambia ZMW Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 8.261  0  (936)  6,547  7,483  -    1,890  (11)  (4)  (7)  -   96.36% 98 Airtel Money (RDC) S.p.r.l.
b Democratic  Republic of Congo CDF Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.067  154  (1,119)  1,023  1,988  -    161  (785)  (2)  (787)  -   100% 99 Airtel Mobile Commerce Burkina Faso S.A.  b Burkina Faso XOF Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.102  1  (166)  1,129  1,294  -    430  (164)  2  (166)  -   100% 100 Airtel DTH Services Congo (RDC) S.p.r.l.
(In  liquidation)  c, g Democratic  Republic of Congo CDF Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.067  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% Statement Pursuant to Section 129 of the Companies Act, 2013 Salient features of the ﬁnancial statement of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures for the year ended March 31, 2015 pursuant to Section 129  of the Companies Act, 2013 Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15276 (` Millions) Sr.  No.
Name of the Subsidiary Note Country of  Registration Reporting  Currency Reporting Period Financial Y ear End Exchange  Rate as of  March 31,  2015  Share  Capital    Reserves   T otal  Assets   T otal  Liabilities  Investments *  T urnover  Proﬁt/  (Loss)  Before  T axation   Provision  for  T axation   Proﬁt/  (Loss)  After  T axation   Proposed  Dividend  % of  shareholding 101 Congo RDC T owers S.p.r.l.
b Democratic  Republic of Congo CDF Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.067  6  644  9,919  9,269  -    4,243  591  26  565  -   100% 102 Gabon T owers S.A.  b Gabon XOF Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.102  1  (34)  1  34  -    -    (33)  0  (33)  -   90% 103 Airtel Mobile Commerce Madagascar S.A.  a Madagascar MGA Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.021  0  (251)  441  692  -    98  (1 45)  (27)  (118)  -   100% 104 Airtel Rwanda Limited  b Rwanda RWF Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.091  -    (6,162)  6,444  12,606  -    1,213  (2,391)  -    (2,391)  -   100% 105 Africa T owers Services Limited  i Kenya KES Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.678  0  53  (607)  (660)  -    406  159  108  51  -    100% 106 Airtel Mobile Commerce Rwanda Limited  b Rwanda RWF Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.091  1  -    141  140  -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 107 Warid T elecom Uganda Limited  h Uganda UGS NA NA 0.021  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 108 Warid Congo S.A. (Subsidiary w.e.f.
March 12, 2014)  i Congo  Brazzavile XOF Jan ‘14 to Dec’14 December 31, 2014 0.102  8,576  (6,652)  1,959  35  -    3,327  264  6  258  -   90% Subsidiaries yet to commence operations  1 Bharti Infratel Lanka (Private) Limited 2 Partnership Investment Sprl3 Zap T rust Company Nigeria Limited4 Bharti Airtel Developers Forum Limited5 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Seychelles) Limited6 Wynk LimitedSubsidiaries have been liquidated/sold during the year.
1 Bharti Airtel Acquisition Holdings B.V. (Liquidated on March 31, 2015)2 Airtel DTH Services Tanzania Limited (Liquidated on April 4, 2014)3 Bharti DTH Services Zambia Limited (Dissolved on November 21, 2014)4 Bharti Airtel Cameroon B.V. (Liquidated on March 31, 2015)5 Rwanda T owers Limited (Sold during March 2015) Notes:         a) Financial information has been extracted from the audited standalone ﬁnancial statements.
b) Financial information has been extracted from the unaudited standalone ﬁnancial statements.
c)  Subsidiaries are under liquidation.
d) Subsidiaries incorporated during the year.
e) Proposed dividend includes dividend distribution tax.
f) Share capital includes preference share capital.
g) The ﬁnancial statements for these subsidiaries are not required to be prepared as per the local laws of the countries where they are incorporated        h) Subsidiaries are not operational.
i)  Financial information has been extracted from the audited ﬁnancial information considered for the purpose of consolidated IFRS ﬁnancial statements for the respective ﬁnancial year end.
*Investments exclude investments in subsidiaries      Airtel Broadband Services Private Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary has been amalgamated with the Company w.e.f.
April 9, 2015      The ﬁgures which are appearing as Zero are result of rounding oﬀ Salient features of the ﬁnancial statement of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures for the year ended March 31, 2015 pursuant to Section 129  of the Companies Act, 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bharti Airtel Limited Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 277 (` Millions) Share of Associates / Joint Ventures held  by the company on the March 31, 2015 Proﬁt/Loss for the year ended March  31, 2015 Sr.  No.
Name of the Associate / Joint Venture Latest Audited  Balance Sheet Date Number of  shares Amount of  Investment  in Associate /  Joint Venture Extent of  holding % Description of how  there is signiﬁcant  inﬂuence Net Worth  attributable to  shareholders  as per latest  audited  Balance Sheet Considered  in consolidation* Not Considered  in consolidation* 1 Bharti T eleports Limited March 31, 2014  11,270,000 113 49% % of share capital  (178)  -    (50) 2 Bridge Mobile Pte Limited March 31, 2015  800,000 34 10% % of share capital  302  8  -    3 FireFly Networks Limited (w.e.f.
Feb 4, 2014) March 31, 2015  1,000,000 10 50% % of share capital  (4)  (10)  (2) 4 Tanzania T elecommunications Company  Limited December 31, 2013  102,852,615 - 35% % of share capital  (2,950)  -    -    5 Seychelles Cable Systems Company Limited June 30, 2012  260 185 26% % of share capital  47  55  -    6 Forum I Aviation Limited March 31, 2014  5,308,333  48 16.67% % of share capital  457  10  -    7 Indus T owers Limited** March 31, 2015  500,504  60,419 30.19% % of share capital  146,416  6,269  -    Notes:      All Associates / Joint Ventures warranting consolidation have been consolidated.
Amount of investment in joint venture / associate is based on the carrying value of investments in the standalone ﬁnancial statements of venturer/investor.
* Proﬁt / loss for the year considered / non considered in consolidation is for the year ended March 31, 2015.
** Proﬁts / losses considered for consolidation is based on direct shareholding of Bharti Infratel Limited as against eﬀective shareholding of the Company.
Statement Pursuant to Section 129 of the Companies Act, 2013 Salient features of the ﬁnancial statement of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures for the year ended March 31, 2015 pursuant to Section 129  of the Companies Act, 2013 Digital for all Annual Report 2014-15278 Circle Oﬃces Andhra Pradesh Splendid T owers,  Opp.
Begumpet Police Station,  Begumpet,   Hyderabad- 500016,  T elengana  Assam & North East States Bharti House, Six Mile,  Khanapara, G.S.
Road,  Guwahati - 781022,  Assam Bihar & Jharkhand Airtel Campus, Plot No-18,   Patliputra Industrial Area,  Patna - 800013,   Bihar Delhi NCR Plot No.
16, NH-8   Udyog Vihar, Phase-IV,  Gurgaon - 122015,  Haryana  Gujarat 2nd  & 4th Floor, Zodiac Square,  S G Road, Opp.
Gurudwara,  Ahmedabad - 380054,  Gujarat  Kerala & T amil Nadu Oceanic T ower,   101, Santhome High Road,  Santhome, Chennai - 600028,  Tamil Nadu   Madhya Pradesh &  Chhattisgarh 3rd & 4th Floor, Scheme No.
54,  Metro T ower, AB Road,   Indore - 452010,  Madhya Pradesh  Maharashtra & Goa 6th & 7th Floor,  Interface Building No.
7,  Mindspace, Malad Link Road,  Malad (W), Mumbai - 400064,  Maharashtra West Bengal & Odisha Inﬁnity Building,  Salt Lake Electronics Complex,   Block GP , Sector V,  Kolkata - 700091,  West Bengal Karnataka 55, Divyasree T owers,  Bannerghatta Main Road,  Bangalore - 560029,  Karnataka  Uttar Pradesh &  Uttaranchal TCG - 7/7 Vibhuti Khand,  Gomti Nagar,   Lucknow - 226010,  Uttar Pradesh Haryana, Punjab,  Himachal and J&K Plot No.
21, Rajiv Gandhi  Chandigarh T echnology Park,  Chandigarh - 160101 Rajasthan K-21, Sunny House,   Malviya Marg, C-Scheme,   Jaipur - 302001,  Rajasthan  Notes Notes