Annual Report 2016-17 Smart Network.
Smarter Experiences.
Bharti Airtel Limited Corporate   Information   Board of Directors     Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal   Chairman Mr. Gopal Vittal  Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia) Non-Executive Directors Mr. Ben Verwaayen Ms. Chua Sock Koong Mr. Craig Ehrlich Mr. D.K.
Mittal Sheikh Faisal Thani Al-Thani Mr. Manish Kejriwal Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal Mr. Shishir Priyadarshi Ms. T an Yong Choo Mr. V.K.
Viswanathan Bharti Airtel International  Netherlands B.V.     Mr. Raghunath Mandava   Managing Director & CEO (Africa)         Statutory Auditors M/s.
S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP  Chartered Accountants Internal Auditors     M/s.
ANB & Co.  M/s.
KPMG Cost Auditors M/s.
R. J. Goel & Co.
Cost Accountants Secretarial Auditors M/s.
Chandrasekaran Associates  Company Secretaries Registered &   Corporate Office Bharti Airtel Limited Bharti Crescent,  1, Nelson Mandela Road,  Vasant Kunj, Phase – II,  New Delhi – 110 070, India Website www.airtel.com Corporate Identification  Number (CIN) L74899DL1995PLC070609 Bharti Airtel Limited is a leading global telecommunications company with operations in 17 countries across Asia and Africa.
Headquartered in New Delhi, India, the Company ranks among the top three mobile service providers globally in terms of subscribers.
In India, the Company’s offerings include 2G,  3G and 4G wireless services, mobile commerce,  fixed line services, high speed home broadband,  DTH, enterprise services, including national and  international long-distance services to carriers.
In other geographies, we offer 2G, 3G and 4G  wireless services and mobile commerce.
Bharti  Airtel had over 372 Mn global customers at the  end of March 2017.
For the online version of the  Annual Report please log on to  http://www.airtel.in/about- bharti/equity/results/ The information contained in this  report can be accessed through  the Airtel Investor Relations app  available on the iPhone and iPad.
Corporate Overview Statutory Reports 43  Business Responsibility Report  50  Directors’ Report  86  Management Discussion and  Analysis 106  Report on Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  127  Standalone Financial Statements  with Auditors’ Report  184  Consolidated Financial Statements  with Auditors’ Report  268  Statement Pursuant to Section  129 of the Companies Act, 2013 272  Circle Offices Inside this Report Global Revenue D954.7Bn Revenue Market Share 33.8% Non Mobile Revenue Share 24.3% Equity Share Information    • Market capitalisation: ` 1,398.89 Bn (March 31, 2017) • Proposed dividend: ` 1 per share (Face value ` 5)  • Promoters holding: 67.14%  • NSE: BHARTIARTL  • BSE: 532454 • Bloomberg Code: BHARTI:IN   • Reuters Code: BRTI.NS PG 10 PG 11 PG 11 “T elecommunications continued to be an exciting arena.
Rapid rollout of 4G data networks, sharply increasing smartphone penetration and fast proliferating mobile applications enabled internet to enter customers’ everyday  lives in newer ways.” 02 Delivering smarter experiences  globally 04 Value creation methodology 06 Product-wise performance 07 Strategic roadmap 08 Highlights during the year   10 Financial Highlights 12 Message from Chairman 14 Message from Managing Director  & CEO (India and South Asia) 15 Message from Managing Director  & CEO (Africa)    16 Smart network unveils an evolved  way of life  24 New-age banking –   digital and inclusive 26 Africa is making its voice heard in  a smarter world 28 Board of Directors 30 Encouraging Recognition 32 Corporate Social Responsibility  & SustainabilityPG 12 T elecommunication continues to be a highly exciting and  transformational arena globally.
More so, in the emerging  parts of the world, where extensive rollout of 3G and  4G data networks, unprecedented rise in smartphone  penetration and fast proliferating mobile applications  are shaping a highly integrated digital society.
Amid this  sweeping rate of change, the consumer is the biggest  beneficiary.
The consumer now has the most empowering  device in his or her hand to stay ahead of the curve.
In India, during the year, the industry saw rapid growth,  disruption and consolidation at the same time.
At Bharti  Airtel, we navigated the challenges, with well thought- out strategies and sheer resilience.
The result is that we  managed to increase our revenue market share, which  reached a lifetime high.
At the same time, we continued our aggressive network  transformation programme under ‘Project Leap’.
With  180,000 mobile sites rolled out in the preceding two years,  this is one of the largest network rollouts globally.
During  the year, we also emerged as the only industry player in  India, with both 3G and 4G services in all 22 circles.
With the launch of Airtel Payments Bank, we became the  first among the licensees to go live in the country.
Our wide  and deep distribution network will enable us to emerge as a  pre-eminent driver of financial inclusion and mobile banking  in the country in the coming years.
On the African front, we gained further momentum during  the year as Airtel Africa turned Profit before T ax (PBT)  positive for the first time.
Our strategic initiatives in the  continent focused on optimising distribution, elevating  network experience for customers and building a rational  cost structure.
The result was an encouraging financial  performance.
Across the countries of our presence, we continue to  improve our offerings, systems and processes to provide  our customers an experience that is best-in-class.
At the  same time, our focus on community and sustainability  initiatives remains unwavering.
We are competing strongly in the fourth industrial era  across parts of the world, while driving progress and  prosperity for millions of people.
With smart network  and smarter  experiences.
Delivering smarter  experiences globally Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 2 Commitment D1,197Bn D2,912Bn ~ D930Bn Cumulative contribution  to India’s government  exchequer in the last  five years Cumulative investments  till date  Spectrum investment  till date Progress 1.55Tn Minutes of voice traffic  in 2016-17 903 Bn MB Data traffic in  FY 2016-17 USD16.1 Bn T otal Airtel Money  transaction value in  2016-17 Prominence 4% Of the world’s  population connected  through Airtel 1.87Bn+ Addressable  population globally,  considering the  geographies in which  Airtel has presence 355.7 Mn+ Mobile subscribers  across Asia (India and  Sri Lanka) and Africa   17  Country presence  across Asia and Africa  76 Mn Wireless data  customers across Asia  and Africa 22.4 Mn New mobile subscriptions  in India in FY 2016-17 Leadership #1 Ranked telecom  operator in India #2 Ranked telecom  operator in Africa  #3 Ranked mobile  operator globally*  *in terms of subscriber base Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements 3 Value creation methodology An aspirational brand that is ready  for the future Our vision is to enrich   the lives of our customers.
Our obsession is to win  customers for life by  providing an exceptional  experience.
Grow market share.
Hold cost.
Vision Objectives Values Alive.
Inclusive.
Respectful.
Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 4 How we will win Grab increased share of 4G devices  Drive rapid data consumption,  accelerate SIM consolidation and  accelerate postpaid Build the largest Payments Bank by  creating differentiation Accelerate Airtel homes through  brilliant service bundling  Drive depth of product portfolio in  B2B  Eliminate customer frustration across  clusters  Deliver a world class network  experience  Revamp our stores for improved  growth and customer experience Accelerate home broadband, B2B  growth, and DTH Drive new revenue streams through a  combination of content, innovation &  alliances Drive down cost through challenging  the status quo Accelerate active sharing, fiber and  joint sourcing of bandwidth More high  revenue  (ARPU)  customers More  services per  customer Brilliant  customer  experience Win with the  Portfolio War on  waste Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements 5 Product-wise performance Mobile Services  Bundled plans with unlimited voice  packs  First to launch 4G in India  Postpaid plans  Myplan - customised plans as  per customer usage  Infinity - Options with unlimited  benefits  Pocket-friendly data packs  Recognised as the smartphone  network Homes Landline  Attractive plans and offers  Highly reliable services  24/7 online support  Value-added services Internet   Introduced ‘V-Fiber’ technology  Up to 100 Mbps speed Digital TV  Android TV  Universal Remote  MyPlan Customised   Interactive services  Mobile India (D Mn) Y-o-Y 5,65,511 2017 2017 2017 2017 5,60,638 2016 2016 2016 2016 2,27,734 EBITDA 4%  Revenues 1% 2,19,387 Mobile Africa* (USD Mn) Y-o-Y 3,568859 3,448667 EBITDA 29%   Revenues   3% * on constant currency,   15 countries operations Y-o-Y EBITDA 22%  Revenues 10% 27,518 25,066 12,998 10,648 Y-o-Y 34,306 29,178 12,219 9,976 EBITDA 22%  Revenues 18% Revenue Mix FY2016-17 56% 21% 3% 3% 11% 6% Homes Digital Airtel Business T ower Infrastructure Mobile Services Africa Mobile Services India and South  East Asia Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 6 Strategic roadmap Capitalise on huge  residual opportunity S-Curve on data  India mobile broadband (3G/4G)  penetration at ~20% (TRAI)  Smartphone shipments show  tremendous growth; smartphone  penetration at 24% (GSMA India)  Data traffic to grow by a CAGR  of 63% over the period 2015-20  (GSMA India)  Declining age dependency  (UN Estimates)  Industry consolidation, top 3  operators account for more than  75% RMS (TRAI)  Increased focus towards data and  voice evolving as a bundled service Emerging opportunities with scale   Scaling up payments bank, and  non-mobile businesses to capitalise  on emerging opportunities.
Large-scale investments  in place Spectrum Bank  Successful re-farming of sub-GHz  spectrum for 3G  Pan-India coverage of 3G/4G   Highest spectrum market share  Largest data capacity per site Largest network of towers and  base stations   Over 95.3% voice population  coverage  Mobile broadband sites up 61%  over the last year Largest network of optic fibre   Global and national long-distance  fibre of over 479,856 RKms We will consolidate on our spectrum  bank, towers & base stations and  optic fibre network to drive future  growth sustainably 2017 2017 2016 Airtel Business  Diverse portfolio of services - voice,  data, video, network integration,  data centres, managed services,  enterprise mobility applications and  digital media  Strategically located submarine  cables and satellite network  Global network running across  250,000 Rkms, covering 50  countries and 5 continents Y-o-Y 33,884 30,327 1,09,429 96,993 EBITDA 12%  Revenues 13% T ower infrastructure   One of the world’s largest passive  infrastructure providers   Over 90,646 towers (including  proportionate share of Indus) Y-o-Y 29,177 26,196 60,829 55,589 EBITDA 11%  Revenues 9% T eam Airtel Global team strength   Won the Aon Best Employer  India 2017 Award for innovative  people practices.
Awarded for  achieving high levels of employee  engagement, establishing people  practices and leadership intent  Our T eams: India: 18,683 and  Africa: 3,928 Diversified portfolio with  significant scale Profitability and scale across  diversified segments  Dominant position to capitalise  with bulk investments in place  Only operator with a diversified  portfolio  Generating significant organic  free cash Leadership across geographies   Leader in India, #1 or #2 in 12  African countries Leading market shares   Highest revenue market share and  subscriber market share in India Financial flexibility and  balance sheet strength Strengthening war on waste across  geographies  Consolidated EBITDA is up by 4%  and consolidated EBITDA margins  is up 2% Y-o-Y  Africa operation turned into a  full-year PBT positive (constant  currency)   Airtel Africa revenues grew by  3% (in constant currency – 15  countries) Focused on deleveraging through  strategic initiatives in Africa and  India   Realised around USD 3.1 Bn in  Africa through tower sales and  divestment of 2 countries   Realised ~ USD 1 Bn with sale of  stake in Infratel 2016 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements 7 Quarter 1 April – June 2016 Quarter 2 July – Sep 2016 July Ranked first in a listing  of 100 emerging market  multinational companies as  part of a study on corporate  transparency and reporting  by Transparency International Closed the divestment of our  operations in Sierra Leone to  Orange Divested 588 telecom towers  in Niger to Helios T owers  Africa June Announced a new initiative – Open  Network - under Project Leap, our  national network transformation  initiative Closed the divestment of our  operations in Burkina Faso to  Orange 1 Highlights during the year September Divested telecom towers in  Niger to Helios T owers Africa Rolled out e-KYC solutions  across India, to enable instant  mobile activations May Successfully concluded the  acquisition of the rights to use 2 x  5 MHz spectrum in the 1800 MHz  Band allotted to Videocon T elecom  in six circles Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 8 Quarter 3 Oct – Dec 2016 Quarter 4 Jan – Mar 2017 October Fortified spectrum  portfolio and bought  108.8Mhz spectrum in  the auctions Launched ‘V-Fiber’  to deliver superfast  broadband to digital  homes Re-launched  MyAirtel App -  An App for Apps  - section that has a  collection of apps under  a single interface January Airtel Payments Bank  became the first  payments bank in the  country to go LIVE as  it rolled out services  nationally February Announced free  incoming calls/SMS  and zero additional data  charges on national  roaming Entered into a definitive  agreement with T elenor  South Asia Investments  Pte Ltd to acquire  T elenor India March Airtel and Millicom  International Cellular  S.A. signed an  agreement to combine  their operations in  Ghana through their  respective subsidiaries Entered into a  definitive agreement  with Orascom to  acquire Orascom’s  entire equity stake  in the Middle  East North Africa  Company Submarine  Cable Systems S.A.E.
Airtel T anzania  filed the draft  prospectus with  the Dar es Salaam  Stock Exchange on  December 30, 2016  for its initial public  offering December March Airtel rated as India’s  fastest mobile network  by Ookla Entered into a  definitive agreement  with Tikona to acquire  4G Business, including  100mhz spectrum in  BWA 2300Mhz band  and 350 sites in five  telecom circles Wynk Music crossed  the mark of 50 Mn app  installs.
November Concluded the  acquisition of the  rights to use 20  MHz 2300 Band  BWA spectrum  allotted to Aircel, in  all the eight circles Announced  completion of the  merger of subsidiary  Airtel Bangladesh  Limited with Robi  Axiata Limited Completed the  secondary sale of over  190 Mn shares of  Bharti Infratel Limited,  representing a 10.3%  stake, to a consortium  of funds advised by KKR  and Canada Pension  Plan Investment Board Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements 9 Financial Highlights  Financial Year Ended March 31 IFRS Ind AS ** Operating Highlights Units 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 T otal Customer Base 000’s  271,227  295,948  324,368  357,428  372,354  Mobile Services 000’s  259,844  283,580  310,884  342,040  355,673  Homes Services* 000’s  1,616  1,654  1,679  1,949  2,129  Digital TV Services 000’s  8,100  9,012  10,073  11,725  12,815  Airtel Business* 000’s  1,667  1,702  1,732  1,714  1,736  Consolidated Financials (` Mn) T otal revenues ` Mn  769,045  857,461  920,394  965,321  954,683  EBITDA (before exceptional items) ` Mn  233,340  278,430  314,517  341,682  356,206 Cash Profit from Operations before Derivative and  Exchange Fluctuation (before exceptional items) ` Mn  195,643  241,813  285,280  289,083  283,668 Earnings Before T ax ` Mn  47,853  78,643  107,130  128,463 77,233 Net Profit ` Mn  22,757  27,727  51,835  60,767  37,998  Consolidated Financials (` Mn) Shareholder's Equity ` Mn  503,217  597,560  619,564  667,693  674,563  Net Debt ` Mn  583,567  605,416  668,417  835,106  913,999  Capital Employed ` Mn  1,086,784  1,202,976  1,287,981  1,502,799  1,588,562  Key Ratios Capex Productivity % 69.12 72.91 77.40 69.89 65.34 Opex Productivity % 45.43 45.20 43.79 42.90 41.87 EBITDA Margin % 30.34 32.47 34.17 35.40 37.31 EBIT Margin % 11.08 14.22 17.23 17.22 16.42 Return on Shareholder's Equity % 4.51 5.04 8.52 9.44 5.66 Return on Capital employed % 5.68 6.65 8.05 8.32 6.45 Net Debt to EBITDA Times  2.51  2.19  2.08  2.46  2.66  Interest Coverage ratio Times  6.79  7.58  8.43  7.06  5.20  Book Value Per Equity Share `  132.51  149.49  154.99  167.03  168.77  Net Debt to Shareholders’ Equity Times  1.16  1.01  1.08  1.25  1.35  Earnings Per Share (Basic) `  6.00  7.02  12.97  15.21  9.51  Contribution to Exchequer (India) T axes, Duties, Fees and other Levies` Mn  141,513 213,324 237,688 284,215 319,814 * Effective FY 2016-17, the Company has realigned the reporting of its Corporate fixed line voice and fixed line data business with Airtel Business and accordingly  T elemedia Service renamed to Homes services.
Hence, the customer base of ‘Broadband and T elephone Services’ is now represented as ‘Homes’ and ‘Airtel  Business’.
** With effect from April 01, 2016, the Company has applied Ind AS for the preparation of its financial statements.
The transition is carried out from accounting  principles generally accepted in India with the transition date being April 01, 2015.
All figures are based on Consolidated Financial Statements.
Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 10 Non-Wireless Revenue Share*  % FY 2017 24.3 Revenue Growth 12% EBITDA Growth  14%  FY 2016 21.4 EBITDA Margin  % 35.4FY 2016 Expansion 192bps OFCF Growth (Operating Free Cash Flow)  ` Mn Increasing Revenue Market Share  % 31.6FY 2016 FY 2017 33.8 Absolute Growth 2.3% Accelerate Non-Mobile Businesses Strengthening Market Position Strip Out Waste Growth Despite Challenges FY 2016 625,479 Reducing Costs  ` Mn Growth (4%) FY 2017 601,385 *Non-Wireless includes DTH, Homes, Airtel Business and T ower Co; post  eliminations Contributing to 56% incremental EBITDA  between 2016-2017 India and Africa churn   under control.
T otal customer base   increased by 22.4 Mn in India.
EBITDA Growth  ` Mn 135,762FY 2016 FY 2017 157,461 Growth 16% 341,682FY 2016 Growth 4% FY 2017 356,206 FY 2017 37.3 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements 11 Message from Chairman Dear Shareholders, The global economy regained some of the  lost momentum during the year.
While major  economies benefitted from improving global  demand, commodity exporting countries  recovered on the back of a spike in commodity  prices.
Our Company experienced mixed  outcomes in our key markets in Asia and Africa.
India, despite going through bold but disruptive  demonetisation drive, experienced a reasonably  good year with economy maintaining its growth  momentum, outshining several of its emerging  market peers.
However, Africa continued to  experience sluggishness in its growth rates, and  adverse currency movements further aggravated  the business performance across industry  sectors.
T elecommunications continued to be an exciting  arena.
Rapid rollout of 4G data networks,  sharply increasing smartphone penetration and  fast proliferating mobile applications enabled  internet to enter customers’ everyday lives in  newer ways.
The amazing pace of change was  particularly visible in emerging markets like  India that are currently in the middle of a giant  leap towards 4G.
This massive transformational  change has catapulted customers’ mobile  experience to a new high.
The mobile phone  has become the most powerful, empowering  and transformational device.
T o be able to stay  ahead of the curve during this fourth industrial  revolution, your Company continues to digitise  itself each day – its offerings, systems, processes,  customer centricity.
India witnessed unprecedented market  disruption following the entry of an extremely  well-capitalised and aggressive new operator.
Its prolonged free trial offers created massive  pressure on industry revenues and margins.
“T elecommunications  continued to be an exciting  arena.
Rapid rollout of 4G  data networks, sharply  increasing smartphone  penetration and fast  proliferating mobile  applications enabled internet  to enter customers’ everyday  lives in newer ways.
” 180,000 Mobile sites rolled out  in the past 2 years, this  is one of the largest  network rollouts  globally 27,000+ Our flagship  program in Africa,  “Adopt-a-School”  currently reaches  out to over 27,000  children in 56 schools.
Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 12 Airtel on its part navigated this extraordinary  challenge with a well thought out strategic  action plan and of course, sheer resilience.
Amidst this massive industry shake-up, we  managed to increase our revenue market share;  to reach a lifetime high.
Many small operators  lost their bearings under the intense onslaught  and consequently prepared to exit the market.
The shake-up also triggered an industry wide  consolidation process, which we believe could  prove beneficial for the market in the long run.
The year witnessed considerable strengthening  of our spectrum footprint both through buying  at the latest round of auction and inorganic  acquisitions.
Besides completing the acquisition  of spectrum from Videocon and Aircel in  fourteen circles, we also entered into definitive  agreements to acquire T elenor India and Tikona  Digital Networks.
With these acquisitions Airtel  became the only operator in the country to  have a robust pan India 2G/3G/4G spectrum  footprint.
Our aggressive network transformation  programme continued under ‘Project Leap’  during the year.
With 180,000 mobile sites rolled  out in the past 2 years, this is one of the largest  network rollouts globally.
Proactive rollouts  during the year made Airtel the only operator in  the country with 2G, 3G and 4G services in all  22 circles.
With the launch of Airtel Payments  Bank we became the first among the licensees  to go live in the country.
Early days of the bank  are encouraging and with our deep distribution  network, I expect the Bank to be a pre-eminent  driver of financial inclusion and mobile banking in  the country in the coming years.
Strategic consolidation of telecom assets  remained an unmistakable underlying trend in  emerging markets.
While the transactions to  divest tower assets in DRC and Niger and sale  of Airtel’s operations in Burkina Faso and Sierra  Leone finally reached closure in Africa, we also  completed the merger of Airtel Bangladesh  with Robi-Axiata during the year.
Additionally,  we entered into an agreement to combine our  operations in Ghana with Tigo to create the  second largest operator in the market.
Operational turnaround in Africa gained further  momentum during the year as Airtel Africa  turned Profit before T ax (PBT) positive for the  first time.
Our strategic initiatives focused on  distribution optimisation, network excellence and  cost management resulted in resilient financial  performance.
As expected, Data continued to be  a key driver of incremental growth in Africa.
Our reputation in terms of adherence to the  highest standard of corporate governance and  transparency received wide acclaim during the  year when Transparency International ranked  Bharti Airtel first in its list of 100 emerging  market multinationals on corporate transparency  and reporting.
Our philanthropic arm Bharti Foundation’s Satya  Bharti School Program completed 10-years  of operation during which it has successfully  expanded the ambit of its operation through  multiple initiatives focused on education for  rural underprivileged children.
The Program  is currently reaching out to nearly two lakh  rural children across 12 states through these  initiatives.
Besides its core education programs,  the Foundation also strengthened its other  philanthropic initiatives during the year; Satya  Bharti Abhiyan (rural sanitation), Nyaya Bharti  (legal and financial aid for underprivileged under  trials).
We also witnessed significant expansion  in Airtel Africa’s philanthropic initiatives in the  areas of school education, health, youth training  and empowerment.
Our flagship program in  Africa, “Adopt-a-School” currently reaches out to  over 27,000 children in 56 schools.
I am pleased to inform you that 2016-17 turned  out to be a memorable year for me personally, as  I entered into two major global roles - Chairman  of International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) and  Chairman of GSMA.
While ICC headquartered  in Paris, is one of the world’s oldest and most  respected business organisations promoting the  cause of global business and trade at various  global forums, GSMA headquartered in London  is a strategic global organisation representing  nearly 800 global mobile operators and more  than 300 companies in the broader mobile  ecosystem.
It also organises Mobile World  Congress in Barcelona, Shanghai and San  Francisco.
T elecoms lie at the heart of today’s increasingly  digital society and economy.
As new generation  of technologies and application innovations  take root and industry structure get reshaped  under competitive pressure, operators will  come across new operational challenges, and  more importantly opportunities.
With our robust  spectrum portfolio, competitive position and  management bandwidth, we are well placed  to take advantage of this rapidly changing  environment to strengthen our leadership  position even further.
Sunil Bharti Mittal “The year witnessed considerable strengthening of our  spectrum footprint both through buying at the latest  round of auction and inorganic acquisitions.” Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements 13 Message from Managing Director & CEO (India and South Asia) Dear Shareholders, FY 2016-17 has been an eventful year.
The  entry of a new player in the industry triggered  rapid consolidation.
While the industry witnessed  a de-growth in revenues, Airtel increased its  market share across most circles.
Airtel was also  ranked as the 3rd Most Trusted Brand in India  (#1 in T elecom) across industry sectors such  as E-commerce, Online Services, FMCG and  Financial Institutions.
This success was made  possible by rigorous execution of our strategy.
Go to Market excellence: We drove several  new initiatives to drive market excellence this  year.
We launched instant mobile activations  through e-KYC.
We also rolled out a new retailer  application - Mitra App which enables recharges  and acquisitions through a single platform.
With  over 3.5 lac biometric devices, Airtel’s acquisition  and recharge platform has become one of the  biggest digital transaction platforms in the  country.
In addition, recognising the need to grab  higher share of 4G devices, we implemented  solid innovations to build our share of 4G.
Further in November 2016, we were the first to  successfully launch Payments Bank – in line with  the   Government’s vision of financial inclusion.
We leveraged our strong distribution backbone  to create a strong ecosystem of Customers,  Banking Points and Merchants leading to  creation of more than 1,000 cashless villages  across the country.
Brilliant Network Experience:  One of the most  important foundations upon which we deliver  services to our customers is our network.
We  continued network investments under ‘Project  Leap’.
180,000 mobile sites were rolled out  in past 2 years, making it one of the largest  network rollouts globally.
We doubled our  transmission capacity and increased mobile  backhaul capacity by eight times.
Overall we are  proud to be the only company currently with 2G,  3G and 4G services in all 22 circles.
In our effort  to substantially improve the network experience,  we continued our Open Network campaign and  single-mindedly worked to eliminate customer  frustration through the year.
Valuable Customers: We worked pro-actively  on multiple fronts to gain valuable customers.
We invested and upgraded more than 70%  of our broadband customers to 40-100 mbps  speeds through the new V-Fiber technology.
We also made our postpaid proposition more  attractive by widening our store footprint,  family proposition and simplifying national and  international roaming to prevent bill shocks.
One  of the most innovative actions we took towards  the end of this year was to launch the new Airtel  Internet TV (Powered by Android) - preloaded  with Netflix, YouT ube, Google Play Games, airtel  Movies along with an inbuilt TV cast option.
War on Waste: We continued our emphasis  on increasing productivity and reducing waste  within our business.
In the past three years, we  had cost saving targets for ourselves and we  have been able to meet them successfully.
This  is demonstrated by the fact that our Opex grew  by only 4% this year versus 6.2% last year.
People: As an organisation we are highly  committed to ensure growth and well-being of  our people.
Based on feedback from our annual  people survey this year, we organised the first  ever ‘Airtel Careers Fair’ to help employees  take charge of their own careers and find a  sustainable future within the Company.
As an organisation we continue to be committed  to sustainable and inclusive growth.
We have  launched our fourth sustainability report this  year, which encapsulates our initiatives on  adoption of green technology aggressively.
Bharti Foundation, with full support from our  employees, has been doing remarkable work in  engaging parents and the community to spread  awareness of education and empowerment  of Girl Child.
These initiatives have made our  corporate citizenship more meaningful.
As we look ahead, we expect an exciting but  turbulent year – consolidation will continue  and the new entrant will continue to disrupt  the market.
Internally, we view this as a once  in a lifetime opportunity to grow market share.
We strongly believe in exciting possibilities  of our future driven by rapid digitisation and  explosion of value-added adjacent services.
We  are determined to drive this change despite the  competitive headwinds.
As we move ahead and embark into a new era  of telecom in the country I would like to thank  our customers, our people, our partners and our  shareholders for their support and faith in us.
We  seek your continued guidance in our journey.
Gopal Vittal Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 14 Message from Managing Director & CEO (Africa) Dear Shareholders, FY 2016-17 turned out to be a reasonably  good year for us in Africa despite significant  environmental challenges.
The year witnessed  a gradual strengthening of our key operational  metrics in different markets providing further  momentum to our turnaround plan.
Our strategic considerations revolved around  achieving distribution excellence, ensuring  excellent overall network quality and enabling  existing customers to garner more benefits from  the networks.
We also focused on optimising  operations and developing our internal  capabilities.
Our initiatives have resulted in our  operations delivering a positive PBT (Profit  Before T ax) during the 2016-17 financial year  (constant currency), for the first time ever.
During the course of the year, we have been  diligent with respect to our attention towards  Operational Excellence and Cost Management.
Emphasis on running our operations efficiently  and managing costs effectively have yielded  results.
Africa’s underlying revenues grew by  4.4% in constant currency, with net revenues up  5%.
Against the backdrop of revenue growth,  the EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, T ax,  Depreciation and Amortisation) for the financial  year 2016-17, saw a growth of 36% with  margin expanding by 500+ basis points on an  underlying basis (constant currency).
Some milestones over the period include:   Completion of the sale of the Airtel operations  in Burkina Faso and Sierra Leone to Orange  with full regulatory approval.
Divestment of telecom towers in the  Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and  Niger to Helios T owers Africa.
Airtel and Millicom signed an agreement to  combine their operations in Ghana through  their respective subsidiaries, Airtel Ghana  Limited and Tigo Ghana Limited.
As per the  agreement, Airtel and Millicom will have equal  ownership and governance rights in the  combined entity.
Our emphasis has been to simplify our product  offerings and accelerate growth through an  enhanced customer experience.
Consequently,  our subscriber base increased by 7.2% over the  previous financial year, taking the total to 80.1  Mn.
Our on-going focus on acquiring quality  customers resulted in lowering customer churn  as well.
Data is a powerful growth vehicle and a key  focus area for us.
Continuous upgradation in  our networks along with aggressive data bundle  have resulted in growing our data consumption  by 95% and revenues by 23.5%.
We also redesigned our distribution  infrastructure to facilitate better reach and  growth of Airtel Money.
The Airtel Money  service has been augmented by introduction  of Microloans and International Money transfer  facilities in 6 countries.
We continued to position Airtel as “The Smart  phone Network” in Africa through our pan  African services.
Airtel was rated amongst the  top 10 most admired brands in Africa in 2016-17  by Brand Africa.
People remain our most important asset at Airtel  Africa.
We continued to focus on improving  ways of working, strengthening our talent and  leadership in the commercial function and  further developing key functional competences.
We further worked toward sensuring that the  organisation structures in HQ and OpCos are  aligned and geared for effective commercial  execution.
During the year we have also  reiterated our commitment to give back to the  wider community through our CSR interventions  in different markets.
I would like to take this opportunity to sincerely  thank all our valued stakeholders - customers,  shareholders, government bodies, business  partners and employees for their unstinted  support during the year.
We remain firmly  committed to usher in the benefits of the global  voice and data revolution to our customers  across the 15 countries that we operate in within  Africa.
We are well positioned to continue our growth  into 2017-18 in both subscriber addition and  revenue, and will continue being guided by the  strategic imperatives of distribution excellence,  customer experience, network excellence, right  cost model and the people development.
I look  forward to the upcoming fiscal year with great  optimism and purpose.
Raghunath Mandava Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements 15 Smart network unveils   an evolved way of life  We believe a society that is more  technologically integrated is naturally more  progressive.
We are committed to providing  our customers a brilliant network experience;  and as a part of that commitment, we are  continuing our investments to build an all- encompassing future-ready network with  speed and precision.
Network Rollout –  Project Leap The total investment commitment for  the project is to the tune of ` 60,000+  crore.
The phased rollout of the  project entails meticulous planning  and smart execution.
We are driven  by the aspiration to be the most  preferred smartphone network; and  a compelling choice for customers  across multiple attributes of coverage,  capacity and network experience.
During the year, the execution of  Project Leap required a seamless  partnership with vendors.
Most of the  sites planned were mobile broadband  sites and required robust internet  backbone through optical fiber.
The  entire spectrum of activity, including  radio and transport planning,  installation, fiber availability,  media readiness had to be done in  a very closely coordinated manner  across India.
Every city and circle was divided  into small clusters, implementing a  targeted approach for every cluster.
With focused teamwork and real-time  course correction, we could roll out  180,000 sites in two years, thereby  doubling our network.
Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 16  India’s fastest network This mega investment on network and focus  on cluster-wise network quality has helped  Airtel to create a best-in-class customer  experience.
Ookla, the global leader in  broadband testing and web-based network  diagnostic applications, has rated Airtel  as India’s fastest mobile network.
Ookla’s  findings are based on an analysis of millions  of internet speed tests logged on ‘modern  devices’ by mobile customers across India,  using its popular Speedtest app.
The results  include all mobile tests, regardless of  connection technology.
Here are our achievements of FY 2016-17: 90,000 sites Deployed 90,000 sites  (80% of these sites were high- speed broadband sites) Platinum 3G Launched platinum 3G on 900  MHz in Mumbai, Kolkata, Andhra  Pradesh, North East States and  Assam, Karnataka and Punjab for  world-class indoor experience 3G 71% population Launched 3G in all circles, span- ning over 71% of the population 4G Launched 4G services in all circles Broadband 7,600 towns   460,000 villages Rolled out high-speed   broadband across 7,600   towns and 460,000 villages Fiber Backbone Created a powerful backbone for  data and internet services  in addition to voice with 40,000+  kilometre of incremental fiber  rolled out last year, leading to  over 450,000 km of domestic and  international fiber Upgrades Modernised existing networks,  replacing the legacy equipment  with smaller, better and more  efficient new equipment Transport Network Facilitated extensive upgrade   of the transport network with  IP-fication of over 50% of re- gional network and forklifting  the capabilities to 100 Gbps  carriage; this ensured that mul- ti-fold growth of traffic from both  business and retail customers is  handled with ease 17 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Airtel network has now become  truly heterogeneous.
From the  convergence of two technologies and  three layers, we have moved to four  technologies and six layers, making  the network very complex.
As customers now have to traverse  across technologies and layers,  maintaining and improving the  network experience becomes a  challenge.
T o tackle this, Airtel focuses  on real-time optimisation through Self  Optimisation Network (SON) and Geo  analytical tools.
Deployment of Self Optimisation  Network (SON) enabled automation  of network optimisation to ensure  availability of resources as per user  demand.
It has enabled dynamic  configuration of the network for  seamless handovers in 3G and  2G network, thus enhancing the  customer experience significantly.
Real-time balancing of network  load across congested and non- congested sites have reduced  overloading, thus improving user  throughputs and blocking the  network.
Real time optimisation has  improved network utilisation, thus  improving efficiency of the available  spectrum and network capacity.
Geo analytical tools have enabled us  to pioneer customer demand centric  network planning and densification  by getting visibility of the network  consumption on granular 50m x  50m grid.
It has helped ensure the  deployment of new sites, small cells  in corridors of high consumption,  thus improving efficiency of new  deployments.
We are open to our  customers Airtel has been the first to launch the  Open Network initiative to empower our  customers and make them part of the  journey.
Through this initiative, the entire  network information, including coverage,  site details and signal strength is being  made available to customers.
Any  customer can get information about  signal quality in his/her area; and the  sites he/she is served from.
Customers  can also log a complaint, which is based  on their geographic location.
This portal  also enables customers to help Airtel  with leads to erect towers.
Enabling best-in-class customer experience Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 18  Proactive Performance  Management Airtel has embarked upon a journey of  continuous improvement of network  quality, driven by customer perception.
The entire country has been divided  into small clusters with clear owners.
The focus has shifted from reactive to  proactive performance management.
This approach to network quality  has led to the reduction of call drops,  blocking and slow browsing.
V-Fiber We rolled out V-Fiber technology,  offering super-fast internet services  during 2016-17.
V-Fiber is based on  Vectorisation – Europe’s No.
1 fixed  broadband technology – and will deliver  speeds of up to 100 Mbps.
V-Fiber  is a unique combination of fiber and  Vectorisation technology that delivers  super-fast speed.
This translates into  faster downloads, less buffering, and an  ultra-reliable Wi-Fi connection for all  devices in your home.
This is a green technology and there  is no new wiring or drilling required at  an existing customer’s premises.
One  simply needs to upgrade to a new  ‘V-Fiber’ modem.
19 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Homes now offer more  than you can imagine New-age homes are smarter.
Like the city, homes are being  reshaped by future-ready  networks and a plethora of  connected objects.
At Airtel,  we are leading the way.
Come  in for a visit to see for yourself.
If, by any chance, you are out  of home, you still have more  freedom with Airtel.
‘myHome Rewards’ Airtel’s ‘myHome Rewards’  programme provides free additional  data benefit of 5GB per month for  every other Airtel service connection –  postpaid mobile or digital TV (DTH) –  within the home or family.
Customers  can avail this exciting offer for their  existing as well as new Airtel postpaid  mobile and digital TV connections.
Therefore, if an Airtel broadband  home has two Airtel postpaid mobiles  and one Airtel digital TV connection,  then 15 GB free additional data will  be added to their broadband account  every month.
Airtel ‘Internet TV’ Growing broadband penetration  is driving the popularity of online  content, particularly in urban homes.
Video streaming services like Netflix,  Amazon Prime Video, HotStar have  brought about a paradigm shift in  how people watch television.
Media  industry experts say that even  consumers who watch online content  want to watch it on the big screen;  while web content is popular, a big  screen is desirable.
Hence, we rolled out India’s first  Hybrid DTH Set-top box, powered by  Android TV.
It brings the best of online  entertainment to the TV screen, along  with a bouquet of 500+ satellite TV  channels.
Airtel ‘Internet TV’ transforms any TV  into a Smart TV and enables users  to switch seamlessly between online  and linear TV content.
‘Internet TV’  comes with inbuilt-Wi-Fi receiver,  and blue tooth remote with Google  voice search feature.
It also supports  Play-Pause Live TV, USB media  playback, and has built-in chromecast  functionality.
Gaming enthusiasts  can make the most of the internet TV  with the best of gaming apps for an  experience that is truly larger than life.
With this innovative product, we have  established a new product category  in media and entertainment industry.
Airtel Internet TV is a product for  digital homes; and it would help  both DTH and broadband business  to offer differentiated services to  our customers.
We have a unique  opportunity to shape this new  category and establish ourselves as  pioneers.
Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 20  National roaming At Airtel, we are providing free  national roaming service from April 1  2017.
Airtel customers roaming within  India will enjoy free incoming calls or  SMSes; and there will be no premium  on outgoing calls, allowing them to  speak freely, wherever they are within  the country.
Also, there will be no  additional data charges on national  roaming.
International roaming We also launched our new  International Roaming (IR) packs that  strengthen the value proposition for  customers travelling abroad.
With the  new IR packs, customers will have the  convenience of carrying their mobile  number of India wherever they go and  stay connected 24x7 without having  to worry about high call and data  charges.
The packs will be available to  both postpaid and prepaid customers.
Our new IR packs offer free  incoming calls, free texts  to India and ample data  benefits, along with free  India calling minutes across  popular destinations.
Now  customers do not have to  think twice before taking  calls or calling their loved  ones back home from  their Airtel mobile when  travelling overseas.
Roaming is more fun now 21 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Enterprises and   customers are   now seeking more   value in their   connected lives The nature of our business  puts us in the heart of the  digital revolution that is  transforming enterprises  and daily lives of customers.
Our role is to be a trusted  partner in this entire universe  of change.
We offer powerful  networks, specialised  applications and efficient  collaborative work tools, all  backed by proven cyber- security expertise.
Airtel Business Our global business, the international  arm of Airtel Business, offers an  integrated suite of global and local  voice, data, cloud and digital solutions  to a wide range of customers globally.
Airtel Global Business is engineered  for speed and dedicated to delivering  tailored solutions for our customers.
This remarkable outcome is the result  of operating with agility, transparency  and execution excellence.
We help  our customers operate efficiently  and serve their customers better,  connecting their people, locations and  machines securely and reliably.
Global partnerships and  geographic footprint: More than  1200 leading global carriers repose  their trust in us.
Supporting these  large companies takes strong  benchmarked processes, a seamless  network and a team qualified to serve  across borders, languages and varied  infrastructure.
Our global network  runs across 250,000 Rkms, touching  50 countries and 5 continents.
This  year we took a step further to our  commitment of providing seamless  network globally by adding new Point  of Presence (PoPs) in Oman, South  Africa, and Kenya.
These locations are  strategically aligned to our long-term  goals; and we look forward to further  strengthening our global footprint.
Leveraging emerging markets:  We are connecting India’s  neighbouring emerging markets of  Nepal, Bangladesh, Bhutan, China,  Pakistan with Myanmar as the latest  destination in the series, via high  capacity terrestrial networks.
We now carry an estimated 50% of  the data requirement in the growth  markets of SAARC region, including  Nepal, Bangladesh, Bhutan and  Sri Lanka.
We serve a combined  population of over 270 million; and  making India an IP hub in the region.
All the strategic investment in the  region has led to successfully devising  flexible and effective commercial  programmes for network.
In addition,  this has ensured better latency and  stronger resiliency in connecting  these markets to regional networks.
Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 22  New and diverse range of offerings  include but not limited to:    Global messaging Suite  enables simplified and secure  interconnection across a  worldwide mobile ecosystem to  deliver high quality one-way and  two-way SMS and to monetise A2P  (app to person).
The messaging  suite is the outcome of a unique  partnership model, based on  industry collaboration, achieved  through alliances with major global  carrier groups, enabling a robust  and wide reach of delivery network.
The capability has been coupled  with a comprehensive suite of  platform features, including firewall  protection.
Mobile VAS solutions enable our  customers to leverage the strength  of Airtel’s domestic strength  of over 270 million consumers.
This platform provides content  companies an opportunity to  convert potential users to buyers,  who lack credit card and willing  to consume content related  services like mobile games, music  and other services, via their Airtel  subscription.
Satellite Services provide fiber- like connectivity with 12 x Higher  Throughput and 4x Lower Latency  (<150 ms).
The solutions provided  to customers are cost-effective,  easy to deploy, and provides  advanced connectivity to remotest  of areas to equip customers with  disruptive future-ready satellite  technology.
Other diverse range of services  and solutions like toll free services,  enterprise messaging manager,  data centre and cloud services  significantly enable Airtel to  engage with growing number of  customers better and address their  real requirements to offer more  products per customer.
23 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements New-age banking –   digital and inclusive At Bharti Airtel, our objective is to widen  the spread of payment and financial  services to millions of customers,  including small businesses, low-income  households, migrant labour workforce  in a secured, affordable, convenient  technology-driven environment.
Airtel Payments Bank, India’s first  payments bank, commenced  nationwide operations on January 12,  2017 and is a completely digital and  paperless bank.
The bank aims to take basic banking  services to the doorstep of every  Indian by leveraging Airtel’s vast  retail network in a quick and efficient  manner.
Over 500,000 Airtel retail  outlets act as Banking Points and  offer basic banking services such as  account opening, cash deposit and  cash withdrawal, at a neighbourhood  location for every Indian.
Majority of  these banking points across states are  in rural areas, helping in extending the  reach of services to unbanked regions.
Airtel Payments Bank is a joint venture  between Bharti Airtel and Kotak  Mahindra Bank with each holding  80.1% and 19.9% stake respectively.
Kotak Mahindra Bank’s expertise in  banking products and technology will  help Airtel Payments Bank define its  products and processes well.
Being integrated with Bharti Airtel  allows Airtel Payments Bank to gain  scale, distribution and differential  benefits, compared to other wallets  or telecom companies.
Airtel believes  that there is a massive opportunity to  serve the unbanked and contribute  to the growth of digital payments and  transactions as envisioned by the  government of India.
Given Airtel’s  vast distribution and brand trust, we  believe we are strongly positioned  to provide convenient banking to  customers and hence, are committed  to offer its services to the entire  customer base.
This philosophy is in line  with the Government’s  vision of a digitally  empowered and inclusive  India, with a less-cash  dependent economy and  enhanced transparency.
Conventional brick-and- mortar banking is passé,  welcome to a smarter  way to bank.
Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 24  Roll-out strategy  We are leveraging our existing  base of over 270 Mn customers  to popularise the benefits of  digital payments and open Airtel  Payments Bank accounts   We are developing a nationwide  merchant ecosystem of partners,  including small kirana stores,  grocers, pharmacies and  restaurants, among others.
These  merchant partners will accept  digital payments from Airtel  Payments Bank customers over  mobile phones.
We have also  launched a Merchant App for  digital on-boarding of partners.
With Airtel Payments Bank,  unorganised merchants are  not being charged for digital  payments, thus promoting digital  payments at smaller mom and pop  and neighbourhood shops.
T o discourage cash usage, a  minimal cash withdrawal fee  (around 0.65% per transaction)  is being levied, so that customers  prefer digital payments over cash  payments.
Digital Banking: Quick and  paperless account opening  using Aadhaar based e-KYC.
This  requires no documents at all, only  the customer’s Aadhaar number is  needed.
The customer’s mobile number will  be his/her bank account number.
Interest rate of 7.25% p.a.
on  deposits in savings accounts, one  of the highest in India.
Money transfer to any bank  account in India (Free money  transfer from Airtel-to-Airtel  numbers within Airtel Payments  Bank).
Free Personal Accidental Insurance  of ` 1 Lac with every savings  account.
Easy deposit and withdrawal  facility across a wide network of  Airtel retail outlets.
USSD (by dialling *400#) and  through IVR in 12 vernacular  languages for non-smartphone  customers.
An online debit card in partnership  with MasterCard to enable  payments on all ecommerce  websites   Aadhaar enabled bank accounts to  receive government benefits and  subsidies through direct benefit  transfer (DBT) 500,000 Current network Airtel retail  stores, which also function as  banking points.
More than the total number of  A TMs in the country.
2 million+ Merchants have already been  onboarded across India.
We plan to build a digital   payments ecosystem with  over 3 million merchants.
70% Accounts opened in rural/  unbanked areas, contributing  to financial inclusion Wide spectrum of innovative and convenient services: 25 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Yes, Africa is in step with  the global voice and data  revolution that unveils  immense possibilities.
The  region has abundant natural  resources, growing economies,  strong focus on democracy  and governance; and what’s  more important is that it is the  world’s youngest continent.
As  one of the top 10 most admired  brands in Africa, Airtel is acting  as a change agent for the  continent of new hope.
Across the 15 countries in  Africa, where we operate,  we focus on optimising  distribution excellence,  enabling existing customers  to garner more benefits from  the network and ensuring  excellent overall network  quality.
At the same time, our  overall operations are now  more efficient and our internal  capabilities are enhanced.
Circuit Switched (CS) Core: We  modernised the circuit switched  (CS) core network and created  a simplified and more efficient  CS network.
This will enhance  service efficiency for 2G/3G and  VoLTE and wifi calling among  others; and also support emerging  technologies.
Node Virtualization (NFV) First ever Virtual SBC Node  was deployed in Airtel Africa in  Madagascar and the Republic of the  Congo.
Network Virtualization will  enable Airtel to add more services  on the same platform, which will  help reduce the hardware footprint,  resulting into better Opex productivity  and faster go to market.
Network modernisation  U900 and long-term evolution  (LTE): We began extending the  U900 and LTE launches in 10  Airtel Africa operating companies  (OpCos) to expand and strengthen  data coverage and throughput.
Evolved Packet Core (EPC)  and Charging: One common  packet core network for 3GPP  radio access (LTE, 3G, and 2G)  was rolled out across Africa.
This  enabled higher throughput, lower  latency and seamless mobility  between networks, enhanced  service control and efficient use  of network resources.
Moreover,  simplified charging platform allows  differentiated and personalised  service offerings to customers.
Network transformation Expanding global connectivity  with new point-of-presence  (POP) in Singapore and Paris  We introduced additional  international gateways (in Singapore  and Paris) for Africa, providing  resilience to earlier single gateway  in London, ensuring seamless data  connectivity.
This enables us to offer  customers better network experience,  with reduced data latencies and  improved voice quality.
Content Localisation We enhanced customer experience  and higher data speed realisation  through local content distribution  network (CDN) peering and caching  improvements in all OpCos across  Africa by partnering with Google and  Facebook.
Africa is making its voice   heard in a smarter world Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 26  True Smartphone Network  We are driving data through  exciting bundles, with the key  result of having the most relevant  and best value offer for high-data  consuming smartphone users.
Driving customer growth through  the launch of social media bundles,  targeting the youth segment  and campaigns across the base,  targeting non-users to convert.
Increase digital presence through  tie ups with online platforms to  increase and maintain associations  with all key smartphone brands  both at entry as well as premium  category – by way of reverse  bundling.
Improve data experience,  supported by the launch of U900  and 4G in key markets.
Content based propositions will  be key focus in the coming year  – TV on mobile offering exclusive  content and thereby driving higher  usage.
Going forward, our focus would  be to retain and convert all  smartphones users to stay as  customer for increased number of  days than their average, backed  by redesigning and simplifying the  various bundled offerings.
Airtel Money  Airtel Money Product Launches:  We augmented the Airtel Money  product in six OpCos to introduce  microloans and international money  transfer services to make the product  offerings more relevant and attractive  to our subscribers.
The improvement  of products in these markets will  also be one of the key enablers for  driving Airtel Money acquisitions and  revenue, moving forward.
Airtel Money Reach: We have  introduced Airtel Franchise shops to  improve our distribution network and  provide subscribers with convenient  access to our financial products and  services.
Customer engagement  Brand Positioning: We developed  an emotionally engaging campaign  that positions Airtel as The  Smartphone Network across  Africa and highlights the brand’s  attributes as we showcase the  various ways in which our brand  touches the lives of our subscribers  across Africa.
Reinforcement  of the brand’s position as The  Smartphone Network is conveyed  through three key pan-African  products i.e.
Airtel Money, Data and  Network products.
Brand Bonding Score: Overall  brand bonding across Africa  improved by 3 points as a result  of introducing a master brand  thematic communication strategy  that empowers youth and links  their potential to succeed to the  brand’s ability to enable their  success.
Due to this, OpCos  communication shifted away from  a series of tactical campaigns  to more engaging product  communications in line with  the pan-African brand thematic  campaign.
Airtel Rising Stars: Airtel Rising  Stars (ARS) is Africa’s largest  grassroots under 17 football  tournament, focused on providing  a platform to discover the next  generation of soccer stars.
The tournament is played in 17  countries across Sub-Saharan  Africa.
ARS is currently competing  for the 2017 edition (7th edition) of  the competition that has produced  many successful soccer stars in the  continent.
We have had over 1.8  million boys and girls participate in  ARS in the preceding six years.
ARS  has also provided a platform for us  to engage with local communities  as they experience the brand as  well as our offerings.
27 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Board of Directors Ms. Chua Sock Koong Non-Executive Director Sheikh Faisal Thani Al-Thani Non-Executive Director Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal Chairman Committee of Directors CHAIRMAN Audit & Risk Management Committee HR & Nomination Committee MEMBER Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Mr. Manish Kejriwal Independent Director Mr. Craig Ehrlich Independent Director Mr. D. K. Mittal  Independent Director Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 28  Mr. V. K. Viswanathan Independent Director Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal  Non-Executive Director Mr. Ben Verwaayen  Independent Director Mr. Gopal Vittal MD & CEO (India & South Asia) Ms. T an Yong Choo Non-Executive Director Mr. Shishir Priyadarshi Independent Director 29 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Encouraging Recognition  Bharti Airtel won the ‘In-House  Legal T eam of the Year’ award for  IT and T elecom sector at the 6th  edition of Legal Era Awards for the  year 2016-2017.
Bharti Airtel rated as India’s fastest  mobile network for the year 2016  by Ookla.
Bharti Airtel won the ‘Best  Governed Company Award’ at the  4th Asia Business Responsibility  Summit.
Bharti Airtel bagged the ‘Best  Messaging Solution Award’ at the  second annual ‘Carriers World  Awards’, 2016.
Bharti Airtel secured the second  position in Interbrand’s ‘Best Indian  Brands Report 2016’.
According to  the survey, the Company’s brand  was valued at ` 350.44 billion.
Bharti Airtel was positioned among  top three brands in Brand Equity’s  ‘Most Trusted Brands 2016’.
Bharti Airtel has secured the  top position under the ‘T elecom  & Allied’ category in the annual  ‘Business T oday-PeopleStrong’  survey (2016).
Bharti Airtel was ranked second  in the third annual BrandZ ‘T op 50  Most Valuable Indian Brand 2016’  report.
Bharti Airtel was honoured  with ‘Golden Peacock Award  for Excellence in Corporate  Governance’ for the year 2016.
Bharti Airtel ranked among top 15  Companies in Business T oday’s  ‘BT 500 India’s Most Valuable  Companies’.
Bharti Airtel has emerged as the  only Indian brand to be featured  among the top ten global brands  most admired in Africa (2016-17),  according to Brand Africa’s ‘Brand  Africa 100: Africa’s Best Brands’.
AfricaCom, 2016 ICICI Lombard & CNBC-TV18 India Risk Management awards T elecom Review Excellence Awards, 2016 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 30   Bharti Airtel was positioned among  the top three brands in Brand  Finance’s listing of India’s top 100  brands 2016.
According to the  survey, the Company’s brand was  valued at USD 5768 Mn.
Bharti Airtel was awarded in  the ‘Firm of the Year – T elecom’  category at the third edition of ICICI  Lombard & CNBC-TV18 India Risk  Management awards.
Bharti Airtel was conferred  with ‘Certificate of Recognition  for Excellence in Corporate  Governance 2016’ by the ‘Institute  of Company Secretaries of India  (ICSI)’.
Bharti Airtel has won the Best Risk  Management Practice Award in  the T elecom Category at India Risk  Management Awards instituted by  CNBC TV18 and ICICI Lombard.
Airtel was recognised for its robust  risk management practices and  their implementation as strategic  tools for a safe, secure and  sustainable growth.
Bharti Airtel won the ‘Best African  Wholesale Award’ at the ‘T elecom  Review Excellence Awards 2016’ in  Dubai.
Airtel Africa won the ‘Most  Innovative Service’ award at  ‘AfricaCom 2016’ in Cape T own,  South Africa.
Airtel Ghana bagged the ‘Best  Corporate Social Responsibility  Initiative’ award at the ‘Global  Carrier Awards 2016’ held in Paris,  France.
Airtel Ghana bagged the ‘Best  Print Ad of the Year 2015’ at the  Chartered Institute of Marketing  Ghana (CIMG) Awards.
Airtel Ghana bagged the ‘Best  Print Ad of the Year 2015’ at the  Chartered Institute of Marketing  Ghana (CIMG) Awards Legal Era Awards, 2016 4th Asia Business Responsibility Summit, 2017 2nd annual Carriers World Awards, 2016 31 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Corporate Social Responsibility  & Sustainability At Bharti Airtel, we continue to be a leading global telecommunications  company with operations in 17 countries and close to 2 Bn satisfied customers.
Our transformational network transcends continents, geographic borders and  cultures; and enables people to do more in a largely volatile, globalised and  hyper-connected era.
Economic sustainability:  Creating long-term value  for shareholders, investors,  employees and the wider  stakeholder fraternity; At Bharti Airtel, our objective is to assist the  socio-economic progress of communities  to help accelerate economic progress and  social well-being.
We undertake an integrated  approach to the welfare of communities through  our diverse initiatives in the realms of education,  employment generation, sanitation, healthcare,  disaster management and environment  protection, among others.
We believe that our  need-based interventions sustainably empower  people by opening up new possibilities for them  and thus driving social transformation.
India Expansive Community  Programs DIMENSIONS 3 Business Strategy Our worldwide business strategy  focuses on responsible value creation,  while balancing three dimensions:  Environmental  sustainability:   Implementing projects and  initiatives, which are aimed at  reducing our environmental  footprint and that of our  customers, communities  and partners, in addition to  promoting more ‘sustainable’  livelihoods;   Social sustainability:  Empowering  disadvantaged sections of  society through innovative  interventions in the realm  of education, employment  generation, sanitation,  along with healthcare and  disaster management; Bharti Foundation As the philanthropic arm of Bharti  Enterprises, Bharti Foundation was  set up in 2000 with the vision “to  help underprivileged children and  young people of our country realise  their potential”.
The Foundation  offers access to quality education  to the marginalised sections of  society across rural India.
The  Foundation implements and supports  programs in the spheres of primary,  elementary and senior secondary  Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 32  2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Launch of the program  with the first two schools  being set up in Punjab Satya Bharti Schools  enter Rajasthan The program is initiated in  Haryana and Uttar Pradesh Completes 10 years of  operations.
Courses  on financial market  management and retail  operations introduced under  Satya Bharti Vocational  Education Program Inauguration of the  program in T amil Nadu  and West Bengal Launch of Satya  Elementary Schools and  Satya Bharti Adarsh   Senior Secondary Schools Launch of six Satya Bharti  Schools in West Bengal Bharti Foundation receives  the 2012 World Innovation  Summit for Education (WISE) Launch of vocational  education program for soft  skills and computer training (Late) Dr AP J Abdul Kalam  visits a school in Ludhiana 100% result for the first batch  of class X from Chogawan,  Amritsar, at the CBSE Exams Milestones   and momentum 2016 Bharti Foundation’s  newly launched ‘Nyaya  Bharti’ program pro- vides legal and financial  assistance for bail, to de- serving underprivileged  undertrials, languishing  in jails across the coun- try for minor offences.
Members of the Bharti Foundation  Governing Board, including Sunil  Bharti Mittal, Rakesh Bharti Mittal,  Syeda Imam, Professor V.S.
Raju,  Ashish Dhawan, Vinod Dhall, Kalpa- na Morparia, V V Ranganathan and  Badri Agarwal were hosted  by Vijay  Chadda, CEO and Mamta Saikia,  COO, Bharti Foundation as they  joined students of Satya Bharti  Schools for the 10 year celebra- tions in Amritsar.
education through its Satya Bharti  School Program as well as through  Government School interventions  under its Satya Bharti Quality Support  Program and Satya Bharti Learning  Centres Program.
It also has higher  education programs in partnership  with institutions like Indian Institute  of T echnology (IIT) – Delhi & Mumbai,  Indian School of Business – Mohali,  Boston University, University of  Cambridge – UK, Newcastle University  – UK etc.
Through ‘Satya Bharti  Abhiyan’, its rural saniation initiative,  the Foundation has completed the  provision of individual household  toilets in rural Ludhiana.
Promise of a better life   Educating Rural India  I. Satya Bharti School Program  Bharti Foundation’s flagship  initiative, the Satya Bharti School  Program completed 10 years  of operations in FY (Fiscal Year)  2016-17.
Commencing its journey  in 2006, Satya Bharti Schools  continue to impact the lives of  underprivileged children through free  quality education with the goal of  transforming them into employable  and responsible future citizens.
The schools are located in remote  villages of Punjab, Rajasthan,  Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, T amil Nadu  and West Bengal.
The schools  impart quality education to under  privileged students,  completely free  of cost and maintain a focus on the  girl child.
Besides, the schools also  provide welfare schemes such as free  nutritious mid-day meals, textbooks,  notebooks, shoes, stationery, etc.
Satya Bharti School Program:   Key Performance Indicators     Schools 254 States 06 Students 43,527 Percentage of girls 49% Percentage of children from   SC/ST/OBC communities 75% T eachers 1,677 Percentage of female teachers 66% Data as on March 31, 2017 33 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Bridging Aspirations and Achievement    Provide free and  quality education to  underprivileged children,  with a special focus on the  girl child, in rural parts of  the country    Transform students into  educated, confident,  responsible and self-reliant  employable citizens of the  country with a deep sense  of commitment to their  society    Encourage active  involvement of the  community, parents and  like-minded organisations    Make a lasting and  sustainable impact on the  community where schools  are present    Find innovative solutions,  through its primary,  elementary and senior  secondary schools to  create replicable and  scalable components in  the program to facilitate  delivery of quality  education Objectives of the  Program:  I. Satya Bharti School Program   24 students secured admission in  Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas (JNV)  through a competitive entrance  examination, providing them with  continued quality education  Satya Bharti Schools bagged all three  national awards (for most inspiring  posters); and all five National Finalist  Awards at the Inspire Aspire Content  2016  Satya Bharti Adarsh Sr. Sec.
School,  Chogawan, Amritsar won ‘Best  Innovative Practice’ among T op  Punjab Schools at the Brainfeed  School Excellence Awards for ‘T op  500 Schools of India’  Satya Bharti Government Primary  School, Salgawali, Achrol (Rajasthan)  received the Centre for Science and  Environment (CSE) ‘GREEN SCHOOL  AWARD’; 700 schools competed  across India  37 students from Satya Bharti  Schools were felicitated in Mumbai  for exemplary performance at the  Gurnam Singh, father of Anmolpreet  Kaur, is a daily wage labourer.
He was determined to send his  daughter to school.
The Satya Bharti  School in Jalaldiwal (Punjab) gave  him the opportunity to educate  Anmolpreet free of cost.
scholarship in a sports school  (Mata Jaswant Kaur Memorial  Academy), Muktsar, Badal (Punjab)  where she receives special training  to hone her skills along with  continued education.
Anmolpreet had already  represented her school at the  cluster level, winning medals for  her team, today she is part of  the successful State Girls T eam.
Despite hardships, Anmolpreet  has set a stellar example for girls  in her community to emulate.
With  gleaming eyes, she adds, “My  journey has just begun, and the  best is still to come!’’ Anmolpreet,   Alumnus, Satya Bharti School,   Jalaldiwal, Punjab The timid little girl transformed  into a confident student, nurtured  under the guidance of Satya Bharti  School teachers.
With the holistic  development approach at her  school, Anmolpreet soon realised her  penchant for sports.
Anmolpreet expressed her interest  in hockey and soon began to wield  the stick showcasing her prowess  in the sport.
A local hockey coach  offered free after-school coaching to  her and other students in the school  grounds.
Training rigorously for  two  years, soon she was hailed as the  little hockey champ of Jalaldiwal.
Her  hard work and the encouragement  of her school helped her earn a  Saevus Natural Capital Olympiad  competition; this included 15 Gold,  13 Silver and nine Bronze awards;  two students featured in the  National T op 10  Karnapreet Kaur (Rauni) emerged  winner in the national English  essay writing competition,  conducted by CBSE.
Akashdeep  (Jhaneri) won state and national  level competitions in kick boxing.
Bhupinder (Fattubhila) from Class  IX was selected in the Army  S. Subbulakshmi, Class IV  student of Satya Bharti School,  Pethachikudiruppu, Sivaganga  (T amil Nadu) aced District Level  Thirukkural recitation competition;  she was awarded an academic  scholarship by the State  Government  First batch of Class XII students  from Satya Bharti Adarsh Senior  Secondary School, Chogawan  (Amritsar) excelled at the CBSE  Board Examinations Satya Bharti School Program (2016–17): Key   Achievements Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 34     Program expanded from 39 to 323  schools, from four states to seven  states, adding Jammu & Kashmir,  T elangana & Goa to the list, reach- ing out to 1,00,000+ students  across seven states  Jammu & Kashmir Project  launched in 15 Government and  46 Army Goodwill Schools under  Project Sadhbhaavna.
Nearly 900  person-days of training imparted  to 59 principals and nodal officers,  and 237 teachers deployed in  Ladakh, Kargil, Rajouri, North and  South Kashmir  Partnering with the SMARTGRAM  initiative, launched in Sohna block  of Gurugram district by the office  of the Honourable President of In- dia, to improve quality of education  in three villages of Haryana The Satya Bharti Quality Support  Program, initiated in 2013,  provides need-based interventions  to improve the quality of the  schooling experience for students  and stakeholders in Government  schools.
The learning acquired from  the flagship Satya Bharti School  Program is being transferred to the  Government schools under this and  other Government school initiatives.
Bharti Foundation takes innovative  steps to enhance a Government  school’s performance by: a.
Providing opportunities of expo- sure to best practices in education b.
Conducting need-based training  for key stakeholders c. Co-creating processes to sustain  the desired change  II.
Satya Bharti Quality Support Program Key   Achievements Satya Bharti Quality Support Program (2016–17): Satya Bharti Quality Support  Program –   Key Performance Indicators    Schools (In seven states*) 323 T eachers 5,133 Students 1,24,856 Data as on March 31, 2017  *Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Delhi, T elangana,  Goa and Jammu & Kashmir Program Approach Collaborate with school  leadership and staff to  maximise usage Facilitate, support and  enhance school resources,  processes and efforts Optimise use   of existing resources,  policies and   systems Support school leaders  to achieve higher goals  and bridge existing gaps 35 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements The Satya Bharti Learning Centres  Program works towards addressing  the issue of Out of School Children  (OOSC).
In 2012, the Foundation  tied up with Educate A Child (EAC),  a global initiative under the Qatar- based Education Above All (EAA)  institution.
The Satya Bharti Learning  Centre Program mainstreams OOSC  back into schools by identifying and  enrolling them into Government  schools through bridge courses  that offer them an age-appropriate  education.
Responding to  the huge gap  in age and the  learning levels  of enrolled  OOSC Developing   key concepts  using  T eaching  Learning  Material to  cater to the  basic learning  needs Engaging  parents and  communities  to make  them active  participants under  the programme Partnering  with  Government  to identify,  mainstream OOSC  and build provisions  for welfare schemes Different  approach  of teaching T eaching  Learning  Material Engagement  with  Community Partnering  with  Government This project, in partnership  with Educate A Child (EAC)  - aims to ensure age and  grade appropriate enrolment  in schools of children who  are “out of school” or at  risk of dropping out due to  low engagement, parent’s  apathy or lack of access.
In  addition, the implementing  partners are ‘Humana People  to People India’, ‘Education  Support Organisation (Gyan  Shala) and ‘Educate Girls’,  impacting a large number of  children.
Expansion of   ‘Out of School Children’  Program:  III.
Satya Bharti Learning Centres Program  Satya Bharti Learning Centres Program (2016–17): Key   Achievements  60,593 children were impacted  against a target of 48,200, agreed  with Educate a Child (EAC)  Program was expanded to 35  Educationally Backward Blocks of  the country   Vikram Singh, an Out of School  child from Chohtan, Rajasthan,  won the District level Science  Quiz competition Program Approach  10 Out of School students enrolled  at the Learning Centres earned  admissions in the prestigious  Navodaya (three) and KGBV  (seven) schools in Barmer District  (Rajasthan)   In 942 villages, the number of Out  of School Children was reduced to  a negligible level   The program has created a local  resource pool with  over 1,000  trained  education volunteers Satya Bharti Learning Centres –   Key Performance Indicators    Centres 223* Children impacted 29,756 Children enrolled 2,363 Children mainstreamed 23,676 % of girls 50% % of SC/ST/OBC students 98% Education volunteers 290 Data as of March 31, 2017  All centres are within government schools *942 centres have been closed as most  of the OOSC’s in these villages have been  mainstreamed (number included in overall  impact); in some villages the count of OOSC’s  have dropped to such a low figure that it has  gone below the minimum numbers required to  run a centre, as per Government norms.
50 Centres had to be closed because of  unavailability of qualified education volunteers.
Three Centres were closed due to mass  migration (Madhya Pradesh).
Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 36  Bharti Foundation continues its partnership with  Indian Institute of T echnology, Delhi that was initiated  in 2000 with the Bharti School of T elecommunication  T echnology and Management, IIT Delhi.
A Bharti  Centre for Communication was also set up in  Mumbai in partnership with IIT Bombay.
Under the  Manmohan Singh Bursary Fund, the Foundation  recognises and awards exceptionally talented  students with scholarships to pursue their studies  at The Cambridge University, UK.
In Mohali, the  Foundation set up Bharti Institute of Public policy in  a tri-partite a partnership between Indian School of  Business, Bharti Enterprises and Fletcher School of  Law and Diplomacy, T ufts University (USA.).
‘Nyaya Bharti’ is a one-of-its-kind corporate social  responsibility (CSR) initiative by Bharti Enterprises,  one of India’s most respected business groups.
The  primary objective of Nyaya Bharti is to provide aid  to the under privileged undertrials who are first  time offenders accused of petty offences, requiring  legal/financial assistance for release on bail.
It also  extends assistance to certain poor first time convicts  undergoing imprisonment for petty offences due  to their inability to pay petty fines imposed by the  courts.
The Governing Board of Nyaya Bharti is  headed by Justice (Dr.) A.S. Anand, former Chief  Justice of India.
The Nyaya Bharti initiative aims at providing legal   and financial assistance to underprivileged prison  inmates.
Nyaya Bharti through its endeavours,  complements the legal aid work being undertaken by  National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) and State  Legal Services Authorities (SLSAs), set up under  statute legislated by the Parliament.
The office of  Nyaya Bharti is located in New Delhi.
As a part of the Nyaya Bharti initiative, 43 bail orders  have been obtained and gross release of 38 under  trials has been affected.
Satya Bharti Abhiyan –   Key Performance Indicators:    Direct beneficiaries 86,582 Individual toilets handed over 17,628 Girls’ toilets in Government schools 14 Data as of March 31, 2017 *Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Delhi, T elangana,  Goa and Jammu & Kashmir  This initiative aims to improve  sanitation facilities beginning with rural  Ludhiana.
Phase I of the program has  been completed in a short span of time,  given the scale and geographic spread  of the District.
Individual household  toilets were provided in every  household of rural Ludhiana, which  lacked one.
In addition, 14 Government  schools, identified by Punjab Education  Development Board, have been  provided with a separate toilet for girls.
In its second phase, the program is  being ramped up to the urban areas  of Ludhiana to support the district  administration’s efforts.
Recent Initiative –   Partnership with University of  Cambridge: The University of Cambridge and Bharti  Foundation, signed a Memorandum of  Understanding (MoU) on September  12, 2016 to conduct baby corn crop  improvement research program in India.
The  program is being funded through a grant  from Bharti Foundation to the University  of Cambridge.
The grant supports a three- year research program carried out between  Cambridge’s Department of Plant Sciences  and the Cambridge Centre for Crop Science  (3CS), Punjab Agricultural University and  Fieldfresh Foods.
IV.
Satya Bharti Abhiyan  V. Higher Education Programs  VI.
Nyaya Bharti Satya Bharti Abhiyan (2016–17): Key   Achievements   The most populated district  and one of the largest   districts in Punjab –  Ludhiana District (rural)  -became the second self- declared Open Defecation  Free district of Punjab on  November 02, 2016 (much  ahead of its original time line  of October 2017)  Women and children of  beneficiary families feel  more secure and safe now,  while the elderly experience  a sense of dignity and  independence   Satya Bharti Abhiyan  has directly generated  livelihood opportunities  through construction,  surveys, monitoring and  Information Education  and Communication  (IEC) initiatives during  implementation 37 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Donations Under Act  ACT Employee  ACT Employer T otal ACT   Contribution Contribution Contribution T otal* 3,837,464 5,246,173 9,083,637 All figures in ` *Companies included are Bharti Airtel Ltd, Bharti Airtel Services Ltd and T elesonic Networks Ltd. Airtel Connect Airtel Delhi Half Marathon  The Airtel Delhi Half Marathon  (ADHM) is an effective platform to  bring together corporates, individuals,  employees and students of schools  and colleges and give them the  opportunity to raise awareness about  the Satya Bharti School Program, raise  funds and enjoy the marathon run.
Young Leader Programme The Young Leader Programme is  a two-week initiative part of the  corporate induction to engage  new team members of Bharti Airtel  as volunteers to support various  initiatives of Bharti Foundation.
ACT (A Caring T ouch) It is an employee payroll giving  program for Bharti Group of  Companies.
This Program encourages  employees of Bharti Airtel to give back  to society in terms of money, time,  skills or knowledge Driving Societal Change Helping the Disadvantaged We continued the scholarship and  skill development programme  for underprivileged students of  Chhindwara District, Madhya  Pradesh.
During the year we have  trained students from various  domains on employability skills  helping them to become corporate  ready.
Over 200 underprivileged  students were granted scholarship  during the financial year 2016-17.
Under the program, we also impart  coaching to the underserved youth  for competitive exams helping  them get selected for central/state  government jobs.
Additionally we run  self-employed tailor course for women  empowerment program in the tribal  areas of Chhindwara.
Caring for the Elderly Anubandh, situated on the outskirts  of Jodhpur, helps senior citizens  deserted by their families.
We  partnered and supported Anubandh in  furtherance of their initiatives.
Supporting the Community We also partnered and supported  various programmes and initiatives  of charitable institutions such as  Action for Autism, CRY, HelpAge India,  National Association for the Blind,  Save life Foundation, SOS Children  Villages of India and The Banyan,  among others.
Airtel and Magic Bus The main areas of focus of this project  supported by Airtel is to empower  1,722 children (722 children in  Mumbai and 1,000 children in Delhi)  in the area of right to education,  gender equity, awareness on health  and hygiene, right to play, life skills and  leadership through Magic Bus’ Sports  based and mentorship approach.
The  aim of the project is to bring about a  positive change in the attitudes and  behaviours of children.
Lending a Helping Hand Initiatives by Airtel Circle  Offices  Employees at Airtel Circle Offices  engage themselves on various fronts  to ensure development and progress  across India.
Disaster Relief The devastating Vardah cyclone  in December 2016 wreaked havoc  on several parts of Tamil Nadu.
Our Network Team worked round  the clock on a war footing to keep  the services running.
Many of our  team members stayed back and  carried out restoration work in all  affected sites.
Similarly, following the  demise of the former Tamil Nadu  Chief Minister, we strengthened our  vigil.
We joined hands with the law  enforcing authorities and ensured an  uninterrupted network coverage by  deployment of additional mobile sites  near the Memorial sites to support  additional voice and data traffic.
Majuli in Assam is the largest river  island in the world.
The island suffered  severe floods last year owing to  unprecedented rainfall, which affected  the lives of hundreds.
We provided  relief to those afflicted by the flood.
People on the island were provided  with roofing sheets that protected  them from incessant rainfall.
Pool2Park Campaign At Bharti Airtel, we introduced  innovative measures to help protect  our environment.
One such measure  was the Pool2Park campaign by  Airtel centre in Delhi.
As the Delhi  government had introduced its  odd-even vehicle rule in January last  year, we tried to address the concern  of the people.
We partnered with  Orahi and launched our cab service  for our employees.
They could easily  commute to their office even during  the odd-even rule.
This not only  benefited the employees but also was  a green initiative to reduce the city’s  carbon footprint.
As people started  to share their ride to their offices, the  number of cars reduced in the city.
18,665 Kg of CO2 footprint was saved  by the Pool2Park campaign 1,85,000+ km of distance was shared  between the passengers of  Pool2Park Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 38  D96,250 Donated by employees of  Rajasthan Circle Office to Satya  Bharti Foundation in the JGW.
Joy of Giving Like every year, we celebrated the Joy  of Giving Week (JGW) across different  states of the country.
Employees at  our Rajasthan Circle Office spent  the JGW by voluntarily donating to  Bharti Foundation.
In Bangalore, we  partnered with different NGOs and  organised an event called ‘Food for  Change’.
The event was an initiative to  help raise funds for the NGOs.
Airtel  employees, with their families, set up  food stalls at a prime location in the  city.
The money collected from selling  the food was donated to NGOs.
and Karnataka, our teams arranged  camps across all zones partnering  with the renowned local hospitals.
Healthcare In Karnataka, our Mangalore zone  employees visited Aasare, an exclusive  home for physically challenged  children and distributed fruits and  chocolates among kids.
Free eye  check-up camps were  also set up across all five zones  in the state.
Everyone in our West Bengal team  donated money to provide nutritional  supplements to HIV-affected  children in ‘Anandaghar’.
Together,  they collected a sum of ` 32,000.
Additionally, two 24-hour helpline  numbers were launched to offer help  in cases of paediatric HIV.
In Assam,  our team spent a day with students of  Basistha Blind School in Guwahati.
Distributing Daily Needs  Our team in Northeast states and  Assam collaborated with OJU Welfare  Association in Arunachal Pradesh  to drive a campaign called ‘Clothes  for Charity’, where used clothes  were collected from all our offices in  that zone and were donated to the  association.
OJU Welfare Association  works for the development and  empowerment of disadvantaged  women and children.
In Pune as  well, our employees collected daily  consumables (clothes, shoes, water  bottles, soaps, among others) and  donated those to Maher Ashram in  the city.
Societal Well-Being At Bharti Airtel, we have taken up  several initiatives for the conservation  of food.
We tied up with many food  vendors and ensured that the surplus  food was not wasted.
The left-over  food was sent to orphanages and  old-age homes, so that it got served to  the needy.
We dedicated an entire day to the HIV- affected kids of ‘Anandaghar’, where  we screened a movie for the kids and  offered them refreshments in between  the film.
One of our most significant initiatives  last year was to collaborate with the  Uttar Pradesh government to roll  out its state-wide project Dial 100.
Dial 100 is an emergency response  system, where the state citizens could  communicate with the call centre via  dialing 100 over phone, text, and other  communication methodology.
This  was a big milestone for the team as  it involved setting up UP’s largest call  centre.
T owards a Low-Carbon  Future As one of the world’s leading  telecommunication companies,  we believe it is possible to  drive economic growth across  geographies with less impact on  the environment.
Finding that  balance is fundamental to our  sustainability commitment.
We evaluate the impact of our  operations (including those of our  partners) on the environment in terms  of resource and energy consumption,  greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  and waste.
Besides, we ensure that  we operate as efficiently as possible  to minimise the impact.
The United  Nations National Climate Change  Conference, 2016, recognised climate  change as a threat to human life.
We believe that the Information and  Communications Technology (ICT)  industry has a crucial role to play in  enabling a low-carbon future.
Our priorities comprise:   Reducing carbon footprint by over  70% in the next three years;   Promoting a shift to green mobile  tower technologies that consume  less power;   Driving initiatives that reduce  energy consumption;    Minimising waste and developing  innovative solutions that ensure  environmental stability.
Green Network Infrastructure Airtel has always pioneered green and  sustainable energy.
There have been  path-breaking shifts from the classical  telco operating model, whether it has  been sharing of passive infrastructure  or replacing all indoor cabinets to  outdoor.
These changes have shaped  and impacted the industry in a way no  other company has been able to.
Celebration Time Bharti Airtel’s Mysore zone employees  celebrated deepavali at Bhagini  Samaj Ashram for Children, where  they distributed sweets, crackers and  stationery items for kids.
Similarly, our  team in Rajasthan celebrated their  Diwali with the students of Satya  Bharti School.
They organised a  campaign called ‘Is Diwali kuch alag  karte hain’.
Under the initiative, the  employees contributed stationery  items, books, and sports equipment to  students.
Employees from Hubli zone  dedicated their holi celebration to the  kids of NGO Child for Home.
Whereas,  in Mangalore, Children’s day was  celebrated by organising a drawing  competition for the specially-abled  children.
Since Durga Puja is the most awaited  festival in West Bengal, we thought  of spreading the festivity among  everybody.
Our team in Bengal hit  the streets and took 26 HIV affected  children from ‘Anandaghar’ for a  Pujo Parikrama.
They rejoiced and  cherished the entire day visiting  different Puja pandals across Kolkata.
Blood Donation Blood donation camps were regularly  organised at various places, where  employees and partners donated  blood to help save lives.
Fourteen  camps were organised across the  northeast states and Assam, where  520 units of blood were collected  in one day and handed over to  government blood banks across  seven northeast states.
In Rajasthan  39 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Achieved milestone   of 1 MWp Rooftop  solar capacity Last year, Airtel achieved the  milestone of 1 MWp rooftop  solar at our main switching  centres (msc) sites.
This  is an unprecedented  achievement by any telecom  operator in the domain  of adopting renewable  technology for their msc  locations.
Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 40 Renewable Energy Solutions   An alternating diesel battery  hybrid mode helps reduce diesel  consumption by using batteries.
This mode is managed by smart  controllers at the main power  source, which is increasingly being  utilised by some of the operators.
Airtel’s green power wheeling  agreements for the procurement  of green energy of 88 Mn units per  annum.
We completed trials at own and  partner sites by switching off air- conditioners and utilising natural  solar cooling to reduce the energy  demand.
381 sites completed with 300 Wp   solar on own and partner sites by  switching off our air-conditioners  and utilising solar and natural  cooling to reduce the energy  demand.
Partnering Energy Efficiency   We are implementing several  initiatives to inculcate passive site  sharing.
This method involves  ground-based or rooftop tower,  cables, shelter cabinets, power  supply, air-conditioning, alarm  systems, among others.
Tower sharing saves utilisation  of various resources like steel,  cement, concrete, zinc and land,  besides optimising power usage.
Conversion of Indoor Sites to  Outdoor A base station with outdoor BTS does  not require air-conditioning, which  results in potential reduction of energy  consumption by 25%.
Over 48,973  sites have been converted to outdoor  sites.
We partnered with Tower Cos to  take this initiative forward.
Automatic Shutdown of  Equipment in Non-Peak Hours With the advent of 4G technologies,  there have been associated  innovations in the BTS deployment.
One such innovation is the usage of  intelligent shutdown technology.
This  ensures that the equipment remains  switched off during non-peak hours.
Project Green Cities Project Green City was launched by  Indus and Infratel a few years ago; and  over 47,937 sites have been tagged as  green sites till date.
Green Operations at Airtel  Involves:      The use of information technology  solutions at the workplace,  adjustments in AHU running hours  and reduction of excess UPS load.
Robust Building Management  Systems (BMS) and the setting up  of numerous efficient HVAC design  at ‘One Airtel’ campuses.
Insulation solutions, deployment  of energy efficient cooling and  photovoltaic solutions, and regular  monitoring of chiller temperature.
Daylight harvesting, installation of  motion and occupancy sensors,  maximising utilisation of daylight  and replacement of lights with  efficient LED lights.
Ground water recharging, use of  pre-used water for gardening and  advanced Sewage Treatment.
T owards Green Data Centres Across all the facilities in India, we  have implemented comprehensive  energy conservation and efficiency  programmes through the following  initiatives:  Installing Variable Frequency  Drives (VFDs) A Variable Frequency  Drive (VFD) installed in our HVAC  systems, automatically reduces a  motor’s speed and power draw when  there is lower system load.
Cold Aisle Containment Cold aisle  containment uses a physical barrier  to reduce the mixing of cold supply  air and hot exhaust air in data centre  aisles.
This delivers lower energy  consumption and more efficient  cooling.
Energy Usage Optimisation: By an  extensive energy usage study and  power audits conducted, various  initiatives were undertaken to optimise  the usage of electricity, some of which  include:     Identifying and rectifying hot-spots   Optimising lighting and AC usage    Short cycling of cold/hot air   Optimising set points of AC/chillers  within framework of ASHRAE E-waste We, at Bharti Airtel, ensure that our  e-waste is disposed off responsibly.
E-waste is generated from technology  upgradation, capacity augmentation  and other procedures.
In FY 2016-17, 2,400+ tons of e-waste  from IT and network infrastructure  were responsibly recycled through  our authorised partners.
In addition,  we have been donating our end-of-life  laptops and IT infrastructure to the  Bharti Foundation who, in turn, use the  same for their schools program.
E-bills We took several significant measures  like practising the usage of paperless  billing to reduce paper usage and  wastage.
Our customers are offered  the flexibility to opt for paperless bills  at any time of their subscription cycle.
This helped us save over 1,289 Mn  sheets of paper since FY 2011-12.
New connections sold with  e-Mail/e-Bill options are also  increasing and accounts to 56%  of total new postpaid connections  as of March 2017.
Education Education is a key focus area for  governments and public private  partnerships are helping bridge some  of the gaps.
Airtel Africa’s flagship programme,  ‘Adopt-a- School’, has 56 adopted  schools with over 27,000 students  across Africa.
Airtel Rwanda and the University  of Rwanda partnered to launch an  innovation hub at the College of  Arts in Huye district.
Airtel Uganda rewarded top  performers in the adopted schools  by providing them with school  requirements, such as beddings  and other items.
Airtel Seychelles partnered with  the Ministry of Education to reward  students who performed well at  the national level.
Youth Development To provide the youth in Africa  opportunities to fulfil their potential,  Airtel is leveraging its technology  to enhance skills or provide real  opportunities for growth.
Airtel Tanzania launched the  Fursa Seeding Fund, designed  to empower the youth with small  scale loans.
The first batch of 100  entrepreneurs have received soft  loans from the programme.
Airtel Congo B in partnership with  UNESCO is carrying out Digital  Literacy and Youth Training in IT.
Airtel Zambia partnered with the  British Council to provide support  for setting up of internet hubs for  youth to improve their ICT skills.
Health Access to primary health care is a key  area of focus for countries in Africa.
Airtel Uganda held health camps,  encouraging preventive health care  among the rural population.
Airtel Ghana donated medical  equipment to the Abokobi  Community Clinic in Greater Accra  Region.
Airtel Madagascar, together with  Nokia, donated an incubator and  resuscitation table for newborns at  the CHU-Befelatanana Pediatrics  Department.
Airtel Nigeria partnered with the  Lagos AIDS Control Agency to mark  the World AIDs Day, by counselling  and conducting free HIV screening  and testing of 2,000+ members of  Ilaje Community in Lagos State.
Environment The natural ecosystem is equally  important to Airtel and to ensure that  we are preserving it, Airtel Africa’s  employees partake in planting trees  Global Networking of Sustainable Growth I believe that the long-term  success of Airtel is tied to  the society.
Our overarching  Corporate Responsibility  is to ensure that we  operate as a responsible  business.
In community  related CSR initiatives,  we work in collaboration  with government and  development agencies,  whilst encouraging employee  participation.
We remain  committed to making a  difference to the society that  we operate within.
Message from MD and CEO  Raghunath Mandava Africa We believe that technology can play a pivotal role in enabling the  communities where we operate achieve their developmental aspirations.
Our commitment is to enhance the quality of life wherever possible  and contribute to a connected society.
Over the last few years, we  have taken up locally relevant projects in the areas of Education, Youth  Development, Health and the Environment.
We also extend our services  to provide disaster relief in the areas where we operate.
around the year, amongst other  initiatives.
Airtel Kenya participated in an  award-winning Biogas project at  the I-Afrika rehabilitation centre,  home to 100+ street children.
The objective is to support the  institution produce sufficient  biogas for cooking and boiling  water for use at the centre.
The  centre not only saves money, but  also provides a healthy and safe  option, as they were previously  using wood and coal.
41 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements 2,000 members of Ilaje community  were given free HIV screening  and counselling 27,000 students reached under  ‘Adopt-a- School’ programme Corporate Social  Responsibility initiatives in  Sri Lanka have given more  emphasis on empowering  youth, as they are pivotal  for the country’s economic  development.
As per the  studies conducted in  2016-2017, the youth -  representing 22% of the  local populace, face scores  of issues including education  and health.
Accordingly, in  the coming year, we expect  to implement initiatives to  uplift community resources  and incorporate our  knowledge and expertise  to promote information  technology, with the aim  of devising an all-inclusive  business model to further  elevate our CSR initiatives.
CEO Statement  Mr. Jinesh Hegde Education We adopted the Kahatagasdigiliya  School in Anuradhapura district,  where we took care of the education  of 100 children.
A similar initiative  was taken at Alawal School in  Gampaha district, where we could  impart the education to 300 children.
A holistic approach was taken to  empower children with knowledge  and education, so that they grow to  become responsible citizens.
Sri Lanka At Airtel Sri Lanka, our CSR approach is  attuned to societal needs.
We are focused  on enriching the lives of people in the  communities and act with respect for all  stakeholders.
Our initiatives across domains of  education and health have created significant  impact in the lives of millions.
Health We undertook the annual  refurbishment of The Lady Ridgeway  Hospital, which is considered to be  world’s largest paediatric government  hospital.
It impacted the lives of over  two million patients.
Additionally, to  prevent the wide spread of dengue  disease across Trincomalee, we  initiated our ‘Nets for wells’ campaign,  where we went on covering wells  with nets to prevent the breeding  of mosquitoes.
This programme  created impact across 500 families of  Trincomalee.
Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 42 CSR related Recognitions: Airtel Ghana  CSR Excellence Awards 2016 –  CSR CEO of the year  Africa Carrier Awards 2016 –   Best CSR initiative  Global Carrier Awards 2016 –   Best CSR initiative Airtel Zambia Best Corporate Social  Responsibility Education Project  and Best CSR partnership in  the Community – Public Service  Excellence Annual Awards Best Corporate Social  Responsibility Award –   Zambia Medical Association  Annual Awards Airtel Uganda   Best Social Good Campaign –  2016 Social Media Awards   Best Social Responsibility  Campaign - Public Relations  Excellence Awards Airtel Nigeria   Best company in reduction of  inequality (SDG 10) - SERA Awards,  a notable platform that recognises  exceptional CSR interventions in  Nigeria 43 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Business Responsibility Report Section A General Information about the Company Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company L74899DL1995PLC070609 Name of the Company Bharti Airtel Limited Registered Address Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road, Vasant Kunj, Phase II,  New Delhi - 110070 Website www.airtel.com Email ID compliance.officer@bharti.in Financial Year reported 2016-17 Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in (Industrial activity  code-wise) 	 	Telecommunication	Services	–		mobile	telecommunication,	fixed	 line services and telecommunication enterprise solutions.
Direct-to-Home Services (through subsidiary company).
Payments Bank (through subsidiary company).
Key products/services that the Company manufactures/ provides (as in balance sheet)  Mobile Services  Broadband Services  Enterprise Services  Direct to Home (DTH) Services T otal number of locations where business activity is undertaken Number of international  locations (major 5) Operations in 17 countries including  India and Sri Lanka.
Number of national locations Headquartered in New Delhi, the  Company has business in all 22  licensed telecom service areas.
Markets served by the Company - Local/State/National/ International Besides India, operations in Africa and South Asia Section B Financial Details of the Company 1.
Paid up capital (INR Million) 19,987 2.
T otal turnover (INR Million) 622,763 3.
Total	profit	after	taxes	(INR	Million) (99,256) 4.
T otal spending on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as  percentage	of	average	Net	Profit	of	the	Company	for	last	3	 financial	years.
0.05%* 5.
List	of	activities	in	which	expenditure	in	4	above	has	been	 incurred  Promotion of education  Employability and entrepreneurship   Promoting measures for reducing inequalities faced by  economically backward groups  Livelihood enhancement program *Please refer Annexure D of the Board’s Report viz.
the Annual Report on CSR activities for details.
Section C Other Details 1.
Does the Company have any Subsidiary Company / Companies?
Bharti Airtel Limited had 15 direct and 81 indirect subsidiary companies, as on March 31, 2017.
2.
Does the Subsidiary Company / Companies participate in the BR initiatives of the parent company?
Nearly all subsidiary companies of Bharti Airtel, either directly themselves or along with Airtel, participate in the BR initiatives.
44 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Section C Other Details 3.
Do any other entity / entities (e.g.
suppliers and distributors, among others) that the Company does business with participate  in the BR initiatives of the Company?
Bharti Airtel supports and encourages its partners to undertake sustainability and CSR initiatives.
At present, the Company’s  infrastructure and facility management partners support its drive towards environment protection, which represents less than 30%  of all our partners.
Section D Business Responsibility Information 1.0 Details of Director / Directors responsible for BR (a) Details of Director / Directors responsible for the implementation of BR policy / policies   DIN Number 00042494   Name Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal   Designation Director (b) Details of the BR head   DIN Number N.A.
Name Mr. Sameer Chugh   Designation Director – Legal & Regulatory   T elephone Number +91 124 4243188   E-mail ID sustainability@airtel.com 2.0 Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy / Policies PRINCIPLE 1  Ethics, Transparency and  Accountability Businesses should conduct and  govern themselves with ethics,  transparency and accountability PRINCIPLE 2  Products Lifecycle  Sustainability Businesses should provide  goods and services that are   safe and contribute to sustain- ability throughout their life PRINCIPLE 3  Employees’ Well-being Businesses should promote the  well-being of all employees PRINCIPLE 4  Stakeholder Engagement  Businesses should respect the  interests of and be responsive  towards all stakeholders,   especially those who are  disadvantaged, vulnerable and  marginalised PRINCIPLE 5 Human Rights Businesses should respect and  promote human rights PRINCIPLE 6 Protection of the  Environment Businesses should respect,  protect and make efforts to  restore the environment PRINCIPLE 7 Responsible Policy  Advocacy Businesses, when engaged  in influencing public and  regulatory policy, should do so  in a responsible manner PRINCIPLE 8  Support Inclusive Growth Businesses should support  inclusive growth and equitable  development PRINCIPLE 9 Providing Customer Value Businesses should engage  with and provide value to their  customers and consumers in a  responsible manner 45 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements (a) Details of Compliance (Reply in Y /N) Sl.
No.
Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 1.
Do you have a policy / policies for…?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 2.
Has the policy been formulated in consultation with the  relevant stakeholders?
(A) Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 3.
Does the policy conform to any national / international  standards?
If yes, specify?
(50 words)(A) Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 4.
Has the policy being approved by the Board?
If yes, has it been  signed by MD / Owner / CEO / appropriate  Board Director?
(B) Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 5.
Does	the	Company	have	a	specified	committee	of	the	Board/ Director	/	Official	to	oversee	the	implementation	of	the	policy?
(B) Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 6.
Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?
(C) Y N Y N Y N Y Y N 7.
Has the policy been formally communicated to all relevant  internal	and	external	stakeholders?
(D) Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 8.
Does the Company have in-house structure to implement the  policy / policies?
(E) Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 9.
Does the Company have a grievance redress mechanism  related to the policy / policies to address stakeholders’  grievances related to the policy / policies?
(F) Y - Y Y Y - - - Y 10.
Has the Company carried out independent audit / evaluation of  the	working	of	this	policy	by	an	internal	or	external	agency?
(G) Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y (A)  The policies are formulated with detailed consultation with relevant stakeholders and benchmarking across the industry.
They are developed and aligned to applicable legal and regulatory requirements, and guidelines, SEBI listing regulations  and our internal mandates.
(B)  All policies are administered under the overall supervision of the Airtel Management Board (AMB) of the Company,  headed by the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer.
The Audit & Risk Management Committee of the Board  along with other Board Committees reviews implementation of policies.
(C)  The following policies can be viewed on our website www.airtel.com and www.bharti.com:   1.
Code of Conduct Policy   2.
Code of Conduct Policy for Partners   3.
CSR Policy   4.
Ombudsperson Policy and  Process (D)  Except policies listed above, all other policies are meant for internal consumption of employees and are available on the  Company’s intranet.
All policies have been periodically communicated to the relevant internal and external stakeholders.
(E)  All policies are owned by the respective AMB member and their senior leadership teams are responsible for the effective  Implementation of Policy.
(F)  Any clarifications for grievances related to either of the policies are addressed by the respective leadership team member  and if not addressed to satisfaction can be escalated to the Ombudsperson.
(G)  All policies and their implementation are audited by an independent internal audit team who in turn reports issues, if any,  to the Audit & Risk Management Committee of the Board.
Governance related to BR  Performance assessment frequency of BR   The CSR Committee and Board assess and review the BR performance annually and give a strategic direction to the  Company on its BR initiatives, as required.
Details of BR and Sustainability Report   The Company publishes an annual Sustainability Report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework.
The report has been uploaded on the Company’s website and can be viewed at www.airtel.in/sustainability.
46 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Section E Principle-wise performance Bharti Airtel is committed to achieving the highest principles  of integrity and ethics.
Its Code of Conduct (COC/Code)  outlines the Company’s expected standards of ethical  conduct and behaviour.
Bharti’s core values represent mutual  respect, trust and personal growth for all.
The Company  maintains a firm stand against bribery and corruption; it  strictly prohibits making any sort of facilitation payment  and has a ‘zero tolerance’ policy for breach of regulations  and rules.
The COC is developed at the Group level and  is applicable for all internal and external stakeholders.
Adherence and compliance to the  Code is mandatory  for employees, subsidiaries, suppliers, partners, agents,  consultants and independent contractors.
Moreover, all employees are required to undergo an  annual e-certification on Code of  Conduct to reinforce  their commitment to the Code.
The Code is implemented  through the Office of the Ombudsperson.
It serves as an  independent platform for employees and other external  stakeholders (including associates, strategic partners and  suppliers) to address any breach or violation of Bharti’s  Code.
During 2016-17, 13 allegations of corruption or  bribery were received.
Investigations were completed in 11  cases.
The remaining two cases are under various stages of  investigation.
The allegations were substantiated in eight   cases and suitable actions initiated, as per Consequence  Management Policy.
PRINCIPLE 2  Product Lifecycle Sustainability Bharti Airtel is committed toward creating a positive impact  on the society.
It aims to reduce any fallouts during the  lifecycle of its products and services across the value chain.
The Company is leveraging its existing services such as  Mobile DTH, Payments Bank and Broadband to provide  basic life services.
It is helping enhance financial inclusion,  health and education along with raising awareness around  agriculture.
The Company is augmenting the government’s  efforts to expand the reach and quality of basic life services  to the masses.
Airtel introduced significant steps to promote environmental  stability.
While it promoted reduced energy consumption and  minimised waste, it also focused on developing innovative  solutions for environmental sustainability.
There were  various initiatives undertaken to reduce our impact on the  environment and minimise waste.
Please refer to the CSR  section of this annual report for details on the same.
Airtel gives utmost importance to community health and  safety, and acknowledges the growing public concern  regarding exposure to electromagnetic fields (EMF).
The Company maintains complete transparency and  shares updated research-backed data periodically with  all its stakeholders.
The Company’s existing sites comply  with applicable guidelines issued by the Department of  T elecommunication (DoT), Government of India – the Indian  emission norms are 10 times more stringent than specified by the  International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection  (ICNIRP).
According to the DoT guidelines, the Company’s  operational sites are subject to random selection and audit  by the DoT’s T elecom Enforcement Resource and Monitoring  (TERM) Cells.
In FY 2016-17, the TERM Cells conducted an  audit of 21,615 sites, and 99.96% of them were found compliant  with emission norms.
Additionally, the Company partners with  the Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) to organise  various programmes, workshops, seminars and stakeholder  meets to build awareness around EMF.
‘War on Waste’ is among the Company’s key priorities.
It is  an initiative that enhances Airtel’s operational efficiencies  by eliminating waste.
Over the years, the Company has  been actively pursuing the motto of ‘reuse, repurpose and  recycle’ across operations through deployment of innovative  technologies.
Being a service provider company, e-waste  management is a major concern for the organisation.
E-waste (or electronic waste) from electronic products, such  as IT hardware and telecommunications network equipment  may present health hazards and cause environmental  damage through land, water and air contamination.
The  Company follows the Waste Electrical and Electronic  Equipment (WEEE) guidelines to handle and recycle  e-waste generated from technology upgradation, capacity  augmentation and others.
Moreover, Airtel proactively  collects, re-uses and recycles all its e-waste to minimise  impact.
In FY 2016-17, over 2400 tons of e-waste generated  from IT and network infrastructure was recycled through  authorised recycling partners.
The Company has been consistently building a responsive  and responsible supply chain.
We aim to source 100% of the  supplies sustainably and are currently developing processes  and metrics to track the level of sourcing being done  sustainably.
Suppliers with TL9000, ISO 9001, ISO27001,  ISO 14001, OHSAS18001 and RoHS are preferred partners  by Airtel.
It encourages its partners to publicly disclose their  performance on social, environmental and governance  issues.
Moreover, the Company, through its Business  Standards of Conduct, ensures to implement compliance  with relevant laws on ethical competition, non-discriminatory  policies and practices at work, prohibition of child labour,  safe working conditions and accuracy of company records,  among others.
In our endeavour to promote indigenous  entrepreneurship, in FY 2016-17, 98% of the partners  Airtel worked with were India-based, sourcing around 65%   products in terms of value.
PRINCIPLE 3  Employees’ Well-being Airtel’s business strategy is anchored in creating a high  performance work culture and building employee capabilities  that deliver, grow and enable effective cross-functional roles.
The Company strives to create a winning ecosystem for all  its employees by providing inclusive and equal opportunities  for all.
Please view details of the Company’s initiatives for  employee well-being in the Annual Sustainability Report at  www.airtel.in/sustainability.
As on March 31, 2017, Bharti Airtel’s operations in India,  including all wholly owned subsidiaries, employed 17,491  people, including 1,520 women and 172 specially-abled  personnel.
In addition, the Company had 17,279 sub- contracted employees for calendar year 2016, employed  at its various sites.
During the period, the Company did not  PRINCIPLE 1  Ethics, Transparency and Accountability 47 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements engage any temporary or casual staff in the organisation.
Airtel currently does not have any employee associations  in the organisation however, employees have full access to  raise their concerns with the management without fear or  coercion which are addressed and resolved satisfactorily.
Airtel views its people as the cornerstone of Business and  constantly innovates to be an employee-friendly brand  through its continuous efforts focusing on talent and  capability development, employee engagement, flexible  work environment, learning and overall growth.
The Bharti Code of Conduct ensures to build a workplace  culture that fully reflects Bharti’s values of trust, mutual  respect and inclusive growth for all.
The Code encompasses  a wide array of issues pertaining to harassment, workplace  conduct, labour conditions, and community responsibility.
The Ombudsperson administers a formal process to review  and investigate all concerns and undertakes appropriate  actions required to resolve the reported matter.
In FY 2016- 17, five cases regarding sexual harassment at the workplace  have been reported and investigated.
In three of these  cases, the allegations were substantiated and the accused  personnel were separated from their services.
Airtel received  no complaints regarding child labour, forced labour and  discriminatory employment in the year under review.
Category1 Number  of  employees who  attended safety  trainings Number  of employees  who attended skill  upgradation trainings Permanent employees 13,693 16,599 Permanent women  employees 269 1,497 Casual / temporary / contractual employees13,741 n/a Employees with  disabilities11 208 1 BAL and 100% owned Indian subsidiaries PRINCIPLE 4  Stakeholder Engagement Bharti Airtel functions on the philosophy that communication  can bring in multi-dimensional transformations.
Thus, the  Company’s approach to responsible business activities  includes routine engagement of internal and external  stakeholders on significant matters.
Additionally, a formal  stakeholder engagement materiality assessment is performed  once in every two years to gather the stakeholder requirements;  and map the same for the Company to align its governance  framework and management approach with it.
Through its  Sustainability Plan 2020, the Company aspires to play its  part in the sustainable development of India, specifically by  addressing areas like connectivity, health, education and  financial inclusion.
Airtel uses its inherent advantages of reach  and affordability to help bring socio-economic development  across the country.
The Board – level Stakeholders’  Relationship Committee of the Company ensures the fair  examination and redressal of concerns of all security holders  through engagement and disclosure practices.
The Company has identified the disadvantaged, vulnerable  and marginalised stakeholders through Bharti Foundation,  the philanthropic arm of Bharti Enterprises.
The foundation’s  beneficiaries include economically-challenged and  disadvantaged groups, especially girls.
Bharti Foundation  touches all aspects of stakeholder empowerment through  multiple community initiatives in the realm of education,  employment generation, sanitation along with healthcare,  and disaster management.
Conducting need-based  training for key stakeholders forms a significant part of the  foundation’s empowerment and financial inclusion strategy.
Please refer to the CSR section of the annual report and  the sustainability report for details on the Company’s  intervention through Bharti Foundation.
PRINCIPLE 5  Human Rights Bharti’s Code of Conduct is directed towards upholding  the highest levels of ethical business practices.
Strong  commitment to performance with integrity, and human rights  are embedded in the Company’s policies, which lays down  acceptable behaviour on various aspects including human  rights.
The Code is applicable for all employees, associates  and business partners of the Company.
Compliance to the  Code, the relevant labour laws and human rights regulations  applicable in their geographies of operation is a major part  of associating with Airtel.
No incidences of discrimination  or human rights violation were received by the Company’s  Ombudsperson office in FY 2016-17.
PRINCIPLE 6  Protection of the Environment As one of India’s leading  telecommunications  companies,   Airtel understands its responsibility to consistently evaluate  the impact of its services, operations and infrastructure  partners on the environment.
The Company acknowledges  the need for constant assessment of its overall influence on  energy consumption, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and  resource optimisation for environmental protection.
Airtel is  working towards deployment of renewable energy solutions  in network towers, installation of rooftop solar panels at Main  Switching Centres (MSCs) and captivating green energy  generation through solar/wind energy.
It is also committed  to operating and providing products and services in an  environmentally responsible and sustainable manner.
The  Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) policy specifies  its approach towards protection of the environment; the  policy is applicable for all employees of the Company and  its subsidiaries.
In addition, the Company works closely with  network infrastructure and facility management partners  to identify social and environment risks, and explore  innovative ways to lessen energy consumption throughout  the organisation.
Moreover, this association facilitates a  shift to green mobile tower technologies that consume less  power.
Over the years, there have been various initiatives  undertaken to address global environmental issues, promote  renewable energy solutions, increase energy efficiency  and reduce waste.
The emissions or wastes generated by  the Company are within the permissible limits specified by  Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and State Pollution  Control Boards (SPCBs).
As on March 31, 2017, there were  three notices received from CPCB/SPCP which are at various  stages of resolution.
Details of the Company’s environmental initiatives are  available in its annual report and its annual sustainability  report at www.airtel.in/sustainability.
48 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 PRINCIPLE 7 Responsible Policy Advocacy The Company works closely with all industry associations  and trade chambers to ensure its public policy positions  complement and advance its sustainability and citizenship  objective.
The Company strives to drive digital inclusion,  promote green telecom, advance innovation, enhance  competitiveness and increase job creation, economic  growth and sustainable standards of living.
Its policy  agenda is centred on the provision of network coverage,  affordable access to customers, building transparency  and awareness around radiations.
Moreover, it deals with  creating adaptability of internet, easing and automating  subscriber acquisition, quality of service offerings, tariff and  environment, among others.
As these issues are now being  scrutinised and deliberated by a very proactive government,  they are likely to have a material impact on the lives of  millions.
The Company generally conveys its policy positions through  its membership with the Cellular Operators Association  of India (COAI).
Besides, it is member of other industry  associations like Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and  Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry  (FICCI).
Internationally, Bharti Airtel is a member of the  International T elecommunication Union (ITU) and GSM  Association (GSMA).
PRINCIPLE 8 Support Inclusive Growth T elecommunication services play a pivotal role in improving  governance, communication, security, and disaster relief  efforts.
Moreover, it can contribute to the overall strengthening  of socio-cultural ethos.
Bharti Airtel is focussed on creating  a sustained, positive and deep-rooted impact on the society  through employee volunteerism and CSR efforts, along with  Bharti Foundation and various NGOs/associates.
Airtel Sustainability Plan 2020 is the architecture for  Airtel’s sustainable business.
The sustainability framework  focuses on maintaining its relationship with the Company’s  customers, community, partners, planet and people.
Airtel  aims to actualise its sustainability vision of social inclusion  and contribute to a balanced future, while decoupling growth  with environmental fallout and increasing its social impact.
Bharti Airtel is committed towards sustainable community  development through actively engaging with communities it  operates in.
It is determined to create a deep-rooted, positive  impact on the society at large.
Therefore, it proactively  applies its competence and partnerships to promote  community wellness through initiatives undertaken by the  Bharti Foundation.
Education is a critical component for the holistic development  of the nation.
In a developing country like India, it is a challenge  CREA TING  SUST AINABLE  COMMUNITIES Building  Connectivity Connecting  everyone, speciality  the population in  rural areas Building Capability Driving digital literacy  and adaptability to  spread the benefits of  the digital world Driving Innovation Building technology  solutions to address the  need for basic life services  life health, education,  finance and agriculture Enabling  Community Supporting the  efforts of Bharti  Foundation to  promote education  for the girl child,  and driving disaster  relief and community  initiatives through  our circles 1 2 3 4 49 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements to ensure elementary education in rural areas, especially for  girls.
Airtel has recognised this gap and is focused towards  actively supporting initiatives of the Bharti Foundation and  its flagship programme, the Satya Bharti School Program.
The details about this programme are available in the CSR  section of the Company’s annual report.
During FY 2016-17, Bharti Airtel made significant  contributions towards various philanthropic projects,  which include: The Satya Bharti School Program involves the communities  in which it functions towards the operations of schools.
The  programme actively engages community members in making  monetary and tangible contributions to schools and related  activities and events.
Donating land for school buildings,  erecting boundary walls and pathways, contributing furniture  for school usage are some ways community members  participate in the programme.
In addition, the programme  arranges various contact points between parents and the  community, such as parent-teacher meetings, home-visits,  community-events (Sports Day) to enhance understanding  of the education system.
A structured impact assessment study was conducted by  a third party to assess the Satya Bharti School Program in  2014.
Sample Satya Bharti Schools across Punjab, Haryana  and Rajasthan were compared to 15 other schools within  their vicinity to ascertain the impact of the programme on  children, parents, communities and teachers.
The results  were very rewarding and provided valuable feedback around  expectations of the community to improve delivery of the  programme.
This year the impact assessment is planned for  two of the main projects and the results should be available  by the end of the year.
Impact on the community Impact on children 84.7% of children studying at Satya Bharti  Schools were certain of their responses and  clear in their communication as compared to  38.0% children studying in other schools.
` 924 Mn Bharti Foundation towards  furtherance of its objectives.
` 52 Mn Other contributions Impact on parents and communities 96% of parents with girl child studying at  Satya Bharti School wanted her to pursue  higher education compared to 73.7% parents  whose girl child go to other schools.
PRINCIPLE 9 Providing Customer Value Airtel envisions enriching customer lives through exceptional  customer experience and enhanced satisfaction and loyalty.
The Company relentlessly strives to provide a world-class  network and cost-effective services through innovative  products and customer interactions that create a distinctive  consumer experience.
Airtel recognises that constant  feedback is a vital partner in providing great services.
The Company measures customer satisfaction progress  primarily through the Net Promoter Score (NPS).
It is a key  performance indicator that gauges how likely a customer  will recommend the Company’s products.
Apart from NPS,  the Company uses various mechanisms like social media  mentions, feedback over a call or on a point of sale, compliant  management or surveys to receive further insights on  delivering superior services.
Additionally, Airtel has been communicating mandatory  information as specified by the law regarding enrolment  and deactivation, tariff, usage, contact and grievance on  its welcome kits, periodic bills, enrolment forms, booklets,  websites and point of sales displays.
During the last five years no legal cases were filed against  the Company for unfair trade practices and irresponsible  advertising.
In FY 2016-17, three  cases were filed against  the Company before the Competition Commission of India  for anti-competitive behaviour and all of them are pending  resolution.
In addition to this, 25 complaints were registered  with the Advertisements Standards Council of India (ASCI)  out of which 24 were resolved successfully as per the  process specified in the ASCI rules.
Besides, as on March  31, 2017, 778 consumer cases and 0.04% of the customer  complaints are at various stages of resolution.
50 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Board’s Report Dear Members, Your Directors have pleasure in presenting the 22 nd Board  Report on the Company’s business and operations, together  with audited financial statements and accounts for the  financial year ended March 31, 2017.
Company Overview Bharti Airtel is among the top three mobile service providers  globally with presence in 17 countries, including India, Sri  Lanka and 15 countries in the African continent.
The Company’s diversified service range includes mobile,  voice and data solutions, using 2G, 3G and 4G technologies.
Its service portfolio comprises Digital TV services, an  integrated suite of telecom solutions for its customers,  besides providing long distance connectivity in India, Africa  and rest of the world.
All the services are rendered under  a unified brand ‘airtel’ either directly or through subsidiary  companies.
‘Airtel Money’ (known as ‘Airtel Payments Bank’  in India) extends product portfolio to further our financial  inclusion agenda and offers convenience of payments and  money transfers on mobile phones over secure and stable  platforms in India, and across all 15 countries in Africa.
The Company also deploys and manages passive  infrastructure pertaining to telecom operations through  its subsidiary, Bharti Infratel Limited, which also owns  42% of Indus T owers Limited.
T ogether, Bharti Infratel and  Indus T owers are the largest passive infrastructure service  providers in India.
Financial Results In compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013,  and SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing Regulations’) the Company  has prepared its standalone and consolidated financial  statements as per Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) for  the FY 2016-17.
The standalone and consolidated financial  highlights of the Company’s operations are as follows: Standalone Financial Highlights (Ind AS) Particulars FY 2016-17 FY 2015-16 `  Millions USD  Millions* `  Millions USD  Millions* Gross	revenue  622,763   9,273  603,003  9,209 EBITDA before  exceptional	items 242,242   3,607  226,435 3,458 Cash	profit	from	 operations 209,647  3,122 205,096 3,132 Earnings before  taxation (85,095) (1,267) 102,544 1,566 Net Income/ (Loss) (99,256) (1,478) 77,803 1,188 *1 USD = ` 67.16 Exchange Rate for the financial year ended March 31, 2017.
(1 USD = ` 65.48 Exchange Rate for the financial year ended March 31, 2016).
Consolidated Financial Highlights (Ind AS) Particulars FY 2016-17 FY 2015-16 `  Millions USD  Millions* `  Millions USD  Millions* Gross	revenue 954,683 14,214 965,321 14,742 EBITDA before  exceptional	items 356,206 5,304 341,682 5,218 Cash	profit	from	 operations 283,668 4,224 289,083 4,415 Earnings before  taxation 77,233 1,150 128,463 1,962 Net Income/ (Loss) 37,998 566 60,767 928 *1 USD = ` 67.16 Exchange Rate for the financial year ended March 31, 2017.
(1 USD = ` 65.48 Exchange Rate for the financial year ended March 31, 2016).
The financial results and the results of operations, including  major developments have been further discussed in detail in  the Management Discussion and Analysis section.
Indian Accounting Standards The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), vide its notification  dated February 16, 2015, notified the Indian Accounting  Standards (Ind AS) applicable to certain class of companies.
Ind AS has replaced the existing Indian GAAP prescribed  under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013, read with  Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
Pursuant to the aforesaid notification, with effect from April  01, 2016, the Company has transitioned to Ind AS and the  transition date being April 01, 2015.
The transition is carried  out from accounting principles generally accepted in India  being the previous GAAP .
Accordingly,  basis the accounting  policies and Ind-AS 101 exemptions finalised, the impact  of transition has been provided in the opening equity as at  April 01, 2015  and figures for the previous year have been  adjusted accordingly.
The reconciliation and explanation of the effect of transition to  Ind AS are given in detail in note 23 and 29 of the standalone  and consolidated financial statements respectively.
Share Capital During the year, there was no change in the Company’s  issued, subscribed and paid-up equity share capital.
On  March 31, 2017, it stood at ` 19,987 Mn, divided into  3,997,400,102 equity shares of ` 5/- each.
Augere Wireless Broadband India Private Limited, a subsidiary  company was amalgamated with the Company w.e.f.
February  15, 2017.
As per the Scheme of Amalgamation, the authorised  share capital of Augere Wireless Broadband India Private  Limited was transferred to the Company and consequently the  authorised share capital of the Company was increased from   `  25,000 Mn (divided into 5,000 Mn equity shares of  ` 5/- each)   to ` 27,500 Mn (divided into 5,500 Mn equity shares of   ` 5/- each).
General Reserve The Company has not transferred any amount to the General  Reserve for the financial year ended March 31, 2017.
51 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Dividend Your Directors have recommended a final dividend of   ` 1.00 per equity share of ` 5 each fully paid-up (20.00 % of  face value) for FY 2016-17.
The total final dividend payout  will amount to ` 3,997 Mn, excluding tax on dividend.
The  payment of final dividend is subject to the approval of  shareholders in the Company’s ensuing Annual General  Meeting (AGM).
The Register of Members and Share Transfer Books will  remain closed from Saturday, July 15, 2017 to Monday, July  24, 2017 (both days inclusive) for the purpose of payment of  final dividend for the FY 2016-17, if declared at the ensuing  AGM.
Dividend Distribution Policy As per Regulation 43A of the Listing Regulations, top 500  listed companies are required to formulate a dividend  distribution policy.
Accordingly, the Company has adopted  the dividend distribution policy which sets out the parameters  and circumstances to be considered by the Board in  determining the distribution of dividend to its shareholders  and / or retaining profits earned by the Company.
The  Policy is enclosed as Annexure J to the Board’s Report  and is also available on the Company’s website at http:// www.airtel.in/wps/wcm/connect/61c3e71e-2df0-4fe6- 8c46-a99cba57266a/ Airtel-Dividend+Distribution+Policy.
pdf?MOD=AJPERES&ContentCache=NONE.
Transfer of amount to Investor Education and  Protection Fund During the financial year 2016-17, the Company has  transferred the unpaid/unclaimed dividend amounting to  ` 6.08 Mn to the Investor Education and Protection Fund  (IEPF) Account established by the Central Government.
The Company has also uploaded the details of unpaid and  unclaimed amounts lying with the Company as on August  19, 2016 (date of last Annual General Meeting) on the  Company’s website www.airtel.com.
According to the Investor Education and Protection Fund  Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules,  2016 (IEPF Rules), as amended, the shares in respect  of which dividend has not been paid or claimed by the  shareholders for seven consecutive years or more shall  also be credited to the demat account created by the IEPF  Authority.
The corresponding shares will be transferred as  per the requirements of the IEPF Rules, details of which are  provided on the Company’s website www.airtel.com.
Deposits The Company has not accepted any deposits and, as such,  no amount of principal or interest was outstanding, as on the  balance sheet closure date.
Capital Market Ratings As on March 31, 2017, the Company was rated by two  domestic rating agencies, namely CRISIL and ICRA and  three international rating agencies, namely Fitch Ratings,  Moody’s and S&P .
CRISIL and ICRA maintained their long-term ratings of the  Company.
As on March 31, 2017, they rate the Company at  [CRISIL] AA+/[ICRA] AA+, with a stable outlook.
Short-term  ratings were maintained at the highest end of the rating  scale at [CRISIL] A1+/[ICRA] A1+.
Fitch, S&P and Moody’s also maintained the ratings at BBB-/  Stable, BBB-/Stable and Baa3/Stable, respectively.
As on March 31, 2017, the Company was rated ‘Investment  Grade’ with a ‘Stable’ outlook by all three international credit  rating agencies.
Employee Stock Option Plan At present, the Company has two Employee Stock Options  (ESOP) schemes, namely the Employee Stock Option  Scheme 2001 and the Employee Stock Option Scheme  2005.
Besides attracting talent, the schemes also helped  retain talent and experience.
The HR and Nomination  Committee administers and monitors the Company’s ESOP  schemes.
Both the ESOP schemes are currently administered through  Bharti Airtel Employees Welfare Trust (ESOP Trust), whereby  shares held by the Trust are transferred to the employee,  upon exercise of stock options as per the terms of the  Scheme.
Pursuant to the provisions of SEBI (Share Based Employee  Benefits) Regulations, 2014 (ESOP Regulations), a disclosure  with respect to ESOP Schemes of the Company as on March  31, 2017, is annexed as Annexure A to this report and has  also been uploaded on Company’s website at http://www.
airtel.in/wps/wcm/connect/c9e25993-5b80-4ebo-9874- 37614225b876.
During the previous year, there were no material changes  in the aforesaid ESOP Schemes of the Company and the  ESOP Schemes are in compliance with ESOP R egulations.
A certificate from S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP , Chartered  Accountants, Statutory Auditors, with respect to the  implementation of the Company’s ESOP schemes, would  be placed before the shareholders at the ensuing AGM.
A  copy of the same will also be available for inspection at the  Company’s registered office.
In terms of the provisions of ESOP Regulations, approval  of shareholders is being sought for modification of the  Employee Stock Option Scheme 2005 with the objective  to make the same more beneficial and employee friendly.
Accordingly, a proposal has been included in the Notice of  22nd Annual General Meeting accompanying this report.
Material changes and commitments affecting the  financial position between the end of financial year  and date of report after the balance sheet date There were no material changes and commitments affecting  the financial position of the Company between the end of  financial year and the date of this report.
Directors and Key Managerial Personnel Inductions, Re-appointments, Retirements &  Resignations Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013,  Sheikh Faisal Thani Al-Thani, Director of the Company will  retire by rotation at the ensuing AGM and being eligible, has  offered himself for re-appointment.
The Board recommends  his re-appointment.
Mr. Gopal Vittal, Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia)  will be completing his present term as Managing Director of  the Company on January 31, 2018.
On the recommendation  of the HR and Nomination Committee, the Board in its meeting  held on May 09, 2017 subject to the approval of shareholders,  has re-appointed Mr. Gopal Vittal as Managing Director & CEO  (India & South Asia) of the Company for a further term of five  years w.e.f.
February 01, 2018.
52 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Mr. Manish Kejriwal, Independent Director will be completing  his present term as an Independent Director of the Company  on September 25, 2017.
On the recommendation of the HR  and Nomination Committee, the Board in its meeting held  on May 09, 2017 subject to the approval of shareholders by  special resolution, has re-appointed Mr. Manish Kejriwal as  an Independent Director of the Company for a further term  of five years w.e.f.
September 26, 2017.
Brief resume, nature of expertise, details of directorships  held in other companies of the Directors proposed to be re- appointed, along with their shareholding in the Company, as  stipulated under Secretarial Standard 2 and Regulation 36  of the Listing Regulations, is appended as an annexure to  the Notice of the ensuing AGM.
Mr. Rajendra Chopra resigned from the position of Company  Secretary w.e.f.
January 24, 2017.
The Board placed on  record its appreciation for the contribution made by him  during his tenure.
The Board in its meeting held on January  24, 2017 had appointed Mr. Rohit Krishan Puri as the Deputy  Company Secretary and the Compliance Officer of the  Company w.e.f.
January 25, 2017.
The Company is in process  of identifying and appointing the Company Secretary of the  Company.
Since as on the date of approval of the financial  statements of the Company for the financial year ended  March 31, 2017, there was no Company Secretary on the  Board, the financial statements appended to this annual  report have been signed by the Chairman, the Managing  Director & CEO (India & South Asia) and the Global Chief  Financial Officer of the Company.
Declaration by Independent Directors The Company has received declarations from all Independent  Directors of the Company confirming that they continue  to meet the criteria of independence, as prescribed under  Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 25  of the Listing Regulations.
The Independent Directors have  also confirmed that they have complied with the Company’s  code of conduct.
Board Diversity and Policy on Director’s  Appointment and Remuneration The Company believes that building a diverse and inclusive  culture is integral to its success.
A diverse Board will be  able to leverage different skills, qualifications, professional  experiences, perspectives and backgrounds, which  is necessary for achieving sustainable and balanced  development.
The Board has adopted a policy on  ‘Nomination, Remuneration and Board Diversity’, which  sets out the criteria for determining qualifications, positive  attributes and independence of a Director.
The detailed  policy is available on the Company’s website at http://www.
airtel.in/wps/wcm/connect/92b49e0e-8810-497a-9c3e- 9b80657a3688/Policy-on-Remuneration-Nomination-and- Board-Diversity.pdf?MOD=AJPERES and is also annexed as  Annexure B to this report.
Annual Board Evaluation and Familiarisation  Programme for Board Members A note on the familiarisation programme adopted by the  Company for orientation and training of the Directors, and  the Board evaluation process undertaken in compliance  with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the  Listing Regulations is provided in the Report on Corporate  Governance, which forms part of this Report.
The HR and Nomination Committee has put in place a robust  framework for evaluation of the Board, Board-Committees  and Individual Directors.
Customised questionnaires were  circulated, responses were analyzed and the results of  evaluation were subsequently discussed by the Board.
Recommendations arising from the evaluation process will  be considered by the Board to optimise its effectiveness.
Committees of Board, Number of Meetings of the  Board and Board Committees The Board of Directors met eight (8) times during the  previous financial year.
As on March 31, 2017, the Board has  eight committees, namely, the Audit & Risk Management  Committee, the HR and Nomination Committee, the  Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) Committee, the  Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, the Committee  of Directors, the Airtel Corporate Council, the Special  Committee of Directors (for Monetisation of stake in Bharti  Infratel Limited) and the Special Committee of Directors (for  Restructuring of overseas holding structure).
All the recommendations made by committees of the  Board including the Audit & Risk Management Committee  were accepted by the Board.
A detailed update on the  Board, its composition, detailed charter including terms and  reference of various Board Committees, number of Board  and Committee meetings held during FY 2016-17 and  attendance of the Directors at each meeting is provided in  the Report on Corporate Governance, which forms part of  this Report.
Subsidiary, Associate and Joint Venture Companies As on March 31, 2017, your Company has 96 subsidiaries,  5 associates and 3 joint ventures, as set out in note 32 of  the full version Annual Report (for Abridged Annual Report,  please refer note 21).
During FY 2016-17, Robi Axiata Limited, Seynse  T echnologies Private Limited, Aban Green Power Private  Limited and Greenenergy Wind Corporation Private  Limited became Associates of the Company and T anzania  T elecommunications Limited ceased to be an Associate of  the Company.
During FY 2016-17, Airtel Money T anzania Limited became  a subsidiary of the Company.
Augure Wireless Broadband  India Private Limited was amalgamated with the Company,  Airtel Bangladesh Limited was amalgamated with Robi  Axiata Limited, Bharti Airtel Holdings (Singapore) Pte.
Ltd  was amalgamated with Bharti International (Singapore) Pte.
Ltd and Warid T elecom Uganda Limited was amalgamated  with Airtel Uganda Limited.
Airtel (SL) Limited, Airtel Burkina  Faso S.A., Airtel DTH Services (SL) Limited, Airtel Mobile  Commerce (SL) Limited, Airtel Mobile Commerce Burkina  Faso S.A., Bharti Airtel Sierra Leone Holdings B. V ., Airtel  T owers (Ghana) Limited, Airtel T owers (S.L.)
Company  Limited, Congo T owers S.A. and T chad T owers S.A. ceased to  be subsidiaries of the Company.
During the financial year the  Company has transferred its entire shareholding in Bharti  Airtel International (Mauritius) Limited, a subsidiary company  to Network i2i Limited, another subsidiary company and  has also transferred its 908,443,918 shares in Bharti Airtel  International (Netherlands) B. V ., a subsidiary company to  Network i2i Limited, another subsidiary company.
Pursuant to Section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013  read with Rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, a  statement containing salient features of financial statements  of subsidiary, associate and joint venture companies is  annexed to the Abridged and full version Annual Report.
The statement also provides the details of performance and  financial position of each of the subsidiary, associate and  joint venture.
53 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements The audited financial statements of each of its subsidiary,  associate and joint venture companies are available for  inspection at the Company’s registered office and also at  registered offices of the respective companies and pursuant  to the provisions of Section 136 of the Companies Act, 2013,  the financial statements of each of its subsidiary companies  are also available on the Company’s website www.airtel.com.
Copies of the annual accounts of the subsidiary, associate  and joint venture companies will also be made available to  the investors of Bharti Airtel and those of the respective  companies upon request.
Abridged Annual Report In terms of the provision of Section 136(1) of the Companies  Act, 2013, Rule 10 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014  and Regulation 36 of the Listing Regulations, the Board of  Directors has decided to circulate the Abridged Annual  Report containing salient features of the balance sheet and  statement of profit and loss and other documents to the  shareholders for FY 2016-17, who have not registered their  e-mail id.
The Abridged Annual Report is being circulated to  the members excluding Annexures to the Board’s Report  viz.
the ‘disclosure on ESOPs’, ‘Policy on Nomination,  Remuneration and Board Diversity’, ‘Secretarial Audit  Report’, ‘Annual Report on Corporate Social Responsibility  u/s 135 of the Companies Act, 2013’, ‘Dividend Distribution  Policy’, ‘Business Responsibility Report’, ‘Report on  Corporate Governance and Auditors’ Certificate on  compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance’, ‘Extract  of Annual Return’, ‘Note on Energy Conservation, T echnology  Absorption and Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo’ and  ‘Disclosures relating to remuneration u/s 197(12) read with  Rule 5(1) and Rule 5(2) of the Companies (Appointment and  Remuneration of Managerial Personnel), Rules, 2014’.
Members who desire to obtain the full version of the report  may write to the Corporate Secretarial Department at the  registered office address and will be provided with a copy  of the same.
Full version of the Annual Report will also be  available on the Company’s website www.airtel.com.
Auditors and Auditors’ Report Statutory Auditors Under Section 139 of the Companies Act, 2013, and  the rules made thereunder, it is mandatory to rotate the  Statutory Auditors on completion of the maximum term  permitted under the said section.
S. R. Batliboi & Associates  LLP , Chartered Accountants, shall be completing their tenure  as the Company’s Statutory Auditors and shall hold office till  the conclusion of ensuing 22nd AGM.
On the recommendation of the Audit & Risk Management  Committee, the Board, in its meeting held on May 09,  2017, subject to the approval of the shareholders, has  recommended the appointment of Deloitte Haskins & Sells  LLP , Chartered Accountants, (firm registration number  117366W-W100018) (‘Deloitte’) as the Statutory Auditors  of the Company.
Deloitte will hold office for a term of five  consecutive years i.e.
from the conclusion of ensuing 22nd  AGM till the conclusion of 27th AGM, subject to ratification by  the members at every AGM.
Accordingly, the appointment  of Deloitte as the Company’s Statutory Auditors, is placed  for approval of the members.
The Company has received a  certificate from Deloitte to the effect that their appointment,  if made, shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section  141 of the Companies Act, 2013.
The first year of audit will  be of the financial statements for the year ending March 31,  2018, which will include the audit of the quarterly financial  statements for the year.
The Board has duly examined the Statutory Auditors’ Report  to the accounts, which is self-explanatory.
Clarifications,  wherever necessary, have been included in the Notes to  Accounts section of the Annual Report.
As regards the comments under para i(a) of the   Annexure 1 to the Independent Auditors’ Report regarding  updation of quantitative and situation details relating to  certain fixed assets, the Company is in the process of  executing a comprehensive project with the involvement  of technical experts, for deploying automated tools and  processes which will enable near real-time tracking of fixed  assets and reconciliation thereto.
This project is expected to  be completed by next year.
Cost Auditors The Board, on the recommendation of the Audit & Risk  Management Committee, has approved the appointment of  R.J. Goel & Co., Cost Accountants, as Cost Auditors, for the  financial year ending March 31, 2018.
The Cost Auditors will  submit their report for the FY 2016-17 on or before the due  date.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 148 of the  Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Audit  and Auditors) Rules, 2014, since the remuneration payable  to the Cost Auditors is required to be ratified by the  shareholders, the Board recommends the same for approval  by shareholders at the ensuing AGM.
Secretarial Auditors The Company had appointed Chandrasekaran Associates,  Company Secretaries, to conduct its Secretarial Audit for  the financial year ended March 31, 2017.
The Secretarial  Auditors have submitted their report, confirming compliance  by the Company of all the provisions of applicable corporate  laws.
The Report does not contain any qualification,  reservation, disclaimer or adverse remark.
The Secretarial  Audit Report is annexed as Annexure C to this report.
The Board has re-appointed Chandrasekaran Associates,  Company Secretaries, New Delhi, as Secretarial Auditors of  the Company for FY 2017-18.
Sustainability Journey Over the past few years, sustainability has not only been an  integral part but also invariably complimentary to Airtel’s  business agenda.
Airtel’s sustainability journey endeavours  to contribute further to its society and environment.
The  Company made social inclusion as a cornerstone of its  sustainably of its programme in order to create value across  its entire value chain.
T o drive this Agenda, Airtel has an  undivided focus on bridging the digital divide and ensuring  that millions more are empowered through sustainable  social and economic development.
It has been pushing  boundaries and changing the business paradigms across  industries by enabling the growth of sectors like finance  and banking, education, health, agriculture, and put in place  innovative ways to reduce the carbon footprint.
Airtel has  been strengthening its efforts to reiterate its commitments  towards bringing a positive transformation by enabling  digital inclusion, well-being of communities and enriching  their lives through its core competencies.
It is passionate to  actively support Bharti Foundation and its educational and  other initiatives.
Airtel’s sustainability and business responsibility initiatives  have been detailed in its sustainability Reports, which can be  downloaded from the Company’s website http://www.airtel.
in/sustainability-file/home.html.
54 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) At Bharti Airtel, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)  encompasses much more than social outreach programmes.
It lies at the heart of the Company’s business operations.
Over the y ears, the Company has aligned its business  processes and goals to make a more deep-rooted impact on  the society’s sustainable development.
In accordance with the requirements of Section 135 of the  Companies Act, 2013, the Company has constituted a CSR  Committee.
The composition and terms of reference of the  CSR Committee is provided in the Report on Corporate  Governance, which forms part of this Report.
The Company has also formulated a Corporate Social  Responsibility Policy, which is available on the Company’s  website at http://www.airtel.in/wps/wcm/connect/ fd7b3172-02e5-4e25-af7e-51d64cc17534/CSR+Policy.
pdf?MOD=AJPERES&ContentCache=NONE During FY 2016-17, the Company has contributed   ` 55.84 Mn under Section 135 of Companies Act, 2013.
Further, the Company has also contributed ` 899.42  Mn to Bharti Foundation for promotion of education  of underprivileged children under Section 35AC of  the Income T ax Act, 1961 and has also contributed   ` 20.33 Mn to various other charitable institutions.
The  consolidated contribution of the Company towards various  CSR activities during the FY 2016-17 was ` 975.59 Mn  (i.e.
0.94% of net profit of last three years).
The Company  has increased/scaled up its CSR intervention in the areas  prescribed in the Company’s CSR policy and there was  an increase of approx.
69.67% in the total CSR spend  vis-à-vis last year i.e.
from ` 575 Mn in FY 2015-16 to   ` 975.59 Mn this year.
As a socially responsible Company, your Company is  committed to increase its CSR impact and spend over the  coming years, with its aim of playing a larger role in India’s  sustainable development by embedding wider economic,  social and environmental objectives.
Being the initial years,  the Company was in the process of evaluating the focus  areas/locations of intervention for CSR activities to cater to  the present needs of the society and deliver optimal impact.
A detailed update on the CSR initiatives of the Company  is provided in the Corporate Social Responsibility and  Sustainability Report, which forms part of the Annual Report.
The Annual Report on Corporate Social Responsibility u/s 135  of the Companies Act, 2013 is annexed as Annexure D to this  Report.
Business Responsibility Report As stipulated under the Listing Regulations, the Business  Responsibility Report, describing the initiatives taken by  the Company from environmental, social and governance  perspective forms a part of the Annual Report.
Management Discussion and Analysis Report Pursuant to Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations, the  Management Discussion and Analysis Report for the year  under review, is presented in a separate section, forming part  of the Annual Report.
Corporate Governance A detailed report on Corporate Governance, pursuant to the  requirements of Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations,  forms part of the Annual Report.
A certificate from S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP , Chartered  Accountants, the Statutory Auditors of the Company,  confirming compliance of conditions of Corporate  Governance, as stipulated under the Listing Regulations, is  annexed as Annexure I  to this report.
Risk Management Risk management is embedded in Bharti Airtel’s operating  framework.
The Company believes that risk resilience is key  to achieving higher growth.
T o this effect, there is a robust  process in place to identify key risks across the Group and  prioritise relevant action plans to mitigate these risks.
Risk  Management framework is reviewed periodically by the  Board and the Audit & Risk Management Committee, which  includes discussing the management submissions on risks,  prioritising key risks and approving action plans to mitigate  such risks.
The Company has duly approved a Risk Management  Policy.
The objective of this Policy is to have a well-defined  approach to risk.
The policy lays down broad guidelines for  timely identification, assessment, and prioritisation of risks  affecting the Company in the short and foreseeable future.
The Policy suggests framing an appropriate response action  for the key risks identified, so as to make sure that risks are  adequately addressed or mitigated.
The Internal Audit function is responsible to assist the  Audit & Risk Management Committee on an independent  basis with a complete review of the risk assessments and  associated management action plans.
Operationally, risk is being managed at the top level by  Management Boards in India and South Asia and in Africa  (AMB and Africa Exco) and at operating level by Executive  Committees of Circles in India and Operating Companies in  the international operations.
Detailed discussion on Risk Management forms part of  Management Discussion & Analysis under the section ‘Risks  and Concerns’, which forms part of this Annual Report.
At  present, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, there are  no risks which may threaten the existence of the Company.
Internal Financial Controls and their adequacy The Company has established a robust framework for  internal financial controls.
The Company has in place  adequate controls, procedures and policies, ensuring orderly  and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence  to the Company’s policies, safeguarding of its assets,  prevention and detection of frauds and errors, accuracy and  completeness of accounting records, and timely preparation  of reliable financial information.
During the year, such controls  were assessed and no reportable material weaknesses in  the design or operation were observed.
Accordingly, the  Board is of the opinion that the Company’s internal financial  controls were adequate and effective during FY 2016-17.
Other Statutory Disclosures Vigil Mechanism The Code of Conduct and vigil mechanism applicable  to Directors and Senior Management of the Company is  available on the Company’s website at http://www.airtel.in/ about-bharti/investor-relations/corporate-governance.
A brief note on the highlights of the Whistle Blower Policy  and compliance with Code of Conduct is also provided in the  Report on Corporate Governance, which forms part of this  Annual Report.
55 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Extract of Annual Return In terms of provisions of Section 92, 134(3)(a) of the  Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 12 of Companies  (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, the extract  of Annual Return of the Company in form MGT-9 is annexed  herewith as Annexure E to this report.
Significant and material orders There are no significant and material orders passed by the  regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the going concern  status and Company’s operations in future.
Particulars of loans, guarantees and investments Particulars of loans, guarantees and investments form part  of note 10, 22 and 8 respectively to the financial statements  provided in the full version of the Annual Report.
Related Party Transactions A detailed note on the procedure adopted by the Company  in dealing with contracts and arrangements with Related  Parties is provided in the Report on Corporate Governance,  which forms part of this Annual Report.
All arrangements / transactions entered into by the  Company with its related parties during the year were in the  ordinary course of business and on an arm’s length basis.
During the year, the Company has not entered into any  arrangement/transaction with related parties which could  be considered material in accordance with the Company’s  Policy on Related Party Transactions and accordingly, the  disclosure of Related Party Transactions in Form AOC-2  is not applicable.
However, names of Related Parties and  details of transactions with them have been included in note  32 of the financial statements provided in the full version of  the Annual Report and note 21 of the financial statements  provided in abridged version of the Annual Report under  Indian Accounting Standard 24.
The Policy on the Related Party Transactions  is available on the Company’s website at   http://www.airtel.in/wps/wcm/connect/36a5305d- f0ba-490c-9eff-152ef6811917/BALPolicy-on-Related- PartyTransactions.pdf?MOD=AJPERES Energy Conservation, T echnology Absorption and  Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo The details of energy conservation, technology absorption  and foreign exchange earnings and outgo as required under  Section 134(3) of the Companies Act, 2013, read with the  Rule 8 of Companies (Accounts of Companies) Rules, 2014  is annexed as Annexure F to this report.
Particulars of Employees Disclosures relating to remuneration of Directors u/s  197(12) read with Rule 5(1) of Companies (Appointment  and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is  annexed as Annexure G to this report.
The information, as required to be provided in terms of  Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013, read with  Rule 5(2) of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of  Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, is annexed as Annexure  H to this report.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement Pursuant to Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013, the  Directors, to the best of their knowledge and belief, confirm  that: a)   in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable  accounting standards had been followed, along with  proper explanation relating to material departures; b)   the Directors had selected such accounting policies  and applied them consistently and made judgements  and estimates that are reasonable and prudent, so as  to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the  Company at the end of the financial year and of the  profit and loss of the Company for that period; c)   the Directors had taken proper and sufficient care for  the maintenance of adequate accounting records  in accordance with the provisions of this Act for  safeguarding the assets of the Company and for  preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities; d)   the Directors had prepared the annual accounts on a  going concern basis; e)   the Directors, had laid down internal financial controls  to be followed by the Company and that such internal  financial controls are adequate and were operating  effectively; f)   the Directors had devised proper systems to ensure  compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws  and that such systems were adequate and operating  effectively.
Acknowledgements The Board wishes to place on record their appreciation to  the Department of T elecommunications (DoT), the Central  Government, the State Governments in India, Government  of Bangladesh, Government of Sri Lanka and Governments  in the 15 countries in Africa, Company’s bankers and  business associates, for the assistance, co-operation and  encouragement extended to the Company.
The Directors also extend their appreciation to the  employees for their continuing support and unstinting efforts  in ensuring an excellent all-round operational performance.
The Directors would like to thank various partners, viz., Bharti  T elecom Limited, Singapore T elecommunications Ltd. and  other shareholders for their support and contribution.
We  look forward to their continued support in future.
For and on behalf of the Board Place: New Delhi Sunil Bharti Mittal Date: May 9, 2017 Chairman  56 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Information regarding Employees Stock Schemes (As on March 31, 2017) Annexure A Sl.
No.
Particulars ESOP  Scheme 2001 ESOP Scheme 2005 A.
Relevant	disclosures	in	terms	of	the	‘Guidance	note	on	accounting	for	 employee share-based payments’ issued by ICAI or any other relevant  accounting standards as prescribed from time to time.
Please refer note no.
24 of notes to the accounts.
B.
Diluted EPS on issue of shares pursuant to all the schemes covered  under the regulations shall be disclosed in accordance with Indian  ‘Accounting Standard 33 - Earnings Per Share’ or any other relevant  accounting standards as prescribed from time to time N.A.
N.A.
C. Details related to ESOS (i) A	description	of	each	ESOS	that	existed	at	any	time	during	the	 year, including the general terms and conditions of each ESOS,  including: (a) Date of shareholders’ approval February 27, 2001 September 06, 2005 (b)  T otal number of options approved under the scheme 31,680,000 18,734,552 (c)  Vesting requirements 1-5 years 1-5 years (d)		 Exercise	price	/	Pricing	formula 29,015,686@11.25 Exercise	Price	not	less	than	 the par value of the Equity  Share and not more than  the price prescribed under  Chapter VII of SEBI (Issue  of Capital and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations,  2009 on grant date 1,760,000@0.45 4,380,000@35.00 142,530@0.00 5,541,862@5.00 40,000@60.00 25,000@110.50 (e)		 Maximum	term	of	options	granted 7 years from the  grant date 7 years from the grant date (f)  Source of shares Primary Secondary (g)  Variation in terms of ESOPs NIL NIL (ii) Method used to account for ESOS - Intrinsic or fair value The Company uses the fair value based method of  accounting for stock options which is in accordance  with Ind AS 102.
(iii) Where	the	company	opts	for	expensing	of	the	options	using	the	 intrinsic	value	of	the	options,	the	difference	between	the	employee	 compensation cost so computed and the employee compensation  cost that shall have been recognized if it had used the fair value  of	the	options	shall	be	disclosed.
The	impact	of	this	difference	on	 profits	and	on	EPS	of	the	company	shall	also	be	disclosed.
N.A.
N.A.
(iv) Options Movement during the year Number of options outstanding at the beginning of the period 304,635 2,526,286 Number of options granted during the year - 820,369 Number of options forfeited / lapsed - 868,912 Number of options vested during the year 106,250 468,514 Number	of	options	exercised	during	the	year 100,000 436,774 Number	of	shares	arising	as	a	result	of	exercise	of	options - - Money	realized	by	exercise	of	options	(INR),	if	scheme	is	 implemented directly by the company Since ESOP Schemes are implemented through  trust, the same is not applicable.
Loan	repaid	by	the	Trust	during	the	year	from	exercise	price	 received ` 158,015,319 Number of options outstanding at the end of the year  204,635  2,040,969 Number	of	options	exercisable	at	the	end	of	the	year  35,885  396,746 (v) Weighted-average	exercise	prices	and	weighted	average	fair	 values of options shall be disclosed separately for options whose  exercise	price	either	equals	or	exceeds	or	is	less	than	the	market	 price of the stock.
(a)		 Weighted	average	exercise	price ` 11.25; ` 0.45; ` 35;  ` 0; ` 5; ` 60; ` 110.5 ` 195 (b)  Weighted average fair value NA; NA; NA; NA;   ` 268.20; ` 84.43;   ` 357.63 ` 200.82 57 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Sl.
No.
Particulars ESOP  Scheme 2001 ESOP Scheme 2005 (vi) Employee wise details (name of employee, designation, number of  options	granted	during	the	year,	exercise	price)	of	options	granted	 to - (a) Senior Managerial Personnel: i. Mr.	Gopal	Vittal	(MD	&	CEO	-	India	&	South	Asia) - 150,000 ii.
Mr. V .
M. Raj Pudipeddi (Director - Consumer Business &  CMO) - 113,449 iii.
Mr.	Krishnan	Govindan	(Chief	Contact	Experience) - 58,340 iv.
Mr. T ushar Vijay Kamat (CEO - Major Accounts) - 55,562 v. Mr.	Ashish	Goenka	(Financial	Controller	-	NSG) - 50,448 vi.
Mr.	Ajai	Puri	(Chief	Operating	Officer	-	India	&	South	Asia) - 45,870 vii.
Mr.	Ashok	Ganapathy	(Director	-	Airtel	Business) - 31,618 viii.
Ms.	Harmeen	Mehta	(Global	CIO) - 30,282 ix.
Mr.	Sarang	Kanade	(Director	-	Customer	Experience) - 23,809 x. Mr. Sunil T aldar (Director - DTH) 23,284 xi.
Mr.	Moti	Gyamlani	(Director	-	Supply	Chain) - 20,144 xii.
Mr. Badal Bagri (CFO - India & SA) - 19,449 xiii.
Mr.	Srikanth	Balachandran	(Global	CHRO) - 17,046 xiv.
Mr.	Nilanjan	Roy	(Global	CFO) - 15,682 xv.
Mr.	Ajay	Chitkara	(Director	-	Global	Voice	&	Data	 Business) - 14,841 xvi.
Mr. Amit Anchal (Head - Business Development) - 5,242 xvii.
Mr. Abhay Savargaonkar (Director - Networks & CTO) - 4,899 (b) Any other employee who receives a grant in any one year  of option amounting to 5% or more of option granted  during that year N.A.
N.A.
(c) Identified	employees	who	were	granted	option,	during	any	 one	year,	equal	to	or	exceeding	1%	of	the	issued	capital	 (excluding	outstanding	warrants	and	conversions)	of	the	 company at the time of grant.
N.A.
N.A.
(vii) A	description	of	the	method	and	significant	assumptions	used	 during the year to estimate the fair value of options including the  following information: Black Scholes (a) i. Weighted-average values of share price ` 351.9 per equity share ii.
Weighted-average	exercise	price ` 5 iii.
Expected	volatility 27.59% iv.
Expected	option	life 48 to 60 months v. Expected	dividends 44% (Dividend yield of 0.63%) vi.
Risk-free interest rate and any other inputs to the  model 5.79%	to	6.86%	(The	Government	Securities	curve	 yields are considered as on valuation date) (b) Method used and the assumptions made to incorporate  the	effects	of	expected	early	exercise; Not applicable (d) Whether and how any other features of the option grant  were incorporated into the measurement of fair value, such  as a market condition.
The	expected	life	of	the	share	option	is	based	on	 historical	data	and	current	expectation	and	not	 necessarily	indicative	of	exercise	pattern	that	may	 occur.
D.  Details related to ESPS N.A.
E.  Details related to SAR N.A.
58 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Sl.
No.
Particulars ESOP  Scheme 2001 ESOP Scheme 2005 F. 	Details	related	to	GEBS	/	RBS N.A.
G.  Details related to Trust The following details, inter alia, in connection with transactions made by  the Trust meant for the purpose of administering the schemes under the  regulations are to be disclosed: (i) General	information	on	all	schemes	 Sl.
No.
Particulars 1 Name of the Trust Bharti Airtel Employees Welfare Trust 2 Details of the Trustee(s) S. Balasubramanian; Sameer Chugh and Aditya Kohli 3 Amount of loan disbursed by company / any company in  the group, during the year  Nil 4 Amount of loan outstanding (repayable to company / any  company in the group) as at the end of the year  ` 350 Mn 5 Amount of loan, if any, taken from any other source for  which company / any company in the group has provided  any security or guarantee  Nil 6 Any other contribution made to the Trust during the year Nil (ii) Brief details of transactions in shares by the Trust (a) Number of shares held at the beginning of the year.
380,000 1,501,958 (b) Number of shares acquired during the year through: (i)  primary issuance; and Nil Nil (ii)   secondary acquisition   also as a percentage of paid up equity capital as  at	the	end	of	the	previous	financial	year,	along	with	 information on weighted average cost of acquisition  per share.
Nil Nil (c) Number of shares transferred to the employees / sold  along with the purpose thereof.
100,000 436,774 (d) Number of shares held at the end of the year.
280,000 1,065,184 (iii) In case of secondary acquisition of shares by the Trust Number of shares As a percentage of paid-up equity capital as at the  end of the year immediately preceding the year in  which shareholders’ approval was obtained Held at the beginning of the year .01% .04% Acquired during the year - - Sold during the year - - Transferred to the employees during the year .00% .01% Held at the end of the year .01% .03% Notes:      Both the ESOP schemes of the Company viz.
ESOP Scheme 2001 and ESOP Scheme 2005 are in compliance with SEBI (Share Based Employees Benefits)  Regulations, 2014.
Disclosure in notes to accounts is as per Ind AS 102 - Share Based payment.
The options granted to the Senior Managerial Personnel under both the schemes are subject to the adjustments as per the terms of respective ESOPs  Scheme / Plan.
59 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Nomination, Remuneration and Board Diversity Policy Annexure B Preamble The Board of Directors (the “Board”) on the recommendation  of the HR & Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”)  has approved and adopted this Nomination, Remuneration  and Board Diversity Policy (the “Policy”) in compliance with  the provisions of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013  and rules made thereunder, and Clause 49 of the Listing  Agreements with the Stock Exchanges.
Objectives The main objectives of this Policy are:   T o lay down criteria and terms and conditions with regard  to identifying persons who are qualified to become  Directors (Executive and Non-Executive including  Independent Directors), Key Managerial Personnel  (“KMP”) and persons who may be appointed in Senior  Management positions.
T o lay down criteria for determining the Company’s  approach to ensure adequate diversity in its Board.
T o retain, motivate and promote talent and to ensure long  term sustainability of talented managerial persons and  create competitive advantage for the Company.
T o determine remuneration of Directors, KMPs and other  senior management personnel’s, keeping in view all  relevant factors including industry trends and practices.
T o provide for rewards linked directly to their effort,  performance, dedication and achievement of the  Company’s target.
A.
Attributes, Qualifications and Diversity Directors and Key Managerial Personnel The Committee shall be responsible for identifying a suitable  candidate for appointment as Director or as KMP of the  Company.
The Board shall consist of such number of Directors as  is necessary to effectively manage the Company of the  size and nature as of Bharti Airtel, subject to a minimum  of 3 and maximum of 15, including woman Directors.
The  Board shall have an appropriate combination of Executive,  Non-Executive and Independent Directors.
The Board shall  appoint a Chairman and a Managing Director or CEO and  the roles of Chairman and Managing Director or CEO shall  not be exercised by the same individual.
While evaluating a person for appointment / re-appointment  as Director or as KMP , the Committee shall consider and  evaluate number of factors including but not limited to  background, knowledge, skills, abilities (ability to exercise  sound judgement), professional experience & functional  expertise, educational and professional background,  personal accomplishment, age, experience, understanding  of the telecommunication sector / industry, marketing,  technology, finance and other disciplines relevant to the  business etc.
and such other factors that the Committee  might consider relevant and applicable from time to time  towards achieving a diverse Board.
The Committee shall ensure that the proposed Director  satisfies the following additional criteria:   Eligible for appointment as a Director on the Board of the  Company and is not disqualified in terms of Section 164  and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act,  2013, and the Listing Agreements.
Has attained minimum age of 25 years and is not older  than 70 years.
Does not hold directorship in more than 20 companies  (including private and public limited companies) or 10  public limited companies incorporated in India.
Will be able to devote sufficient time and efforts in  discharge of duties and responsibilities effectively.
While evaluating a person for appointment / re-appointment  as an Independent Director, the Committee shall ensure that  the proposed appointee satisfies the following additional  criteria:   Meet the baseline definition and criteria of “independence”  as set out in Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013 and  Clause 49 of the Listing Agreements and other applicable  laws.
Should not hold the position of Independent Director in  more than six Indian listed companies and if serving as  Whole-time Director in any Indian listed company then in  not more than three Indian listed companies.
Should not hold any Board / employment position with  a competitor in the geographies where the Company  is operating.
However, the Board may in special  circumstances waive this requirement.
The re-appointment / extension of term of any Board  members shall be on the basis of their performance  evaluation report.
Senior Management While evaluating a person for appointment / re-appointment  in a senior management position, the management shall  considers various factors including individual’s background,  competency, skills, abilities (viz.
leadership, ability to  exercise sound judgement), educational and professional  background, personal accomplishment, age, relevant  experience and understanding of related field viz.
marketing  technology, finance or such other discipline relevant to  present and prospective operations of the Company.
Senior Management means personnel of the Company  who are members of its core management team excluding  Board of Directors and shall comprise of all members of  management one level below the Executive Directors,  including all functional heads.
B. Remuneration Policy Board Members The overall limits of remuneration of the Board members  including Executive Board members (i.e.
Managing Director,  Whole-time Director, Executive Directors etc.)
are governed  by the provisions of Section 197 of the Companies Act,  2013, rules made thereunder and shall be approved by  the shareholders of the Company and shall be subject to  availability of profits of the Company.
Within the overall limit approved by the shareholders, on  the recommendation of the Committee, the Board shall  determine the remuneration.
The Board can determine  different remuneration for different Directors on the basis of  their role, responsibilities, duties, time involvement etc.
60 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Non-Executive Directors including Independent  Directors Pursuant to the provisions of Section 197 of the Companies  Act, 2013, rules made thereunder and the shareholders’  approval, the Board has approved the following remuneration  for Non-Executive Directors (including Independent  Directors): i.			Profit-linked	Commission	(Payable	annually	after	 approval	of	the	financial	results	for	the	year) 	 	Non-Executive	Directors	 who	 are	 nominees	 of	 shareholders:    USD 60,000/- per annum for Directors not residing in  India.
` 3,000,000/- per annum for Directors residing in India.
Independent	Non-Executive	Directors:    USD 100,000/- per annum for Directors not residing in  India.
` 5,000,000/- per annum for those residing in India.
Chairman – Audit & Risk Management  Committee, and HR and Nomination Committee:    not residing in India – additional USD 100,000/- per  annum.
residing in India – additional ` 3,000,000/-per annum   Chairman – T echnology Committee:    additional USD 150,000/- per annum.
Committee Membership Fee (per committee):    not residing in India – additional USD 10,000/- per  annum.
residing in India – additional ` 500,000/- per annum.
Travel fee if not residing in India:    USD 10,000 per meeting.
ii.
Sitting Fees In addition to the profit linked commission, the Independent  Directors will also be entitled to sitting fee of ` 100,000/-  for all Board meetings and all Committee meetings held in a  single day.
For avoidance of doubt, in case an Independent  Director attends more than one Board and / or Committee  meeting in a day, he will be paid consolidated sitting fee of  ` 100,000/- for all such meetings.
If the Board appoint any  person as an alternate Director to an Independent Director,  such person will be entitled to sitting fee for the relevant  meeting.
Executive	 Board	 Members	 (Managing	 Director,	 Whole-time	Director,	Executive	Directors	etc.)
The remuneration (including revision in the remuneration) of  Executive Board members shall be approved by the Board on  the basis of the recommendation of the HR and Nomination  Committee.
The remuneration payable to Executive Board members shall  consist of (a) Fixed Pay, which is payable monthly, and shall  include basic pay, contributions to retirement benefits, house  rent allowance or company-leased accommodation and  other allowances as per the Company’s policy (b) Variable  Pay (paid at the end of Financial Year) directly linked to the  performance of the individual employee (i.e.
achievement  against pre-determined KRAs), his / her respective Business  Unit and the overall Company’s performance (c) Long  term incentive / ESOPs as may be decided by the HR &  Nomination Committee from time to time.
Remuneration to Key Managerial Personnel (other  than Managing Director and Whole-time Director),  Senior Management and other employees The remuneration of Key Managerial Personnel (other than  Managing Director and Whole-time Director), shall be as per  the compensation and appraisal policy of the Company.
The remuneration payable to key managerial personnel  (other than Managing Director and Whole-time Director),  senior management and other employees shall consist of (a)  Fixed Pay, which is payable monthly and include basic pay,  contributions to retirement benefits, house rent allowance  or company-leased accommodation and other allowances  as per the Company’s policy (b) Variable Pay (paid at the  end of Financial Year) directly linked to the performance  of the individual employee (i.e.
achievement against pre- determined KRAs), his / her respective business unit and  the overall Company performance (c) Long term incentive  / ESOPs as may be decided by the Committee from time to  time.
Disclosures by the Company This Policy shall be disclosed in the Company’s Annual  Report.
General The Group Director – HR and the Company Secretary are  jointly authorised to amend the Policy to give effect to any  changes / amendments notified by Ministry of Corporate  Affairs or Security Exchange Board of India w.r.t.
Directors’  any matter covered by this policy.
The amended policy shall  be placed before the Board for noting and ratification.
Any  questions and clarifications relating to this Policy should  be addressed to the Group General Counsel and Company  Secretary at compliance.officer@bharti.in.
61 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Secretarial Audit Report (For	the	financial	year	ended	March	31,	2017) Annexure C The Members, Bharti Airtel Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road, Vasant Kunj, Phase-II, New Delhi – 110070 We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance  of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good  corporate practices by Bharti Airtel Limited (hereinafter  called the Company).
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a  manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating  the corporate conducts / statutory compliances and  expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers,  minute books, forms and returns filed and other records  maintained by the Company and also the information  provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized  representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, we  hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during  the audit period covering the financial year ended on March  31, 2017 complied with the statutory provisions listed  hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board- processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent,  in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter: We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms  and returns filed and other records maintained by the  Company for the financial year ended on March 31, 2017  according to the provisions of: (1)  The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made  thereunder; (2)  The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956  (‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder; (3)  The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and  Bye-laws framed thereunder to the extent of Regulation  55A; (4)  Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the  rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent of  Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment  and External Commercial Borrowings; (5)  The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed  under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act,  1992 (‘SEBI Act’):-   a)    The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and T akeovers)  Regulations, 2011;   b)   The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;   c)    The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2009;   d)   The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share  Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014;   e)    The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue  and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008;  Not Applicable   f)    The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents)  Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act  and dealing with client to the extent of securities  issued;   g)   The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009;  and Not Applicable   h)    The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 1998.
Not  Applicable (6)  The other laws, as informed and certified by the  management of the Company which are specifically  applicable to the Company based on their Sectors/ Businesses are:   a)    The Indian T elegraph Act, 1885   b)   The T elecom Regulatory Authority of India Act,  1997 and Rules and Regulations made thereunder   c)    The Indian Wireless T elegraphy Act, 1933    We have also examined compliance with the applicable  clauses of the following:   a)    Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of  Company Secretaries of India and notified by  Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
b)   SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
During the period under review the Company has generally  complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations,  Guidelines, Standards, etc.
mentioned above.
We further report that, The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted  with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive  Directors and Independent Directors.
The changes in the  composition of the Board of Directors that took place during  the period under review were carried out in compliance with  the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the  Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda  were sent in advance (and at a shorter notice for which  necessary approvals obtained), and a system exists for  seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications  on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful  participation at the meeting.
All decisions at Board Meetings and Committee Meetings  are carried out unanimously as recorded in the minutes of  the meetings of the Board of Directors or Committee of the  Board, as the case may be.
62 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Annexure-A to the Secretarial Audit Report We further report that there are adequate systems and  processes in the Company commensurate with the size  and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure  compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and  guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period following  major events have happened which are deemed to have  major bearing on the Company’s affairs in pursuance of the  above referred laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, standards,  etc.
1.
Augere Wireless Broadband Private Limited has  amalgamated with the Company vide Hon’ble High Court  order dated 19.12.2016.
2.
Restructuring of Overseas Subsidiaries.
3.
Scheme of amalgamation of T elenor India Communications  Private Limited with the Company was approved, subject  to necessary approvals.
4.
Inter-se transfer of 11.32% stake (209,416,643 equity  shares) in Bharti Infratel Limited to Nettle Infrastructure  Investments Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of  the Company and Secondary sale of 10.3% stake  (19,05,83,357 equity shares) in Bharti Infratel Limited to  a consortium of KKR & Canada Pension Plan Investment  Board.
Chandrasekaran Associates Company Secretaries Dr. S. Chandrasekaran Senior Partner Place: New Delhi Membership No.
FCS No.
: 1644  Date: 28.04.2017 Certificate	of	Practice	No.
:	715    Note: This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed  as Annexure - A to this report and forms an integral part of this report.
The Members Bharti Airtel Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,  Vasant Kunj, Phase-II,  New Delhi – 110070 1.
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of  the management of the Company.
Our responsibility is to  express an opinion on these secretarial records based on  our audit.
2.
We have followed the audit practices and processes as  were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about  the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records.
The verification was done on the random test basis  to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial  records.
We believe that the processes and practices, we  followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness  of financial records and Books of Accounts of the  Company.
4.
Where ever required, we have obtained the Management  representation about the compliance of laws, rules and  regulations and happening of events etc.
5.
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and  other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is  the responsibility of management.
Our examination was  limited to the verification of procedures on the random  test basis.
6.
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to  the future viability of the company nor of the efficacy or  effectiveness with which the management has conducted  the affairs of the Company.
Chandrasekaran Associates Company Secretaries Dr. S. Chandrasekaran Senior Partner Place: New Delhi Membership No.
FCS No.
: 1644  Date: 28.04.2017 Certificate	of	Practice	No.
:	715 63 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements The Annual Report on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Activities Annexure D 1.
Brief Outline of Company’s CSR Policy     At Bharti Airtel, business success is not just about profits and shareholder returns.
We believe in pursuing wider socio- economic and cultural objectives and have always endeavoured to not just live up to it, but to try and exceed the  expectations of the communities in which we operate.
The CSR policy of the Company which is available on the website of the Company was adopted by the Board of Directors  on April 29, 2014.
The Company’s CSR activities center around promoting education with special emphasis on girl  child, livelihood enhancement education programs, eradicating hunger, promoting preventive health care and sanitation  and providing legal assistance to underprivileged undertrials.
Bharti Airtel’s CSR activities are committed to create and  support programs that bring about sustainable changes through education.
The detailed CSR Policy of the Company is available on Company’s website at: http://www.airtel.in/wps/wcm/connect/ fd7b3172-02e5-4e25-af7e-51d64cc17534/CSR+Policy.pdf?MOD=AJPERES&ContentCache=NONE    The overview of various CSR projects and programs undertaken by the Company has been provided in the Corporate  Social Responsibility & Sustainability section of this Annual Report.
2.
Composition of CSR Committee Name Category Rakesh Bharti Mittal, Chairman Non-Executive	Director D. K. Mittal Independent Director Gopal	Vittal Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia)   (` Millions) 3.
Average net profit before tax of the Company for last three financial years 103,937 4.
Prescribed CSR Expenditure (2% of the amount as above) 2,079 5.
Details of CSR spent during the year   a)		 Total	amount	to	be	spent	for	the	financial	year:		 2,079      i)  Amount spent towards CSR activities  55.84      ii) Amount spent towards other charitable activities    919.75   b)  Amount Unspent 2023.16*    * The Company has contributed ` 55.84 Mn.
as CSR contribution of under Section 135 of Companies Act, 2013.
In addition the Company has also contributed   ` 899.42 Mn.
under Section 35AC of the Income T ax Act, 1961 and has further contributed ` 20.33 Mn.
to various other charitable institutions.
The consolidated  contribution of the Company towards various CSR program during the financial year 2016-17 is ` 975.59 Mn.
(i.e.
0.94% of net profit of last three years).
c)		 Manner	in	which	amount	spent	during	the	financial	year: Sl.
No.
CSR project or  activity	identified Sector in which the  project is covered Projects or  programs (1) Local area  or  other (2) Specify the  State and district  where projects or  programs were  undertaken Amount  outlay  (budget)  projects  or   programs  wise Amount spent  on the projects  or programs Sub-heads: (1) Direct  expenditure	 on projects or  programs (2) Overheads Cumulative  expenditure	 up to the  reporting  period Amount  spent: Direct  or through  implementing  agency Eligible CSR Programs / Projects 1.
Vocational training  program for  hearing impaired  young adults Employment  enhancement  vocation skills to  differently	abled Delhi 23.20 11.60 11.60 Centum  Foundation 2.
Partition Museum Restoration and  establishment of  building of historical  importance Amritsar, Punjab 10.00 05.00 05.00 Direct 3.
Nyaya Bharti  initiative Promoting measures  for reducing  inequalities faced  by economically  backward groups Delhi and NCR  region 100.00 11.55 11.55 Bharti  Foundation  4.
Footwear Design  and Development  skill to youth Employment  enhancing vocation  skills Chhindwara,  Madhya Pradesh 10.00 09.14 16.04 Centum  Foundation 5.
Crop science  research and   development  program Livelihood  enhancement  Program Punjab 22.50 13.25 13.25 Bharti  Foundation 64 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Sl.
No.
CSR project or  activity	identified Sector in which the  project is covered Projects or  programs (1) Local area  or  other (2) Specify the  State and district  where projects or  programs were  undertaken Amount  outlay  (budget)  projects  or   programs  wise Amount spent  on the projects  or programs Sub-heads: (1) Direct  expenditure	 on projects or  programs (2) Overheads Cumulative  expenditure	 up to the  reporting  period Amount  spent: Direct  or through  implementing  agency Eligible CSR Programs / Projects 6.
Anubandh - Old  Age Home Setting up and  supporting old age  homes Jodhpur,  Rajasthan 03.00 03.00 05.00 Direct 7.
Magic Bus  Foundation  Promotion of  education   Delhi and  Mumbai 02.50 02.30 02.30 Direct T otal 171.20 55.84 64.74 Other Contributions 1.
Satya Bharti School  Program Promotion of  education Specified	below* 656.82 656.82 1,382.61# Bharti  Foundation 2.
Educate a Child Promotion of  education Specified	below** 242.60 242.60 242.60 Bharti  Foundation 3.
Miscellaneous Miscellaneous Miscellaneous 20.33 20.33 20.33 Direct T otal 919.75 919.75 1,645.54 Grand T otal 1090.95 975.59 1,710.28    *      District / State wise details of Satya Bharti School Program - Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Jhajjar, Mahendergarh, Rewari in  Haryana; Amritsar, Ludhiana,  Sangrur in Punjab; Amer, Neemrana, Jodhpur in Rajasthan; Sivaganga in T amil Nadu; Farrukhabad, Bulandshehar, Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh and  Murshidabad in West Bengal.
District / State wise details of Satya Bharti Learning Centres – Barmer, Sawaimadhopur, Jodhpur in Rajasthan; Barwani,  Jhabua in Madhya Pradesh and Deoghar, Dumka, Godda, Pakur, Sahibganj in Jharkhand.
District /State wise details of Quality Support Program –  Gurgaon, Rewari, Mahendergarh, Kurukshetra, Karnal in Haryana; Bhatinda, Fazilka in Punjab; Jodhpur, T onk in Rajasthan; North West, South West and  West Delhi in Delhi; Anantnag, Badgam, Bandipori, Baramulla, Gandarbal, Jammu, Kargil, Kulgam, Kupwara, Leh, Poonch, Pulwama, Rajouri and Shopian  in Jammu & Kashmir; North and South Goa in Goa; Rajanna Sircilla in T elangana.
** Haryana, Delhi and NCR Region, Bihar, Gujrat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh.
#  The Company has contributed ` 404.90 Mn.
and ` 314.79 Mn.
in financial year 2015-16 and 2014-15 respectively to Bharti Foundation for its Satya  Bharti School Program under Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013.
In addition the Company had also contributed ` 210.00 Mn and ` 06.10 Mn.
in  financial year 2015-16 and 2014-15 respectively to Bharti Foundation for its Satya Bharti Abhiyan (sanitation program).
6.
Reason for not spending the prescribed 2% amount     On the recommendation of the CSR Committee and the Board, the Company has in addition to the CSR contribution  of ` 55.84 Mn.
under Section 135 of Companies Act, 2013, has also contributed ` 899.42 Mn.
to Bharti Foundation for  promotion of education of underprivileged children under Section 35AC of the Income T ax Act, 1961 and has further  contributed ` 20.33 Mn.
to various charitable institutions during the financial year 2016-17.
The said contributions  amounting ` 899.42 Mn.
by the Company are as prescribed under Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013 and  represents 0.87% of the net profit before tax of the Company for last three financial years.
However, since the Company  has availed a benefit under Section 35AC of Income T ax Act, 1961, the same is treated as other contribution by the  Company and not considered towards prescribed 2% CSR contribution under Section 135 of Companies Act, 2013.
The consolidated contribution of the Company towards various CSR activities during the financial year 2016-17 is   ` 975.59 Mn.
(i.e.
0.94% of net profit of last three years).
Accordingly, the Company has increased / scaled up its CSR  contribution by approx.
69.67% vis-à-vis ` 575.00 Mn.
in financial year 2015-16.
During the financial year 2016-17, Bharti Airtel Limited has contributed ` 11.55 Mn.
towards Nyaya Bharti, a one of its kind  initiative to provide legal and financial assistance to underprivileged undertrials languishing in jails across the country for  petty offences.
During the financial year 2016-17, Nyaya Bharti has been instrumental in release of 45 undertrials lodged  in Tihar, Rohini and Dasna (Ghaziabad) jails.
In the coming years, Nyaya Bharti will focus on expanding its footprints in the  state of Punjab and Rajasthan as well and it is expected that the Company’s contribution will increase in the coming years.
The Company was in the process of evaluating the focus areas / locations of intervention for CSR activities to cater to  the pressing needs of society and deliver optimal impact.
As a socially responsible company, your Company is committed  to increase its CSR impact and spend over the coming years, with the aim of playing a larger role in India’s sustainable  development by embedding wider economic, social and environmental objectives.
Responsibility statement of the CSR Committee    The Committee confirms that the implementation and monitoring of CSR activities is in compliance with CSR objectives  and policy of the Company.
Gopal Vittal Rakesh Bharti Mittal Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia) Chairman CSR Committee 65 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Extract of Annual Return Annexure E Form No.
MGT-9 as on the financial year ended on March 31, 2017 [Pursuant to Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 12(1) of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014] I.
Registration and Other Details: CIN L74899DL1995PLC070609 Registration Date July 07, 1995 Name of the Company Bharti Airtel Limited Category of the Company Limited by shares Sub-Category of the Company Indian	Non-Government	Company Address	of	the	Registered	office	and	contact	 details Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road, Vasant Kunj, Phase II,  New Delhi – 110 070.
Phone : +91 11 4666 6100 Whether listed company Yes Name, Address and Contact details of Registrar  and Transfer Agent Karvy Computershare Private Limited Karvy	Selenium	Tower	B,	Plot	number	31	&	32,	Gachibowli,	  Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad – 500032, India.
Phone : +91 040 6716 2222 II.
Principal Business Activities of the Company   Businesses contributing 10% or more of the total turnover of the company are given below: Sl.
No.Name and Description of main products/services NIC Code of the  product/service* % to total turnover of  the company 1 Wireless telecommunications activities 612 91.02%   Note: * As per National Industrial Classification – Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation.
III.
Particulars of Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies  Sl.
No.Name of the Company Address CIN/Registration No.
% of shares  held Subsidiary Companies u/s 2(87)(ii) of the Companies Act, 2013 1 Bharti Airtel Services Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,   Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi - 110 070  U64201DL1997PLC091001 100 2 Bharti	Hexacom	Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,   Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi - 110 070  U74899DL1995PLC067527 70 3 Bharti Infratel Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,   Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi - 110 070 L64201DL2006PLC156038 61.65 4 SmarTx	Services	Limited	 Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,   Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi - 110 070 U64202DL2015PLC285515 61.65 5 Indo T eleports Limited  (Formerly known as Bharti  T eleports Limited) Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,   Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi - 110 070 U32204DL2008PLC183976 95 6 Bharti T elemedia Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,   Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi - 110 070 U92200DL2006PLC156075 95 7 Airtel Payments Bank Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,   Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi - 110 070 U64200DL2010PLC201058 80.10 8 T elesonic Networks Limited 4th Floor, 'C' Wing, Airtel Centre, Plot No.
16,  Phase	-	IV,	Udyog	Vihar,	Gurgaon	-	122	015,	 Haryana, India.
U64200HR2009PLC039237 100 9 Nxtra	Data	Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,   Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi - 110 070 U72200DL2013PLC254747 100 10 Wynk Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,   Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi - 110 070 U74140DL2015PLC275325 100 66 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Sl.
No.
Name of the Company Address CIN/Registration No.
% of shares  held 11 Nettle Infrastructure  Investments Limited  (formerly known as Nettle  Developers Limited) w.e.f.
March 14, 2017  3rd Floor, Worldmark 2 Asset 8, Aerocity, NH-  8	New	Delhi  U93000DL2010PLC301236 100 12 Bharti Airtel (France) SAS 88,	Ter	Avenue	Général	Leclerc	–	92100	 Boulogne Billancourt RCS Nanterre 523 035 426 100 13 Bharti Airtel (Hong Kong)  Limited 4th Floor, Cheung Hing Industrial Building,  12P	Smithfield	Road,	Kennedy	Town,	Hong	 Kong 1080074 100 14 Bharti Airtel (Japan)  Kabushiki Kaisha Shinjuku Park T ower, 30th Floor, 7-1,   Nishi Shinjuku 3-chome, Shinjuku-ku, T okyo 0111-01-055989 100 15 Bharti Airtel (UK) Limited 26,	Red	Lion	Square,	London,	WC1R	4AG,	  United Kingdom 5917314 100 16 Bharti Airtel (USA) Limited 335,	Madison	Avenue	12th	floor,	New	York	 10017 F-060912000-217 100 17 Bharti Airtel International  (Mauritius) Limited  Cim Corporate Services Ltd, Les Cascade  Building, Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis,  Mauritius 094380	CI/GBL 100 18 Bharti Airtel International  (Netherlands) B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam, The  Netherlands 34387410 100 19 Bharti Airtel Lanka (Private)  Limited Level 11, West T ower, World Trade Centre,   Echelon Square Colombo 1, Sri Lanka PV10652 100 20 Bharti Infratel Lanka (Private)  Limited (under process of  striking	off) Level 11, West T ower, World Trade Centre,   Echelon Square Colombo 1, Sri Lanka PV63290 100 21 Bharti International  (Singapore) Pte Ltd  150, Orchard Road, #08-01, Orchard Plaza,  Singapore 2010-05788-R 100 22 Network i2i Limited Cim Corporate Services Ltd, Les Cascade  Building, Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis,  Mauritius.
25951/6339 100 23 Africa T owers N. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam, The  Netherlands 50979965 100 24 Africa T owers Services  Limited (under liquidation) Parkside T owers, Mombasa Road, Plot Nr.
LR  209-11880, PB 73146-00200, Nairobi, Kenya CPR/2011/56039 100 25 Airtel	(Ghana)	Limited 2nd-4th	Floors	GNAT	Heights,	No.
30	 Independence Avenue, North Ridge, Accra,  Ghana.
C-71,259 99.89 26 Airtel (Seychelles) Limited P.O.
Box	1358,	Emerald	House,	Providence,	 East Coast, Victoria, Mahe, Seychelles 841930-1 100 27 Airtel Congo S.A. 2ème	étage,	Immeuble	SCI	MONTE	CRISTO,	 Rond-point	de	la	Gare,	Croisement	du	 Boulevard	Denis	SASSOU	NGUESSO	et	 de l’avenue Orsy, B.P : 1038, Brazzaville -  République	du	Congo CG/BZV/07	B299 90 28 Airtel	Gabon	S.A. Rue Pecqueur, Immeuble Libreville Business  Square,	B.P.
9259,	Libreville,	Gabon 2001/B01 000 90 29 Airtel Madagascar S.A. Immeuble	Kube	B,	Zone	Galaxy,	Andraharo,	 101 - Anantanarivo, Madagascar 97B00392 100 30 Airtel Malawi Limited Airtel	Complex,	City	Centre,	Off	Convention	 Drive,	P.O.
Box	57,	Lilongwe,	Malawi 5114 100 31 Airtel Mobile Commerce B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam, The  Netherlands 34375413 100 32 Airtel Mobile Commerce  Ghana	Limited 30	Independence	Avenue,	North	Ridge/GNAT  Heights,	Accra,	Ghana CA 62, 772 99.89 67 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Sl.
No.
Name of the Company Address CIN/Registration No.
% of shares  held 33 Airtel Mobile Commerce  Holdings B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam, The  Netherlands 34381129 100 34 Airtel Mobile Commerce  Kenya Limited Parkside	Towers,	Mombasa	Road,	P.	O.
Box  73146-00200, Narobi, Kenya C 169576 100 35 Airtel Mobile Commerce  Limited (Malawi) Airtel	Complex,	City	Centre,	Off	Convention	 Drive,	P.O.
Box	57,	Lilongwe,	Malawi 9831 100 36 Airtel Mobile Commerce  Madagascar S.A. Immeuble	Kube	B,	Zone	Galaxy,	Andraharo,	 101 - Anantanarivo, Madagascar 2011B00235 100 37 Airtel Mobile Commerce  Rwanda Limited Gasabo	District,	Remera,	Nyabisindu,	Kigali,	 Rwanda 102933620 100 38 Airtel Mobile Commerce  (Seychelles) Limited Emerald	House,	Providence,	Victoria,	P.O.
Box	 1358, Mahe, Seychelles 8412656-1 100 39 Airtel Mobile Commerce  T anzania Limited Airtel House, Block 41 Kinondoni, Corner of  A.H. Mwinyi Road / Kawawa Road, Kinondoni,  Dar es Salaam, T anzania 79802 100 40 Airtel Mobile Commerce  T chad SARL Avenue	Charles	De	Gaulle,	BP:	5665,	 N'Djamena, T chad TC/NDJ/10B 183 100 41 Airtel Mobile Commerce  Uganda Limited Airtel House, Plot 16A, Clement Hill Road,  Nakasero,	Kampala,	P.	O.
Box	6771,	Kampala	 - Uganda  123833 100 42 Airtel Mobile Commerce  Zambia	Limited	 Plot 2375, Airtel House, Corner Addis Abada  Drive	and	Great	East	Road,	Lusaka,	Zambia 80052 100 43 Airtel Money RDC S.A. 127,	Avenue	de	Plateau,	Gombe,	Kinhasa,  Republique Democratique du Congo, Congo  DRC KG7602/M 100 44 Airtel Money Niger S.A. 2054,	Route	de	l'aéroport,	B.P.
11922	Niamey,	 Niger NI-NIA 2009-B-1848 90 45 Airtel	Money	S.A.	(Gabon) Avenue de Colonet Parrant, BP 23 899  Libreville,	Gabon RG	LBV	2101	B	09955 100 46 Airtel Networks Kenya  Limited Parkside	Towers,	Mombasa	Road,	P.	O.
Box  73146-00200, Narobi, Kenya C. 140223 100 47 Airtel Networks Limited Plot L2, Banana Island, Foreshore Estate/Ikoyi  Lagos, Nigeria 398557 83.25 48 Airtel	Networks	Zambia	Plc Plot 2375, Airtel House, Corner Addis Ababa  Drive	and	Great	East	Road,	Lusaka,	Zambia 38136 96.36 49 Airtel Rwanda Limited Airtel	Building,	Gasabo	District,	Remera,  Nyabisindu,	P.O.
Box	4164,	Kigali,	Rwanda 102437818 100 50 Airtel T anzania Limited Airtel House, Block 41 Kinondoni, Corner of  A.H. Mwinyi Road/Kawawa Road, Kinondoni,  Dar es Salaam, T anzania 41291 60 51 Airtel T chad S.A. Avenue	Charles	De	Gaulle,	BP:	5665,	 N'Djamena, T chad TC/NDJ/10B127 100 52 Airtel Uganda Limited Airtel T owers, Plot 16A, Clement Hill Road,  Nakasero	P.O.
Box	6771,	  Kampala-Uganda V-232-36 100 53 Bharti Airtel Africa B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam, The  Netherlands 08076497 100 54 Bharti Airtel Burkina Faso  Holdings B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam, The  Netherlands 08077622 100 55 Bharti Airtel Chad Holdings  B .V.
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam, The  Netherlands 34125184 100 56 Bharti Airtel Congo Holdings  B .V.
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam, The  Netherlands 08077621 100 57 Bharti Airtel Developers  Forum Limited Plot 2375, Airtel House, Corner Addis Ababa  Drive	and	Great	East	Road,	Lusaka,	Zambia 82795 96.36 68 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Sl.
No.
Name of the Company Address CIN/Registration No.
% of shares  held 58 Bharti Airtel DTH Holdings  B .V.
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam,   The Netherlands 50921266 100 59 Bharti	Airtel	Gabon	Holdings	 B .V.
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam,   The Netherlands 08078528 100 60 Bharti	Airtel	Ghana	Holdings	 B .V.
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam,   The Netherlands 34204633 100 61 Bharti Airtel Kenya B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam,   The Netherlands 38023926 100 62 Bharti Airtel Kenya Holdings  B .V.
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam,   The Netherlands 34164357 100 63 Bharti Airtel Madagascar  Holdings B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam,   The Netherlands 34204848 100 64 Bharti Airtel Malawi Holdings  B .V.
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam,   The Netherlands 08077659 100 65 Bharti Airtel Mali Holdings  B .V.
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam,   The Netherlands 34164359 100 66 Bharti Airtel Niger Holdings  B .V.
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam,   The Netherlands 34143743 100 67 Bharti Airtel Nigeria B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam,   The Netherlands 34164360 100 68 Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings  B. V .
(under liquidation) Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam,   The Netherlands 08076499 100 69 Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings  II B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam,   The Netherlands 08077623 100 70 Bharti Airtel RDC Holdings  B .V.
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam,   The Netherlands 34125193 100 71 Bharti Airtel Services B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam,   The Netherlands 08077657 100 72 Bharti Airtel T anzania B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam,   The Netherlands 08078747 100 73 Bharti Airtel Uganda  Holdings B. V .
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam,   The Netherlands 08078530 100 74 Bharti	Airtel	Zambia	Holdings	 B .V.
Overschiestraat 65, 1062 XD Amsterdam,   The Netherlands 08076501 100 75 Celtel (Mauritius) Holdings  Limited C/o	Abax	Corporate	Services	Ltd,  6th	floor,	Tower	A,	1	Cybercity,	Ebene,	 Mauritius 18259/3258	C1/GBL 100 76 Airtel Congo (RDC) S.A. 278,	Avenue	de'l	Equateur,	Kinshasa,	Gombe,	 Democratic Republic of Congo  47.889 98.50 77 Celtel Niger S.A. 2054	Route	de	l'aéroport,	BP	11	922,	Niamey,	 Niger NI-NIM-2007-B 1848 90 78 Channel Sea Management  Company (Mauritius) Limited C/o	Abax	Corporate	Services	Ltd,	6th	floor,  T ower A, 1 Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius 18258/3237	C1/GBL 100 79 Congo RDC T owers S.A. Croisement des Avenues du T chad et du Bas  Congo,	Commune	de	la	Gombe,	Republique  Democratique du Congo KG/9.902/M 100 80 Gabon	Towers	S.A.	(under	 dissolution) 124 Avenue Bouet/ BP 9259, Libreville,  Gabon 2013B11106 90 81 Indian Ocean T elecom  Limited C/o Minerva Trust & Corporate Services  Limited, 43/45, La Motte Street, St. Helier,  Jersey, JE4 8SD, Channel Islands 70138 100 82 Madagascar T owers S.A. Immeuble	Kube	B,	Zone	Galaxy	Andraharo,	 101- Antananarivo, Madagascar 2011 B 00184 100 83 Malawi T owers Limited Airtel	Complex,	City	Centre,	Off	Convention	 Drive,	P.O.
Box	57,	Lilongwe,	Malawi 10995 100 69 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Sl.
No.
Name of the Company Address CIN/Registration No.
% of shares  held 84 Mobile Commerce Congo  S.A. 1er	et	2ème	étages,	Immeuble	SCI	Monte	 Cristo,	Rond	Point	de	la	Gare,	Croisement	 du	Boulevard	Denis	Sassou	Gnuesso	&	 de l'avenue Orsy, Centre Ville, BP 1038,  Brazzaville,	République	du	Congo 09B 1796 100 85 Montana International C/o	Abax	Corporate	Services	Ltd,	6th	floor,  T ower A, 1 Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius 6/97/2593	C2/GBL 100 86 MSI-Celtel Nigeria Limited  (under liquidation) 7, Walter Carrington Crescent, Victoria Island,  Lagos 372966 100 87 Partnership Investments  S.A.R.L.
68/ A Croisement des avenues du Commerce  et	Marais,	2ieme	niveau,	Gombe,	Kinshasa,	 DRC CD/KIN/RCCM/14-B-4497 100 88 Société	Malgache	de	 T elephone Cellulaire SA c/o	Abax	Corporate	Services	Ltd,	6th	floor,  T ower A, 1 Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius 19022/3479	C1/GBL 100 89 T anzania T owers Limited Airtel House, Block 41 Kinondoni, Corner of  A.H. Mwinyi Road/Kawawa Road, Kinondoni,  Dar es Salaam, T anzania 84005 60 90 T owers Support Nigeria  Limited (under liquidation) Plot L2, Banana Island, Foreshore Estate/Ikoyi  Lagos, Nigeria 940514 83.25 91 Zap	Trust	Company	Nigeria	 Limited (under liquidation) Plot L2, Banana Island, Foreshore Estate/Ikoyi  Lagos, Nigeria 889384 100 92 Bharti Airtel Rwanda  Holdings Limited C/o	Abax	Corporate	Services	Ltd,	6th	floor,  T ower A, 1 Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius C083311	C1/GBL 100 93 Airtel Money Transfer Limited Parkside T owers, Mombasa Road, L.R.
Nr.
209/11880,	P.O.
Box	73146-00200	  Nairobi, Kenya CPR/2015/199517 100 94 Airtel Money T anzania  Limited (incorporated on  June 10, 2016) Airtel House, Block 41 Kinondoni, Corner of  A.H. Mwinyi Road/Kawawa Road, Kinondoni,  Dar es Salaam, T anzania 127040 60 95 Bangladesh Infratel Networks  Limited (under dissolution) House # 34, Road # 19/ A Banani,   Dhaka - 1213, Bangladesh C-93753/11 100 96 Airtel DTH Services Nigeria  Limited (under liquidation) Plot L2, Banana Island, Foreshore Estate/Ikoyi  Lagos, Nigeria 932607 100 Associates u/s 2(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 1 Seychelles Cable Systems  Company Limited Third Floor, Caravelle House, Victoria, Mahe,  Seychelles 846498-1 26 2 Robi	Axiata	Limited	(w.e.f.
November 16, 2016) 53,	Gulshan	South	Avenue  Gulshan-1,	Dhaka-1212,	Bangladesh C29552 25 3 Seynse T echnologies Private  Limited (w.e.f.
February 21,  2017) Villa No.
4, House No.
22/296 Naroo Heights,  Opp.
Manipal	Hospital	Dona	Paula,	North	Goa U74999GA2015PTC007655 20 4 Aban	Green	Power	Private	 Limited (w.e.f.
October 27,  2016) Anpriya Crest 113, Pantheon Road Egmore,  Chennai, T amil Nadu U40103TN2013PTC090446 26 5 Greenergy	Wind	Corporation	 Private Limited (w.e.f.
March  30, 2016) No.3, 2nd Floor Queens Road Cross, Near  Congress	Committee	Office,	Bangalore,	KA	 560052 U40104KA2012PTC062414 20.33 Joint Venture Companies u/s 2(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 1 Indus T owers Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,   Vasant Kunj, Phase - II, New Delhi- 110 070  U92100DL2007PLC170574 25.89 2 Bridge Mobile Pte Limited 750	Chai	Chee	Road,	Technopark@ChaiChee,  The Oasis, #03-02/0, Singapore 469000 200413856E 10 3 Firefly	Networks	Limited A-19, Mohan Co-operative Industrial Estate,  Mathura Road, New Delhi, Delhi 110044 U74999DL2014PLC264417 50 70 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 IV .
Share Holding Pattern (Equity Share Capital Breakup as percentage of T otal Equity)   (i)  Category-wise Share Holding Sl.
No.
Category of  Shareholders No.
of shares held at the beginning of the year i.e.
April 01, 2016 No.of shares held at the end of the year   March 31, 2017 %  Change  during  the yearDemat Physical T otal % of  T otal  Shares Demat Physical T otal % of  T otal  Shares (A) Promoters (1) Indian Individual /HUF  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Central	Government	/	 State	Government(s)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Bodies Corporate 1,802,318,492  - 1,802,318,492 45.09  1,817,987,269  - 1,817,987,269  45.48  0.39  Banks / FI  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Any Other  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Sub-T otal A(1) : 1,802,318,492  - 1,802,318,492  45.09  1,817,987,269  - 1,817,987,269  45.48  0.39  (2) Foreign NRIs - Individuals  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Other - Individuals  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Bodies Corporate  865,673,286  -  865,673,286  21.66  865,673,286  -  865,673,286  21.66  -  Banks / FI  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Any other  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Sub-T otal A(2) :  865,673,286  -  865,673,286  21.65  865,673,286  -  865,673,286  21.66  -  T otal Shareholding  of Promoter (A) =  A(1)+A(2) 2,667,991,778  - 2,667,991,778 66.74  2,683,660,555  - 2,683,660,555  67.14  0.39  (B) Public Shareholding (1) Institutions Mutual Funds  99,168,397  -  99,168,397  2.48  128,431,707  -  128,431,707  3.21  0.73  Banks / FI  1,291,949  -  1,291,949  0.03  2,141,271  -  2,141,271  0.05  0.02  Central	Government	/	 State	Government(s)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Venture Capital Funds  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Insurance Companies  297,836,594  -  297,836,594  7.45  315,420,470  -  315,420,470  7.89  0.44  Foreign Institutional  Investors   670,962,174  -  670,962,174  16.78  608,226,075  -  608,226,075  15.22  (1.57) Foreign Venture  Capital Funds  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Others (specify)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Sub-T otal B(1) : 1,069,259,114  - 1,069,259,114  26.75  1,054,219,523  - 1,054,219,523  26.37  (0.38) (2) Non-Institutions Bodies Corporate (i) Indian  4,077,136 5,444,270  9,521,406  0.24  2,721,800 5,444,250  8,166,050  0.20  (0.03) (ii) Overseas Individuals (i) Individuals holding  nominal share capital  upto ` 1 lakh  27,145,695  8,852  27,154,547  0.68  24,756,135  7,661  24,763,796  0.62  (0.06) (ii) Individuals holding  nominal share capital  in	excess	of	` 1 lakh  4,979,645  -  4,979,645  0.12  4,544,671  -  4,544,671  0.11  (0.01) Others (specify) Clearing Members  4,416,431  -  4,416,431  0.11  9,058,391  -  9,058,391  0.23  0.12  Foreign Companies  204,127,716  -  204,127,716  5.11  203,177,716  -  203,177,716  5.08  (0.02) NBFC  2,185  -  2,185  0.00  8,614  -  8,614  0.00  0.00  Non Resident Indians  2,174,198  -  2,174,198  0.05  1,283,871  -  1,283,871  0.03  (0.02) Non Resident Indians  (Non-Repatriation)   -  -  -  -  573,389  -  573,389  0.01  0.01  ESOP Trust  1,881,958  -  1,881,958  0.05  1,345,184  -  1,345,184  0.03  (0.01) Trusts  5,891,124  -  5,891,124  0.15  6,598,342  -  6,598,342  0.17  0.02  Sub-T otal B(2) :  254,696,088 5,453,122  260,149,210  6.51  254,068,113 5,451,911  259,520,024  6.49  (0.02) T otal Public  Shareholding (B) =  B(1)+B(2) : 1,323,955,202 5,453,122 1,329,408,324  33.26  1,308,287,636 5,451,911 1,313,739,547  32.86  (0.39) (C) Shares held by  custodians for GDR's  and ADR's  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Grand T otal (A+B+C): 3,991,946,980 5,453,122 3,997,400,102  100.00  3,991,948,191 5,451,911 3,997,400,102  100.00  -  71 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements (ii)  Shareholding of Promoters Sl.
No.
Name of the  Share Holder Shareholding at the begginning of the Year Shareholding at the end of the Year % change in  shareholding  during the  year No.
of Shares % of total  shares  of the  company % of shares  pledged/  encumbered  to total  shares No.
of Shares % of total  shares  of the  company % of shares  pledged/  encumbered  to total  shares 1 Bharti T elecom  Limited  1,802,318,492 45.09 -  1,817,987,269 45.48 - 0.39 2 Pastel Limited  591,319,300 14.79 -  591,319,300 14.79 - 0.00 3 Indian Continent  Investment Limited  265,860,986 6.65 -  265,860,986 6.65 - 0.00 4 Viridian Limited  8,493,000 0.21 -  8,493,000 0.21 - 0.00 T otal  2,667,991,778 66.74 -  2,683,660,555 67.14 - 0.39   Notes:   1.
Bharti T elecom Limited is promoter of Bharti Airtel Limited as prescribed in its IPO Prospectus dated February 07, 2002.
2.
Pastel Limited qualifies as “deemed promoter” u/r 2(1)(t) of the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition and T akeover) Regulations, 2011 but is not having control  over the listed company nor is “person acting in concern” with promoter (Bharti T elecom Limited) as specified u/r 2(1) (q) of the Regulations.
3.
Indian Continent Investment Limited is person acting in concern with promoter (Bharti T elecom Limited).
4.
Viridian Limited is person acting in concern with Pastel Limited.
As mentioned above, Pastel Limited qualifies as “Deemed Promoter” u/r 2(1)(t) of  SEBI (Substantial Acquisition and T akeover) Regulations, 2011 but is not having control over the listed company nor is “person acting in concern” with  promoter (Bharti T elecom Limited) as specified u/r 2(1) (q) of the Regulations.
(iii) Change in Promoter Shareholding Sl.
No.
Name of the  Promoter Shareholding at the  begginning of the Year Date Increase/ Decrease  during the  year Reasons Cumulative Shareholding  during the year /  Shareholding at the end of  the Year  No.
of Shares % of total  shares  of the  Company No.
of Shares % of total  shares  of the  Company 1 Bharti  T elecom  Limited  1,802,318,492 45.09% Market  Purchase  through  Stock  Exchanges September 01, 2016 13,000,000  1,815,318,492 45.41% September 02, 2016 1,600,000  1,816,918,492 45.45% September 19, 2016 112,046  1,817,030,538 45.46% September 20, 2016 352,500  1,817,383,038 45.46% September 21, 2016 184,913  1,817,567,951 45.47% September 22, 2016 169,318  1,817,737,269 45.47% September 23, 2016 250,000  1,817,987,269 45.48% March 31, 2017 -  1,817,987,269 45.48% Note: There was no change in shareholding of other promoters during the year.
(iv)  Shareholding Pattern of top ten Shareholders (other than Directors, Promoters and Holders of  GDRs and ADRs): Sl.
No.
Name of the Shareholder Shareholding Cumulative Shareholding during  the Year  No.
of Shares % of total shares of  the Company No.
of Shares % of total shares  of the Company 1 Life Insurance Corporation of India  203,878,856  5.10  203,878,856  5.10  At the beginning of the year  10,147,427  0.25  214,026,283  5.35  Bought during the year  2,191,927  0.05  211,834,356  5.30  Sold during the year  211,834,356  5.30  211,834,356  5.30  At the end of the year 2 ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company  Limited  At the beginning of the year  64,192,085  1.61  64,192,085  1.61  Bought during the year  105,312,484  2.63  169,504,569  4.24  Sold during the year  87,338,815  2.18  82,165,754  2.06  At the end of the year  82,165,754  2.06  82,165,754  2.06  72 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Sl.
No.
Name of the Shareholder Shareholding Cumulative Shareholding during  the Year  No.
of Shares % of total shares of  the Company No.
of Shares % of total shares  of the Company 3 Dodge	and	Cox	International	Stock	Fund	 At the beginning of the year  53,061,504 1.33  53,061,504 1.33 Bought during the year - -  - - Sold during the year  3,620,000 0.09  49,441,504 1.24 At the end of the year  49,441,504 1.24  49,441,504 1.24 4 Abu Dhabi Investment Authority At the beginning of the year  27,530,063 0.69  27,530,063 0.69 Bought during the year  4,404,843 0.11  31,934,906 0.80 Sold during the year  17,019,277 0.43  14,915,629 0.37 At the end of the year  14,915,629 0.37  14,915,629 0.37 5 Franklin T empleton Mutual Fund At the beginning of the year 26,081,139 0.65  26,081,139 0.65 Bought during the year  16,465,793 0.41  42,546,932 1.06 Sold during the year  4,813,281 0.12  37,733,651 0.94 At the end of the year  37,733,651 0.94  37,733,651 0.94 6 Skagen Kon-Tiki Verdipapirfond  At the beginning of the year 24,136,298 0.60  24,136,298 0.60 Bought during the year  24,136,298 0.60 Sold during the year  13,439,017 0.34  10,697,281 0.27 At the end of the year  10,697,281 0.27  10,697,281 0.27 7 Capital	World	Growth	And	Income	Fund	 At the beginning of the year 24,119,712 0.60  24,119,712 0.60 Bought during the year  6,912,000 0.17  31,031,712 0.78 Sold during the year  5,090,875 0.13  25,940,837 0.65 At the end of the year  25,940,837 0.65  25,940,837 0.65 8 HDFC Trustee Co Ltd.  At the beginning of the year  23,480,565 0.59  23,480,565 0.59 Bought during the year  2,640,391 0.07  26,120,956 0.65 Sold during the year  16,577,157 0.41  9,543,799 0.24 At the end of the year  9,543,799 0.24  9,543,799 0.24 9 SBI Magnum Equity Fund  At the beginning of the year 5,787,633 0.14  5,787,633 0.14 Bought during the year  21,123,741 0.53  26,911,374 0.67 Sold during the year  4,435,764 0.11  22,475,610 0.56 At the end of the year  22,475,610 0.56  22,475,610 0.56 10 Parvest Equity India  At the beginning of the year  21,710,000 0.54  21,710,000 0.54 Bought during the year  1,973,085 0.05  23,683,085 0.59 Sold during the year  13,429,085 0.34  10,254,000 0.26 At the end of the year  10,254,000 0.26  10,254,000 0.26 11 Vangaurd	Emerging	Markets	Stock	Index	 Fund  At the beginning of the year  19,643,653 0.49  19,643,653 0.49 Bought during the year  2,274,200 0.06  21,917,853 0.55 Sold during the year  1,215,742 0.03  20,702,111 0.52 At the end of the year  20,702,111 0.52  20,702,111 0.52 12 ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund  At the beginning of the year  20,652,432 0.52  20,652,432 0.52 Bought during the year  48,248,670 1.21  68,901,102 1.72 Sold during the year  23,176,390 0.58  45,724,712 1.14 At the end of the year  45,724,712 1.14  45,724,712 1.14 13 Comgest	Growth	Plc.
At the beginning of the year  19,949,032 0.50  19,949,032 0.50 Bought during the year  1,978,330 0.05  21,927,362 0.55 Sold during the year  3,443,089 0.09  18,484,273 0.46 At the end of the year  18,484,273 0.46  18,484,273 0.46 73 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Sl.
No.
Name of the Shareholder Shareholding Cumulative Shareholding during  the Year  No.
of Shares % of total shares of  the Company No.
of Shares % of total shares  of the Company 14 Morgan Stanley Mauritius Company Limited  At the beginning of the year  112,116 0.00  112,116 0.00 Bought during the year  21,786,150 0.55  21,898,266 0.55 Sold during the year  4,333,807 0.11  17,564,459 0.44 At the end of the year  17,564,459 0.44  17,564,459 0.44    Note: The details of shareholding are maintained by respective Depositories and it is not feasible to provide daily change in the shareholding of top ten  shareholders.
Therefore, consolidated changes during the year 2016-17 has been provided.
(v) Shareholding of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel Sl.
No.
Name of the  Director or KMP Shareholding at the  beginning of the Year  Date Increase/ Decrease  during the  year Reasons Cumulative  Shareholding during the  year / Shareholding at  the end of the Year No.
of  Shares % of total  shares  of the  Company No.
of  Shares % of total  shares  of the  Company Key Managerial  Personnel 1 Mr.	Gopal	Vittal	  Managing Director  & CEO (India &  South Asia)  229,885 0.01% September 23, 2016  50,000 Shares alloted  under ESOP  279,885 0.01% November 04, 2016  50,000 Shares alloted  under ESOP  329,885 0.01% 2 Mr. Rajendra  Chopra*  - 0.00% March 31, 2017  2,902 Shares alloted  under ESOP  2,902 0.00% 3 Mr. Nilanjan Roy  5,867 0.00% May 13, 2016  (5,867) Market Sale  0 0.00% November 11, 2016  8,582 Shares alloted  under ESOP  8,582 0.00% December 09, 2016  (8,582) Market Sale  - 0.00%   No other Director or KMP held any shares of the Company during the financial year 2016-17.
* Mr. Rajendra Chopra resigned from the position of Company Secretary w.e.f.
January 24, 2017.
V .
INDEBTEDNESS    Indebtedness of the Company including interest outstanding/accrued but not due for payment (` Millions)  Secured Loans  excluding	deposits	 Unsecured Loans Deposits  T otal   Indebteness  Indebtedness at the beginning of  the financial year  i)  Principal Amount 20 457,415 - 457,435 ii)  Interest due but not paid - - - - iii)  Interest accured but not due - 1,218 - 1,218 T otal (i+ii+iii) 20 458,633 - 458,653 Change in indebtedness during the  financial	year	 Addition 11 501,608 - 501,619 Reduction 15 356,689 - 356,704 Net Change (4) 144,919 - 144,915 Indebtedness at the end of the  financial year  i)  Principal Amount 16 602,334 - 602,350 ii)  Interest due but not paid - - - - iii)  Interest accured but not due - 1,390 - 1,390 T otal (i+ii+iii) 16 603,724 - 603,740 74 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 VI.
REMUNERA TION OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL   A. Remuneration to Managing Director, Whole-time Directors and / or Manager: (` Millions) Sl.
No.
Particulars of Remuneration Name of Managing Director / Whole-time Director /  Manager  T otal   Amount Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal Chairman Mr.	Gopal	Vittal	  Managing Director & CEO   (India & South Asia) (1) Gross	salary (a)  Salary as per provisions contained in  section	17(1)	of	the	Income-tax	Act,	 1961 269.78 88.34 358.12 (b)   Value of perquisites u/s 17(2)   Income-tax	Act,	1961 10.09 0.03* 10.12 (c)		 	Profits	in	lieu	of	salary	under	section	 17(3)	Income-tax	Act,	1961 - - - (2) Stock Option* - 31.13* 31.13 (3) Sweat Equity - - - (4) Commission - - - -	as	%	of	profit - - - - others, specify… - - - (5) Others – PF Contribution 21.57 4.52 26.09 T otal (A) 301.44 124.02 425.46 Ceiling as per the Act `	6,989.50	Mn.
(being	10%	of	Net	Profits	of	the	Company	calculated	as	per	 Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013)    Note: *Value of perquisites u/s 17 (2) of Income T ax Act, 1961 does not include perquisite value of ` 31.13 Mn towards stock options exercised by Mr. Gopal  Vittal during FY 2016-17.
The same has been shown separately in point no.
(2).
Value of Performance Linked Incentive (PLI) considered above represents incentive which will accrue at 100% performance level for FY 2016-17 and  will get paid basis actual performance parameters in the next financial year.
B.  Remuneration to Non-Executive Directors including Independent Directors: (` Millions) Independent Directors Fee for attending board  / committee meetings Commission T otal Mr. Ben Verwaayen 0.40 15.56 15.96 Mr. Craig Ehrlich 0.50 9.73 10.23 Mr. D.K.
Mittal 1.40 7.00 8.40 Mr. Manish Kejriwal 0.40 6.50 6.90 Mr. Shishir Priyadarshi 0.60 9.73 10.33 Mr. V .K.
Viswanathan 0.80 8.00 8.80 T otal B1 4.10 56.52 60.62 (` Millions) Other	Non-Executive	Directors Fee for attending board  / committee meetings Commission T otal Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal - 3.00 3.00 Ms. Chua Sock Koong - 3.89 3.89 Ms. T an Yong Choo - 3.89 3.89 Sheikh Faisal Thani Al-Thani - 3.89 3.89 T otal B2 - 14.67 14.67 T otal B = (B1+B2) 4.10 71.19 75.29 Ceiling as per the Act `	698.95	Mn	(being	1%	of	Net	Profits	of	the	Company	calculated	as	per	 Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013) T otal Managerial Remuneration (A+B) 500.75 Mn T otal ceiling as per the Act (11%) ` 7,688.45 Mn (being 11% of Net Profits of the Company calculated as per  Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013) 75 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements C.   Remuneration to Key Managerial Personnel other than Managing Director / Whole-time Director /  Manager: (` Millions) Sl.
No.
Particulars of Remuneration Key Managerial Personnel  T otal   AmountMr.
Nilanjan Roy Global	CFO Mr. Rajendra Chopra Company Secretary# 1 Gross	Salary  As	per	Sec	17(1)	of	Income	Tax	Act,	1961 42.03^ 7.93^^ 49.96  Value of perks as per Sec 17(2) of Income  Tax	Act,	1961 0.08* 0.03* 0.11  Profits	in	lieu	of	salary	under	section	17(3)	 Income	Tax	Act,	1961 - - - 2 Stock Options 2.61* 1.03* 3.64 3 Sweat Equity - - - 4 Commission - - -  -	as	%	of	profit - - -  - others, specify… - - - 5 others - PF Contribution 1.31 0.30 1.61 T otal 46.03 9.29 55.32     Notes:       Value of Performance Linked Incentive (PLI) considered above  represents incentive which will accrue at 100% performance level for FY 2016-17 and  will get paid basis actual performance parameters in the next financial year.
*Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) of Income T ax Act, 1961 does not include perquisite value of ` 2.61 Mn and ` 1.03 Mn towards stock options exercised by  Mr. Nilanjan Roy and Mr. Rajendra Chopra respectively during FY 2016-17.
The same has been shown separately in point no.
(2).
^Salary u/s 17(1) includes value of cash payout of ` 17.58 Mn under performance based long term incentive plan of the Company.
^^ Salary u/s 17(1) includes value of cash payout of ` 0.30 Mn under performance based long term incentive plan of the Company.
# Mr. Rajendra Chopra resigned from the position of Company Secretary w.e.f.
January 24, 2017.
VII.
Penalties / Punishment / Compounding of Offenses    There were no penalties / punishment / compounding of offences for breach of any section of Companies Act against  the Company or its Directors or other officers in default, if any, during the year.
Annexure F Particulars of Energy Conservation, T echnology  Absorption and Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo (A)  Conservation of energy 1)   The Company undertook various initiatives to  reduce and conserve energy: a.
On Network side:   a.   Rooftop solar energy at Main Switching Centers-  Over the past 5 years, 17 rooftop solar plants were  set up at our main switching centers, with a total  generation capacity of 1 MWp.
In FY 2016-17, our  Company has installed rooftop solar plants at 3  locations, with a total installed capacity of 200 kWp.
b.
Green Power wheeling agreements for purchase  of green energy, through open access.
In FY 2016- 17, cumulative 88 Mn units were contracted under  wheeling from renewable.
c.   Deployment of Low-power Consuming Base  Transceiver Station (BTS) (have been able to  achieve a reduction in power consumption by a  minimum of 30% over the last 4-5 years).
In FY  2016-17, we deployed 4301 such base stations.
d.   Site sharing - We introduced the concept of telecom  passive infrastructure sharing to the world almost  a decade ago which potentially helps reduce  the energy consumption significantly by 30% as  compared to a standalone site.
e.   Conversion of indoor to outdoor (FCU, NCU, SCU,  MCU, Outdoor BTS and MW cabinets) - at those  indoor cell sites to avoids running of air-conditioners  during favorable ambient temperatures, and reduce  consumption of grid power when it’s available.
Cumulative 48973 tower sites have implemented  with outdoor conversion solutions.
f.   Battery Hybrid solutions have been implemented  in over 11946 additional sites by our network  partners, across the country, to eradicate the use of  diesel.
b.
Energy	efficiency	across	Data	Centres:    Data centers are energy intensive and Airtel has been  working relentlessly in developing green data centers  that ensure that we operate in the most energy efficient  manner.
Across all our six data centers in India, we have  implemented comprehensive energy conservation and  efficiency programs through the following initiatives:      Energy usage optimization which eradicates energy  hot spots though UPS optimization, installation of  power factor controllers and installation of precision  air handling units      Cold Aisle containment which lower energy  consumption and more efficient cooling      Installation of variable frequency drivers (VFD’s) to  optimize energy use which reduces motor speed to  reduce power drawn when the system is running low    Maintaining power utilization efficiency (PUE) to  improve effectiveness across all data centers.
c.		 Energy	efficiency	in	Airtel	facilities:   1.
Lighting Optimization by considering occupancy  rates and light intensity levels for different tasks  implementation of energy efficient lighting.
2.
Retrofitting of old technologies with energy efficient  technologies   3.
Energy optimization through UPS optimization,  improving chiller efficiency, HAVC optimization by  controlling heating / air conditioning 76 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17   4.
Installation of innovative technologies including the  following:     a.
Installation of retrofit controller (such as eco plug)  for smart energy efficiency for cooling systems.
Eco plug monitors the temperature threshold limits  and; based on the changing heat load conditions  adjusts dead band automatically to ensure energy  is not wasted for unwarranted cooling sessions.
b.
Installation of Collective control system in lifts  such as “Duplexor” to help in reducing power  consumption by sing logic to dispatch nearest lift  in the direction of travel.
2)   Utilisation of green energy:     Airtel is working relentlessly along with its partners on  expanding their green energy portfolio by embracing  various technologies like wind energy, biomass, zero  emission batteries etc.
1.
Solar-DG Hybrid Solution: The unique and innovative  solution uses 3 kw - 7 kw capacity solar panels in  tandem with battery banks, which helped reduce  the DG run hours from 20 to 6 hours a day by  providing 18 hours of power.
The system is further  optimized by a hybrid solar controller.
Presently 17.4  MWp is the installed solar capacity on 3263 sites.
2.
Rooftop Solar Energy at Main Switching Centers  (MSC) - Over the past 4 years, 17 rooftop solar  plants were set up at our main switching centers,  with a total generation capacity of 1 MWp.
This will  result in tentative emission reduction to the tune of  965 tons CO2 per annum.
3.
Company made green power wheeling agreements  for the procurement of green energy, under open  access of 88 Mn units per annum.
4.
Trials for Solar Natural Cooling - 381 sites completed  with 300 Wp solar on each site and partner sites by  switching off our air-conditioners and utilizing solar  natural cooling to reduce the energy demand.
Bharti Airtel recognizes that the journey to a cleaner  and greener environment has just started.
Airtel will  continue to focus on greener power generation by  working with renewable energy service companies,  improving the storage of power by using new storage  technologies and improve efficiencies in existing sites.
3)   The capital investment on energy conservation  equipment is shown below: Sr.  No.
Location Capex	(in	  ` Millions) Remarks 1 Own sites  (Hexacom	&	 Core)  132 (Amount derived from  issued PO’s, Including ED  & CST) 2 TOCO  (Indus &  Infratel)  & SP  (Ericsson/ NSN) 701 From T oCo cost of  solution to be paid in 60  Installments, which will  be built in monthly site  rental.
2) BTS and MW IP 55  cabinet is procured  against P .O.’s to SP’s T otal 833 T echnology absorption - 1.
The efforts made towards technology  absorption:    Over the past two decades, country has witnessed  phenomenal economic growth.
India today stands at  a juncture of vast opportunities.
T elecom infrastructure  has always played a key role bridging the connectivity  gap.
The number of mobile internet users in India is  estimated to reach around 420 million by mid-2017.
In  coming times internet connectivity will pave path for to  Education, healthcare, banking and other necessities to  reach to each and every corner of this country.
A strong  network will help realize true inclusive growth.
With the objective to provide best in class connectivity  experience to our customers and improve our  spectrum efficiency, Airtel envisaged ‘Project Leap’ with  an investment of ` 60,000 over 3 years.
Under ‘Project  Leap’ in the last two years (2015-16 and 2016-17),  Airtel has deployed 180,000 mobile sites across India.
This is same as the number of sites deployed by the  company in the first 20 years of operations, making it  one the largest mobile network rollouts globally.
The size of the task itself challenged the very  fundamentals of Indian telecom industry.
The execution  required a seamless partnership with all our vendors  and very meticulous and exact planning.
Most of  the sites planned were mobile broadband sites and  required powerful future ready internet backbone  through optical fiber.
All the activity including radio  and transport planning, installation, fiber / MW  availability, media readiness had to be done in a very  close coordinated way across India.
With this Airtel has  become the only company offering both 3G and 4G  services in all 22 circles across the country.
T o manage the existing network better, Airtel has  embraced Self Optimization Network & Geo-analytical  tools real time, customer experience based optimization  of its mobile broadband network.
These platforms  have enabled automatic optimization of multi-layered  networks, thereby reducing drop calls, network  blocking, and increasing data throughputs for setting  new benchmarks in end user experience.
In its endeavor to empower our customers and make  them part of the journey, Airtel has been the first to  launch Open Network initiative.
Through this initiative  entire network information including coverage, site  details and signal strength is being made available to  the customers.
Any customer see the quality of signal  in their area and the sites they are served from.
They  will also be able to log geographical location based  network complaints.
This portal enables us to improvise  our current network infrastructure and plan new sites.
In our continuous endeavor to be pioneers in new  technology, we launched carrier aggregation, dual band  3G, 3G dual carrier, 4G TD & FD last year.
2.
The benefits derived like product improvement,  cost reduction, product development or  import substitution:    Through meticulous and effective planning and project  management, in FY 2016-17 we deployed 90,000 sites  including 8,000 swap sites.
With more than 35,000 km  of incremental fiber rolled out last year, Airtel now has  more than 550,000 km of domestic and international  fiber creating a powerful backbone for data and internet  services in additional to voice.
This helped us launch 3G  77 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements and 4G across all 22 circles in India with 4G TD & FD in  18 circles.
In this journey to provide world class indoor  experience we launched platinum 3G on 900Mhz in  Mumbai, Kolkata, NESA, Karnataka and Punjab.
Airtel became the first company to launch 3G  (2100Mhz + 2100Mhz) dual carrier implementation  achieving a speed of 42 Mbps in DL, RJ, BH, TNC & JK.
We were the first to do Carrier aggregation (FD+TD)  with commercial device (Samsung Note-5) achieving  a speed of 135 Mbps and now its present 450 towns.
Also we successful tested LAA Carrier aggregation  (40MHz (L TE-U 5GHz) + 5MHz (L TE 1800)), achieving  a speed of more than 250 Mbps.
This technology  adoption and innovation helped us to manage the  spectrum efficiently and provide best in the class  network experience to our customers.
Airtel network has now become truly heterogeneous.
T o excellent superb network experience in this  complex mesh of technology, Airtel has embarked on  innovative tools for near real time optimization through  Self Optimization Network (SON) and Geo analytical  tools.
Deployment of Self Optimization Network (SON)  enabled automation of network optimization to ensure  availability of resources as per user demand.
It has  enabled dynamic configuration of the network for  seamless handovers in 3G & 2G network, thus reducing  the drop calls and improving efficiency of the available  spectrum and network capacity.
SON has been launched  in top 16 cities.
Airtel has pioneered customer demand  centric network planning & densification by getting  visibility of the network consumption on granular 50m x  50m grid.
It has helped in ensuring deployment of new  sites, small cells in corridors of high consumption, thus  improving efficiency of the new deployments.
GEO has  been launched in top 22 cities.
In case of imported technology (imported  during the last three years reckoned from the  beginning of the financial year)-   a.  the details of technology imported:       The Company has not imported any technology in  the given period, only telecom equipments were  imported.
b.  the year of import:      N.A.
c.  whether the technology been fully absorbed:      N.A.
d.   if not fully absorbed, areas where absorption  has not taken place, and the reasons  thereof:       N.A.
3.
The expenditure incurred on Research and  Development.
NIL The efforts made towards creating a digital Airtel At Airtel, we have always been at the forefront of innovation  and digitization.
We have put tremendous organization  energy behind the Digital India vision.
This year, we have  further expanded the scale and scope of our digital programs  that will directly benefit our vast ecosystem of 280M+ rural  and urban customers, 1.6M+ retail and 17,000+ employees.
Market Digitization – We were the first in the country’s  telecom industry to revolutionize how we sell our products  in the market, in a truly digital way.
Our entire sales and  distribution channel from Retailers to Distributors to Field  Sales Executives is completely digitized with a host of  applications.
Our sales team can access over 150+ key  metrics with trends over 18 months.
In addition to looking  at trends, the sales team can compare and contrast  performance between various stakeholders.
With the intent  of doing away with paper, integration of “Market Notifications  / Feedback” as a key tool where the sales team can report  and document performance of various stake holders during  their day to day working.
Customer Acquisition – We are amongst the heaviest  third party users of Aadhaar platform – after we launched  e-KYC through Aadhaar to activate SIM Cards as well as  open Payments Bank Accounts.
This has led to reduction  in waste and has brought down the time required for such  transactions to less than 5 minutes!
With over 3.5 lac  biometric devices, Airtel’s acquisition and recharge platform  has become one of the biggest digital transaction platforms  in the country.
Customer Service – The app offers complete flexibility  and control to our customers to view their usage, make  payments, self-service any plan changes, recharge their  prepaid or DTH connections etc.
The app caters to more  than 200 million requests in a month for self service.
The  airtel payments bank was launched on the app last year,  which is India’s first payments bank.
The airtel dialer, cloud  backup are additional services available on the app for the  convenience of our customers.
Workforce management – Various field forces of Airtel  for service, installation and fault repair etc have also been  digitized through a workforce management solution called  “Airtel Konnect” which automatically assigns tasks, manages  schedules, allows appointment booking and provides  maximum efficiency in the entire process.
This allows us to  service our consumers and B2B clients more efficiently and  effectively.
(C)  Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo  Activities relating to initiatives taken to increase exports;  development of new export markets for products and  services, and export plans.
T otal foreign exchange used and earned for the year: (a)  T otal Foreign Exchange Earnings ` 49,060 Mn (b)  T otal Foreign Exchange Outgo ` 116,278 Mn 78 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Annexure G Statement of Disclosure of Remuneration under Section 197(12) of Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule  5(1) of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 i.
The percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Executive  Officer and Company Secretary during FY 2016-17 and ratio of the remuneration of each Director to  the median remuneration of the employees of the Company for FY 2016-17 are as under: Sl.
No.
Name of the Director Remuneration of  Director / KMP for FY  2016-17 (in `) Percentage  increase in  remuneration in FY  2016-172 Ratio of remuneration  of each Director to  median remuneration  of the employees of the  Company2,3 Executive directors 1.
Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal, Chairman 301,442,108 8.221 366.27 2.
Mr.	Gopal	Vittal,	Managing	Director	&	CEO	(India	&	 South Asia)  92,884,551*  49.561   112.86 Non-executive directors 3.
Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal 3,000,000 Nil 3.65 4.
Ms. Chua Sock Koong 3,890,316 (2.25) 4.73  5.
Ms. T an Yong Choo 3,890,316 (2.25) 4.73 6.
Sheikh Faisal Thani Al-Thani 3,890,316 (2.25) 4.73 Independent Directors 7.
Mr. Ben Verwaayen 15,961,264 (7.11) 3.65 8.
Mr. Craig Ehrlich 10,225,790 (2.14) 12.43 9.
Mr. D.K.
Mittal 8,400,000 5.00 10.21 10.
Mr. Manish Kejriwal 6,900,000 Nil 8.38 11.
Mr. Shishir Priyadarshi 10,325,790 (1.19) 12.55 12.
Mr. V .K.
Viswanathan 8,800,000 3.53 10.69 Key Managerial Personnel other than  Executive Directors 13.
Mr. Nilanjan Roy, Global	Chief	Financial	Officer 25,841,867# 15.311 - 14.
Mr. Rajendra Chopra, Company Secretary** 7,979,397 ^  16.741 -   Notes:   1.
The value of performance linked incentive (PLI) in remuneration of Key Managerial Personnels (KMPs) represents incentive @ 100% performance level.
For effective comparison, the PLI component of their remuneration for FY 2015-16 has also been considered @ 100% performance level.
2.
Percentage increase in remuneration is based on annualised remuneration.
3.
Remuneration of Employees and KMPs does not include perquisite value of stock options exercised during FY 2016-17.
4.
There has been no change in remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors.
Change in remuneration of Non-Executive Directors vis-à-vis previous year  is due to change in their Committee membership and change in foreign exchange rates.
*  The remuneration of Mr. Gopal Vittal excludes perquisite value of ` 31,131,500 on exercise of stock options during FY 2016-17.
#   The remuneration of Mr. Nilanjan Roy excludes perquisite value of ` 2,608,756 on exercise of stock options and cash payout of ` 17,579,393 under  performance-based long-term incentive plan of the Company during FY 2016-17.
^   The remuneration of Mr. Rajendra Chopra excludes perquisite value of ` 1,033,344  on exercise of stock options and cash payout of ` 282,114 under  performance-based long-term incentive plan of the Company during FY 2016-17.
The above remuneration includes the payments made towards final  settlement.
** Mr. Rajendra Chopra resigned from the position of Company Secretary w.e.f.
January 24, 2017. ii.
The percentage increase in the median remuneration of the employees in the financial year: There has  been an increase of 2.67% in median remuneration of employees in FY 2016-17 as compared to FY 2015-16. iii.
The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Company: There were 9,279 employees on the rolls  of the Company as on March 31, 2017. iv.
Average percentage increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial  personnel in FY 2016-17 and its comparison with the percentage increase in the managerial  remuneration and justification thereof: The average increase in the remuneration of employees excluding KMPs  during FY 2016-17 was 8% and the average increase in the remuneration of KMPs was 22.46%.
The increase of 22.46%  is due to substantial increase in salary of Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia) of the Company which was based  on external benchmarking, Company’s and individual performance level.
The aforesaid remuneration was approved by  the shareholders in its Annual General Meeting held on August 19, 2016.
V .
Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company: The remuneration  of Directors was as per the Remuneration Policy of the Company.
79 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Annexure H Statement of particulars under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial  Personnel) Rules, 2014 for the year ended March 31, 2017  T op ten employees in terms of remuneration drawn (A)  Employed Throughout the Financial Year Sl.
No.
Name Designation Qualification(s) Age               (In  years) Date of  Commencement of  Employment T otal  experience		 (in years) Nature of duties of the employee G ro s s												 Remuneration  (in `) Previous employment/ Designation 1 Ajai Puri Chief	Operating	Officer	(India	&	South	 Asia) Post	Graduation 56 15-May-04 36 Business Head  62,134,733 Cargill Foods India / Business Head - India Foods 2 Campbell Mcclean Chief Architect Graduated	from	the	Royal Military Academy Sandhurst  53 07-Jul-14 34 Engineering  55,597,390 Telefonica	/	Global	Chief	Architect 3 Gopal	Vittal MD & CEO - India & South Asia MBA 51 03-Apr-12 26 Business Head  92,884,551 # Hindustan	Uniliver	Limited	/	Executive	Director 4 Harmeen Mehta Global	CIO BE (Computer Sc.
&  Engg) 43 24-Oct-13 18 Information T echnology  71,014,660 BBVA	/	CIO	Global	Markets 5 Moti	Gyamlani Director - Supply Chain Masters in  International Business Administration 43 17-Dec-12 21 Supply Chain Management  56,004,727 GE	Energy	/	Group	Vice	President	-	Global	supply	Chain 6 Nilanjan Roy Global	CFO CA 51 01-Mar-06 27 Finance 46,030,016* Unilever Nv / Plc, Usa / Finance Director 7 Srikanth Balachandran Global	CHRO CA, B.Com 56 17-Nov-08 36  Human Resources  66,431,276 Hindustan	Unilever	Limited	/	Programme	Leader	-	Global	 Finance 8 Sunil Bharti Mittal Chairman Graduate 59 01-Oct-01 29 General	Management  301,442,108 Bharti Cellular Limited.
/ CMD *Remuneration of Mr. Nilanjan Roy includes perquisites value of ` 2,608,756 towards exercise of stock options and ` 17,579,393 towards cash pay out under performance based long term incentive plan of the Company.
#Remuneration of Mr. Gopal Vittal does not include perquisite value of ` 31,131,500 towards exercise of Stock Options during FY 2016-17.
(B) Employed for the Part of Financial Year   Sl.
No.
Name Designation Qualification(s) Age               (In  years) Date of  Commencement of  Employment T otal  experience		 (in years) Nature of duties of the employee G ro s s												 Remuneration  (in `) Previous employment/ Designation 1 Inder Walia Group	Director	-	Human	Resources PGDBM 59 06-Aug-07 33 Human Resources  69,496,894 Arcelor	Mittal	/	Executive	Vice	President,	HR 2 Srinivasan	Gopalan Director - Consumer Business MBA, BA Hons  (Economics) 47 02-Sep-13 25 Business Head  58,432,496 Vodafone UK / Consumer Director 1.
There are no specific terms and conditions for employment.
2.
None of the employees mentioned above are relative of any Director of the company except Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal and Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal, who are brothers.
3.
None of the employees mentioned above hold 2% or more share capital of the Company.4.
The designation - ‘Director’ wherever prefixed describing the area of responsibility occurring in the above Statement is not a Board position except that of Mr. Sunil B Mittal and Mr. Gopal Vittal.
5.
Nature of employment for all the employees is permanent except for Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal, Mr. Gopal Vittal which is contractual.
80 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Statement of particulars under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial  Personnel) Rules, 2014 for the year ended March 31, 2017  (A) Employed Throughout the Financial Year Sl.
No.
Name Designation Qualification(s) Age               (In  years) Date of  Commencement of  Employment T otal  experience		 (in years) Nature of duties of the employee G ro s s												 Remuneration  (in `) Previous employment/ Designation 1 A		Ganesh Distribution Head - Market Operations PGDBM	/	B.
Tech 40 01-Feb-13 16 Sales  17,494,345 Hindustan	Unilever	Limited	/	General	Manager 2 Abhay Savargaonkar Director Networks & CTO B.E.
/ B. T ech 52 05-Aug-06 27 Operations  32,414,205 Bharti	Infotel	Ltd	/	Chief	Technology	Officer 3 Aditya  Kohli Head HR - TNL & Enabling Functions - HR PG	Diploma 41 13-Oct-14 19 HR  12,594,941 Standard Chartered Bank / Head P&R 4 Ajay Chitkara Director	-	Global	Voice	&	Data	Business PGDBM 45 01-May-01 23 Business Head  26,370,387 Comsat	Max	Limited	/	Area	Sales	Manager 5 Anant Arora CEO - Strategic Accounts - Airtel  Business B.E / B. T ech 50 11-Apr-03 27 Sales  22,461,754 Reliance Infocomm Ltd / Head - Sales Operations 6 Anjani  Rathor Head	-	IT	Governance	&	PMO PGDBM 44 10-Dec-07 20 Engineering  17,702,106 Delhi Accenture Boeing / Director, Strategy and Business  Development 7 Aruna  Pidikiti HUB CTO SE - Network M. T ech.
47 21-Dec-00 26 Network  11,426,600 STPI / DY .
Director (T ech) 8 Arvind Chopra Group	Director	-	Internal	Assurance B. Com (H), ACA 53 30-Sep-15 26 Internal Assurance  27,548,148 Essar	Services	India	Pvt	Ltd	/	President	-	Group	Assurance	 and Cost Control 9 Ashish  Arora CEO - Key Accounts - Airtel Business MBA 47 03-Apr-07 22 Sales  17,734,019 Sify Ltd / National Sales Head 10 Ashok	Ganapathy Director	-	Enterprise	&	Government PGDBM 51 03-May-13 28 Business Head  26,508,655 Reliance Mediaworks / CEO 11 Atul  Sachdeva Head Wireless Planning PGDBM 44 29-Aug-06 22 Network  16,613,135 T ata T eleservices Ltd / Head - BSS, Transmission and Core Planning 12 C Surendran CEO - Market Operations KK B.E & MBA 51 04-Nov-03 29 Business Head  21,881,806 Modi	Xerox	/	Head	-	Outsourcing 13 Chamakura Venkata Narasimha Varaprasad Head - Core SAE - Network B.E 47 29-Apr-10 24 Network  11,093,261 Etisalat / AVP 14 Chandrasekar Ramamoorthy Head	-	Network	Experience MBA 35 03-Feb-14 12 Network  10,821,613 Booz & Company / Senior Associate 15 Deepak  Sanghi Head - Transport Planning - Network B.E 43 29-Mar-04 22 Network  10,569,099 Nortel Networks / T echnical Consultant 16 Deven Khanna Group	Director	-	CMD's	Office B.Com, CA 57 01-Sep-04 27 Finance  37,626,587 Triveni Engineering Industries Ltd. / VP - Corp Finance & Planning 17 Dharmender  Khajuria CEO	-	Market	Operations	-	MP&CG MBA 48 21-Nov-01 25 Business Head  15,663,835 National	Panasonic	/	Sr.
Sales	Officer 18 Dushyant  Kumar Head Operations & Deployment -  Network B.E / B. T ech 51 02-Nov-98 25 Network  13,075,563 Bharti BT Internet Ltd / manager 19 Gaurav		Khandelwal Financial Controller - CB & Mkt Ops CA 39 03-Nov-14 16 Finance  13,419,652 Hindustan Unilever Limited / Director - Financial Controls 20 Gautam		Anand Head	HR	-	GTM	&	Market	Ops MBA 40 30-Jul-09 18 HR  16,405,398 Citibank / Portfolio Management 21 George		Mathen CEO - Market Operations - KTN Post	Graduation 48 17-Nov-06 26 Business Head  23,410,117 Coca Cola India / Head - Sales 22 Harjeet Kohli Group	Treasurer MBA 43 19-Jan-09 19 Finance  23,424,281 Citigroup India  / Director 23 Hemanth	Kumar	Guruswamy CEO Homes PGDBM 46 27-Jan-14 22 Marketing  13,056,568 Matrimony.com / Sr. VP Retail 24 Jonathan Rafaelabrahamson Head Digital & VAS B.Com 38 01-Sep-15 16 Marketing  15,064,800 Singtel / Director, Prepaid and Finance 25 Kartik  Sheth Chief	Innovation	Officer	&	CEO	Wynk MBA 39 06-May-13 15 Marketing  24,412,385 Lakme	Lever	Private	Limited	/	Chief	Operating	Officer 26 Manish  Agarwal Global	Head	Taxation CA/CS 43 11-Dec-08 19 Finance  18,111,702 HCL	TEchnologies,	Noida	/	Deputy	General	Manager 27 Manoj  Murali CEO - Market Operations - Rajasthan MBA 46 01-Oct-01 22 Business Head  18,209,164 Crompton	Greaves	/	Area	Sales	Manager 28 Manu Sood CEO - Market Operations - Upper North MBA 44 13-Jan-12 16 Business Head  24,310,720 Hindustan	Lever	Limited	/	General	Manager	-	North	India 29 Mohan Shukla Head	-	External	Affairs B.A.
63 02-Sep-13 33 Corporate Regulatory  10,921,837 Carrefour WC&C Indian Pvt Limited / Director - Corporate  Affairs 30 Murthy Chaganti CEO	-	Market	Operations	-	Gujarat MBA 47 10-Apr-14 29 Business Head  13,989,114 Aircel / Circle Business Head 31 Rajiv Mathrani Chief	Brand	Officer MBA 42 01-Sep-15 17 Brand  13,871,175 PepsiCo / Senior Marketing Director 32 Rakesh  Kumar Circle CTO M T ech 49 01-Apr-06 27 Network  11,028,686 BSNL	/	Joint	Deputy	Director	General 33 Ram Kuppuswamy Global	Chief	Sourcing	Officer MBA 41 05-Jan-15 18 SCM  22,536,571 Microsoft Mobile (China) Investment Company Ltd. /  Director Materials Management 34 Ranjan  Sharma Head - Network Sourcing - SCM B. T ech 42 09-Mar-15 21 SCM  11,420,633 ZTE	Telecom	India	Pvt	Ltd	/	Director 35 Ravi	Parkash	Gandhi Chief Regulatory Policies B. T ech 46 03-Mar-08 25 Legal  14,958,960 Reliance Communication Limited Usha / Vice President 36 Ravindra Singh Negi CEO - Market Operations - NCR PGDBM 45 01-Aug-00 22 Business Head  23,148,784 Koshika T elecom Ltd. / Product Manager - Prepaid 37 Rohit  Marwha Head Pricing & Market Ops PGDBM 41 16-Jul-01 19 Marketing  12,922,797 Vijaya Prints & Packs / Director 38 Rohit  Relan Head	Customer	Experience	-	Market	Ops CA 47 04-Apr-05 22 Customer	Experience  12,352,779 T ata T eleservices Ltd. / Sr.
Manager 81 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Statement of particulars under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of  Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 for the year ended March 31, 2017  (A) Employed Throughout the Financial Year Sl.
No.
Name Designation Qualification(s) Age               (In  years) Date of  Commencement of  Employment T otal  experience		 (in years) Nature of duties of the employee G ro s s												 Remuneration  (in `) Previous employment/ Designation 39 Sameer  Batra CEO - Market Operations - Mumbai PGDM/B.E 41 21-Feb-06 17 Business Head  13,700,755 BPL Mobile Ltd / Product Manager 40 Sameer Chugh Director - Legal LLB,	PGDBM 43 04-Aug-14 22 Legal  24,993,744 Cummins India Limited / VP - Legal and Secretarial 41 Sameer Kirit Anjaria CEO - Market Operations - NESA MMS / B.E 44 03-Dec-12 20 Business Head  15,314,855 Nokia Corporation MEA / Head Care Channel Development, IMEA 42 Sandeep		Gupta Head - Wireless SAE - Network B. T ech 47 30-Nov-12 26 Network  15,938,894 Huawei T elecommunications India Pvt.
Limited / Director -  Wirelsss & PS Solution Sales 43 Sarang Kanade Director	-	Customer	Experience BE (Mech.
), MMS  (Mkg.)
46 02-Mar-10 20 Business Head  29,895,058 Spencers Retail Ltd / VP Operation 44 Satyamoorti Sivasubramanian Sr VP - Engineering PhD 59 02-Jun-14 36 Engineering  21,452,703 SingT el - Optus / Director, Information Security 45 Shailendra Singh CEO - Market Ops - UPU Post	Graduation 51 16-Mar-16 25 Business Head  10,857,436 T ata T eleservices / Sr. VP 46 Shefali  Malhotra Global	Head	Revenue	Assurance CA 44 01-Mar-00 22 Finance  10,999,251 Airborne	Express	/	Manager	Accounts 47 Shyam  P Mardikar Chief Architecture & Planning B.E / B. T ech 46 26-Jul-12 24 Network  34,392,358 Leara	/	Chief	Technical	Officer 48 Swati  Kamat Hub CTO NW - Network B.E 51 29-Aug-14 30 Network  11,016,375 T ech M / Corperate Head Director 49 Venkatesh Vijay Raghavan CEO - Market Operations AP PGDBM 44 04-Jul-03 22 Business Head  18,228,176 Reliance Infocom Ltd. / Product Manager-Marketing 50 Vidur  Rattan CEO - Market Operations Maharashtra PGDBM 39 16-Apr-01 20 Business Head  14,026,118 Standard Chartered Bank / Management Trainee 51 Vir Inder  Nath CEO - Market Operations - West Bengal PGDBM 44 23-Apr-07 20 Business Head  17,333,041 IDEA	Cellular	/	DGM 52 Vivek  Manglik Head	-	Global	Voice	VAS	&	Roaming PGDBM 46 06-Sep-10 22 Sales  14,382,726 Tata	Communications	Limited	/	GM	Sales 82 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Statement of particulars under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of  Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 for the year ended March 31, 2017  (B)  Employed for the Part of Financial Year Sl.
No.
Name Designation Qualification(s) Age               (In  years) Date of  Commencement of  Employment T otal  experience		 (in years) Nature of duties of the employee G ro s s												 Remuneration  (in `) Previous employment/ Designation 1 Argha  Basu Chief	Product	Officer	-	EGB MBA 49 25-Feb-08 26 Prod	Dev	&	TSG  13,736,081 VSNL / Business Head - Mpls 2 Ashish		Goenka Financial	Controller	-	NSG MBA 38 03-Oct-16 14 Finance  7,492,216 Hindustan	Unilever	Limited	/	General	Manager,	Finance 3 Ashish  Mehra VP - Airtel Business Commerce 48 02-Aug-10 28 Sales  11,556,673 Manpower Professional / Associate manager 4 Asit  T andon Head UNOC - Network B.E 47 02-Apr-07 24 Network  11,286,003 Siemens	/	General	Manager 5 Atul  Sohoni COO - Market Operations - Kerala MBA 43 19-Jul-10 20 Business Head  9,260,967 AMD India Pvt Ltd / Marketing Head 6 Badal Bagri CFO - India & South Asia CA 45 16-Jan-17 17 Finance  6,937,056 Aircel Limited / CFO 7 Bharath Uppiliappan CEO - Market Operations - Bihar MBA 45 10-Aug-15 21 Business Head  11,441,364 BHARTI RET AIL /SR VP 8 Dhruv Bhagat CEO - Market Operations - NCR PGDBM 47 01-Sep-06 21 Business Head  24,911,375 Hutchison Essar Ltd. / Business Head 9 Harjinder Singh Kohli Govt	Accounts	Head B Com 50 22-Sep-11 30 Sales  10,758,728 Sify T echnologies Limited / Sr Vice President & Head Government	Business 10 Indeevar  Krishna Head	Customer	Experience	-	Market	Ops PGDBM 48 01-Nov-10 23 Customer	Experience  3,874,518 CITIBANK / Head - Branch Operations and Service, North 11 Kishor  Asrani CEO	-	EGB	N&E PGDBM 47 15-Feb-05 26 Business Head  13,572,835 HCL	Infinet	Limited	/	Zonal	Head	-	North	&	East 12 Krishnan	Govindan Chief	Contact	Experience MBA 49 09-May-16 21 Customer	Experience  13,115,075 ICICI	Bank	Limited	/	JGM 13 Manish Prakash Director	-	Enterprise	&	Government MBA 43 02-Jan-14 21 Business Head  33,911,600 Accenture Australia Limited / Managing director 14 Monika		Gupta Head IT - Engineering B.E 43 02-Jan-15 14 Engineering  8,611,773 Ericsson / Director 15 Mukesh  Singla Finance	Controller	-	NSG CA 45 19-Nov-01 21 Finance  8,143,459 Spice Communication Limited / Deputy Manager 16 Mukesh Bhavnani Group	General	Counsel LLB, ACS 62 01-Jun-16 39 Legal  29,647,595 Vedanta	Resources	Plc	/	Group	Legal	Counsel	and	Head	Compliance 17 Nikhil  Kumar Head	-	Cust	Experience	&	Billing	 Systems PGDCA 55 17-Jul-01 22 IT  7,412,196 BPL Mobile Ltd / Manager 18 Prasanta Das Sarma Business Head B.E & MBA 54 19-Aug-02 32 Business Head  7,699,762 HFCL / Associate Vice President 19 Rajendra  Chopra Sr Vice President - Corp Secretarial &  Regulatory CS/LLB 45 16-Mar-05 24 Corp Secretarial & Regulatory  7,979,397 DLF Power Ltd / Company Secretary 20 Rohit Malhotra CEO - Retail PGDM 49 15-Apr-09 25 Business Head  26,506,509 Pantaloon	Retail	India	Ltd		/	Head	Operation	-	South	Zone 21 S  Balasubramanian Group	Financial	Controller CA 51 08-Aug-05 26 Finance  17,882,618 Coke	/	General	Chief	Accountant 22 Sachin R Sarna Regional Voice Head MBA 43 13-Apr-05 22 Sales  9,931,162 M/s	BPL	Cellular	Ltd	/	Zonal	Sales	Manager 23 Sanjay Berry Sr. Vice President - Finance CA 48 29-May-12 22 Finance  9,785,896 SCS	India	Pvt	Ltd	/	Director	-	Tax 24 Sharan  Shetty COO - Market Operations - KK MMS/B.
T ec 49 04-Jun-07 22 Business Head  14,737,022 Levis / Business Head 25 Siddharth  Sharma Head - Postpaid MBA 41 02-Mar-05 17 Marketing  6,631,998 BPL Mobile Ltd / DMA Manager 26 Sundar Rajan R Group	General	Counsel CS, LLB 52 03-Sep-15 27 Legal  17,114,716 GMR	Corporate	Affairs	Pvt	Ltd	/	Group	General	Counsel	&	President - Legal & Secretarial 27 T ushar Vijay Kamat CEO - Major Accounts MBA 43 04-Apr-16 16 Sales  12,802,806 SAP India Pvt.
Ltd. / Vice President 28 V .M.
Raj Pudipeddi Director - Consumer Business & CMO MBA 45 06-Feb-17 22 Business Head  5,156,198 Procter	&	Gamble	/	VP,	North	America,	Oral	Care 29 Vani Venkatesh CEO - Retail MBA 42 01-Nov-16 16 Business Head  4,261,760 Abbott Healthcare Private Limited / Associate Director - Sales Note: 1.
Gross remuneration comprises of Salary, Allowances, Company’s contribution to Provident Fund and taxable value of perquisites.
2.
The employee would qualify for being included in Category (A) or (B) on the following basis:                For (A) if the aggregate remuneration drawn by him during the year was not less than ` 10,200,000 p.a.
For (B) if the aggregate remuneration drawn by him during the part of the  year was not less than ` 8,50,000 p.m.           3.
None of the employees mentioned above is a relative of any Directors of the Company.
4.
None of the employees mentioned above hold 2% or more share capital of the Company.
5.
There are no specific terms and conditions for employment.
6.
The designation - “Director” wherever prefixed describing the area of responsibility occurring in the above Statement is not a Board position.
7.
Nature of employment for all the employees is permanent.
8.
Remuneration of Mr. Rajendra Chopra excludes cash payout of ` 0.28 Mn under performance based long term incentive plan and ` 1.03 Mn towards perquisite value on exercise of stock options during FY 2016-17.
He resigned from the postition of Company Secretary w.e.f.
January 24, 2017.
83 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report on compliance with the conditions of Corporate  Governance as per provisions of Chapter IV of the Securities and Exchange Board of  India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015  Annexure I To The Members of Bharti Airtel Limited Bharti Airtel Limited Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road Vasant Kunj, Phase-II New Delhi-110070 1.
The Corporate Governance Report prepared by Bharti Airtel Limited (“the Company”), contains details as required by the  provisions of Chapter IV of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015, as amended (“the Listing Regulations”) (‘Applicable criteria’) with respect to Corporate Governance  for the year ended March 31, 2017.
This report is required by the Company for annual submission to the Stock exchange  and to be sent to the Shareholders of the Company.
Management’s Responsibility 2.
The preparation of the Corporate Governance Report is the responsibility of the Management of the Company including  the preparation and maintenance of all relevant supporting records and documents.
This responsibility also includes  the design, implementation and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation and presentation of the  Corporate Governance Report.
3.
The Management along with the Board of Directors are also responsible for ensuring that the Company complies with  the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the Listing Regulations, issued by the Securities and Exchange  Board of India.
Auditor’s Responsibility 4.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Listing Regulations, our responsibility is to express a reasonable assurance in the  form of an opinion whether the Company has complied with the specific requirements of the Listing Regulations referred  to in paragraph 3 above.
5.
We conducted our examination of the compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance in accordance with the  Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes and the Guidance Note on Certification of Corporate  Governance, both issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”).
The Guidance Note on Reports or  Certificates for Special Purposes requires that we comply with the ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by  the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
6.
We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1, Quality Control  for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance and Related Services  Engagements.
7.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks associated in  compliance of the conditions of the Corporate Governance with the applicable criteria.
Accordingly, we have obtained and  verified and noted that the composition of the Board of Directors with respect to executive and non-executive directors  has been met throughout the year, Obtained and read the Director’s Registers as on March 31, 2017 and verified that at  least one women director was on the Board during the year, Obtained and read the minutes of the meetings of various  Committees formed by Board of Directors of the Company along with the minutes of the meeting of Board of Directors  of the Company held during the period April 01, 2016 to March 31, 2017, Obtained necessary representations and  declarations from directors of the Company including the independent directors, and Performed necessary inquiries with  the management and also obtained necessary specific representations from the management.
The above-mentioned procedures include examining evidence supporting the particulars in the Corporate Governance  Report on a test basis.
Further, our scope of work under this report did not involve us performing audit tests for the  purposes of expressing an opinion on the fairness or accuracy of any of the financial information or the financial  statements of the Company taken as a whole.
Opinion 8.
Based on the procedures performed by us as referred in paragraph 7 above, and according to the information and  explanations given to us, we are of the opinion that the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate  Governance as stipulated in the Listing Regulations, as applicable, as at March 31, 2017, referred to in paragraph 1  above.
84 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Other matters and Restriction on Use 9.
This report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness with which  the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
10.
This report is addressed to and provided to the members of the Company solely for the purpose of enabling it to comply  with its obligations under the Listing Regulations with reference to Corporate Governance Report accompanied with  by a report thereon from the statutory auditors and should not be used by any other person or for any other purpose.
Accordingly, we do not accept or assume any liability or any duty of care or for any other purpose or to any other party  to whom it is shown or into whose hands it may come without our prior consent in writing.
We have no responsibility to  update this report for events and circumstances occurring after the date of this report.
For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W/E300004 Place: New Delhi per Nilangshu Katriar Date: May 9, 2017 Partner  Membership No: 58814 85 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Dividend Distribution Policy Annexure J 1.
Preamble, Objective and Scope    In terms of Regulation 43A of the SEBI (Listing  Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,  2015 (‘Listing Regulations’), the Company is required  to formulate a Dividend Distribution Policy which shall  be disclosed in its Annual Report and on its website.
T o comply with the above requirement and with an  endeavor to maintain a consistent approach to dividend  pay-out plans, the Board of Directors (‘Board’) of Bharti  Airtel Limited (‘the Company’) adopts this Dividend  Distribution Policy (‘Policy’).
The objective of this Policy is to:    (i)     specify the parameters (including internal and  external factors) that shall be considered while  declaring the dividend;   (ii)   lay down the circumstances under which the  shareholders of the Company may or may not  expect dividend; and   (iii)    provide for the manner of utilization of retained  earnings.
2.  Dividend Philosophy    The Dividend philosophy of the Company is enshrined  in the principle that along with maintaining a reasonably  conservative policy in respect of liquidity and leverage,  ‘surplus’ cash in the Company shall be returned to its  shareholders when it is concluded by the Board that:      The Company doesn’t / wouldn’t have avenues  to generate significantly higher returns on such  ‘surplus’ than what a common shareholder can  generate himself; or      By returning such ‘surplus’, the Company would  be able to improve its return on equity, while  simultaneously maintaining prudent & reasonably  conservative leverage in every respect viz.
interest  coverage, DSCR (Debt Service Coverage Ratio) Net  Debt : EBITDA and Net Debt : Equity etc.
The Company aims to distribute to its shareholders, the  entire dividend income (net of taxes) it receives from its  subsidiary / associate companies.
3.
Parameters / Factors considered by the  Company while declaring dividend    In line with the philosophy stated in clause 2 above,  the Board of Directors of the Company shall consider  the following parameters before declaring or  recommending dividend to shareholders:   A) Financial Parameters / Internal Factors:   (a)  Financial performance including profits earned  (standalone), available distributable reserves etc;   (b)  Impact of dividend payout on Company’s return on  equity, while simultaneously maintaining prudent  and reasonably conservative leveraging in every  respect viz.
interest coverage, DSCR (Debt Service  Coverage Ratio) Net Debt: EBITDA and Net Debt:  Equity, including maintaining a targeted rating –  domestically and internationally;   (c)  Alternate usage of cash viz.
acquisition/Investment  opportunities or capital expenditures and resources  to fund such opportunities/expenditures, in  order to generate significantly higher returns for  shareholders;   (d) Debt repayment schedules;   (e)   Fund requirement for contingencies and unforeseen  events with financial implications;   (f)  Past Dividend trend including Interim dividend paid,  if any; and   (g) Any other factor as deemed fit by the Board.
B) External Factors:   (a)  Macroeconomic conditions: In the event of uncertain  or recessionary economic and business conditions,  the Board may consider retaining a larger part of  the profits to have sufficient reserves to absorb  unforeseen circumstances;   (b)  Statutory requirements: Statutory requirements,  regulatory conditions or restrictions as applicable  including tax laws, The Companies Act, 2013 and  SEBI regulations etc;   (c)  Agreements with Lending Institutions: The Board  may consider protective covenants in a bond  indenture or loan agreement that may include  leverage limits & restrictions on payment of cash  dividends in order to preserve the Company’s ability  to service its debt; and   (d)  Capital Markets: In favorable market scenarios, the  Board may consider for liberal pay-out.
However, it  may resort to a conservative dividend pay-out in  case of unfavorable market conditions.
4.
Circumstances under which the shareholders  of the Company may or may not expect  dividend    In line with Dividend Philosophy of the Company,  there may be certain circumstances under which the  shareholders of the Company may not expect dividend,  including the circumstances where:   (a)  The Company has sufficient avenues to generate  significantly higher returns on such ‘surplus’ than  what a common shareholder can generate himself;   (b)  The Company is in higher need of funds for  acquisition / diversification / expansion investment  opportunities / deleveraging or capital expenditures;   (c)  The Company proposes to utilize surplus cash in  entirety for alternative forms of distribution such as  buy-back of securities; or   (d)  The Company has incurred losses or in the stage of  inadequacy of profits.
5.
Utilization of retained earnings    The profits retained by the Company (i.e.
retained  earnings) shall either be used for business purposes/  objects mentioned in its Memorandum & Articles of  Association or shall be distributed to the shareholders.
6.
Parameters with regard to various classes of  shares    Presently, the issued and paid-up share capital of the  Company comprises of equity shares only.
In case, the  Company issues other kind of shares, the Board may  suitably amend this Policy.
7.
General    This Policy shall be reviewed at least once every 3 years.
The Chief Investor Relations Officer and the Company  Secretary are jointly authorized to amend the Policy to  give effect to any changes / amendments notified by  Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Securities and Exchange  Board of India or any appropriate authority from time  to time.
Such amended policy shall be periodically  placed before the Board for noting and ratification.
Any questions and clarifications relating to this Policy  should be addressed to the Company Secretary at  compliance.officer@bharti.in.
86 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Management Discussion and Analysis FY 2017 closed on a transformational note.
The industry  disruption in India hastened consolidation, telecom market  moved to unlimited voice, bundled with large buckets of  data, and the new entrant finally announced the launch of  its paid services.
‘Free pricing’ during the year, by the new  operator jeopardised the financial health of the industry.
Predatory pricing impacted all stakeholders, and hampered  government levies and taxes.
In this heightened phase of  competitive intensity, our priorities for the year centered  on retaining and growing our high-quality customer base  while optimising cost, all of which was enabled via our  network leadership and an uncompromising commitment to  our customers.
Airtel is well prepared for this new normal,  where the battle for capacity, network reach, and customer  experience intersect.
In line with the Government of India’s  ‘Digital India’ drive, Airtel launched Pan India Payments Bank.
Airtel Payments Bank became the first payments bank in the  country to go LIVE as it rolled out services nationally.
Africa continued to build on a potential turnaround.
Airtel  remains committed to Africa and during the year our efforts  to strengthen our competitive position in weaker markets  continued.
With war on waste efforts driving opex efficiencies,  Africa turned PBT positive during the year.
Over the year, we  continued to de-lever Africa through strategic stake sale in  subsidiaries, tower sales and other asset monetisation.
The  continuing trend of growth in data volumes and correction  of prices in voice, as well as the adoption of mobile money is  a re-affirmation of the potential growth opportunity in Africa.
Coupled with the demographic dividend, Africa would see the  benefits of scale in the future.
Our investment grade ratings which are awarded and  reaffirmed by international credit rating agencies validate  that we have built a robust, scalable and sustainable business  model.
Our focus is to maintain an optimum capital structure  at all times and enhance our financial strength.
We stay  committed to creating value for our stakeholders, while  ensuring highest standards of corporate governance.
Economic Overview Global Review The financial year 2016-17 was marked by socio-economic  uncertainty with widely unexpected outcomes such as UK’s  Brexit referendum and the US Presidential election.
However,  global growth prospects improved and fears of deflation  receded towards the end of the year, helped by rising  commodity prices and hopes of a fiscal stimulus in the US.
The US economy performed better than expectations during  the year as US firms grew more confident of future demand.
The economy also recorded a lower rate of unemployment.
Even for Britain, it was widely believed that the Brexit  referendum would hurt the economy.
However,  consumer  confidence did not suffer, and to a large extent the economy  was not derailed.
If these tailwinds continue, the global economy may pick  up steam over the medium term.
However, major structural  impediments (low productivity growth and high-income  inequality) continue to hinder a stronger recovery, especially  over the medium term in advanced economies.
At the other end of the spectrum are the emerging markets  and developing economies, which contribute significantly  to global economic growth.
These economies now account  for over 75% of global growth in output and consumption,  almost double their share in the last two decades.
According  to the IMF, the significant income gaps in these economies  vis-à-vis those in advanced economies suggest a significant  headroom for growth.
This shows that emerging markets  and developing economies have a strong potential for  growth over the medium term.
During 2016-17, the picture for emerging market and  developing economies (EMDEs) presented a diverse pattern:    Stronger than expected growth in China, supported by  continued policy stimulus.
Weaker than expected activity in some Latin American  countries (Argentina, Brazil and T urkey), which faced a  sharp contraction in tourism revenues.
Better than expected activity in Russia, in part reflecting  firmer oil prices.
Going into 2017, encouraging economic dynamics in the  first quarter of 2017, along with possibility of fiscal support  in many economies, are likely to support global growth.
Global	Growth	Trend	(%) Actual Projections 2015 2016 2017 2018 World Output 3.4 3.1 3.5 3.6 Advanced Economies 2.1 1.7 2.0 2.0 Emerging and Developing  Economies 4.2 4.1 4.5 4.8 China 6.9 6.7 6.6 6.2 India 7.9 6.8 7.2 7.7 Sub-Saharan Africa 3.4 1.4 2.6 3.5 (Source: International Monetary Fund, April 2017) Indian Economy India’s macro fundamentals continued to remain stable  during the year, reinforced by concerted policy efforts by the  Government.
Measures to control food prices and judicious  use of monetary policy levers by the RBI kept inflation low  throughout FY 2016-17.
The country continued to be one  of the world’s fastest growing economy, registering 7.1%  growth in FY 2016-17.
After two years of drought, the monsoon was encouraging  during the year, significantly improving agricultural prospects.
Lower food prices helped bring headline CPI inflation down  to an average of 4.5% in FY 2016-17.
This, along with the  implementation of the 7th Pay Commission, strengthened  rural and urban domestic demand.
The Government of India  also initiated a seminal economic reform (demonetisation)  to reduce the cash intensity in the economy; and to drive  formalisation and digitisation across all sectors.
Despite temporary hardships (which marginally impacted  growth), demonetisation holds potential for long-term  benefits by paving the way towards a larger and a cleaner  GDP , driven by digital channels.
The passage of the Constitutional Amendment for paving  the way for GST implementation was another landmark  policy initiative, which the Government undertook.
On the  external front, current account deficit remained within  comfortable limits.
Inflation eased as well, paving the way for  50 bps reduction in interest rates.
Outlook India’s growth momentum is likely to accelerate in the second  half of FY 2018, with continued focus on infrastructure  creation and manufacturing, and trickle-down impact of  past policy reforms.
In addition, long-term economic growth  will be driven by major factors: low interest rates; benign  87 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements inflation; favourable demographics (half of the population is  below the age of 35); and greater focus on formalisation and  digitisation of the economy.
Key snapshots 1.
India’s digital economy is expected to grow from the  current USD 270 Bn to around USD 1 Tn in the next  5-7 years, driven by exponential growth in e-commerce,  electronic manufacturing, IT services, financial  technologies (FinT ech) and telecom.
2.
The Government of India has set an ambitious target of  increasing the contribution of manufacturing output to  25% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by 2025, from  16% currently.
3.
The Government is targeting around ` 25 Tn (USD 376.53  Bn) investment in infrastructure over a three-year period,  which will include ` 8 Tn (USD 120.49 Bn) for developing  27 industrial clusters; and an additional ` 5 Tn (USD 75.30  Bn) for roads, railways and port connectivity projects.
4.
Higher agricultural credit, enhanced allocation for  irrigation projects, a crop insurance scheme for farmers  and increased allocations for MGNREGA in the Union  Budget will help bolster rural income.
African Economy The financial year 2016-17 was very challenging for the  African economy, owing to sharp declines in commodity  pricing, slow recovery following the Ebola epidemic, severe  drought in Southern and Eastern African countries, political  turmoil and fuel shortages in a few countries.
However,  economic growth improved in the last quarter of 2016.
The performance of oil exporting economies is likely to be  volatile, while there will be robust growth in economies, which  are less reliant on natural resources.
There are fundamentally positive dynamics, which play in  Africa’s favour, including a growing labour force, increased  urbanisation and advanced technology.
Africa has the  potential to emerge as one of the world’s most productive  and dynamic economies, where the telecom sector continues  to witness a revolution in the areas of data and mobile  commerce.
Mobile has become a platform of choice for creating,  distributing and consuming innovative digital solutions  in Africa.
This scenario is also leading to a tech start-up  ecosystem in the region.
Key snapshots 1.
In Sub-Saharan Africa, recovery is expected in 2017 with  growth projected to rise to 2.6% in 2017 as commodity  prices rebound, and drought conditions ease.
2.
Focus on institutional governance, education and  empowerment of youth are likely to be the continent’s  growth catalysts for the future.
3.
Mobile devices are now the primary means through  which about 80% of internet users in Sub-Saharan Africa  access the internet.
South Asian Economy Sri Lankan economy has transitioned from a primarily  agricultural economy to a more urbanised one, driven  by services.
Last decade marked an improvement in  prosperity and a decline in poverty.
However, 2016 was  marked by a decline in agricultural production, but a pick- up in construction and investment led growth for Sri Lanka.
Underpinned by growth and bolstered by medium term  fiscal support, Sri Lankan economy rode out 2016, despite  global headwinds.
The outlook for the region is bright as the  Government is implementing an economic programme to  address macroeconomic imbalances and a large public debt.
Megatrends that Drive Our Business 1.
As per IAMAI, the number of internet users in India  stood at 432 Mn as of Dec 2016.
Internet penetration  in urban India stands at around 60% whereas in rural  India penetration is only 17%.
Internet user base is  expected to reach 450-465 Mn by June 2017.
In urban  India, the Internet user base grew by 7% to 263 Mn  for year-on-year period ended October 2016, and rural  India’s Internet user base grew by 22% between the  same period to 157 Mn.
2.
Smartphone shipments grew 14.8% Y-o-Y to 27 Mn in  first quarter of 2017 as per IDC.
With Govt.
of India’s  ‘Make in India’ programme, mobile production in India  has already crossed the 100 Mn mark and is set to  touch 500 Mn in the next two years.
Increased focus  on affordable smartphones will drive increased mobile  broadband penetration in India which currently stands  at sub 20%.
3.
With an ongoing technological shift towards mobile  broadband, reduction in data tariffs, and availability  of affordable smartphones, 4G connection base is  forecasted to grow from 3 Mn at the end of 2015 to  280 Mn by 2020 (Source: GSMA India).
Data traffic is  expected to grow by a CAGR of 63% over the period  2015 – 2020.
4.
India is fast evolving digitally.
Rising smartphone  penetration and internet access is leading to increased  connected consumers, which is also reflecting in  growth of digital banking services.
Govt.
of India’s  demonetisation drive fueled digitisation in banking.
Digitisation of payments presents a large opportunity in  India.
It is estimated that the total payments conducted  via digital payment instruments will be in the range of  USD 500 Bn by 2020 (Source: BCG – Google Digital  Payments 2020).
5.
Convergence of fixed and wireless technologies  is becoming more tangible with improvements in  handsets, increased data speed, and development of  backhaul.
Convergence of telecom services will lead to  increased freedom to users to control their everyday  lives over their own personal networks.
6.
By 2020, India is set to become the world’s youngest  country with 64% of its population in the working age  group.
This demographic potential will offer India an  unprecedented edge.
Mobile data continues to help  people elevate their lives with increased proportion of  the population using internet for education, financial  transactions, healthcare, and so on.
7.
Africa is a youthful continent, a young and burgeoning  population is on the cusp of a mobile data revolution with  increased affordable handsets.
Mobile internet adoption  in Africa continues to grow rapidly; the number of mobile  internet subscribers tripled in the last five years to 300 Mn  by the end of 2015, with an additional 250 Mn expected  by 2020 (Source: GSMA Africa).
88 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 8.
Africa mobile money continues to drive financial  inclusion in the region and accounts for 52% of the 271  live mobile money services in 93 countries and 64%  of all active mobile money accounts (Source: GSMA  Africa).
With increased smartphone penetration, mobile  phone banking technology is bringing more people in  Sub-Saharan Africa into the formal financial sector.
9.
As of March 2017, digital TV households in India  crossed 100 Mn with combined seeding in Phase 3 and  4 markets reaching 68 Mn.
DTH operators are likely to  benefit from a rising subscriber base and high share in  these markets.
Innovations of paid TV services like –  smart TV , HD usage continue to offer opportunities to  service operators.
10.
T o enable the vision of Digital India, Govt.
of India  is extensively relying on technologies like cloud  computing, and analytics.
Smart cities will focus on  delivery of smart services to citizens through a strong  technological backing.
This requires seamless digital  and physical infrastructure to be shared efficiently  across devices and applications; IoT will play a critical  role in fulfilling this vision.
Industry Overview Indian T elecom Sector India’s total customer base stood at 1,194.58 Mn with tele- density of 92.98%, as on March 31, 2017.
The customer  base has grown from 1,058.86 Mn and a tele-density of  83.36% last year.
The urban tele-density stood at 171.80%,  whereas the rural tele-density stood at 56.91%, as on March  2017.
The country’s telecom market continues to witness  a strong growth of internet users; and now has the world’s  second highest number of internet users.
The wire-line  customer base is 24.40 Mn at the end of March 31, 2017  vis-à-vis 25.22 Mn at the end of March 31, 2016.
Among the service areas excluding metros, Himachal  Pradesh has the highest tele-density (147.71%) followed  by T amil Nadu (128.40%), Punjab (118.28%), Kerala  (114.75%), Gujarat (113.70%), Karnataka (113.38%), and  Maharashtra (109.50%).
Among the three metros, Delhi  tops with 257.76% tele-density.
On the other hand, the  service areas, such as Bihar (60.95%), Assam (66.89%),  Madhya Pradesh (67.04%), and Uttar Pradesh (74.02%)  have comparatively low tele-density.
T ele Density: India (%) 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Customer Base (Mn) T ele Density (%) 73.32 75.23 79.38 83.36 92.98 1194.58 1058.86 933.00 996.49 898.02 (Source: T elecom Regulatory Authority of India)  Albeit rural penetration improved during the year and touched  56.91% as on March 31, 2017 vis-à-vis 51.37% as on March  31, 2016, low penetration shows a strong headroom for  growth.
With urban tele-density of over 170%, brilliant data  network along with swift customer service and experience will  be the key growth drivers in urban areas.
With the government’s  favourable regulations /policies and the fast changing high- speed 4G ecosystem, India’s telecommunication sector is  expected to witness an exponential surge in data consumption  in the coming years.
The year saw several business and industry developments,  including the entry of a new operator offering free  voice and data, leading to an unprecedented wave of  consolidation in the telecom sector.
During the year, the  Company strengthened its spectrum and network footprint  significantly through organic and inorganic routes.
It is now  best placed to capture the data market.
During the year, the  Company secured spectrum requirements in October 2016  auction (Refer section “Spectrum Auctions in India” on page  31).
African T elecom Sector The African continent remains surrounded by unpredictable  economic and socio-political climate, marked by depressed  commodity and fuel prices and less accommodating global  financial conditions.
Nevertheless, the continent still holds  a huge promise.
It is rich in natural resources, and a young  population aspiring for a better quality of life.
The revenue-weighted currency depreciation vis-à-vis the US  Dollar across 15 countries in Africa over the last 12 months  (exit March 31 rates) has been 19.35%, primarily caused  by depreciation in Nigerian Naira by 53.7%, Ghanaian  Cedi by 12.6% and Uganda Shilling by 7.2%.
In terms of  the 12-month average rates, the revenue-weighted Y-o-Y  currency depreciation has been 15.5%, mainly caused by  depreciation in Nigerian Naira by 42.3%, and Malawian  Kwacha by 26.2%.
A population of over a billion people and growing economic  potential are creating new vistas of opportunities for the  African telecom sector.
Mobile data and digital economy  offerings have a significant potential for sustainable growth;  and with the smartphone prices coming down and increase  in data adaptability, the African telecom market is set to be  one of the remarkable success stories.
Development in Regulations The year saw several regulatory changes and developments.
The significant regulatory changes were: India   Spectrum Auction: In October 2016, DoT concluded  the auction process for 700 MHz, 800 MHz, 900 MHz,  1800 MHz, 2100 MHz, 2300 MHz and 2500 MHz  spectrum.
Of 1,434.75 MHz (paired) and 920 MHz  (unpaired) spectrum was put to auction across bands  and service areas, 274.80 MHz of paired spectrum  in 800 MHz, 1800 MHz and 2100 MHz bands and  690 MHz of unpaired spectrum in 2300 MHz and  2500 MHz bands was sold for a total consideration of   ` 657,891 Mn.
Airtel won 173.80 MHz (43.80 MHz of  paired spectrum in 1800 MHz and 2100 MHz bands and  130 MHz of unpaired spectrum in 2300 MHz band) of  spectrum worth ` 142,436 Mn.
Spectrum Usage Charges (SUC): DoT has released new  guidelines for the computation of SUC, according to which  the spectrum assigned through the auction of 2016 will  be charged @ flat 3%.
The weighted average SUC rate  89 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements will be computed for all spectrum held by an operator  (whether assigned administratively or through auctions  or through trading) including BWA spectrum acquired  in 2010 subject to a minimum of 3% of AGR (excluding  revenue from wire line services).
The separate SUC from use of BWA spectrum has been  withdrawn.
In these guidelines, DoT has also fixed the floor  amount of the SUC to be paid by the operator.
The same  is fixed as the amount of SUC payable by the operators  during FY 2015-16 using the weighted average SUC  rate derived after taking into consideration the spectrum  acquired through auction of 2016 and excluding the  spectrum in 2300 MHz/2500 MHz band acquired/ allocated prior to 2015-16.
Further, in case there is a  reduction in AGR of the service provider, the floor amount  of SUC shall be reduced proportionately.
Harmonisation in 1800 MHz Band: Spectrum  harmonisation refers to uniform allocation of  radio frequency bands.
During the year, spectrum  harmonisation has been completed in all the 22 service  areas, making nearly 188 MHz of paired spectrum  available to the Government.
The benefit for operators  due to this harmonisation is that the spectrum they  currently hold becomes contiguous and, therefore,  more efficient, thereby improving network quality and  broadband speeds.
MVNO	Guidelines	by	DoT:	DoT has issued the guidelines  for the introduction of Virtual Network Operators (VNO).
Some key highlights of the guidelines comprise:    A Unified License VNO (UL (VNO)) will be granted by  DoT , either for all telecom services or any particular  telecom service permitted under UL.
One VNO and another NSO (Network Service Operator)  (other than VNO’s parent NSO) and a VNO and another  VNO in the same service area directly or indirectly shall  not have any beneficial interest in each other.
There would not be any mandate to an NSO for  providing time bound access to its VNO; rather, it shall  be left to the mutual agreement between NSO and  VNO.
However DoT & TRAI shall have right to intervene  in the matter as and when required to protect the  interest of consumers and telecom sector.
There would not be a restriction on the number of VNO  licensees per service area.
There shall be no restriction on the number of VNOs  parented by an NSO.
VNOs will be allowed to have agreements with more  than one NSO for all services other than access services  and such services which need numbering and unique  identity of the customers.
The total amount of Entry fee for VNO’s shall be subject  to a maximum of ` 75 Mn for 10 years (same as UL, as  entry fee for UL is ` 150 Mn for 20 years).
The License fee will be levied @ 8% of AGR.
SUC shall  be applicable as per rates applicable for NSO and can  be amended from time to time.
VNOs shall not be allowed to own/install equipment  of core infrastructure, i.e., Gateway Mobile Switching  Centre (GMSC), Soft Switches and Trunk Automatic  Exchange (T AX) or equivalent.
VNOs shall also be allowed to create their own service  delivery platforms in respect of customer service, billing  and VAS.
Only pan-India or service area-wise authorisations may  be granted under a UL (VNO) license.
However, UL  (VNO) licensee will be able to service an area within the  LSA of the NSO with which the VNO has entered into an  agreement for delivery of services.
A VNO shall bear the penalty on account of failure of  subscriber verification norms (for its own customers).
Other  penalties which are beyond the scope of the VNO viz, roll  out obligations, core network issues etc.
shall be borne by  the NSO as per existing norms defined for them.
No spectrum shall be assigned to the VNOs.
The set-off/pass through charges between NSO and VNO  is limited to applicable access charges such as carriage  charges, termination charges and roaming charges.
In case, VNO decides to exit, for the services other than  mobile, all customers of VNO will be migrated to any  of the tariff plan of the parent NSO without any extra  charges e.g.
upfront/activation charges.
Right of Way (ROW): DoT has released Indian T elegraph  Right of Way Rules, 2016 to regulate Right of Way for  underground infrastructure (Optical fiber) and over  ground infrastructure (mobile towers).
For underground  infrastructure, the right of way fees shall not exceed  one thousand rupees per kilometre and for over ground  infrastructure it shall not exceed ten thousand rupees.
Africa   DRC: The interconnection rates have been revised  downwards from 3.4 cents/min to 2.7 cents/min with  effect from February, 2017.
Malawi: The Malawi Parliament has passed new telecom  laws in July 2016 which is pending for approval before the  President.
One of the provisions of the law is the requirement  that the regulator must approve the product tariffs, before  they are introduced in the market.
Zambia:     The Government has announced in the press, the  possibility of licensing a 4th National operator in Zambia.
The Government has explained that it is conducting the  review of the licensing regime to increase competition  in the telecom sector.
The Regulator has issued a consultation paper to  change the current licensing framework, where it  issues several licenses and replace it with a unified  licensing framework.
Industry is engaging with the  Regulator to fully understand how the new framework  will affect existing operators.
Congo B: The regulator during the year has issued a new  Quality of Service (QOS) protocol with enhanced quality  of service parameters.
Gabon: The Government has abolished 10% universal  health insurance tax with effect from March 2017.
Nigeria: The international termination rates have been  increased from Naira 3.90/min to Naira 24.40/min.
Zambia,	Tanzania,	Malawi	and	Other	SADC	Countries:  The governments within the SADC region have  commenced bilateral arrangements to implement  the Roam Like at Home tariffs imposed by the SADC  governments.
90 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 SCOT Analysis Strengths   Presence: #1 telecom player in India,  #3 worldwide and present in 17  countries across South Asia and Africa   Spectrum: Only player with Pan India  4G/3G spectrum.
126 3G+4G carriers,  highest in the industry   Scale: Largest revenue and subscriber  market share.
Large distribution  platform, enabling other services like  Payments Bank   Quad Play: Only operator to leverage  quad play – Mobile, Fixed Voice,  Broadband and DTH Opportunities   Data	Usage	Growth: Data explosion  at its cusp with the proliferation of  affordable smartphones; and the  Government of India’s digital drive   Digital Payments: T otal payments  conducted via digital payments  instruments to be in the range of USD  500 Bn by 2020 (Source: BCG-Google  Digital Payments 2020)   Consolidation: Consolidation in the  industry leading to better industry  dynamics and higher market shares   Active Infra Sharing: Active infra  sharing to lead to reduced expenditures Threats   Competition: Increased competition,  leading to falling average revenue per  user   Regulatory: Political and economic  uncertainties across regions   Currency	Exposure: Volatility in  currencies due to global macro- economic uncertainties   MVNO: MVNO presence to put further  pressure on pricing Challenges   Operations: Geographically varied  presence, integrating operations across  India, South Asia and Africa leveraging  common platform   Customer Needs: Understanding  evolving customer perceptions in fast- changing multi-cultural and multi-lingual  environment   Capex:	Increased capex with  technological changes 91 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Financial Review Consolidated Figures Particulars FY 2016-17 FY 2015-16 ™`  Millions USD  Millions*  `  Millions USD  Millions* Gross	revenues 954,683 14,214 965,321 14,742 EBITDA before  exceptional	items 356,206 5,304 341,682 5,218 Interest, Depreciation  & Others before  exceptional	items 267,277 3,979 234,958 3,588 Profit	before	 exceptional	items	 and	Tax 88,930 1,324 106,722 1,630 Profit	before	tax 77,233 1,150 128,463 1,962 Tax	expense 34,819 518 59,533 909 Profit	for	the	year 37,998 566 60,767 928 Earnings per share  (In `/USD) 9.51 0.14 15.21 0.23 *1 USD = ` 67.16 Exchange Rate for financial year ended March 31, 2017 (1  USD = ` 65.48 for financial year ended March 31, 2016) Standalone Figures Particulars FY 2016-17 FY 2015-16 ™`  Millions USD  Millions*  `  Millions USD  Millions* Gross	revenues 622,763 9,273 603,003 9,209 EBITDA before  exceptional	items 242,242 3,607 226,435 3,458 Interest, Depreciation  & Others before  exceptional	items 153,483 2,285 116,517 1,779 Profit	before	 exceptional	items	 and	Tax 87,613 1,304 109,343 1,670 Profit	before	tax (85,095) (1,267) 102,544 1,566 Tax	expense 14,161 211 24,741 378 Profit	for	the	year (99,256) (1,478) 77,803 1,188 Earnings per share  (In `/USD) (24.84) (0.37)  19.46 0.30 *1 USD = ` 67.16 Exchange Rate for financial year ended March 31, 2017 (1  USD = ` 65.48 for financial year ended March 31, 2016) The Company’s consolidated revenues stood at ` 954,683 Mn  for the year ended March 31, 2017, compared to ` 965,321  Mn in the previous year, a decline of 1.1% (underlying growth  of 1.1%).
In addition, Nigeria’s currency devaluation has a  2.5% impact on revenue growth.
The revenues for India and  South Asia (` 745,159 Mn for the year ended March 31, 2017)  represented a growth of 2.9%, compared to that of previous  year (underlying growth of 3.7%).
The revenues for Africa, in  constant currency terms, grew by 3.5% (4.4% adjusting for  the impact of divestment of tower assets).
The Company incurred operating expenditure (excluding  access charges, cost of goods sold, license fees and  CSR costs) of ` 399,731 Mn, representing a decrease of  3.5% (decline of 1.1% underlying) over the previous year.
Consolidated EBITDA at ` 356,206 Mn grew by 4.3% (6.6%  underlying) over the previous year.
The Company’s EBITDA  margin improved during the year to 37.3%, compared to  35.4% in the previous year.
Depreciation and amortisation  costs for the year were higher by 13.3% to ` 197,730 Mn.
This  was primarily led by higher spectrum amortisation expense in  India and incremental depreciation on deployed capex.
Consequently, EBIT for the year at ` 156,773 Mn decreased  by 5.7% (decline of 4.0% underlying), resulting in 16.4%  margin vis-à-vis 17.2% in the previous year.
Incremental  amortisation cost on new spectrum acquired in India has  an impact on consolidated EBIT margin of 1.9%.
The cash  profits from operations (before derivative and exchange  fluctuations) for the year ended March 31, 2017 was   ` 283,666 Mn vis-à-vis ` 289,083 Mn in the previous year.
Net finance costs at ` 76,975 Mn were higher by ` 7,841 Mn,  compared to previous year, primarily due to higher interest on  borrowings of ` 18,247 Mn (FY’17 – ` 62,894 Mn, FY’16 –   ` 44,647 Mn).
The increase was largely attributed to spectrum  related debt of India, this was partially off-set by lower forex  losses in the current year, compared to previous year.
Consequently, the consolidated profit before taxes and  exceptional items at ` 88,930 Mn, compared to ` 106,722  Mn for the previous year.
The consolidated income tax expense (before the impact of  exceptional items) for the full year ending March 31, 2017 was  ` 44,230 Mn, compared to ` 53,195 Mn for the previous year.
The effective tax rate in India for the full year had increased to  32.5% (30.7% excluding dividend distribution tax) compared  to 30.1% (28.7% excluding the impact of dividend distribution  tax) for the previous year on account of expiry/reduction of  tax holidays benefit in select units.
The tax charge in Africa for  the full year (excluding divested units) was almost flat at USD  160 Mn vs USD 158 Mn in the previous year, despite lower  losses, on account of change in profit mix of the countries.
Net income before exceptional items for the full year came  in at ` 38,134 Mn, compared to ` 47,991 Mn in the previous  year.
Exceptional items during the year accounted for net  impact of ` 139 Mn.
These included impact of gains/losses  on divestment of subsidiary/associate/telecom tower asset,  translation impact in Nigeria due to the new flexible exchange  rate regime, reassessment of the useful life of certain  categories of network assets of the group, due to technological  advancements, litigation related assessment, operating costs  on network re-farming and up-gradation programme and  assessment of tax provisions, among others.
After accounting  for exceptional items, the resultant consolidated net income for  the year ended March 31, 2017 was ` 37,998 Mn, compared to   ` 60,767 Mn in the previous year.
The capital expenditure for the full year was ` 198,745 Mn  (USD 3.0 Bn), compared to ` 205,919 Mn in the previous year.
Consolidated operating free cash flow for the year grew at the  healthy rate of 16.0% to ` 157,461 Mn.
Higher spectrum price, consequent escalation in associated  amortisation costs and business slowdown in India due to  predatory pricing by the new operator has led to decline of  Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) to 6.5% from 8.3% in the  previous year.
The Company has adopted Indian Accounting Standards  (Ind-AS) for the preparation of its consolidated financial  statements w.e.f.
April 01, 2016, which was required as per  notification issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA).
Liquidity and Funding As on March 31, 2017, the Company had cash and cash  equivalents of ` 12,817 Mn and short-term investments of  ` 20,283 Mn.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the  Company generated operating free cash flow of ` 157,463  Mn.
The Company’s consolidated net debt as on March 31,  2017 increased by USD 1,490 Mn to USD 14,094 Mn as  compared to USD 12,604 Mn last year, mainly on account of  increased deferred payment liabilities to the DoT with respect  to the 2016 spectrum auction.
The Net Debt excluding the  DoT obligations stood at USD 7,321 Mn as on March 31,  2017 i.e.
it decreased by USD 130 Mn over the previous year  (USD 7,451 Mn as at March 31, 2016).
The Net Debt - EBITDA  ratio (USD terms L TM) as on March 31, 2017 stood at 2.73  times as compared to 2.46 times in the previous year, mainly  92 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 on account of the increase in deferred payment liabilities to  the DoT .
The Net Debt-Equity ratio stood at 1.35 times as on  March 31, 2017, compared to 1.25 times in the previous year.
During the year, the Company undertook several initiatives  to meet its liquidity and funding requirements.
The Company  completed the secondary sale of over 190 Mn shares  of its subsidiary Bharti Infratel Limited (“Bharti Infratel”)  representing 10.3%, to a consortium of funds advised by KKR  and Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (“CPPIB”) for a  total consideration of over ` 61,939 Mn (approx.
USD 951.6  Mn).
These proceeds were primarily used by the Company  to reduce its debt.
The Company also made its maiden  commercial paper issuance of ` 30,000 Mn in Q3’17.
The Company continues to maintain its credit ratings and  has access to both domestic and international debt capital  markets.
Spectrum Auction in India India’s largest auction process, offered a varied set of both  paired and unpaired spectrum (700 MHz, 800 MHz, 900 MHz,  1800 MHz, 2100 MHz, 2300 MHz and 2500 MHz spectrum)  was concluded by the Department of T elecommunications  (DoT) on October 07, 2016 after 31 rounds of bidding.
A total of 2,354.55 MHz of spectrum was put to auction by  DoT across bands, of which 965 MHz of spectrum was sold  with 700 MHz and 900 MHz bands remaining unsold owing  to the high reserve prices.
Spectrum worth ` 657,891 Mn was  bought by six telecom operators.
The Company successfully  acquired 173.8 MHz (43.80 MHz – Paired and 130 MHz –  Unpaired) of spectrum across 1800 MHz, 2100 MHz and  2300 MHz bands for a total consideration of ` 142,436 Mn.
The Company now has the widest mobile broadband footprint  across the country and is the only operator to have Pan India  2G/3G/4G spectrum.
The quantum of spectrum acquired by the Company in  various spectrum bands is summarised in the table below: Service Area 1800  MHz Band  (Paired) 2100  MHz Band  (Paired) 2300  MHz Band  (Unpaired) Andhra Pradesh - - 10.00 Assam 3.80 - 10.00 Bihar - 5.00 10.00 Delhi - 5.00 10.00 Gujarat - - 10.00 Haryana 1.60 - - Himachal Pradesh - - 10.00 Jammu & Kashmir 2.40 5.00 - Karnataka - - 10.00 Kerala - 5.00 - Kolkata 2.00 - 10.00 Maharashtra 5.00 - - Mumbai - - 10.00 North East 1.40 - 10.00 Odisha - - 10.00 Punjab 0.80 - - Rajasthan 1.80 5.00 - T amil Nadu - - 10.00 West Bengal - - 10.00 T otal Spectrum 18.80 25.00 130.00 Upfront Payment (`  Mn)* 12,887 27,699 35,084 Balance Amount  (` Mn) 11,081 20,701 34,984 T otal Cost (` Mn) 23,968 48,400 70,068 * Upfront payments made in Oct’16: ` 75,670 Mn.
The Company’s robust spectrum base enables it to continue  leading India’s data revolution.
The Company through its  continuous and strategic acquisition of spectrum remains  fully committed to the Government’s Digital India Mission.
It will continue to invest towards making high-speed and  affordable data services available to customers in every  corner of the country.
Awards and Recognition   Airtel has been ranked # 1 in “2016 edition of the India  Disclosure Index” for Mandatory & Voluntary disclosure  practices, amongst India’s publicly-listed corporations on  the Bombay Stock Exchange (“BSE”) 100 Index by FTI  Consulting.
Airtel has been ranked as the 3 rd Most Trusted Brand  and No.1 Service Brand in India, across all product  and service categories, in the coveted Brand Equity’s  Most Trusted Brands 2016.
Airtel has made a decisive  comeback, having moved eight notches, compared to  last year’s overall ranking of 11.
Airtel has been rated as India’s fastest mobile network  by Ookla - the global leader in broadband testing and web- based network diagnostic applications.
Ookla’s findings  are based on an analysis of millions of internet speed tests  logged on ‘modern devices’ by mobile customers across  India using its popular Speedtest app.
Airtel has received the ‘Best Governed Company  Award’ at the 4th Asia Business Responsibility Summit,  organised by the Asian Centre for Corporate Governance  & Sustainability (ACCGS).
Airtel wins prestigious ‘Golden Peacock Award for  Excellence in Corporate Governance’ for the year  2016.
The Golden Peacock Awards, introduced by the  Institute of Directors in 1991, are now regarded as the holy  grail of corporate excellence worldwide.
Airtel joins the  prestigious list of winners, who are hallmarks of corporate  excellence worldwide, judged by their independence,  integrity and transparency.
Bharti Airtel has bagged The Corporate Treasurer  Award for Asia’s Best Treasury and Finance Strategies,  2016 under the ‘Best Hedging Strategy’ category.
Bharti Airtel has won the Best Risk Management Practice  Award in the T elecom Category at India Risk Management  Awards instituted by CNBC TV18 and ICICI Lombard.
Airtel  was recognised for its robust risk-management practices  and their implementation as strategic tools for a safe,  secure and sustainable growth.
Airtel’s 4G website has won the Silver Award for its  creative design at International Davey Awards.
Bharti Airtel has won two awards at the Economic Times  T elecom Awards, 2017 under ‘Broadband Product’ and  ‘Marketing Campaign’ categories.
Bharti Airtel has won two Legal Era Awards at the 6 th  edition of Legal Era Awards for the year 2016-17.
Airtel has been conferred with ‘Certificate of  Recognition  for Excellence in Corporate Governance 2016’ by the  Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI).
Airtel has been ranked second in 2016 best Indian  brands rankings by Interbrand, a leading global  brand agency, in its ‘Best Indian Brands report’.
The  ranking was being done considering the three factors; (a)  Brand Financials (b) Brand’s role in the purchase decision  and (c) its competitive strength.
93 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements   Airtel has been ranked first in a listing of 100 emerging  market multinational companies, as a part of a study  on corporate transparency and reporting by Transparency  International.
Airtel has won the prestigious TM Forum Digital  World Award, 2016 in the ‘Outstanding Contribution to  Improving Business Agility’ Category.
Airtel has been recognised as an “Innovator & Disruptor  in HR T echnology Practices” by the renowned Society  for Human Resource Management (SHRM).
It is the  world’s largest association devoted to Human Resource  Management.
Segment-wise Performance  In FY 2016-17, the Group has realigned its internal business  segments and accordingly the following changes have been  done for reporting of segments operation in India.
a) Erstwhile, T elemedia Services comprised:   i)    Homes business, providing fixed-line telephone and  broadband (DSL) services to retail customers  ii)  Corporate fixed line (voice and data business)  The Company has realigned the reporting of its corporate  fixed line (voice and data business) with Airtel Business and  accordingly T elemedia Service renamed to Homes Services.
b)  Reporting of Airtel Payments Bank (erstwhile,  reported under Mobile Services - India) with  Others - India.
The historical periods have been re-instated for the above  mention segmental changes to make them comparable.
B2C services Mobile Services: India   Overview  The year saw several business and industry developments,  including the entry of a new operator, offering free voice  and data, leading to unprecedented wave of consolidation  in the telecom sector of India.
In FY 2016-17, the Company  further strengthened its spectrum portfolio through organic  and inorganic routes, and became the only operator in the  country to have pan-India 2G, 3G and 4G spectrum.
These  initiatives will enable the Company to provide world-class  voice and data services to its customers across 2G, 3G and  4G technologies.
With the launch of 4G services in Jammu  & Kashmir, Airtel has now launched its 4G services across  India.
Wynk Music is now one of the most active music apps  in India.
It has crossed the mark of 50 Mn app installs during  the year.
The average daily time spent on the app by users  has grown by 25% over the previous year.
As on March 31, 2017, the Company had 273.6 Mn GSM  customers.
T otal minutes on network in FY 2016-17 increased  by 14.4% (highest in last six years), to 1,339.7 Bn.
The churn  has increased from 3.4% in the previous year to 3.7% in  the current year, primarily owing to market turbulence and  competitive pressure though the churn percentage is still the  lowest amongst all operators.
Data revenues, as a percentage  of total revenues, increased from 21.8% to 23.2% in the  current year.
The Company had 57.4 Mn data customers at  the end of March 31, 2017, of which 42.7 Mn were mobile  broadband customers.
The total MBs on the network for the  full year has increased by 47.3% to 733.1 Bn MBs.
In FY 2016-17, revenues increased by 0.9% to ` 565,511 Mn,  compared to ` 560,638 Mn in the previous year.
The EBITDA  margin improved from 39.1% to 40.3% this year.
EBIT margin for  the year declined to 18.7%, compared to 22.9% in the last year,  primarily on account of incremental amortisation cost on new  spectrum acquired and incremental depreciation on deployed  capex.
Incremental amortisation cost on new spectrum  acquired in India has an impact of 3.1% on EBIT margin.
The Company continued to invest in networks and spectrum  to build data capacities - increasing 3G/4G coverage and  improving the all-round customer experience.
In line with  our commitment to provide best network and customer  experience to our customers, the Company had announced a  new initiative called ’Open Network’ under ’Project Leap’.
This  bold and disruptive initiative under Project Leap was the first  time a telecom service provider had opened its entire network  information for its customers and thus partnering with them  to provide world-class network.
The Company had 162,046  network towers, compared to 154,097 network towers in  the last year.
T o enhance the data capabilities, the Company  massively rolled out 72,663 Mobile broadband base stations  during the year.
With this, the Company has rolled out 136,479  Mobile broadband base stations in last two years.
Particulars FY 2016-17 FY 2015-16 Y-o-Y  Growth ` Millions ` Millions % Gross	Revenues 565,511 560,638 1% EBIT 105,484 128,314 (18%) Wireless Subscribers: India (Million) 2014-15 226.0 251.2 273.6 2015-16 2016-17  10.0%	CAGR Key Highlights   Airtel announced free incoming calls/SMS and zero  additional data charges on national roaming.
Customers  on international roaming are fully protected from bill  shocks through an automatic adjustment that is equal to  the daily pack for a particular country.
The above changes  are effective from April 01, 2017.
Explosion in the data consumption in recent times led  to shift in pricing from sachet to bundle.
Airtel launched  two new innovative bundled packs – at ` 145 and  ` 345 - for its prepaid customers with free voice calling  and substantial data benefits.
The ` 145 pack offers 300  MB data to customers with 4G ready mobile phones  along with free local and STD Airtel-to-Airtel calls.
The   ` 345 pack offers 1 GB data to customers with 4G ready  mobile phones along with free local and STD calls to any  network in India.
For non-4G mobile phone customers,  both packs will offer 50 MB data.
Airtel announced an effective reduction in pre-paid data  tariffs by increasing data benefits on most of its pre-paid  data recharge packs.
Airtel customers will now enjoy  more value on the existing packs and can enrich their  mobile internet experience by staying online longer and  download more of their favourite content.
94 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17   Airtel announced a new initiative called Open Network  under Project Leap, its national network transformation  initiative.
Accordingly, Airtel opened its entire mobile  network information for its customers through an  interactive online interface.
The new interface will display  Airtel’s mobile network coverage/strength across India in  addition to the network site deployment status.
Airtel’s unique network campaign ’Open Network’ has  received positive response from customers, who have  shared feedback and warm suggestions, along with  providing leads for putting up network sites.
Consequently,  over 13,000 Airtel network sites across the country have  been upgraded and over 40,000 have been optimised.
Airtel announced 25% more stringent voluntary  benchmark of 1.5% for mobile call drops versus the  current TRAI prescribed norm of 2% under the Quality  of Service Regulations.
Based on the calculation of  call drop rate during network busy hour on a monthly  average, any amount calculated for exceeding the 1.5%  voluntary benchmark, subject to a maximum of ` 1,000  Mn per annum, will be contributed by Airtel towards the  education of underprivileged children in rural areas.
Airtel deploys 4G Advanced Carrier Aggregation  technology in Bengaluru, Mumbai, Sikkim and T amil  Nadu for superior 4G experience.
This has combined the  bandwidth capacities of 2300 MHz (TD L TE) and 1800  MHz (FD L TE) band.
In an industry first, Airtel 4G in Madhya Pradesh and  Chhattisgarh has been rolled out on 10 MHz spectrum in  1800 MHz band using the FD L TE technology to deliver a  superior mobile broadband experience to customers.
Airtel unveiled a new digital gateway with its My Airtel  app that will offer the best of web to users through a  curated set of apps for all their mobile application needs.
In addition to its convenient self-care features, the re- launched My Airtel App will now have an ‘Airtel Apps’  section that will have a collection of apps under a single  interface.
Singapore T elecommunications Limited (SingT el) and  Bharti Airtel Limited (Airtel) have joined hands to deliver  high-speed, secure data network coverage to Asia- Pacific, Middle East, Africa, Europe and US.
It will combine  resources into one network to provide high speed data  connectivity to 325 cities across the world through 370  Points of Presence (PoP).
This will form one of the largest  Internet Protocol Virtual Private Networks (IP VPN)  globally.
Airtel released the latest edition of its India Sustainability  Report.
Airtel’s India Sustainability Report 2016 offers a  comprehensive overview of the Company’s sustainability  initiatives and future vision, taking into cognisance both  social and environmental aspects.
It also offers detailed  insights into how the Company successfully leveraged  its wide network and distribution (based on accessibility  and affordable services) that has contributed significantly  towards societal empowerment and the Company’s eco- friendly initiatives.
Airtel announced a strategic partnership with Netflix.
The  two companies will collaborate to bring the popular video  content to Airtel customers.
Airtel and Truecaller collaborated to launch Airtel  Truecaller ID that extends the caller ID feature of Truecaller  to non-smart phone users on Airtel mobile network who  do not use data.
A subscription-based service, Airtel  Truecaller ID will deliver the feature via a Flash SMS before  the call hits the user’s mobile, easing customer’s life from  unwanted spam calls.
This first-of-its-kind service enables  millions of feature phone users to enjoy a ‘smartphone  like’ experience in offline mode and add to their mobile  experience.
Airtel M-Commerce Services Limited, a subsidiary of Bharti  Airtel Limited, has been renamed as Airtel Payments Bank  Limited (APBL) after receiving necessary approvals from  all concerned authorities.
APBL also unveiled a new logo  to reflect its new identity.
Airtel Payments Bank became the first payments bank in  the country to go LIVE as it rolled out services nationally.
Customers in towns and villages will be able to open bank  accounts at Airtel retail outlets, which will also act as Airtel  banking points and offer a range of basic and convenient  banking services.
A wide network of merchants (sellers/ shops) will accept digital payments from Airtel Payments  Bank customers, offering them the convenience of  cashless purchase of goods and services via their mobile  phones.
Airtel successfully concluded the acquisition of the rights  to use 20 MHz 2300 Band BWA spectrum allotted to  Aircel, in all the eight circles - T amil Nadu (including  Chennai), Bihar, Jammu & Kashmir, West Bengal, Assam,  North East, Orissa and Andhra Pradesh.
Airtel successfully concluded the acquisition of rights to  use 2 x 5 MHz spectrum in the 1800 MHz Band allotted  to Videocon T elecom in six circles - Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana,  Madhya Pradesh, UP (East) and UP (West).
Airtel fortified its strong spectrum portfolio and secured  spectrum requirements for the next 20 years.
It is well  positioned to continue leading India’s digital revolution.
Airtel now has 4G and 3G spectrums in all circles, giving it  an unmatched mobile broadband footprint across India.
Bharti Airtel entered into a definitive agreement with  T elenor South Asia Investments Pte Ltd to acquire T elenor  India.
As a part of this, Airtel will acquire T elenor India’s  running operations in seven circles - Andhra Pradesh,  Bihar, Maharashtra, Gujarat, UP (East), UP (West) and  Assam.
With this, Airtel will add 43.4 MHz spectrum in the  1800 MHz band, further augmenting its overall customer  base and network across the country.
The closing of the  said transaction is subject to certain customary regulatory  approvals and other closing conditions.
Bharti Airtel entered into a definitive agreement with  Tikona Digital Networks to acquire Tikona’s 4G Business  including the Boradband Wireless Access (BWA) 100  MHz spectrum in the 2300 MHz brand, and network  infrastructure, in five telecom circles giving it tremendous  advantage to handle the surging data demand in the  country.
The closing of the said transaction is subject to  certain customary regulatory approvals and other closing  conditions.
Airtel’s popular music app - Wynk Music crossed the mark  of 50 Mn app installs.
Wynk Music now plays close to one  billion songs per month and has witnessed a growth of  200% in daily streams over last year.
Bharti Airtel successfully completed the secondary sale  of over 190 Mn shares of its subsidiary Bharti Infratel  Limited (Bharti Infratel) representing 10.3% stake, to a  consortium of funds advised by KKR and Canada Pension  Plan Investment Board (CPPIB).
Airtel 4G services are now available all across the country  including Jammu & Kashmir.
95 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements   Airtel rolled out over 400,000 units of Aadhaar based  e-KYC solutions during the  year.
The Aadhaar-based  digital verification offers convenience to customers and  benefits the environment by eliminating the use of paper.
Bharti Airtel Limited and Verizon Digital Media Services,  the next-generation digital media platform, have  launched new points of presence (PoPs) in four Indian  cities: Mumbai, Chennai, Bangalore and New Delhi.
This  partnership will ensure that content on the Verizon Digital  Media Services platform can be accessed by digital  media consumers in a fast, seamless and reliable way,  significantly enhancing customer experience.
Airtel launched its Platinum 3G services for customers in  Punjab, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Assam.
Airtel Platinum  3G offers a superior mobile experience to customers  through faster mobile data speeds, significantly enhanced  indoor data coverage and better voice clarity.
Airtel announced the launch of its 2G and 3G mobile  services in remote towns of Lumla, Nafra and Longding  in Arunachal Pradesh under ’Project Leap’.
This is also the  first time that customers in these towns will have access  to the 3G mobile services.
Bharti Airtel, through its subsidiary Bharti Airtel Services,  acquired a strategic equity stake in Seynse T echnologies  Pvt.
Ltd., a financial technology (FinT ech) company.
Seynse  (pronounced ‘Sense’) has created the popular digital  lending platform called Loan Singh, which enables easy  loans for credit-worthy yet under-served borrowers.
Homes Services  Overview In the Homes segment, the offerings include high-speed  broadband on copper and fiber, up to the speed of 100 mbps  in 87 cities across India.
Besides, the product portfolio also  includes local, national and international long-distance voice  connectivity and other VAS services.
The Company rolled out ‘V-Fiber’ technology for its Homes  customers and became the first operator to deploy  vectorisation in India, this enables customers to experience  internet speed of up to 100 Mbps.
As on March 31, 2017, 62%  of total customers were vectorisation enabled.
The Homes business had 2.1 Mn customers as on March 31,  2017, representing a growth of 9.2%, compared to 1.9 Mn at  the end of the previous year.
DSL customers now represent  92.3% of the total Homes customers, compared to 88.8% in  the previous year.
Revenues from Homes services stood at ` 27,518 Mn for  the year March 31, 2017, compared to ` 25,066 Mn in the  previous year, an increase of 9.8%.
EBITDA margin improved  from 42.5% to 47.2% compared to last year.
Particulars FY 2016-17 FY 2015-16 Y-o-Y  Growth ` Millions ` Millions % Gross	Revenues 27,518 25,066 10% EBIT 6,868 5,682 21% Homes Subscribers: (Million) 2014-15 1.68 1.95 2.13 2015-16 2016-17  12.6%	CAGR Key Highlights   Airtel launched ‘V-Fiber’ to deliver superfast broadband to  ‘Digital Homes’.
V-Fiber delivers superfast data speed of up to  100 Mbps over Airtel’s existing broadband network and enable  a rich online experience in a multi-device environment.
Airtel rewards all its broadband Homes customers with  5GB free additional data for every Airtel postpaid and/ or digital TV (DTH) connection in their home/family.
The  more connections the customers have the more free data  they get.
Airtel rolled out ‘Airtel Surprises’ for all home broadband  customers to mark the two million customer milestone.
‘Airtel Surprises’ offered free additional monthly data top- ups and access to over 10,000 movies and TV shows  with free subscriptions on Airtel Movies.
Digital TV Services  Overview The Company served a customer base of 12.8 Mn on its  Direct-to-Home platform (Airtel digital TV), as on March 31,  2017, adding 1.1 Mn customers during the year.
The Company currently offers both standard and high  definition (HD) digital TV services with 3D capabilities and  Dolby surround sound.
The Company currently offers 588  channels, including 65 HD channels, five international  channels and five interactive services.
Revenues stood  at ` 34,306 Mn for the year March 31, 2017, compared  to ` 29,178 Mn in the previous year, an increase of  17.6%.
Affordability of HD set-top boxes and demand  for HD channels led to ARPU increasing by ` 5 to ` 231,  compared to last year.
Consequently, DTH business turned  positive operating free cash flow on full year basis.
The  operating free cash flow throughout the year was at   ` 3,611 Mn against the cash burn of ` 1,004 Mn during the  previous year.
Particulars FY 2016-17 FY 2015-16 Y-o-Y	Growth ` Millions ` Millions % Gross	Revenues 34,306 29,178 18% EBIT 3,577 1,843 94% 96 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 DTH Subscriber Base (Million) 2014-15 10.1 11.7 12.8 2015-16 2016-17  12.8%	CAGR Key Highlights   Airtel launched ‘Internet TV’ – India’s first hybrid Set-top  box (STB), powered by Android TV .
This brings the best  of online content to the TV screen, along with a bouquet  of over 500 plus satellite TV channels.
This marks yet  another industry first from Airtel that has been at the  forefront of innovation in the DTH category.
B2B Services Airtel Business  Overview Airtel Business is India’s leading and most trusted ICT  services provider.
Its diverse portfolio of services includes  voice, data, video, network integration, data centre, managed  services, enterprise mobility applications and digital media.
Airtel Business consistently delivers cutting-edge integrated  solutions, superior customer service.
It has an unmatched  depth and reach to global markets, enterprises, governments,  carriers, and small and medium businesses.
Revenues in this segment comprises: a)  Enterprise & Corporate Data and Fixed Line  b)  Global Business which includes wholesale voice and data Revenue of Enterprise & Corporate Data and Fixed Line,  together with Enterprise Mobile revenues (included  in India Mobile) stand at ` 104,004 Mn for the year   FY 2016-17,  which is now 14.2% of the total India revenues.
Global Business, the international arm of Airtel Business,  offers an integrated suite of global and local connectivity  solutions, spanning voice and data to the carriers, telcos,  OTT s, multinationals and content owners globally.
Airtel’s international infrastructure includes the ownership  of i2i submarine cable system, connecting Chennai to  Singapore and consortium ownership of submarine cable  systems like South East Asia - Middle East - Western Europe  – 4 (SWM4), Asia America Gateway (AAG), India - Middle  East -Western Europe (IMEWE), Unity, Europe India Gateway  (EIG) and East Africa Submarine System (EASSy).
Along  with these seven owned subsea cables; Airtel Business has  a capacity of 22 other cables across various geographies.
Airtel Business’s global network runs across 50 countries  and five continents (250,000 Rkms); and has over 1,150  customers.
It is further interconnected to its domestic network  in India and direct terrestrial cables to SAARC countries and  China, helping accelerate India’s emergence as a preferred  transit hub.
Global Business now serves more than 60% of  the SAARC countries’ internet requirement.
Leveraging the direct presence of Airtel’s mobile operations  in 17 countries across Asia and Africa, Global Business also  offers mobile solutions (ITFS, signalling hubs, messaging),  along with managed services and SatCom solutions.
Particulars FY 2016-17 FY 2015-16 Y-o-Y  Growth ` Millions ` Millions % Gross	Revenues 109,429 96,993 13% EBIT 22,737 18,853 21% Key Highlights   Airtel launched ‘India with Airtel’ – a bouquet of end-to- end connectivity solutions for companies looking to set  up businesses in India.
‘India with Airtel’ offers telecom  and connectivity solutions to companies under one roof,  thereby eliminating the challenge of dealing with multiple  vendors and integration issues associated with it.
Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) BV (Airtel),  a subsidiary of Bharti Airtel, entered into a definitive  agreement with Orascom T elecom Media and T echnology  Holding S.A.E (Orascom) to acquire Orascom’ s entire equity  stake in Middle East North Africa Company Submarine  Cable Systems S.A.E (MENA-SCS).
The acquisition is  subject to requisite regulatory approvals.
Airtel Global Business won the ‘Best African Wholesale  Operator’ award at T elecom Review Excellence Awards  2016.
Airtel Global Business won the ‘Best SMS Solution’  award at Messaging and SMS World Awards 2016.
Airtel’s Global Messaging Solution suite enables simplified  and secure interconnection across worldwide mobile  ecosystem.
Airtel Global Business bagged ‘Best Messaging Solution’  award at 2nd Annual Carriers World Awards, 2016.
This  prestigious award is aimed at recognising excellence and  innovation at both the companies and individual level in  the global telecom industry.
Airtel T alk won the ‘Best Consumer Service’ award at  GTB T elecoms Innovation Awards, 2016.
Passive Infrastructure Services  Overview Bharti Infratel Limited, a subsidiary of Bharti Airtel, provides  passive infrastructure services on a non-discriminatory basis  to all telecom operators in India.
Bharti Infratel deploys, owns  and manages telecom towers and communication structures  in 11 circles of India.
It also holds 42% share in Indus T owers  (a joint venture between Bharti Infratel, Vodafone and Idea  Cellular).
Indus T owers operates in 15 circles (four common  circles with Bharti Infratel, 11 circles on an exclusive basis).
Hence, the Company has a nationwide presence with  operations in all 22 telecommunications circles of India.
As on March 31, 2017, Bharti Infratel owned and operated  39,099 towers, while Indus operated 122,730 towers.
Bharti Infratel’s towers, including its 42% interest in  Indus, comprised an economic interest in the equivalent  of 90,646 towers in India, as on March 31, 2017.
Bharti  Infratel is listed on the Indian stock exchanges (NSE   and BSE).
97 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Particulars FY 2016-17 FY 2015-16 Y-o-Y  Growth ` Millions ` Millions % Gross	Revenues 60,829 55,589 9% EBIT 17,246 14,437 19% Africa Overview In FY 2015-16, the group had entered into definitive  agreement to sell group’s operation in Burkina Faso and  Sierra Leone to Orange S.A.
In FY 2016-17, on the fulfilment  of the regulatory and other closing conditions, the group has  consummated the divestment of these subsidiaries.
Sale  and lease back of 1,510 towers in Democratic Republic of  Congo (DRC) and Niger was also completed.
With this, the  Company had sold and leased back 10,450 towers in 10  countries till now.
During the year, Nigeria Central Bank removed its currency  peg and moved to Inter-Bank Rate (IBR) to increase USD  supply to the country.
Consequently, the Nigerian Naira  depreciated 53.7% to USD in the year.
The revenue- weighted currency depreciation versus the US Dollar across  15 countries in Africa over the last 12 months (exit March  31 rates) has been 19.35%, mainly because of depreciating  Nigerian Naira, Ghanaian Cedi and Ugandan Shilling.
In  terms of the 12-month average rates, the revenue-weighted  Y-o-Y currency depreciation has been 15.5%, because of  depreciation in Nigerian Naira and Malawian Kwacha.
T o  enable comparison on an underlying basis, all financials  upto PBT and all operating metrics mentioned below are  in constant currency rates as on March 1, 2016.
These are  adjusted for divestment of operating units for all the periods  i.e.
the comparison till PBT has been given below for 15  countries.
PBT , as mentioned below, excludes any realised/ unrealised derivatives and exchange gain or loss for the  period.
As on March 31, 2017, the Company had 80.1 Mn  customers in Africa across 15 countries, compared to 74.7  Mn customers in the previous year, an increase of 7.2%.
Our continuous focus on acquiring quality customers has  resulted in lower customer churn for the year at 5.1%,  compared to 6.0% in the previous year.
T otal minutes on the  network during the year increased by 7.1% to 140.7 Bn.
At  the end of the year, 18.1 Mn data customers accounted for  22.6% of the total customer base, compared to 20.3% in the  previous year.
The total MBs on the network has significantly  increased by 95.5% to 139.0 Bn MBs from 71.1 Bn MBs in  previous year with usage per customer increasing from 436  MBs to 677 MBs.
Voice realisation per minute declined from  1.89 cents to 1.76 cents for the full year.
Overall ARPU in  Africa marginally declined from USD 3.87 to USD 3.82.
T otal  sites in Africa on March 31, 2017 were 20,337 (PY: 19,254),  of which 13,817 (PY: 12,741) were 3G sites, representing  67.9% of the total sites, compared to 66.2% in the previous  year.
Airtel Africa revenues grew by 3.5% (4.4% adjusting for  the impact of divestment of tower assets) to USD 3,568  Mn, compared to USD 3,448 Mn in the previous year.
The  Company’s continued focus on running the operations  efficiently and cost effectively has resulted in the EBITDA  of USD 859 Mn for the year, compared to USD 667 Mn in  the previous year, increase of 28.7%.
Consequently, EBITDA  margin improved significantly by 4.7% (5.5% normalised for  divestment of tower assets) to 24.1%, compared to 19.3%  in the previous year.
EBIT for the year was at USD 184 Mn,  compared to a loss of USD 2 Mn in the previous year.
PBT for  the full year was positive for the first time and was at USD 33  Mn, compared to a loss of USD 159 Mn in the previous year.
After accounting for full year capex of USD 410 Mn (PY: USD  738 Mn), operating free cash flow was USD 448 Mn as vis-à- vis a cash burn of USD 70 Mn in the previous year.
In INR Reported Currency Particulars FY 2016-17 FY 2015-16 Y-o-Y  Growth ` Millions ` Millions % Gross	Revenues 219,568 251,332 (13%) EBIT 10,189 4,909 108% In USD Constant Currency – 15 Countries# Particulars FY 2016-17 FY 2015-16 Y-o-Y  Growth* USD (CC)  Millions USD (CC)  Millions % Gross	Revenues 3,568 3,448 3% EBIT 184 (2) *Normalising for impact of divestment of T ower assets, Y-o-Y revenue growth  is 4.4% Wireless Subscribers: AFRICA (Mn) - 15 Countries# 2014-15 70.79 74.68 80.06 2015-16 2016-17  6.3%	CAGR #During the current financial year, Bharti Airtel Limited divested two operating units in  Africa.
Accordingly, the table has been shown for remaining 15 countries only.
Key Highlights   Airtel Rwanda has signed a partnership agreement with  Western Union, one of the world leaders in remittances,  to ease international money transfers to its customers in  Rwanda from across the globe.
The transaction for the sale of Airtel operations in Burkina  Faso and Sierra Leone to Orange S.A. has received full  regulatory approval and consequently, the transaction  has been closed on June 22, 2016 and July 19, 2016  respectively.
Airtel divested its 922 telecom towers in the Democratic  Republic of Congo (DRC) and 588 telecom towers in  Niger to Helios T owers Africa.
The transaction between Airtel and Government of  T anzania for the sale of Airtel’s 35% shareholding in TTCL  (a government-owned telecom company) was concluded  in June 2016 and Airtel’s exit from TTCL was announced  by the Government.
98 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17   Bharti Airtel Nigeria B. V .
(BAN BV), through its wholly- owned subsidiary (Airtel), has completed the acquisition  of Econet Wireless Limited’s entire 4.2% shareholding in  Airtel Nigeria.
With this move, the telco’s holding in Airtel  Nigeria has increased from 79.06% to 83.25%.
During the quarter ended on December 31, 2016, the  Group acquired 24.89% stake in Airtel Ghana Limited via  acquisition of shares during its rights issue.
Subsequent  to the transaction, the shareholding of the Group in Airtel  Ghana Limited has increased to 99.89%.
In Niger, the Company has applied for the allotment of  additional spectrum in 900 MHz band.
Bharti Airtel Limited (Airtel) and Millicom International  Cellular S.A. (Millicom) signed an agreement to combine  their operations in Ghana through their respective  subsidiaries, Airtel Ghana Limited and Tigo Ghana Limited.
As per the agreement, Airtel and Millicom will have equal  ownership and governance rights in the combined entity.
The closing of the said transaction is subject to certain  customary regulatory approvals and other conditions.
In June 2016, the Government of T anzania passed a new  law that requires all telecommunication operators to list  at least 25% of their shareholding on Stock Exchange.
Accordingly, the Company has filed draft prospectus with  the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange on December 30,  2016.
In DRC, Airtel has applied for additional spectrum in the  2G and 3G frequencies, as well as for the extension of 2G  license, which is expiring in 2019.
The Company is currently  in discussion with the regulator for the available spectrum,  pricing and duration of spectrum holding.
Awards & Recognition   Airtel Nigeria ranked among the top three best  employers to work for in Nigeria in a survey conducted  by Jobberman, a sophisticated recruitment, selection and  HR solutions company.
Airtel has been rated among the top 10 most Admired  Brands in Africa in 2016-17 by Brand Africa.
Airtel Ghana was globally adjudged ‘Best T elecom  Company for Corporate Social Responsibility’ at the  2016 Global Carrier Awards.
Airtel Zambia won the ‘Best Corporate Social  Responsibility (CSR) Education Project’ and the ‘Best  CSR Partnership in the Community’ award at the Public  Service Excellence Annual Awards.
Airtel Africa won ‘Most Innovative Service’ award  at AfricaCom 2016.
AfricaCom is the largest and most  influential Africa-focused tech event and this year’s focus  was on economic development and social empowerment  through digital connectivity.
Airtel Nigeria won ‘Customer Service Operator’ of the  year and CEO of the year award at the Nigeria T elecoms  Awards.
Airtel T anzania was awarded Global T elecom Business  (GTB) Innovation Award for Airtel Money ‘T ap T ap’  NFC payments in the ’customer service’ category at the  GTB T elecoms Innovation & T echnology Summit 2016.
Airtel Ghana swept four of the biggest accolades at  the Ghana T elecoms and ICT Awards for ‘Best Data  and Internet Service Provider’, ‘Best use of Social Media’,  ‘Marketing Campaign of the Year’ for its ‘T oo Much’  campaign and Airtel Ghana’s CEO received the ‘T elecom  CEO of the Year’ award.
Airtel Uganda won two awards at the Social Media  Awards 2016 for ‘Best Corporate Social Campaign Online  - T ogether We Can’ and ‘Best Customer Care Online’.
Airtel Zambia won ‘Best CSR Award’ for Corporate  Social Responsibility Policy, HIV/ Aids Policy, Internship  Policy and Environmental Management Policy at Zambia  Federation of Employers Awards.
South Asia Overview In FY 2016-17, the Company completed the merger of its  subsidiary Airtel Bangladesh Limited (Airtel) with Robi  Axiata Limited (Robi Axiata), with effect from November 16,  2016.
Consequently, the financial numbers of South Asia, as  mentioned below, are not comparable as the current year  includes Bangladesh results for part of the year.
Full year  revenues of South Asia were at ` 11,743 Mn, compared to   ` 16,454 Mn in the previous year.
EBITDA for the year was at  ` 238 Mn, compared to loss of ` 801 Mn in the previous year.
EBIT losses for the year reported at ` 4,018 Mn, vis-a-visa  loss of ` 6,394 Mn in the previous year.
Capex for the year  was ` 1,830 Mn, compared to 3,321 Mn in the previous year.
Particulars FY 2016-17 FY 2015-16 Y-o-Y  Growth ` Millions ` Millions % Gross	Revenues 11,743 16,454 -29% EBIT (4,018) (6,394) 37% Key Highlights   Bharti Airtel Ltd announced completion of the merger of  its subsidiary Airtel Bangladesh Limited (Airtel) with Robi  Axiata Limited (Robi Axiata), a unit of Axiata Group Berhad  (Axiata).
The combined entity has emerged as the second  largest mobile operator in Bangladesh with approximately  32.2 Mn active subscribers as on December 31, 2016.
The  merged entity has the widest network coverage of 99%  of the population with over 13,900 on-air sites, of which  over 8,000 are 3.5G sites.
The shareholding pattern of the  combined entity is as: Axiata Group Berhad of Malaysia  holds 68.7% controlling stake in the entity, Bharti Airtel  Limited holds 25%, while the remaining 6.3% is held by  NTT Docomo of Japan.
99 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Risk Management Framework 2016-17 Risks and Concerns At Bharti Airtel, we have thrived globally by building a culture  of innovation and high performance.
We explore new markets  and business models across the world, evolve new ways  of customer and stakeholder engagement, enter into new  strategic partnerships.
Also, we adopt new technologies and  build exponential efficiencies in existing systems.
While these  initiatives unveil a universe of possibilities, potential risks  and uncertainties arise in a volatile business environment.
The distress signals need to be addressed with urgency for  smooth operations.
Therefore, we have created a robust risk  management framework in our operating landscape.
We  have a sound practice to identify key risks across the Group  and prioritise relevant plans for mitigation.
At the Board Governance level, the Risk Management  framework is reviewed bi-annually by the Company’s Risk  Management Committee.
The Board of Directors performs  an annual review.
These apex reviews include: discussing the  management submissions on risks, prioritising key risks and  approving action plans to mitigate such risks.
The internal  audit function is responsible to assist the Risk Management  Committee on an independent basis with a full status of  risk assessments and management.
Every quarter, the Risk  Management Committee also obtains periodic updates on  certain identified risks, depending upon the nature, quantum  and likely impact on the business.
At the management level, the respective CEOs of the  management boards (AMB and Africa Exco) are accountable  for managing risks across their respective businesses, viz.
India and South Asia, and Africa.
The strategic risk registers  capture the risks identified by the operating teams (Circles or  Operating Companies), as well as the functional leadership  teams at the national level.
The AMB/ Africa Exco ensure that  the environment – both external and internal – is scanned for  all possible risks.
Internal audit reports are also considered  for identification of key risks.
Scanning the entire business  environment - internal and  external,	for	identifying	 potential risks Approving resources, including  budgets for risk management Fixing	accountabily	of	people	 and positions to implement the  mitigating action plans Classifying the various risks   in terms of probability, impact  and nature Reviewing progress of action  plans, taking stock of gross and  net	exposures	and	mandating	 corrective actions Agreeing detailed action   plans to manage key risks Developing objective  measurement methodology   for such risks Reporting progress to the  Board and Audit Committee Listing and prioritising the  key risks to be addressed and  managed Reporting	on	specific	issues	to	 the Audit Committee At the operating level, the Executive Committees (EC) of  circles in India and operating companies in the international  operations are entrusted with responsibilities of managing the  risks at the ground level.
Every EC has local representation  from all functions, including many centrally driven functions like  IT , Legal & Regulatory, Finance and SCM.
Besides, it also has  customer-facing functions, such as Customer Service, Sales &  Distribution and Networks.
It is the responsibility of the circle  CEO or the Country MD to pull together various functions and  partners to manage the risks.
They are also responsible for  identification of risks, and escalating it to the Centre for agreeing  mitigation plans.
Operating level risk assessments (RACM)  have been concluded at Function/Op Co risk assessment and  mitigation plans agreed and kicked off.
Internal audit plans are being drawn up to ensure scope and  coverage of these critical risks during the course of next year.
The key risks that may impact the Company and mitigating  actions undertaken by the Company comprise: 1.
Regulatory and political uncertainties (Legal  & Compliance) Risk Statement:    The Company operates in India, Sri Lanka and 15  African countries.
Some of these countries (or regions  within countries) are affected by political instability, civil  unrest and other social tensions.
The political systems  in a few countries are also fragile, resulting in regime  uncertainties; hence, the risk of arbitrary action.
Such  conditions tend to affect the overall business scenario.
In addition, regulatory uncertainties like escalating  spectrum prices, call drops/EMF penalties, among  others are potential risks the business faces.
Mitigation:      As a responsible corporate citizen, we engage proactively  with key stakeholders in countries where we operate;  and continuously assess the impact of the changing  political scenario.
We contribute to the socio-economic  growth of these countries through high-quality services  to our customers, improved connectivity, providing  direct and indirect employment, and contributions  to the exchequer.
Our annual sustainability report  highlights to the larger external environment, the role  we are playing in these countries.
We maintain cordial  relationships with governments and other stakeholders  in every country where we operate.
The country  MDs and circle CEOs carry direct accountability for  maintaining neutral government relations.
Through our  100 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 CSR initiatives (Bharti Foundation), we contribute to  social- economic development, especially in the field of  education.
We actively work with industry bodies like COAI, CII, and  FICCI on espousing industry issues like penalties, right  of way, tower sealing, so on so forth.
2.
Economic uncertainties (Operational) Risk Statement:     The Company’s strategy is to focus on growth  opportunities in the emerging and developing  markets.
These markets are characterised by low to  medium mobile penetration, low internet penetration  and relatively lower per capita income, thus offering  more growth potential.
However, these countries are  also more prone to economic uncertainties, such as  capital controls, inflation, interest rates and currency  fluctuations.
Since the Company has borrowed in  foreign currencies, and many loans are carrying floating  interest terms, it is exposed to market risks.
This risks  impact which impact the Company’s earnings, cash flow  and balance sheet.
These countries are also affected  by economic downturns, primarily due to commodity  price fluctuations, reduced aid, capital inflows and  remittances.
Slowing down of economic growth tends  to affect consumer spending, including telecom.
Mitigation:    As a global player, with presence across 17 countries,  the Company has diversified its risks and opportunities  across markets.
Through a variety of services, including voice, data,  Airtel Money and value added services, the Company  has also spread its portfolio.
T o mitigate currency risks, Airtel follows a prudent risk  management policy, including hedging mechanisms  to protect its cash flow.
No speculative positions are  created; all foreign currency hedges are taken on  the back of operational exposures.
A prudent cash  management policy ensures that surplus cash is up- streamed regularly to minimise the risks of blockages at  times of capital controls.
The Company has specifically  renegotiated many operating expenditure/capex  Fx contracts in Africa and converted them to local  currency, thereby reducing Fx exposure.
T o mitigate interest rate risks, the Company is further  spreading its debt profile across local and overseas  sources of funds to create natural hedges.
Finally, the Company adopts a pricing strategy that is  based on twin principles of mark to market, profitability  and affordability, which ensures that it protects margins  at times of inflation, and market shares at times of  market contraction.
3.
Poor quality of networks and Information  T echnology including redundancies and  disaster recoveries (Operational) Risk Statement:    The Company’s operations and assets span wide  geographies.
Its telecom networks are subjected to  risks of technical failures, partner failures, human errors,  wilful acts, and natural disasters.
Equipment delays  and failures, spare shortages, energy or fuel shortages,  software errors, fiber cuts, lack of redundancy paths,  weak disaster recovery fall-back, and partner staff   absenteeism, among others are few examples of  how network failures happen.
Repeated outages and  poor quality of networks cause disruption of services,  resulting in revenue losses, customer attrition, market  share losses and damage to brand image and the  Company reputation.
Regulators are now also levying  stiff monetary penalties for poor quality of services.
The Company’s IT systems are critical to run the  customer-facing and market-facing operations, apart  from running internal systems.
In many geographies  or states, the quality of IT connectivity is sometimes  erratic or unreliable, which affect the delivery of services  like recharges, customer query, distributor servicing,  customer activation, and billing, among others.
In  several developing countries, the quality of IT staff is  rudimentary, leading to instances of failures of IT systems  and delays in recoveries.
The systems landscape is ever  changing due to newer versions, upgrades and ‘patches’  for innovations, price changes, among others.
There is  a huge dependence on IT staff for the turnaround of  such projects.
Unauthorised access to network and IT  systems can result in wrong configurations, poor quality  of service, frauds and regulatory non-compliances.
Mitigation:    Network Planning is increasingly being done in-house,  to ensure that intellectual control on architecture is  retained within the Company.
As part of the previously  announced Leap Programme in India, the Company  continuously seek to address issues (congestion, indoor  coverage, call drops, modernisation and upgrade of  data speeds, among others) to ensure better quality of  network.
Recent efforts also include transformation of  the microwave transmission, fiber networks, secondary  rings/links and submarine cable networks.
The  Company consistently eliminates systemic congestion  in the network, and removes causes of technical failures  through a quality improvement programme, as well as  embedding redundancies.
Tighter SLAs are reinforced  upon network partners for their delivery.
The Company’s  network team performance is measured based on  network stability, customer experience and competitor  benchmarking.
The Revenue Assurance team  constantly monitors revenue leakages due to failure of  systems or configuration errors.
The Company follows  a conservative insurance cover policy that provides a  value cover, equal to the replacement values of assets  against risks, such as fire, floods, and other natural  disasters.
In Africa, a sustained concentrated investment  programme based on market revenue mapping and  using sub Ghz spectrum for broadband data will ensure  that the Company’s network quality in these areas are  comparable, if not better than competition.
The Company’s philosophy is to share infrastructure with  other operators, and enter into SLA-based outsourcing  arrangements.
It has been proactively seeking sharing  relationships on towers, fiber, VSA T , data centres and  other infrastructure.
The disposal of towers in Africa  to independent and well-established tower companies  and long-term lease arrangements with them will  ensure high quality of assets and maintenance on  the passive infrastructure.
It has also put in place  101 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements redundancy plans for power outages, fiber cuts, VSA T  breakdowns, and so on, through appropriate backups  such as generators, secondary links, among others.
Similar approaches are deployed for IT hardware and  software capacities; and internal IT architecture teams  continuously reassess the effectiveness of IT systems.
The Company’s mean time to recovery was the fastest  after the recent cyclone in Chennai.
Information security is managed by dedicated  IT professionals, given the huge dependence on  automated systems, as well as to ensure that customer  privacy is protected.
4.
Inadequate quality of customer lifecycle  management from acquisition to churn  (Operational) Risk Statement:     In a market dominated by pre-paid customers, several  inefficient processes have crept in over years across  the industry, in respect to customer acquisitions.
Such  practices are resulting in high rotational churn, high  acquisition costs, low lifetime value of new customers,  diversion of focus of sales force on acquisitions, rather  than revenue generation, trade frauds, among others.
Customer mindsets and habits are shifting rapidly,  reflected in their ever-rising expectations in terms of  quality, variety, features and pricing.
The competitive  landscape is also changing dramatically, as operators  vie with one another to capture customer and revenue  market shares.
Failure to keep pace with customer  expectations would result in customer churn, leading  to erosion of revenues, profits, cash flows, and market  share losses.
Mitigation:     Improved customer acquisition processes like monitoring  new customer acquisition churn, high acquisition  recharge denominations, direct distribution, and trade  margins structures have been introduced.
The Company constantly refreshes its ways of working,  especially in customer service, innovation, marketing and  distribution.
These are now captured in the Company’s  integrated Customer Lifecycle Management approach,  which ensures that every customer’s behaviour is  studied and classified, followed by segmented service  and price offerings.
Organisational effectiveness is  enhanced through appropriate design and creation of  leaner and multi-functional teams.
T echnologies and  tools (business intelligence, scientific pricing models)  are deployed to managing the customer lifecycle.
5.
Non-compliance with subscriber verification  and KYC regulations (Operational) Risk Statement:     Regulators are introducing more stringent subscriber  verification and KYC guidelines, including verification  processes capturing biometrics, such as retina  scan, fingerprints, among others.
The quality of KYC  documents is also being stringently scrutinised.
Non- compliance with these guidelines entails severe  penalties, which is reflected by instances of such  actions by regulators on other operators.
Mitigation:     With the recent regulatory announcement of allowing  Aadhar based eKYC activations in India, the Company  has begun investing significantly in KYC tools, including  biometric scanners to improve the quality of subscriber  activation and documentation processes as per the  required legislation.
The Company’s aim is to disburse the  eKYC adoption across its 1.5 Mn retailers.
Self-compliance  and reinforcing of ‘tone at the top’ to ensure compliance  is the bedrock of our control.
Focus on quality of partners  and IT systems, staff training, proactive maker-checker  controls and internal audits, as well as robust internal MIS  help achieve adherence to compliances.
Internal MIS on  compliance scores, activation time taken, among others  have been standardised to achieve greater focus on  compliances.
Staffs involved in such processes have been  revamped to reflect clear responsibilities for compliance  to verification and KYC guidelines.
Severe management  action is taken in case of any non-compliance.
6.
Increase in cost structure (capex/operating  expenditure) ahead of revenues (Operational)  impacting liquidity  Risk Statement:     Across the markets, cost structures have been  increasing both from volumes (new sites rollouts,  capacity) or/and rate increases (inflation, Fx impacts,  wage hikes and so on).
These costs may not be  naturally compensated through revenue increases,  which are linked to telecom mark to market issues e.g.
market tariffs, competitive positions, and idle capacities.
The advent of a new disruptive competitor can stretch  the balance sheet of the Company in the short run.
Consequently, company margins/cash flows can come  under severe pressure, putting the financial health of  the Company at risk.
Mitigation:      The Company has institutionalised the War on Waste  (WOW) Programme, an enterprise-wide cost-reduction  programme.
This has been rolled out across all  functions and countries.
All countries are targeting  cost reductions and cost efficiencies.
WOW has also  been extended into the capex committees, ensuring  stringent monitoring of capex proposals.
The proposals  now systemically need to cover issues like revenue  generating capex ratio, capex trigger, risks, alternates,  and competitors, among others.
Reduction in capex spends and improvement in capex  productivity has happened with significant programmes  like ICR, fiber sharing IRU, fiber co-build and Africa tower  disposal.
The Company has introduced more scientific approach  into the decision-making criteria for investments in new  sites.
The Company is looking at substantial monetisation of  its tower assets to bolster its balance sheet position.
7.
Entry of new competition with disruptive  business models (Strategic) Risk Statement:     Entry of a new operator in India into an already crowded  telecom market is a potential risk.
Disruptive pricing  102 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 through ‘free offers’ in the short term and creation of  surplus capacities will lead to pricing pressures in the  industry; and at the same time accelerate customer  migration from legacy 2G/3G networks.
This may put  pressure on margins/cash for the Company in the  short term, before industry consolidates or the surplus  capacity is absorbed.
Mitigation:     Airtel has prided itself on being the #1 network operator  across the country.
Its long term spectrum strategy, based  on future technologies and consumer needs have been  ahead of the market.
The Company, in 2015, was the first  operator to launch 4G across India.
With spectrum acquisitions through auctions and  trading (Videocon, Aircel, Augere), Airtel has significantly  bolstered its spectrum capacity to face the new data  war.
Data capacity for Airtel is estimated between 2x  to 3x of the #2 and #3 operator in the country.
The  Company has become the only company with 3G and  4G spectrum across all 22 circles in India.
Airtel has backed the spectrum bank with significant  investments on the ground and as of December 2016,  it has nearly 170,000 mobile broadband sites across  the country.
Airtel has also been the preferred network for high  value customers; and has the highest ARPU in the  industry.
The Company has strategic programmes for  driving down churn through an integrated and end-to- end experience, providing sharp propositions for high- value customers.
Also, its unique portfolio beyond wireless consisting of  Home broadband, Airtel Business, DTH TV continue to  grow and deliver significant value to the Company.
8.
Issues arising out of emerging businesses  and new technologies (Strategic) Risk Statement:     Evolving technologies result in change in customer  value propositions.
The quality of internet experience,  especially in a seamless manner and indoor environment  has emerged as a key competitive parameter.
Digital  content and apps have now become the favourites for  mobile customers.
Digital Mobile money technologies,  innovative mobile apps, Cloud, M2M, SaaS and other  technology-based VAS products are also evolving.
Such  rapid technology evolution may impact the functionality  of existing assets and accelerate obsolescence.
Keeping pace with changing customer expectations is  a big agenda for the telecom sector.
There is also a serious risk of unavailability of right skills  to grow these emerging businesses and deploy the new  technologies.
T alent availability in emerging economies  is also limited, since the overall demand for good talent  far outstrips the supply, specifically for IT and Networks,  affecting the performance of our partners also.
In  addition, there is a need for constantly upgrading  skills and competencies of the existing workforce.
Skill  mismatch leads to failed launches, ill-planned projects,  sub-optimal cost structures, faulty asset configurations,  among others, which in turn leads to financial losses.
Mitigation:     Airtel’s strong strategic vendor relationships – especially  in the areas of network technologies, IT , mobile money  and a few other key VAS technologies, help it keep pace  with technology shifts and retain market leadership.
The Company’s own digital innovations such as Wynk  under which, OTT apps like Music, Movies and Gaming,  and My Airtel app, among others are few examples of  its keeping pace with the changing landscape.
The Company has also entered the digital payments  space and is the first company to launch a Payments  bank.
This will enable it to become a key player in this  rapidly evolving ecosystem post the demonetisation  move in India.
In Africa, it is already seeing the benefits  of mobile money and on reducing customer churn.
Airtel has always adopted a holistic approach to talent.
For emerging businesses, the Company has defined  a sharp and compelling value proposition and firmed  up its position in the talent market through focused  communication across social media platforms.
With  majority of talent needs in the technology and product  space, the Company has systematically mapped out  relevant talent in digital start-ups and fin-tech.
The  Company has laid out a separate hiring process and  leverages new-age social tools, communities & Artificial  Intelligence based hiring solutions to keep pace with  the changing talent landscape.
Selection processes  place emphasis on technical capabilities and cultural fit.
T o sustain & grow these businesses through millennial,  the Company has flat structures and a vibrant work  environment that fosters the culture of empowerment,  collaboration, innovation & high performance.
All the  process & policies of the companies are designed to  drive the culture.
9.
Adverse regulatory taxation or fiscal taxation  developments including risks related to tax  positions (Legal & Compliance) Risk Statement:     Regulatory developments in India, South Asia and  Africa can pose several challenges to the telecom  sector.
The telecom sector is highly taxed with high  revenue share-based license fees and significant  spectrum acquisition costs in auctions.
Besides, there  are multiple levies, such as service taxes, excise duties,  VA T , and excise duties, among others.
The corporate  tax rates on profits, combined with withholding taxes  on remittances have made the overall tax structure  extremely heavy.
In several countries, tax litigations are  getting prolonged due to ambiguous interpretations  and lack of judicial precedents.
In some countries, which  are undergoing economic challenges, unfortunately,  the telecom industry is being seen as a ‘cash cow’.
The  impending rollout of GST in India will have wide ranging  impact on the Company’s IT systems, trade relations  and supply chain.
Mitigation:     The Company has always stood for a fair, transparent  and non – discriminatory government policy on telecom  regulations.
It has insisted governments of all countries  that sustainable regulatory regimes will lead to a healthy  growth of the sector.
It will facilitate higher investments  and modernisation, which in turn, will benefit the  103 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements industry and society.
The Company stands for a regime  that promotes healthy, competitive pricing, keeping  two objectives in mind – customer interests and the  sector’s health.
The Company has been at the forefront  of industry cooperation to share infrastructure, minimise  impact on the environment, lower operational cost  and make services more affordable.
As a responsible  operator, it participates in government consultation  and industry association events, to foster collaboration  and knowledge sharing for best industry policies and  practices.
The Company has put in place a GST steering  committee to prepare itself for the new GST law.
The  team comprises members across functions, as the  impact will be far reaching across the organisation  but with other stakeholders like the Government and  trade channels.
The Company through COAI has been  working actively with the Government GST committees  to frame the telecom industry issues.
10.
Gaps in internal controls (financial and non- financial) – (Operational) Risk Statement:     The Company serves to over 372 Mn customers  globally with a monthly average of 156 Bn minutes of  voice and 90 Bn MBs of data, on wireless networks  located at more than 182,000 sites.
Gaps in internal  controls and process compliances not only lead to  wastage, frauds and losses, but can also adversely  impact the Airtel brand.
Mitigation:     Airtel’s business philosophy is to ensure compliance  with all accounting, legal and regulatory requirements  proactively.
Compliance is monitored meticulously  at all stages of operation.
Substantial investments in  IT systems and automated workflow processes help  minimise human errors.
Besides internal audits, the Company also has a process  of self-validation of several checklists and compliances,  as well as a ‘maker-checker’ division of duties to identify  and rectify deviations early enough.
The Company has  implemented GRC systems (Governance, Risk and  Compliance) to embed systemic controls.
The Company has established internal financial  controls and the Corporate Audit Group has tested  such controls.
The Audit Group has asserted that the  Company has in place adequate tools, procedures and  policies, ensuring orderly and efficient conduct of its  business, including adherence to Company’s policies,  safeguarding of its assets, prevention and detection  of frauds and errors.
Further, it includes accuracy  and completeness of accounting records and timely  preparation of reliable financial information.
Internal Controls  The Company’s philosophy towards internal control is based  on the principle of healthy growth and proactive approach to  risk management.
Aligned to this philosophy, the Company  has deployed a robust framework of internal controls that  facilitates efficient conduct of business operations in  compliance with Company policy; fair presentation of the  Company’s financial results in a manner that is complete,  reliable and understandable; ensure adherence to regulatory  and statutory compliances; and safeguards investor interest  by ensuring the highest level of governance.
The internal  control framework has been set up across the Company and  is followed at the circle and country level.
This framework  is assessed periodically and performance of circles and  countries are measured via objective metrics and defined  scorecards.
Accounting hygiene and audit scores are driven centrally  through central financial reporting team and Airtel Centre of  Excellence (ACE).
Both teams are responsible for accuracy of  books of accounts, preparation of financial statements and  reporting the same as per the Company’s accounting policies.
Regulatory and legal requirements, accounting standards,  and other pronouncements are evaluated regularly to assess  applicability and impact on financial reporting.
The relevant  financial reporting requirements, documented in the Group  Accounting Manuals, are communicated to relevant units  and enforced throughout the Group.
This, together with  the financial reporting calendar evidencing the tasks and  timelines, forms the basis of the financial reporting process.
M/s.
S.R.
Batliboi & Associates LLP , Airtel’s Statutory Auditors,  have done an independent evaluation of key internal controls  over financial reporting (ICOFR) and expressed an unqualified  opinion stating that the Company has, in all material respects,  adequate internal control over financial reporting; and such  internal controls over financial reporting were operating  effectively as on March 31, 2017.
The Company has in place an Internal Assurance (IA)  function, headed by Group Director, Internal Assurance.
M/s.
KPMG and M/s.
ANB & Co (ANB) are the Internal  Auditors of the Company who conduct financial, compliance  and process improvement audits each year.
Audits are  categorised into defined assurance tracks, with M/s.
KPMG  responsible to audit Finance and T echnology track and ANB  responsible to audit Customer and L&R track.
M/s.
KPMG  and M/s.
Deloitte were also engaged to perform forensics  work.
The internal assurance plan for the year is derived  from a bottoms-up risk assessment and directional inputs  from the Audit & Risk Management Committee.
The Audit  & Risk Committee oversees the scope and coverage of the  IA plan, and evaluates the overall results of these audits  during the quarterly Board Audit Committee meetings.
The  Audit Committee & Risk also reviews the effectiveness of  the internal control system, and invites functional Directors  and senior management personnel to provide updates on  operating effectiveness and controls, from time to time.
An  independent validation was also led by the internal assurance  function to assess the effectiveness of Internal Financial  Controls (IFC) and no reportable material weaknesses in the  design or operation were observed.
CEO and CFO certificates from all operating entities, forming  part of the Corporate Governance Report, confirm the  existence and effectiveness of internal controls and reiterate  their responsibilities to report deficiencies to the Audit &  Risk Committee and rectify the same.
The Company’s code  of conduct requires compliance with law and company  policies.
It also covers matters such as financial integrity,  avoiding conflicts of interest, workplace behaviour, dealings  with external parties and responsibilities to the community.
The Airtel Centre of Excellence (ACE) based in Gurgaon  and Bengaluru, is the captive shared service for financial  accounting, revenue assurance, SCM and HR processes.
Its global footprint across 17 countries is bolstered  by standardisation of all these processes across the  104 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 organisation with inbuilt embedded controls.
Digitisation of  ACE is aimed as a part of the transformation agenda and  includes initiatives like system-based reconciliation, reporting  processes with vividly defined segregation of duties.
ERP  integration in Africa into an Oracle Single instance across  all African countries ensures uniformity and standardisation  in ERP configurations, chart of accounts, finance and SCM  processes across countries.
Quality of financial reporting  and controls continues to show improvement.
The Company  continuously examine its governance practices to enhance  investor trust and improve the Board’s overall effectiveness.
Initiatives such as virtual desktop interface for ultimate data  security, self-validation checks, desktop reviews and regular  physical verification are producing measurable outcomes  through substantial improvement in control scores across  India and Africa.
Oracle Governance Risk & Compliance  (GRC) module has been implemented for India and Africa to  strengthen existing controls pertaining to access rights for  various ERPs, ensuring segregation of duties and preventing  possibilities of access conflicts.
The Company was awarded for corporate transparency  and reporting in 2016 by Transparency International.
This  award recognises reporting on anti-corruption programs,  organisational transparency and country by country reporting.
Further the Company was also awarded the Golden peacock  award for excellence in corporate governance for 2016.
During the year, the Company was also awarded the Best  Risk Management Practice Award in the T elecom Category  at India Risk Management Awards instituted by CNBC TV18  and ICICI Lombard for its robust risk management practices  and their implementation as strategic tools for a safe, secure  and sustainable growth.
The honor is in addition to bagging  the ‘Best Governed Company Award’ instituted by the Asian  Centre for Corporate Governance & Sustainability.
Material Developments in Human Resources Airtel has always been at the forefront of innovation and  technological newness, and our human resources have been  vital in powering such metamorphosis.
For us, honing our  human resources is important, around which the Company  has modelled one of its five GPS principles – Win with People.
As custodians of the Company’s talent, team HR believes  that upskilling, empowering and unleashing talent will trigger  path-breaking achievements and help sustain the Company’s  growth trajectory and market leadership.
Airtel continued to  win accolades as a good employer, including the Aon Best  Employers India 2016 and Business T oday Best Companies  to Work For awards.
The Company’s page on LinkedIn has  been quite popular with more than 285,000 followers, who  have turned out to become the Company’s biggest brand  ambassadors.
In FY 2016-17, Airtel sustained a strong culture of high  performance by timely setting of targets, clarity on goals and  measurement criteria.
Mid-year and annual performance  assessments were concluded on time, and the increased  emphasis on quality of dialogues between employees  and their reporting managers ensured a constructive  and development-oriented experience for employees.
The Company’s unique process of providing ‘One View of  T alent’ through talent councils has ensured identification of  and nurturing a robust talent pipeline.
Internal succession  planning rate of over 70% reflected growth opportunities  for in-house talent.
The Company continued to hire external  talent with critical skills in newer domains such as digital,  banking, and machine learning, among others.
The design  and launch of ‘Lead Right’ as Airtel’s unique model of value- based leadership behaviour, has re-affirmed the Company’s  commitment to sustaining its culture as the bedrock of its  corporate success.
The first ever “Airtel Career Fair” was kicked-off in March  2017 and is a key milestone in the two-decade history of the  Company.
It marks the arrival of Airtel as a great learning  institution in the league of other corporate legends.
The idea  behind the fair is for employees to take charge of their career  and help echo the sentiment, ‘I have a future here’.
At Airtel, gender diversity is a key focus area.
It partnered  with other employers to conduct joint programmes for  women leaders.
The Company’s unique initiatives under  the ‘WE’- Women Empowered platform were intensified,  with the successful roll-out of “WE Lead” (interactions with  accomplished women leaders from industry), “WE Chitchat”  105 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements (mentoring young women) and “WE Achieve” (recognition of  top women achievers).
One of the Company’s young women  leaders, Ms. Swathi Madan was adjudged the all-India winner  of the prestigious Prof. Ram Charan Young HR Leader Award,  conferred by the National HRD Network.
Another young  woman leader, Ms. Pooja Sablok, was one of the 50 winners  of the ET Young Leaders 2016 Award, after undergoing a  series of rigorous tests and evaluations from among 32,000  aspirants.
Global CIO Ms. Harmeen Mehta was named  in the global list of 50 accomplished women leaders by  Global T elecoms Business, an international publication.
The  Company’s policy in India was updated to provide 26 weeks  of paid maternity leave, along with a pledge to provide the  same role or an equivalent one to the woman employee on  her return.
Airtel also entered into a partnership with Lynda, LinkedIn’s  learning hub, which has empowered every employee to  chart his/her own learning journey by providing access  to the best-in-class online learning resources.
HR has also  leveraged on a partnership with Cornerstone on Demand  to launch iLearn – the Company’s Learning Management  System.
The partnership facilitates self-paced learning for  employees by providing them timely and on-demand access  to high quality and relevant e-learning content.
With more  than 11,000 learners completing over 61,000 online courses  and attending more than 5,400 class room sessions, the  Company made significant strides on the learning front.
It also  partnered with Harvard ManageMentor, to provide unique  and high-quality online leadership development courses  to employees at all levels.
The Company also launched  several digital tools to enhance employee experience such  as ‘T elecom 101’ learning module, and a mobile app named  ‘Hive’, which is not only an internal social media platform,  but also enables instant pulse surveys, mobile learning, and  travel claims, among others.
Airtel also implemented ‘HR on Cloud’, a state-of-the-art HR  system from Oracle, which enables the Company to manage  all people processes seamlessly.
Its best people practices are  hard-coded and all employees have been empowered with  easy-to-use tools that are personalised, digital and social,  delivering insights across the entire employee lifecycle.
Airtel’s successful launch of one global instance, of this  system, across 17 countries in one stroke was appreciated at  the Oracle OpenWorld India Conference.
Outlook India’s economy is witnessing a steady economic growth  and has been projected to grow at above 7% in 2017.
Infrastructure development across sectors will be a key to  this economic growth and growth in telecom is fundamental  to Government of India’s ‘Digital’ drive.
Digital India drive is  aimed at potential of digital technologies to address socio- economic challenges in the country and mobile network will  play a crucial role in addressing these goals.
India is now the  second largest smartphone market, overtaking USA.
India  is also seeing an ongoing shift towards mobile broadband  services.
Improving profitability, falling smartphone pricing  and aggressive network rollouts by operators are driving  increased tele-density in the country.
India is expected  to have 500-600 Mn mobile broadband users by 2020,  which will also increase the adoption of mobile banking and  commerce opportunities.
Africa’s telecom sector continues to grow and the conditions  underpinning this growth story are – economic and  population growth, increasing urbanisation, rising middle  class and investment in infrastructure.
Sub Saharan Africa  remains the region with the highest growth rate in mobile  subscriptions globally.
Sub-Saharan Africa is home to young  population with 57% population below the age of 15, which  will be a key driver in telecom growth story in a few years.
Substantial growth opportunities exist in the data market  in Africa, both in terms of data connectivity and data- based services.
Additionally, mobile money has significantly  contributed to changing the financial inclusion landscape.
Mobile money continues to improve financial inclusion in  Africa.
T elecom operators continue to invest heavily on networks  to tap the increased demand from the sector.
Bharti Airtel’s  Pan-India 3G and 4G footprint, pan-India Payments bank  operation, South Asia presence, diversified and integrated  product portfolio, and network roll outs in Africa will act  as major stimulus to the Company’s growth against its  competitors.
106 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Report on Corporate Governance Corporate	Governance	is	more	than	a	set	of	processes	and	 compliances at Bharti Airtel Limited.
It underlines the role  that we see for ourselves for today, tomorrow and beyond.
The following report on Corporate Governance, reflecting  ethos of Bharti Airtel Limited (Bharti Airtel / Airtel / the  Company) and its continuous commitment to ethical  business principles across its operations, lays down the best  practices and the procedures adopted by the Company in  line with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing  Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,  2015 (Listing Regulations) and internationally followed  standards of corporate governance.
Governance Philosophy At Bharti Airtel, Corporate Governance focuses on creating  and sustaining a deep relationship of trust and transparency  with all stakeholders.
We follow ethical business standards  in all our operations globally.
We consider stakeholders as  partners in our journey forward and we are committed to  ensure their wellbeing, despite business challenges and  economic volatilities.
The norms and processes of Corporate Governance reflect  our commitment to disclose timely and accurate information  regarding our financial and operational performance, as  well as our leadership and governance structure.
Over the  years, our stakeholder commitment has enhanced the  respect and recall of our brand nationally and internationally.
Our global stature has enabled us to attract the best talent  and resources to translate our short-term and long-term  strategies into a viable business blueprint.
Our Board of Directors (‘Board’) shapes the long-term  vision and policy approach to steadily elevate the quality of  governance in our organisation.
We follow a defined guideline  and an established framework of corporate governance.
The  objective is to emerge as a market leader in our industry,  nationally and internationally with focus on creating greater  value for all those who have a stake in our progress directly  or indirectly.
The Board puts a lot of emphasis on creating a  global talent pool, compliant ethical business practices and  making all our actions consistent with the need to protect the  environment by following green practices and technologies.
Our Board represents a confluence of experience and  expertise across diverse areas, ranging from global finance,  telecommunication, general management, administrative  services and consulting.
There is a clear demarcation of duties and responsibilities  among the Chairman and Managing Directors & CEOs to  ensure best corporate performance and socio-economic  value creation.
Our governance conforms to global standards through  continuous evaluation and benchmarking.
The broad tenets  Company follows are:   Transparent procedures and practices and decisions  based on adequate information.
Compliance with all relevant laws in letter and spirit.
High levels of disclosures to disseminate corporate,  financial and operational information to all stakeholders.
Policies on tenure of Directors, rotation of Auditors and a  Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management.
Constitution of various Committees for Audit &  Risk Management, HR and Nomination, Corporate  Social Responsibility, Employee Stock Option Plans,  Stakeholders’ Relationship etc.
Complete and timely disclosure of relevant financial and  operational information to enable the Board to play an  effective role in guiding strategies.
Meetings of Independent Directors without the presence  of any Non-Independent / Executive Directors and  members from the management to identify areas, where  they need more clarity or information and for open and  transparent discussions and placing these before the  Board and management.
Formal induction schedule and familarisation programme  for new Board members that enable them to meet  individually with the top management team, customers  etc.
Regularly reviews and establishes effective meeting  practices that encourage active participation and  contribution from all members.
Independence of Directors in reviewing and approving  corporate strategy, major business plans and activities.
Well-defined corporate structure that establishes checks,  balances and delegates decision making to appropriate  levels in the organisation though the Board always  remains in effective control of affairs.
Bharti Airtel has always followed the highest principles  and standards of corporate governance and continually  endeavoured to outperform its peers.
Bharti Airtel’s  recent global recognition, among others by Transparency  International, FTI Consulting, Asian Centre for Corporate  Governance	&	 Sustainability,	The	 Institute	 of	 Directors	 (Golden	 Peacock	 Award	 for	 Excellence	 in	 Corporate	 Governance)	and	The	Institute	of	Company	Secretaries	 of	India	is	a	grand	acknowledgement	of	the	defined	and	 structured	framework	of	Corporate	Governance	embedded	 in Bharti Airtel’s culture.
Corporate Governance Rating CRISIL has assigned to Bharti Airtel its Governance and Value  Creation (GVC) rating, viz.
CRISIL GVC Level 1 for Corporate  Governance practices.
The rating indicates that Bharti Airtel’s  capability, with respect to Corporate Governance and value  creation for all its stakeholders, is the highest.
The Company  is fully cognizant that standards are a constantly upwardly  moving target.
Therefore, it always strives to benchmark  itself with the best companies in India and globally and to  maintain the highest ratings for its practices.
Governance Structure Sustaining a culture of integrity along with high performance  orientation and an adaptive management style in  today’s dynamic business environment needs a robust  governance structure.
The Corporate Governance structure  of the Company is multi-tiered, comprising governing /  management Boards at various levels, each of which is  interlinked in the following manner:   At the apex level is the Board of Directors and various  committees, which collectively direct the highest  standards of Corporate Governance and transparency  in the Company’s functioning.
The Board exercises  independent judgment in overseeing management  performance on behalf of the share owners and other  stakeholders, and hence, plays a vital role in the oversight  107 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements and management of the Company.
The Board is chaired  by the Chairman, who is responsible for the overall  strategy development, alliances, leadership development,  international opportunities, strengthening governance  practices and enhancing brand value and Airtel’s global  image and reputation.
At one level below the Board, strategic co-ordination  and direction is provided by the Airtel Corporate  Council (ACC).
The ACC is headed by the Chairman and  comprises the Managing Directors & CEOs and selected  senior management personnel as its members.
The key  role and responsibilities of the ACC are provided later in  this report.
The Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia) is  responsible for strategy deployment and overall business  performance of India and South Asia.
He is supported by  the Airtel Management Board (AMB).
The Company’s  business in India is structured into six business units  (BUs) i.e.
Mobile Services, Homes, Airtel Business, Global  Voice & Data Business, Wynk and Emerging Businesses  and Digital TV Services.
While the Mobile Services  business is headed by the MD & CEO himself, the other  five businesses are headed by respective CEOs.
The  Company’s operations in India are run in 22 Circles, each  headed by a Circle CEO or a Chief Operating Officer, each  supported by an Executive Committee.
The Sri Lankan  operations are headed by a Country MD, supported by an  Executive Committee.
The Company’s operations in Africa are guided by  the Managing Director & CEO (Africa) of Bharti Airtel  International (Netherlands) B. V ., a subsidiary company.
He is responsible for strategy deployment and overall  business performance.
He is supported by the Africa  Executive Committee (Exco).
Each of the operations in  the 15 countries in Africa are headed by a Country MD,  each supported by an Executive Committee.
The AMB in India and South Asia, and Exco in Africa provide  support relating to the Company’s business strategy and  also derive operational synergies across business units.
They own and drive company-wide processes, systems,  policies, and also function as role models for leadership  development and as catalysts for imbibing customer  centricity and meritocracy in the Company.
Airtel’s governance structure thus helps in clearly  determining the responsibilities and entrusted powers  of each of the business entities, enabling them to fulfill  those responsibilities in the most effective manner.
It  also allows the Company to retain the organisational  DNA, while enabling effective delegation of authority and  empowerment at all levels.
Airtel Payments Bank is an unlisted subsidiary in which the  Company owns 80.10%, the remaining 19.90% is held by  Kotak Mahindra Bank.
The Payments Bank’s operations  are managed by its MD & CEO, under the supervision of  an independent Board.
The Passive Infrastructure business is deployed, owned  and managed by Bharti Infratel Limited (Infratel), a listed  subsidiary company.
Infratel’s operations are managed by  its Managing Director & CEO under the supervision of an  Independent Board.
The business transactions between  the Company and Infratel are undertaken on an arms’  length basis, since it provides services to other telecom  operators as well, on a non-discriminatory basis.
Board of Directors Composition of the Board The Company’s Board is an optimum mix of Executive, Non- Executive and Independent Directors, and conforms with the  provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, Listing Regulations,  FDI guidelines, terms of shareholders’ agreement and  other statutory provisions.
The Board comprises of twelve  members which includes a Chairman, a Managing Director &  CEO (India & South Asia), four Non-Executive Directors and  six Independent Directors.
Detailed profile of each of the Directors is available on the  Company’s website at www.airtel.com in the ‘Investors’  section.
The Company’s Board members are from diverse  backgrounds with skills and experience in critical areas  like technology, global finance, telecommunication,  entrepreneurship, administrative services, consulting  and general management.
Many of them have worked  extensively in senior management positions in global  corporations, and others are business leaders of repute with  a deep understanding of the global business environment.
The Board reviews its strength and composition from time to  time to ensure that it remains aligned with the statutory, as  well as business requirements.
As per the Company’s Policy on Nomination, Remuneration  and Board Diversity, selection of a new Board member(s)  is the responsibility of the HR and Nomination Committee,  which is subsequently approved by the Board.
All the  appointments are made with unanimous approval.
The  appointment of such Director is subsequently approved by  the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (AGM).
While the shareholders’ representative Directors are  proposed by the respective shareholders, Independent  Directors are selected from diverse academic, professional  or technical background depending upon business needs.
Independent Directors The Company has a policy on Independent Directors, their  roles, responsibilities and duties, are consistent with the  Listing Regulations and Section 149 of the Companies Act,  2013.
It sets out the criteria of independence, age limits,  recommended tenure, committee memberships, remuneration  and other related terms of appointment.
The policy emphasises  importance of independence.
As per the policy: a)  The Independent Director must meet the baseline  definition and criteria on ‘independence’ as set out in the  Listing Regulations and Section 149 of the Companies  Act, 2013 and other regulations.
b)  The Independent Director must not be disqualified from  being appointed as Director in terms of Section 164 and  other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. c)  The minimum age is 25 years and the maximum is 70  years.
d)  The Independent Directors are not to be on the Board of  more than six listed companies.
However, pursuant to the  Listing Regulations if an Independent Director is serving  as a Whole-time Director in any listed company then he  shall not serve as an Independent Director in more than  three listed companies.
e)  The maximum tenure is two terms of five years each.
However, the second term is subject to approval by  shareholders by way of special resolution.
108 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 The Company has issued letters of appointment to all the  Independent Directors.
This letter inter-alia sets out the  roles, functions, duties and responsibilities, details regarding  remuneration, training and development and performance  evaluation process.
The detailed terms and conditions of  the appointment of Independent Directors are available on  the Company’s website i.e.
http://www.airtel.in/wps/wcm/ connect/2ffaf2d2-d542-44e2-a42a-50225c9245f5/T erms- and-Conditions-of-Appointment-of-Independent-Director.
pdf?MOD=AJPERES At the time of appointment and thereafter at the beginning of  each financial year, the Independent Directors submit a self- declaration, confirming their independence and compliance  with various eligibility criteria laid down by the Company,  among other disclosures and the Company also ensures  that its Directors meet the above eligibility criteria.
All such  declarations are placed before the Board for information.
Lead Independent Director The Company has for a long time followed the practice of  appointing a Lead Independent Director.
Mr. Craig Ehrlich is  currently designated as the Lead Independent Director and  his role and responsibilities, inter alia, are to:   Preside over all deliberation sessions of the Independent  Directors.
Provide objective feedback of the Independent Directors  as a group to the Board on various matters, including  agenda and other matters relating to the Company.
Undertake such other assignments, as may be requested  by the Board from time to time.
Meeting of Independent Directors The Independent Directors meet separately at least once  in a quarter, prior to the commencement of Board meeting,  without the presence of any Non-Independent Directors or  representatives of management.
They meet to discuss and  form an independent opinion on the agenda items, various  other Board-related matters, identify areas where they need  clarity or information from management and to annually review  the performance of Non-Independent Directors, the Board as  a whole and the Chairman.
The Lead Independent Director  updates the Board about the proceedings of the meeting.
In these meetings, the Independent Directors also engage  with Statutory Auditors, as well as Internal Auditors at  least once a year, to discuss internal audit effectiveness,  control environment and their general feedback.
The Lead  Independent Director updates the Audit & Risk Management  Committee / the Board about the outcome of the meetings  and action, if any, required to be taken by the Company.
During FY 2016-17, the Independent Directors met four  times i.e.
on April 27, 2016, July 27, 2016, October 25, 2016  and January 24, 2017.
Familiarisation programme for Board members The Company has adopted a well structured two-day  induction programme for orientation and training of Directors  at the time of their joining so as to provide them with an  opportunity to familiarise themselves with the Company, its  management, its operations and the industry in which the  Company operates.
The induction programme includes one-to-one interactive  sessions with the top management team, business and  functional heads among others, and also includes visit  to networks centre to understand the operations and  technology.
Apart from the induction programme, the  Company periodically presents updates at the Board / Committee meetings to familiarise the Directors with the  Company’s strategy, business performance, operations,  product offerings, finance, risk management framework,  human resources and other related matters.
The Board  members also visit Airtel outlets and meet customers /  other stakeholders for gaining first-hand experience about  the products and services of the Company.
The Board has an active communication channel with  the executive management, which enables Directors  to raise queries, seek clarifications for enabling a good  understanding of the Company and its various operations.
Quarterly updates, press releases and mid-quarter updates  are regularly circulated to the Directors to keep them abreast  on significant developments in the Company.
Detailed familiarisation programme for Directors is available  on the Company’s website at http://www.airtel.in/wps/wcm/ connect/ea0152dc-a649-40ae-89d9-b3cec142d249/ Familiarisation+Programme+for+Board+Members.
pdf?MOD=AJPERES&ContentCache=NONE  Board Evaluation One of the key functions of the Board is to monitor and  review the Board evaluation framework.
In compliance  with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the  Listing Regulations, the HR and Nomination Committee has  approved the process, format, attributes and criteria for the  performance evaluation of the Board, Board Committees  and Individual Directors including the Chairman and MD &  CEO (India & South Asia).
The process provides that the performance evaluation  shall be carried out on an annual basis.
During the year, the  Directors completed the evaluation process, which included  evaluation of the Board as a whole, Board Committees and  individual Directors including the Chairman and the MD  & CEO (India & South Asia).
The evaluation process was  facilitated by an independent consulting firm.
Performance of the Board and Board Committees was  evaluated on various parameters such as structure,  composition, diversity, experience, corporate governance  competencies, performance of specific duties and obligations,  quality of decision-making and overall Board effectiveness.
Performance of individual Directors was evaluated on  parameters, such as meeting attendance, participation and  contribution, engagement with colleagues on the Board,  responsibility towards stakeholders and independent  judgement.
All the directors were subject to peer-evaluation.
The Chairman and the MD & CEO (India & South Asia)  were evaluated on certain additional parameters, such as  performance of the Company, leadership, relationships,  communication, recognition and awards received by the  Company.
Some of the performance indicators based on which the  Independent Directors were evaluated include:   Devotion of sufficient time and attention towards  professional obligations for independent decision making  and for acting in the best interest of the Company.
Providing strategic guidance to the Company and help  determine important policies with a view to ensure long- term viability and strength.
Bringing external expertise and independent judgement  that contributes objectivity in the Board’s deliberation,  particularly on issues of strategy, performance and  conflict management.
109 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements All the directors participated in the evaluation process.
The  results of evaluation were discussed in the Independent  Director’s meeting, respective Committee meetings and in  the Board Meeting held on May 9, 2017.
The Board discussed  the performance evaluation reports of the board, board  committees, individual directors, Chairman and Managing  Directors & CEO (India & South Asia) and also noted the  suggestions / inputs of independent directors, HR and  Nomination Committee and respective committee Chairman.
Recommendations arising from this entire process were  deliberated upon by the Board to augment its effectiveness  and optimize individual strengths of the Directors.
Board Meeting Schedules and Agenda The calendar for the Board and Committee meetings, in  which the financial results would be considered in the  ensuing year, as well as major items of the agenda are fixed  in advance for the whole year.
The Board Calendar for the  financial year 2017-18 has been disclosed later in the report  and has also been uploaded on the Company’s website.
The Board meetings are held within 45 days from the  end of the quarter in the manner that it coincides with the  announcement of quarterly results.
Time gap between two  consecutive meetings does not exceed 120 days.
In case of  an urgent necessity, additional Board meetings are called.
The Audit & Risk Management Committee and the HR and  Nomination Committee meetings are generally held on the  same dates as Board meetings.
T o ensure an immediate  update to the Board, the Chairman of the respective  committee briefs the Board about the proceedings of the  respective committee meetings.
The Company Secretary, in consultation with the Chairman,  prepares Board and Committee meeting’s agenda.
The  detailed agenda, along with explanatory notes and  annexures, as applicable are sent to the Board and  Committee members, at least a week before the meetings  except for the meetings called at a shorter notice.
In special  and exceptional circumstances, additional or supplementary  item(s) are permitted to be taken up as ‘any other item’.
Sensitive subject matters are discussed at the meeting,  without written material being circulated in advance.
As a process prior to each Board meeting, proposals  are invited from Independent Directors for discussion /  deliberation at the meeting(s) and these are included in the  meeting’s agenda to promote objective decision making.
The Board devotes its significant time in evaluation of current  and potential strategic issues and reviews Company’s  business plans, Corporate strategy and risk management  issues based on the markets it operates in and in light of  global industry trends and developments to help achieve its  strategic goals.
Group CFO and other Senior Management members are invited  to the Board meetings to present reports on the items being  discussed at the meeting.
In addition, the functional heads  of various business segments / functions are also invited at  regular intervals to present updates on their core areas.
Information available to the Board The Board has complete access to all the relevant  information within the Company and to all the employees  of the Company.
The information shared on a regular basis  with the Board specifically includes:   Annual operating plans, capital budgets and updates  therein.
Quarterly and annual consolidated and standalone  results and financial statements of the Company and its  operating divisions or business segments.
Minutes of meetings of the Board and Board Committees,  resolutions passed by circulation, and Board minutes of  the unlisted subsidiary companies.
Information on recruitment / remuneration of senior  officers just below Board level.
Material important show cause, demand, prosecution  notices and penalty notices, if any.
Fatal or serious accidents, dangerous occurrences,  material effluent or pollution problems, if any.
Any material default in financial obligations to and by  the Company or substantial non-payment for services  provided by the Company.
Any issue which involves possible public or product  liability claims of substantial nature, if any.
Details of any acquisition, joint venture or collaboration  agreement.
Transactions involving substantial payment towards  goodwill, brand equity or intellectual property.
Human resource updates and strategies.
Sale of material nature, of investments, subsidiaries,  assets, which is not in the normal course of business.
Quarterly treasury reports.
Quarterly compliance certificates with the ‘Exceptions  Reports’, which include non-compliance of any regulatory,  statutory nature or listing requirements and shareholders  service.
Disclosures received from Directors.
Proposals requiring strategic guidance and approval of  the Board.
Related party transactions.
Regular business updates.
Update on Corporate Social Responsibility activities.
Significant transactions and arrangements by subsidiary  companies.
Report on action taken on last Board meeting decisions.
110 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Number of Board Meetings During FY 2016-17, the Board met eight times i.e.
on April 27, 2016, July 27, 2016, October 25, 2016, January 24, 2017,  February 07, 2017, February 23, 2017, March 14, 2017 and March 23, 2017.
Requisite information, according to the  requirements of Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations is provided below: Name of  Director Director  Identification	 Number Category Number of other directorships1 and  committee2  memberships  and  chairmanships No.
of  board  meetings  attended  (total held  during  tenure) Whether  attended  last	AGM Directorships Committees Chairman Member Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal 00042491 Chairman 10 Nil Nil 8(8) Yes Mr.	Gopal	Vittal 02291778 Executive	Director 3 Nil 1 8(8) Yes Ms. Chua Sock Koong3 00047851 Non-Executive	Director 1 Nil Nil 5(8) No Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal 00042494 Non-Executive	Director	 14 Nil Nil 6(8) Yes Sheikh Faisal Thani Al-Thani 06675785 Non-Executive	Director Nil Nil Nil 1(8) No Ms. T an Yong Choo 02910529 Non-Executive	Director 1 Nil Nil 8(8) No Mr. Ben Verwaayen 06735687 Independent Director Nil Nil Nil 4(8) No Mr. Craig Ehrlich 02612082 Independent Director Nil Nil Nil 5(8) No Mr. D. K. Mittal 00040000 Independent Director 11 Nil 4 8(8) Yes Mr. Manish Kejriwal 00040055 Independent Director 4 Nil 2 4(8) No Mr. Shishir Priyadarshi 03459204 Independent Director 1 Nil Nil 6(8) No Mr. V .
K. Viswanathan 01782934 Independent Director 9 4 3 8(8) Yes 1.
The directorships, held by Directors, as mentioned above, do not include the directorships held in foreign body corporates and Bharti Airtel Limited.
2.
Committees considered for the purpose are those prescribed under Regulation 26 of the Listing Regulations viz.
Audit Committee and Stakeholders’  Relationship Committee of Indian Public Limited companies other than Bharti Airtel Limited.
Committee memberships details provided do not include  chairmanship of committees as it has been provided separately.
3.
One meeting was attended by Mr. Mark Chong Chin Kok, alternate director.
4.
Except Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal and Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal, who are brothers, none of the Directors are relatives of any other director.
5.
As on March 31, 2017, apart from Mr. Gopal Vittal, Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia) who holds 329,885 equity shares, no other Director of the  Company holds shares in the Company.
Nomination, Remuneration & Board Diversity In terms of the Listing Regulations and Companies Act, 2013, the Board has approved a Policy on Nomination, Remuneration  and Board Diversity for Directors, KMPs and other Senior Management Personnel.
The Company’s remuneration policy is directed towards rewarding performance based on a periodic review of the achievements  periodically.
The detailed Nomination, Remuneration and Board Diversity Policy is annexed as Annexure B to the Board’s Report.
The  Company affirms that the remuneration paid to the Directors is as per terms laid out in the Nomination, Remuneration and  Board Diversity Policy.
111 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Directors’ Remuneration The details of the remuneration of Directors during FY 2016-17 are given below: (Amount in `) Name of Director Sitting Fees Salary and  allowances Performance  linked  incentive Perquisites Commission T otal Executive directors Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal -- 201,352,623 90,000,000 10,089,485 -- 301,442,108 Mr.	Gopal	Vittal -- 64,605,751 28,250,000 28,800 -- 92,884,551 Non-executive directors Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal - -- -- -- 3,000,000 3,000,000 Mr. Ben Verwaayen 400,000 -- -- -- 15,561,264 15,961,264 Ms. Chua Sock Koong -- -- -- -- 3,890,316 3,890,316 Mr. Craig Ehrlich 500,000 -- -- -- 9,725,790 10,225,790 Mr. D. K. Mittal 1,400,000 -- -- -- 7,000,000 8,400,000 Mr. Manish Kejriwal 400,000 -- -- -- 6,500,000 6,900,000 Ms. T an Yong Choo -- -- -- -- 3,890,316 3,890,316 Sheikh Faisal Thani Al-Thani -- -- -- -- 3,890,316 3,890,316 Mr. Shishir Priyadarshi 600,000 -- -- -- 9,725,790 10,325,790 Mr. V .
K. Viswanathan 800,000 -- -- -- 8,000,000 8,800,000 T otal 4,100,000 265,958,374 118,250,000 10,118,285 71,183,792 469,610,451   The salary and allowance includes the Company’s contribution to the Provident Fund.
Liability for gratuity and leave encashment is provided on actuarial basis  for the Company as a whole, the amount pertaining to the Directors is not ascertainable and, therefore, not included.
The value of the perquisites is calculated as per the provisions of the Income T ax Act, 1961.
Value of Performance Linked Incentive (PLI) considered above represents incentive which will accrue at 100% performance level for FY 2016-17 and will get  paid basis actual performance parameters in the next year.
At 100% performance level, the gross remuneration of Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal was ` 301,442,108  for FY 2016-17 and ` 278,546,235 for FY 2015-16 and that of Mr. Gopal Vittal ` 92,884,551 for FY 2016-17 and ` 62,105,442 for FY 2015-16.
During the  year, Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal and Mr. Gopal Vittal were paid ` 90,000,000 and ` 26,600,000 respectively as PLI for previous year 2015-16, which is not included  above.
During the year, Mr. Gopal Vittal was granted 150,000 stock options on August 08, 2016 under ESOP Scheme 2005 at an exercise price of ` 5 per Option,  with vesting period spread over 3 years.
The above remuneration of Mr. Gopal Vittal does not include perquisite value of ` 31,131,500 towards the value of  Stock Options exercised during the year.
The options can be converted into equity shares either in full or in tranches at any time upto seven years from the grant date.
The unexercised vested options  can be carried forward throughout the exercise period.
The options which are not exercised will lapse after the expiry of the exercise period.
No other director has been granted any stock option during the year.
The Company has entered into contracts with the executive directors i.e.
Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal dated August 19, 2016 and with Mr. Gopal Vittal dated  February 1, 2013.
These are based on the approval of the shareholders.
There are no other contracts with any other director.
No notice period or severance pay is payable to any director.
There were no other pecuniary relationships or transactions of Non-Executive Directors vis-à-vis the Company.
Board Committees In compliance with the statutory requirements, the Board  has constituted various committees with specific terms of  reference and scope.
The objective is to focus effectively on  the issues and ensure expedient resolution of the diverse  matters.
The committees operate as the Board’s empowered  agents according to their charter / terms of reference.
The constitution and charter of the Board Committees are  available on the Company’s website www.airtel.com and are  also stated herein.
Audit & Risk Management Committee Audit & Risk Management Committee comprises four  Directors, three of whom are independent.
The Chairman of  the Committee, Mr. V .
K. Viswanathan, Independent Director is  a Chartered Accountant and has sound financial knowledge,  as well as many years of experience in general management.
All members of the Audit & Risk Management Committee,  including the Chairman, have accounting and financial  management expertise.
The composition of the Audit & Risk  Management Committee meets the requirements of Section  177 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations.
The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
The Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia), the  Managing Director & CEO (Africa), the Global CFO, the  Group Director – Internal Assurance, the Statutory Auditors  and the Internal Auditors are permanent invitees.
The Chairman of the Committee was present at the last  AGM, held on August 19, 2016.
Key Responsibilities of the Audit & Risk Management  Committee   Oversee the Company’s financial reporting process  and the disclosure of its financial information, to ensure  that the financial statements are correct, sufficient and  credible.
Consider and recommend to the Board, the appointment  (including filling of a casual vacancy), resignation or  112 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 dismissal, remuneration and terms of appointment  (including qualification and experience) of the Statutory  Auditor, Internal Auditors / Chief Internal Auditor, Cost  Auditor and Secretarial Auditor.
Prior approval of non-audit services that can be provided  by the Statutory Auditors and approval of payment of  such non-audit services.
Prior approval of all transactions with related party(ies),  subsequent modifications of transactions with related  parties and review of the statement of significant related  party transactions with specific details of the transactions.
Discussion with the Statutory Auditor before the  commencement of audit about the nature and scope of  the audit to be conducted and post-audit discussion to  ascertain any areas of concern.
T o call for comments of the Auditors about internal control  system, including the observation of the Auditors, review  financial statement before their submission to the Board  and discussion on any related issues with the Internal and  Statutory Auditors and the management of the Company.
Review, with the Management, the quarterly financial  statements before submission to the Board for approval.
Review, with the Management, the annual financial  statements and Auditor’s Report thereon before  submission to the Board for approval, with particular  reference to:    Matters required to be included in the Directors’  responsibility statement, included in the Board’s report  in terms of clause (c) of sub-section 3 of Section 134 of  the Companies Act, 2013.
Changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices  and reasons for the same.
Major accounting entries involving estimates based on  the exercise of judgment by management.
Significant adjustments made in the financial  statements arising out of audit findings.
Compliance with listing and other legal requirements  relating to financial statement.
Disclosure of all related party transactions.
Modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report.
Review the following information:    Management Discussion and Analysis of financial  condition and results of operations.
Management letter / letters of internal control  weaknesses issued by the Statutory Auditors.
Internal Audit Reports relating to internal control  weaknesses.
The financial statements, in particular the investments,  if any, made by unlisted subsidiary companies.
Quarterly compliance certificates confirming  compliance with laws and regulations, including any  exceptions to these compliances.
Oversee the functioning of the Vigil Mechanism / Whistle  Blower Mechanism.
Establish the systems for storage, retrieval and display of  books of accounts and other financial records in electronic  format.
Review the findings of any internal investigation by the  Internal Auditors into matters where there is suspected  fraud or irregularity, or a failure of internal control systems  of a material nature and reporting the matter to the Board.
Review the reasons for substantial defaults, if any, in  the payment to the depositors, debenture holders,  shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared  dividends) and creditors, if any.
Approve the appointment, re-appointment and removal  of Company’s Chief Financial Officer after assessing  the qualifications, experience and background, among  others, of the candidate.
Review the Company’s financial and risk management  policies, implementation of treasury policies, strategies  and status of investor relation activities.
Ensure that the internal audit function is effective,  adequately resourced, and to review coordination  between Internal and Statutory Auditors and (where  relevant) the risk management department.
Review the state and adequacy of internal controls with  key members of the Management, Statutory Auditors and  Internal Auditors.
Discuss with the Internal Auditor the coverage, functioning,  frequency and methodology of internal audits as per the  annual audit plan and discuss significant findings and  follow up thereon.
Review & monitor the Statutory and Internal Auditor’s  independence, performance & effectiveness of audit  process.
Review and scrutinize the inter-corporate loans and  investments.
Monitor and review with the Management, the statement  of uses / application of funds raised through an issue  (public issue, right issue and preferential issue, among  others), the statement of funds utilised for purposes, other  than those stated in the offer document / prospectus /  notice and the report submitted by the monitoring agency  monitoring the utilisation of proceeds of a public or right  issue, and making appropriate recommendations to the  Board to take up steps in this matter.
Valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company,  wherever necessary.
Appointment of a registered valuer of the Company and  fixation of their terms and conditions.
Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk  management systems.
Formulate and review risk management policy.
Implement, monitor and review the risk management  framework, risk management plan and related matters.
Delegate above said functions to Sub-Committees,  whenever required.
The Audit & Risk Management Committee shall also  undertake such other functions, as may be assigned by  the Board of Directors from time to time, or as may be  stipulated under any law, rule or regulation including the  Listing Regulations and the Companies Act, 2013.
Powers of the Audit & Risk Management Committee  Investigate any activity within its terms of reference.
Seek any information that it requires from any employee  113 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements of the Company, and all employees are directed to  cooperate with any request made by the Committee.
Obtain outside legal or independent professional advice.
Secure attendance of outsiders with relevant expertise.
Access sufficient resources to carry out its duties.
Meetings, Attendance and Composition of the  Audit & Risk Management Committee During FY 2016-17, the Committee met five times i.e.
on  April 27, 2016, July 27, 2016, October 25, 2016, January  24, 2017 and February 07, 2017.
The composition and the attendance of members at the meetings held during FY 2016-17, are given below: Name Category Number of meetings attended  (total held during tenure) Number of conference calls  attended (total conducted  during tenure ) Mr. V .
K. Viswanathan  (Chairman) Independent Director 5 (5) 6 (6) Mr. Craig Ehrlich Independent Director 4 (5) 5 (6) Ms. T an Yong Choo Non-Executive	Director 5 (5) 6 (6) Mr. Shishir Priyadarshi1 Independent Director 5 (5) 6 (6) Mr. D. K. Mittal2 Independent Director N.A.
N.A.
1.
Ceased to be member of the Committee w.e.f.
March 23, 2017.
2.
Appointed as a member of the Committee w.e.f.
March 23, 2017.
Beside the Committee meetings as above, the Committee  also holds a conference call before every regular Committee  meeting to discuss routine internal audit issues and other  matters.
This provides an opportunity to the Committee to  devote more time on other significant matters in the regular  Committee meeting.
During FY2016-17, the Committee met  six times through the conference call i.e.
April 20, 2016, July  20, 2016, October 18, 2016, January 17, 2017, March 03,  2017 and March14, 2017.
All recommendations made by the Audit & Risk Management  Committee were accepted by the Board.
Audit and Risk Management Committee Report for  the year ended March 31, 2017 T o the Shareholders of Bharti Airtel Limited The Audit & Risk Management Committee (“Audit  Committee” or “Committee”) is pleased to present  its report for the year ended March 31, 2017: 1.
The Committee presently comprises four members  of whom three-fourths, including the Chairman are  Independent Directors, as against the requirement of two- thirds prescribed under Regulation 18 of the Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and  Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Section  177 of the Companies Act, 2013.
2.
The responsibility for the Company’s internal controls and  financial reporting processes lies with the Management.
The Statutory Auditors have the responsibility of  performing an independent audit of the Company’s  financial statements in accordance with the Indian  Accounting Standards (Ind-AS) and issuing a report  thereon.
The Ombudsperson is responsible for the  Company’s Whistle Blower Mechanism.
3.
The Company has in place an Internal Assurance Group  (IAG) headed by Group Director – Internal Assurance.
The  Company has also appointed KPMG, New Delhi, ANB &  Co., Chartered Accountants, Mumbai and Arvind Chopra,  Group Director – Internal Assurance as Internal Auditors  in accordance with Section 138 of the Companies Act,  2013.
The audit conducted by the Internal Auditors is  based on an internal audit plan, which is reviewed each  year in consultation with the IAG and the Audit Committee.
These audits are based on risk based methodology  and inter-alia involve the review of internal controls and  governance processes, adherence to management  policies and review of statutory compliances.
The Internal  Auditors report their findings on an ongoing basis during  the year for corrective action.
4.
The Audit Committee oversees the work of Statutory  Auditors, Internal Auditors, IAG and the Ombudsperson.
It is also responsible for overseeing the processes related  to the financial reporting and information dissemination.
5.
In this regard, the Audit Committee reports as  follows:  I.
The Committee has discussed with the Company’s  Internal Auditors and Statutory Auditors the  overall scope and plan for their respective audits.
The Committee has also discussed the results  and eff ectiveness of the audit, evaluation of the  Company’s internal controls and the overall quality of  financial reporting.
II.
The Management has presented the Company’s  financial statements to the Committee and affirmed  that the Company’s financial statements have  been drawn in accordance with Ind-AS.
Based on  its review and the discussions conducted with the  Management and the Statutory Auditors, the Audit  Committee believes that the Company’s financial  statements are fairly presented in conformity with  applicable accounting standards in all material  aspects.
The Committee also considers that the  financial statements are true and fair and provide  sufficient information.
The Committee believes  the Company has followed adequate processes to  prepare these financial statements.
III.
The Committee has reviewed both abridged  and unabridged versions of the standalone and  consolidated financial statements for the year ended  March 31, 2017.
It has recommended the same for  the Board’s approval.
114 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17  IV .
The Committee has reviewed the internal controls for  ensuring that the Company’s accounts are properly  maintained and that the accounting transactions are  in accordance with prevailing laws and regulations.
In conducting such reviews, the Committee found no  material deficiency or weakness in the Company’s  internal control systems.
V .
The Committee reviewed the Company’s internal  financial controls and risk management systems  from time to time.
VI.
The Committee reviewed the Ombudsperson’s  report on the functioning of the Whistle Blower  Mechanism for reporting concerns about unethical  behaviour, actual or suspected fraud, or violation of  the Company’s Code of Conduct or ethics policy.
The Committee believes that the Company has an  effective Whistle Blower Mechanism and nobody has  been denied access to this mechanism.
VII.
The Committee reviewed with the Management,  the independence and performance of outgoing  Statutory Auditors, S.R.
Batliboi & Associates LLP ,  Chartered Accountants, whose term is ending on  conclusion of ensuing annual general meeting  (AGM) of the Company.
The Committee has also  evaluated the appointment of Deloitte Haskins  & Sells LLP , Chartered Accountants, as the new  Statutory Auditors of the Company in place of the  retiring auditors, S.R.
Batliboi & Associates LLP , and  has recommended to the Board, the appointment of  Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP , Chartered Accountants,  as the Company’s Statutory Auditors for a term of  five years w.e.f.
conclusion of ensuing AGM subject to  ratification by members in each AGM.
VIII.
The Committee, along with the Management,  reviewed the performance of the Internal Auditors viz.
KPMG, New Delhi, ANB & Co., Chartered Accountants,  Mumbai during the financial year 2016-17.
The  Committee has also reviewed the eligibility and  independence of ANB & Co. and has recommended  to the Board the re-appointment of ANB & Co.,  Chartered Accountants, Mumbai, as the internal  auditors of the Company for the financial year 2017- 18.
The Committee has also reviewed the eligibility  of Ernst & Young LLP and has recommended to the  Board, their appointment as joint internal auditors  of the Company w.e.f.
conclusion of ensuing annual  general meeting of the Company.
IX.
The Committee has been vested with the adequate  powers to seek support and other resources from  the Company.
The Committee has access to the  information and records as well.
It also has the  authority to obtain professional advice from external  sources, if required.
X.
The Audit & Risk Management Committee monitored  and approved all related party transactions,  including any modification / amendment in any such  transactions.
In conclusion, the Audit Committee is sufficiently satisfied  that it has complied with the responsibilities as outlined in  the Audit & Risk Management Committee’s Charter.
Place: New Delhi                   V .
K. Viswanathan Date: May 09, 2017              Chairman, Audit & Risk  Management Committee HR and Nomination Committee The Committee comprises five Non-Executive Directors,  of whom three members, including, the Chairman of the  Committee are Independent Directors.
The composition  of the Committee meets the requirements of Section 178  of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 19 of the  Listing Regulations.
The Company Secretary acts as the  Secretary of the Committee.
The Global Chief HR Officer is a  permanent invitee to the Committee meetings.
Other Senior  Management members are also invited to the meeting to  present reports relating to items being discussed at the  meeting.
Key Responsibilities of the HR and Nomination  Committee HR Related   Formulation and recommendation to the Board, of a policy  relating to remuneration of Directors, Key Managerial  Personnel* and other employees.
Determine the compensation (including salaries and  salary adjustments, incentives / benefits, bonuses)  and performance targets of the Chairman and of the  Managing Directors & CEO’s.
In the event of no profit or inadequate profit, to approve  the remuneration payable to managerial persons,  taking into account the Company’s financial position,  industry trend, appointee’s qualification, experience,  past performance, past remuneration while bringing  objectivity in determining the remuneration package,  while striking a balance between the Company’s interest  and shareholders.
Attraction and retention strategies for employees.
Review employee development strategies.
Assess the learning and development needs of the  Directors and recommend learning opportunities,  which can be used by Directors to meet their needs for  development.
Review all human resource related issues, including  succession plan of key personnel.
The Committee shall also consider any other key issues  / matters as may be referred by the Board, or as may  be necessary in view of Regulation 19 of the Listing  Regulations or any other statutory provisions.
ESOP Related  Formulation of ESOP plans and decide on future grants.
Formulation of terms and conditions on following under  the present ESOP Schemes of the Company with respect  to:    Quantum of options to be granted under ESOP  Scheme(s) per employee and in the aggregate under a  plan.
Performance conditions attached to any ESOP Plan.
Conditions under which options vested in employees  may lapse in case of termination of employment for  misconduct.
Exercise period within which the employee should  exercise the option, and that option would lapse on  failure to exercise the option within the exercise period.
Specified time period within which the employee must  exercise the vested options in the event of termination  or resignation of an employee.
115 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements    Right of an employee to exercise all the options vested  in him at one time or at various points of time within the  exercise period.
Procedure for making a fair and reasonable adjustment  to the number of options and to the exercise price, in  case of rights issues, bonus issues and other corporate  actions.
Grant, vest and exercise of option in case of employees,  who are on long leave, and the procedure for cashless  exercise of options.
Any other matter which may be relevant for  administration of ESOP schemes from time to time.
T o frame suitable policies and processes to ensure that  there is no violation of SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading)  Regulations, 2015 and SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent  and Unfair Trade Practices relating to the Securities  Market) Regulations, 2003.
Other key issues as may be referred by the Board.
Nomination Related   Formulate the criteria / policy for appointment of  Directors, Senior Management**, which shall, inter-alia,  include qualifications, positive attributes, diversity and  independence of a Director.
Review and recommend the structure, size and  composition (including the skills, knowledge, experience  and diversity) of the Board and Board Committees.
Evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, experience  and diversity on the Board for description of the role and  capabilities, required for a particular appointment.
Identify and recommend to the Board, persons who are  qualified to become Directors and who may be appointed  in Senior Management, including Key Managerial  Personnel, in accordance with the criteria laid down and  their removal thereof.
Recommend the appointment of any Director to executive  or other employment / place of profit in the Company.
Review succession planning for Executive and Non- Executive Directors and other Senior Executives,  particularly the Chairman, Managing Directors & CEOs.
Recommend suitable candidate for the role of Lead  Independent Director.
Formulation of criteria for evaluation of Independent  Directors and the Board.
Conduct an annual evaluation of the overall effectiveness  of the Board, the Committees of the Board and the  performance of each Director.
Review the T erms of Reference of all committees of the  Board, including itself on an annual basis, and recommend  any changes to the Board.
*  Key Managerial Personnel’ means: i) the Chief Executive  Officer or the Managing Director or the Manager; ii) the  Company Secretary; iii) the Whole - time Director; iv) the  Chief Financial Officer.
**   ‘Senior Management’ means personnel of the Company  who are members of its core management team  excluding Board of Directors, comprising all members of  the Management one level below the Executive Directors,  including the functional heads.
Meetings, Attendance and Composition of HR and  Nomination Committee During FY 2016-17, the Committee met four times i.e.
on April 27, 2016, July 27, 2016, October 25, 2016 and   January 24, 2017.
The composition and the attendance of members at the  meetings held during FY 2016-17, are given below: Name Category Number of  meetings  attended (total  held during  tenure) Mr. Ben  Verwaayen,  Chairman Independent  Director 3 (4) Ms. Chua Sock  Koong*  Non-Executive	 Director 3 (4) Mr. Manish  Kejriwal Independent  Director 3 (4) Mr. D. K. Mittal1 Independent Director 4 (4) Mr. Rakesh Bharti  Mittal Non-Executive	 Director 3 (4) Mr. Shishir  Priyadarshi2 Independent Director N.A.
1.
Ceased to be member of the Committee w.e.f.
March 23, 2017.
2.
Appointed as a member of the Committee w.e.f.
March 23, 2017.
* One meeting attended by Mark Chong Chin Kok, alternate director.
The details relating to remuneration of Directors, as required  under Listing Regulations have been given under a separate  section, viz.
‘Directors Remuneration’ in this Report.
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee In compliance with the Regulation 20 of the Listing  Regulations, and the provisions of Section 178 of the  Companies Act, 2013, the Company has a Stakeholders’  Relationship Committee.
The Committee comprises four  members including two Independent Directors.
Mr. Rakesh  Bharti Mittal, Non-Executive Director is the Chairman of the  Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as a Secretary to  the Committee.
Key Responsibilities of the Stakeholders’ Relationship  Committee The key responsibilities of the Stakeholders’ Relationship  Committee include the following:   Formulation of procedures, in line with the statutory  guidelines to ensure speedy disposal of various requests  received from shareholders from time to time.
Consider and resolve the complaints / grievances of  security holders of the Company, including complaints  related to transfer of shares, non-receipt of balance sheet  and non-receipt of declared dividend.
Dematerialise or re-materialise the share certificates.
Approve the transmission of shares or other securities  arising as a result of death of the sole / any of joint  shareholder.
Sub-divide, consolidate and / or replace any share or  other securities certificate(s) of the Company.
Issue duplicate share / other security(ies) certificate(s) in lieu of  the original share / security(ies) certificate(s) of the Company.
116 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17   Approve, register and refuse to register transfer /  transmission of shares and other securities.
T o further delegate all or any of the power to any other  employee(s), officer(s), representative(s), consultant(s),  professional(s), or agent(s).
Oversee & review, all matters connected with the transfer  of securities of the Company.
Oversee the performance of the Company’s Registrar and  Share Transfer Agent.
Recommend methods to upgrade the standard of  services to the investors.
T o deal with the Company’s unclaimed / undelivered  shares, as prescribed in the relevant Regulation of the  Listing Regulations.
T o do all such acts, deeds and things as may be necessary  in this regard.
The meetings of the Committee are generally held as  and when deemed necessary, to review and ensure that  all investor requests / grievances are redressed within  stipulated time period.
Meetings, Attendance and Composition of  Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee During FY 2016-17, the Committee met ten times i.e.
on  April 27, 2016, June 14, 2016, July 27, 2016, September  23, 2016, October 25, 2016, December 06, 2016, January  10, 2017, January 24, 2017, February 07, 2017 and March  14, 2017 The composition and the attendance of members  at the meetings held during FY 2016-17, are given below: Name Category Number of  meetings  attended (total  held during  tenure) Mr. Rakesh Bharti  Mittal, Chairman Non-Executive	 Director 9 (10) Mr. Manish Kejriwal Independent Director 3 (10) Mr.	Gopal	Vittal Executive	Director 10 (10) Mr. D. K. Mittal Independent Director 9 (10) Compliance Officer Mr. Rajendra Chopra, Sr. Vice President & Company  Secretary, acted as the Compliance Officer of the Company  upto January 24, 2017.
He was responsible for complying  with the requirements of the Listing Regulations and  requirements of securities laws, including SEBI (Prohibition  of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015.
The Board in its meeting held on January 24, 2017, has  appointed Mr. Rohit Krishan Puri as the Deputy Company  Secretary and Compliance Officer of the Company w.e.f.
January 25, 2017 for complying with the requirements of  the Listing Regulations and requirements of securities laws,  including SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015.
Nature of Complaints and Redressal Status During FY 2016-17, the complaints and queries received by  the Company were general in nature, which include issues  relating to non-receipt of dividend warrants, shares, annual  reports and others, which were resolved to the satisfaction  of the shareholders.
Details of the investors’ complaints received during FY 2016- 2017 are as follows: Type of complaint Received Redressed Pending on  March 31,  2017 Non-receipt of  securities 0 0 Nil Non-receipt of  Annual Report 2 2 Nil Non–receipt of  dividend / dividend  warrants 0 0 Nil Miscellaneous 1 1 Nil T otal 3 3 Nil Committee of Directors T o cater to various day-to-day requirements and to facilitate  seamless operations, the Company has formed a functional  Committee known as the Committee of Directors.
The  Committee meets as and when deem necessary to cater to  the day to day requirements of the Company.
The Committee comprises four members including two  Independent Directors.
Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal, Non- Executive Director is the Chairman of the Committee.
The  Company Secretary acts as a Secretary to the Committee.
Meetings, Attendance and Composition of  Committee of Directors During FY 2016-17, the Committee met six times i.e.
on April  27, 2016, July 27, 2016, October 25, 2016, January 24, 2017,  February 23, 2017 and March 14, 2017.
The composition  and the attendance of members at the meetings held during  FY 2016-17, are given below: Name Category Number of  meetings  attended  (total held  during  tenure) Mr.  Rakesh Bharti Mittal,  Chairman Non-Executive	 Director 4 (6) Mr. D. K. Mittal Independent  Director 6 (6) Mr. Manish Kejriwal Independent  Director 3 (6) Mr.	Gopal	Vittal Executive	 Director 6 (6) Key Responsibilities of the Committee of Directors  (within the limit approved by the Board) Investment Related  T o grant loans to any body corporate / entity.
T o give guarantee(s) in connection with loan made to any  body corporate / entity.
T o negotiate, finalise, amend, modify, approve and accept  the terms and conditions with respect to aforesaid loans  and / or guarantee(s) from time to time.
T o purchase, sell, acquire, subscribe, transfer or otherwise  deal in the shares / securities of any Company, body  corporate or other entities.
117 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements   T o authorise one or more employee(s), officer(s),  representative(s), consultant(s), professional(s), or  agent(s) jointly or severally to:    represent the Company before Central Government,  State Governments, Judicial, Quasi-judicial and other  statutory / administrative authorities or any other entity.
negotiate, finalise, execute, modify, sign, accept,  and withdraw all deed, agreements, undertakings,  certificates, applications, confirmations, affidavits,  indemnity bonds, surety bonds, and all other documents  and papers.
affix common seal of the Company.
enter into, sign, execute and deliver all contracts for and  on behalf of the Company.
T o do all such acts, deeds and things as may be required  for the smooth conduct of the operations of the Company  and which does not require the specific approval of the  Board of the Company or which has specifically been  delegated by the Board to any other Committee of the  Board or any officer, employee or agent of the Company.
T o perform such other functions as may be authorised /  delegated by the Board or as might have been authorised  / delegated to the erstwhile Borrowing Committee,  Investment Committee, Committee of Director or the  Allotment Committee.
T o authorise / delegate any or all of its power to any  person, officer, representative.
Special Committee of Directors (Monetization of  stake in Bharti Infratel Limited) The Board in its meeting held on October 25, 2016, had  constituted a committee known as the Special Committee of  Directors to evaluate the proposal for monetization of stake  in Bharti Infratel Limited.
The Committee meets as and when  necessary to explore divestment in Bharti Infratel Limited.
The Committee comprises three members including one  independent director.
Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal, Non-Executive  Director is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Company  Secretary acts as a Secretary to the Committee.
Meetings, Attendance and Composition of Special  Committee of Directors (Monetization of stake in  Bharti Infratel Limited) During FY 2016-17, the Committee met one time i.e.
on  November 21, 2016.
The composition and the attendance  of members at the meetings held during the FY 2016-17,  are given below: Name Category Number of  meetings  attended (total  held during  tenure) Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal,  Chairman Non-Executive	 Director 1 (1) Ms. Chua Sock Koong Non-Executive		 Director 1 (1) Mr. D. K. Mittal Independent  Director 1 (1) Treasury Related   T o borrow such sum of money, as may be required by  the Company from time to time provided that the money  already borrowed, together with the money to be borrowed  by the Company does not exceed the limits provided under  Section 180 of the Companies Act, 2013 i.e.
upto the paid  up capital and free reserve of the Company.
T o create security / charge(s) on all or any of the assets  of the Company for the purpose of securing credit  facility(ies) of the Company.
T o deal in government securities, units of mutual funds,  fixed income and money market instruments, fixed deposits  and certificate of deposit programme of banks and other  instruments / securities / treasury products of banks &  financial institutions as per treasury policy of the Company.
T o deal in foreign exchange and financial derivatives  linked to foreign exchange and interest rates including,  but not limited to foreign exchange spot, forwards,  options, currency swaps and interest rate swaps.
T o open, operate, close, change in authorisation for any  Bank Account, Subsidiary General Ledger (SGL) Account,  Dematerialisation / Depository Account.
T o approve, finalise and authorise the execution of any  deed, document, letter or writing in connection with the  aforesaid activities, including borrowing / credit facilities,  creation of charge.
Allotment of Shares   Issue and allot shares of the Company in one or more  tranches as per the terms of the ESOP Schemes for  the time being in force or upon conversion of Foreign  Currency Convertible Bonds issued by the Company.
T o seek listing of shares issued as above on one or more  Stock Exchanges in India and all such shares being pari- passu with the existing equity shares of the Company in  all respects.
T o do all such acts, deeds and things, as may be necessary  and incidental to allotment and listing of shares.
General	Authorisations   T o open, shift, merge, close any branch office, circle office.
T o approve for participation into any tender, bid, auction  by the Company.
T o register the Company with any Central / State  Government authorities, Semi-Government authorities,  local authorities, tax authorities including sales tax, service  tax, value added tax authorities, labour law authorities,  administrative authorities, business associations and  other bodies.
T o purchase, sell, take on lease / license, transfer or  otherwise deal with any property.
T o apply for and surrender any electricity, power or water  connection.
T o appoint any Merchant Banker, Chartered Accountant,  Advocate, Company Secretary, Engineer, T echnician,  Consultants and / or Professionals for undertaking any  assignment for and on behalf of the Company.
T o constitute, reconstitute, modify, dissolve any trust or  association with regard to the administrative matters  or employee related matters and to appoint, reappoint,  remove, replace the trustees or representatives.
118 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Key Responsibilities of the Special Committee of  Directors (Monetization of stake in Bharti Infratel  Limited)   T o engage and negotiate with the prospective buyers  including in relation to the terms of sale provided that  the terms shall be subject to the approval of the board  of directors and no agreements shall be approved and or  executed except after the approval of the board of directors.
T o appoint, terminate, reappoint legal advisors, advisors,  consultants, and any other professionals or intermediaries  etc.
on such terms and conditions as deemed fit.
T o represent the Company before any prospective buyer  and any regulatory and / or statutory authorities and  departments.
T o delegate all or any of the authorisations conferred as  above to any Officer(s) / Authorized Representative(s) of  the Company.
T o do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as it may in  its absolute discretion, deem necessary, expedient, usual  or proper in furtherance of the above.
Special Committee of Directors (Restructuring of  overseas holding structure) The Board in its meeting held on January 24, 2017, had  constituted a committee known as the Special Committee  of Directors to evaluate the proposal for restructuring of  overseas holding structure of the Company.
The Committee  meets as and when necessary.
The Committee comprises three members including one  independent director.
Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal, Non-Executive  Director is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Company  Secretary / Deputy Company Secretary acts as a Secretary  to the Committee.
Meetings, Attendance and Composition of Special  Committee of Directors (Restructuring of overseas  holding structure) During FY 2016-17, the Committee met two times i.e.
on  February 07, 2017 and March 14, 2017.
The composition  and the attendance of members at the meetings held during  the FY 2016 -17, are given below: Name Category Number of  meetings  attended (total  held during  tenure) Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal,  Chairman Non-Executive	 Director 2 (2) Ms. T an Yong Choo Non-Executive		 Director 2 (2) Mr. V .
K. Viswanathnan Independent  Director 2 (2) Key Responsibilities of the Special Committee  of Directors (Restructuring of overseas holding  structure)   T o evaluate the proposal for restructuring of overseas  holding structure.
T o appoint, terminate, reappoint legal advisors, advisors,  consultants, and any other professionals or intermediaries  etc.
on such terms and conditions as deemed fit.
T o represent the Company before any regulatory and / or  statutory authorities and departments.
T o delegate all or any of the authorisations conferred as  above to any Officer(s) / Authorized Representative(s) of  the Company.
T o do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as it may in  its absolute discretion deem necessary, expedient, usual  or proper in furtherance of the above.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee In compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act,  2013, the Company has constituted the Corporate Social  Responsibility Committee.
The Committee evaluates and  recommends the CSR proposals to the Board for approval.
The Committee comprises three members including  one Independent Director.
Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal, Non- Executive Director, is the Chairman of the Committee.
The  Company Secretary acts as a secretary to the Committee.
Key Responsibilities of the CSR Committee   Formulate, monitor and recommend to the Board CSR  Policy and the activities to be undertaken by the Company.
Recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred on  the activities undertaken.
Review the Company’s performance in the area of CSR.
Evaluate social impact of the Company’s CSR activities.
Review the Company’s disclosure of CSR matters  including any annual social responsibility report.
Review the following, with the Management, before  submission to the Board for approval   The Business Responsibility (BR) Report   CSR Report   Annual Sustainability Report   Formulate and implement the BR policies in consultation  with the respective stakeholders.
Establish a monitoring mechanism to ensure that the  funds contributed by the Company are spent by Bharti  Foundation, or any other charitable organisation to which  the Company makes contributions, for the intended  purposes only.
Approve the appointment or re-appointment of Directors  responsible for Business Responsibility.
Nominate atleast one member of the CSR Committee as  a trustee of Bharti Foundation.
Consider other functions, as defined by the Board, or as may  be stipulated under any law, rule or regulation including  the Listing Regulations, Corporate Social Responsibility  Voluntary Guidelines, 2009 and the Companies   Act, 2013.
On the recommendation of the CSR Committee, the Board had  on April 29, 2014, approved the Corporate Social Responsibility  (CSR Policy) of the Company.
The CSR Policy intends to strive  for economic development that positively impacts the society  at large with minimal resource footprints.
The Policy is available  on the Company’s website at www.airtel.com.
Meetings, Attendance and Composition of CSR  Committee During FY 2016-17, the Committee met four times i.e.
on  April 27, 2016, August 19, 2016, October 25, 2016 and  March 14, 2017.
The composition and the attendance of  119 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements members at the meetings held during the FY 2016 -17, are  given below: Name Category Number of  meetings  attended  (total held  during  tenure) Mr. Rakesh Bharti Mittal,  Chairman Non-Executive	 Director 4 (4) Mr. D. K. Mittal Independent  Director 4 (4) Mr.	Gopal	Vittal Executive	 Director 3 (4) Corporate Social Responsibility Report for the  year ended March 31, 2017 The CSR Report for the year ended March 31, 2017 is  annexed as Annexure D to the Board’s Report.
Airtel Corporate Council (ACC) Airtel Corporate Council is a non-statutory committee,  constituted by the Board for strategic management  and supervision of the Company’s operations within the  approved framework.
The Committee comprises six members.
Mr. Sunil Bharti  Mittal, is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Company  Secretary acts as a secretary to the Committee.
Key Responsibilities of the ACC Committee   Strategic Management and supervision of Company’s  business; CEO Board Report.
Formulation of Company’s annual business plan including  objectives and strategies, capex, and investments.
Approval of the variation in the Approved Annual  Operating Plan up to 5% negative deviation.
Formulation of organisation policies, systems and  processes, concerning the Company’s operations.
Review and recommend for approval of all items /  proposals relating to restructuring, new line of business,  investments, General Reserved Matters (as referred in  Article 125 (ii) of Articles of Association of the Company)  and other matters, which require the Board’s approval  in relation to the Company and its subsidiaries in India,  Africa and SA, as a shareholder.
Acquisition, disposal, transfer of any immovable property  of value exceeding any amount in excess of the duly  approved respective DoA’s.
Formation, modification, withdrawal, implementation  of systems, policies, control manuals and other  policy frameworks for operational efficiency and risk  management.
The Committee to agree in advance the  specific key operational efficiency / risk management  matters that business must present at each meeting.
Approval for contribution to any political party / political  trust within the overall limit set by the Board.
Business Development transaction related updates/next  steps.
Financial Restructuring / Treasury Strategy.
Review and approval of all strategic consulting  assignments.
Change of Company’s brand name, logo, and trade mark.
All brand launches (new or rebranding to be presented to  ACC, prior to formally committing material expenditure).
Powers of ACC in respect of the Subsidiaries and  their step down Subsidiaries (Other than listed  subsidiaries)   Formulation of business plan, including any strategic  initiative, investments, capex, borrowing including  refinancing and extension, among others.
Nomination of the respective subsidiaries nominee on  Board of other companies.
Entry into / exit from business / major business activities,  in any manner whatsoever, including purchase, sale, lease,  franchise, among others.
With respect to overseas subsidiaries and their step down  subsidiaries, the power of ACC is confined to performing key  shareholder functions.
General Body Meetings The details of last three Annual General Meetings (AGMs) are as follows: Financial Year Location Date Time Special Resolution passed 2015-2016 Air Force  Auditorium, Subroto Park,   New Delhi-110010 August 19, 2016 1530 Hrs.
(IST) The  following special resolutions were  passed	in	the	AGM: 1.
Adoption of new set of the Articles  of Association of the Company.
2.
Alteration in the Memorandum of  Association of the Company 2014-2015 August 21, 2015 1530 Hrs.
(IST) No Special Resolution was passed   in	the	AGM2013-2014 September 1, 2014 1530 Hrs.
(IST) Postal Ballot The Company passed the following Special Resolutions  through postal ballot / e-voting on T uesday, March 14, 2017:   Issue of unsecured / secured redeemable Non-Convertible  Debentures / Bonds by way of Private Placement.
Transfer of the Company’s investment in its wholly-owned  subsidiary, Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Limited  (“BAIM”), Mauritius to Network i2i Limited, Mauritius,  another wholly-owned subsidiary.
120 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 There is no immediate proposal for passing any special  resolution through Postal Ballot on or before ensuing Annual  General Meeting.
Code of Conduct In compliance with Regulation 17 of the Listing Regulations  and the Companies Act, 2013, the Company has framed  and adopted a Code of Conduct for all Directors and Senior  Management personnel.
The code is available on the  Company’s website www.airtel.com.
The Code is applicable  to all Board members and Senior Management personnel  who directly report to the Chairman, the Managing Director  & CEO (India & South Asia).
The Code is circulated to all  Board members and Senior Management Personnel and its  compliance is affirmed by them annually.
Besides, the Company also procures a quarterly confirmation  of material financial and commercial transactions entered  into by Senior Management personnel with the Company  that may have a potential conflict of interest.
A declaration signed by the Managing Director & CEO (India  & South Asia), regarding affirmation of the compliance  with the Code of Conduct by Board Members and Senior  Management for the financial year ended March 31, 2017,  is annexed as Annexure A to this report.
Person conducting the Postal Ballot Exercise Mr. Gopal Vittal, Managing Director & CEO (India & South  Asia), Mr. Mukesh Bhavnani, Group General Counsel and  Mr. Rohit Krishan Puri, Deputy Company Secretary were  appointed as persons responsible for the entire postal ballot/  e-voting process.
Mr. Sanjay Grover of M/s.
Sanjay Grover &  Associates, Company Secretaries, New Delhi (C.P .
No.
3850)  was appointed as the Scrutiniser for conducting the postal  ballot / e-voting process in a fair and transparent manner.
Mr.  Sanjay Grover, Practicing Company Secretary conducted the  process and submitted the report to the Company.
Procedure Followed 1.
In compliance with the Regulation 44 of the SEBI (Listing  Obligation and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,  2015 and Section 108, 110 and other applicable  provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, read with the  rules made thereunder, the Company provided electronic  voting facility to all its members, to enable them to cast  their votes electronically.
The Company engaged the  services of Karvy Computershare Pvt.
Ltd. (Karvy) for the  purpose of providing e-voting facility.
The members had  the option to vote either by physical ballot or e-voting.
2.
The Company dispatched the postal ballot notice dated  February 07, 2017 containing draft resolutions together  with the explanatory statements, the postal ballot forms  and self-addressed envelopes to the members whose  names appeared in the register of members / list of  beneficiaries as on cut-off date i.e.
T uesday, February  07, 2017.
The Company also published a notice in  the newspaper declaring the details of completion of  dispatch on February 11, 2017 and other requirements  as mandated under the Act and applicable rules.
3.
Members desiring to exercise their votes by physical  postal ballot forms were requested to return the forms  duly completed and signed, to the Scrutiniser on or before  the close of business hours on T uesday, March 14, 2017.
The members who opted for the e-voting could vote from  09:00 a.m. on Monday, February 13, 2017 to 05:00 p.m.  on T uesday, March 14, 2017.
4.
The Scrutinizer submitted his report on Thursday, March  16, 2017, after the completion of scrutiny.
5.
The results of the postal ballot were announced on  Thursday, March 16, 2017.
The last date specified for  receipt of duly completed Postal Ballot Forms and closure  of e-voting i.e.
T uesday, March 14, 2017, was taken as the  date of passing of the resolution.
6.
The results of the postal ballot along with the scrutinizer’s  report were displayed at the registered office and corporate  office of the Company and hosted at the Company’s  website at www.airtel.com and on the website of Karvy i.e.
https://evoting.karvy.com and were communicated to the  Stock Exchanges where the Company’s shares are listed.
Details of the voting pattern Details of the voting pattern in respect of the Special Resolutions are as under: Details of Agenda No.
of valid votes Votes cast in favor of  the resolution (no.&  % age) Votes cast against  the resolution (no.&  %age) Issue of unsecured / secured redeemable Non-Convertible  Debentures / Bonds by way of Private Placement.
351,74,43,164 351,74,35,087 (99.9998%) 8,077 (0.0002%) Transfer of the Company’s investment in its wholly-owned  subsidiary, Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Limited  (“BAIM”), Mauritius to Network i2i Limited, Mauritius,  another Wholly-Owned Subsidiary.
351,74,41,843 351,74,32,390 (99.9997%) 9,453 (0.0003%) Along with the Code of Conduct for the Board members  and Senior Management, the Company has also laid down  a Code of Conduct for its employees.
As a process, an  annual confirmation is also sought from all employees.
All  employees are expected to confirm compliance to the Code  annually.
Regular training programmes / self-certifications  are conducted across locations to explain and reiterate the  importance of adherence to the code.
Disclosures and Policies Disclosure on Materially Significant Related Party  Transactions that may have potential conflict with  the interest of Company at large All transactions entered into with related parties as defined  under the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations  during the financial year were in the ordinary course of  business and on an arm’s length basis and do not attract the  provisions of Section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013.
None of the transactions with any of the related parties  were in conflict with the interest of the Company rather,  they synchronise and synergise with the Company’s  operations.
Attention of members is drawn to the disclosure  of transactions with the related parties set out in Note No.
32 of the Standalone Financial Statements, forming part of  the Annual Report.
121 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements The required statements / disclosures, with respect to the  related party transactions, are placed before the Audit &  Risk Management Committee and the Board of Directors,  on quarterly basis in terms of Regulation 23(3) of the  Listing Regulations and other applicable laws for approval /  information.
Prior omnibus approval is obtained for Related  Party Transactions which are of repetitive nature.
The Company’s major related party transactions are  generally with its subsidiaries and associates.
These  transactions are entered into based on consideration of  various business exigencies, such as synergy in operations,  sectoral specialisation, liquidity and capital resource of  subsidiary and associates and all such transactions are on  an arm’s length basis.
The Board of Directors has formulated a Policy on dealing  with Related Party Transactions pursuant to the provisions of  the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations.
The  Policy intends to ensure that proper reporting, approval and  disclosure processes are in place for all transactions between  the Company and related parties.
The Policy is posted on the  website of the Company at http://www.airtel.in/wps/wcm/ connect/36a5305d-f0ba-490c-9eff-152ef6811917/BAL- Policy-on-Related-Party-Transactions.pdf?MOD=AJPERES.
Disclosure on Risk Management The Company has established an enterprise-wide risk  management (ERM) framework to optimally identify and  manage risks, as well as to address operational, strategic  and regulatory risks.
In line with the Company’s commitment  to deliver sustainable value, this framework aims to provide  an integrated and organised approach to evaluate and  manage risks.
Risk assessment monitoring is included in the  Company’s annual Internal Audit programme and reviewed  by the Audit & Risk Management Committee at regular  intervals.
In compliance with Regulation 17 and 21 of the  Listing Regulations, the Board of Directors has formulated  a Risk Management Policy for framing, implementing and  monitoring the risk management plan for the Company.
The Board is periodically updated on the key risks, steps and  processes initiated for reducing and, if feasible, eliminating  various risks.
Business risk evaluation and management is  an ongoing process within the Company.
Detailed update on risk management framework has  been covered under the risk section, forming a part of the  Management Discussion and Analysis.
Details of Non-compliance with regard to Capital  Markets during the last three years There have been no instances of non-compliances by the  Company and no penalties and / or strictures have been  imposed by Stock Exchanges or SEBI or any statutory  authority on any matter related to capital markets during the  last three years.
Insider Trading In compliance with the SEBI regulation on prevention of insider  trading, the Company has established systems and procedures  to prohibit insider trading activity and has formulated a code on  insider trading for designated persons, who may have access  to the Company’s price sensitive information.
The Code lays  down procedures to be followed and disclosures to be made,  while trading in the Company’s shares.
The Company follows highest standards of transparency  and fairness in dealing with all stakeholders and ensures  that no insider shall use his or her position with or without  knowledge of the Company to gain personal benefit or to  provide benefit to any third party.
Ombudsperson Policy / Whistle Blower Policy Bharti Airtel has adopted an Ombudsperson Policy (includes  Whistle Blower Policy).
It outlines the method and process  for stakeholders to voice genuine concerns about unethical  conduct that may be in breach with the employees’ Code of  Conduct.
The policy aims to ensure that genuine complainants  are able to raise their concerns in full confidence, without any  fear of retaliation or victimisation.
The Policy also allows for  anonymous reporting of complaints.
The Ombudsperson  administers the entire formal process from reviewing and  investigating concerns raised, undertaking all appropriate  actions for resolution thereof and regular monitoring  of ombuds process to strengthen its effectiveness and  adequacy.
Instances of serious misconduct dealt with by the  Ombudsperson are reported to the Audit & Risk Management  Committee.
All employees of the Company as well as vendors  / partners and any person that has a grievance (excluding  standard customer complaints) has full access to the  Ombudsperson through phones, emails or even meetings  in person.
During the year under review, no employee was  denied access to the Audit & Risk Management Committee.
Auditors’ Certificate on Corporate Governance As required under Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations,  the auditors’ certificate on Corporate Governance is annexed  as Annexure I to the Board’s Report.
CEO and CFO Certification The certificate required under Regulation 17(8) of the  Listing Regulations, duly signed by the CEO and CFO of  the Company was placed before the Board.
The same is  provided as Annexure B to this report.
Subsidiary Companies The Company monitors performance of subsidiary  Companies, inter-alia, by the following means:   Financial Statements, in particular investments made by  unlisted subsidiary companies, are reviewed quarterly by  the Audit & Risk Management Committee.
Minutes of the Board Meetings of unlisted subsidiary  companies are regularly placed before the Board.
A statement containing significant transactions and  arrangements entered into by unlisted subsidiary  companies is placed before the Board.
Bharti Infratel Limited, the Company’s material Indian  subsidiary, is listed on Stock Exchanges and therefore, the  Company is not required to nominate a Director on the  Board of Bharti Infratel Limited.
The Board of Directors has formulated a Policy for determining  material subsidiaries pursuant to the provisions of the Listing  Regulations.
The same is posted on the Company’s website  at http://www.airtel.in/wps/wcm/connect/7e99add6-9401- 4ab3-899a-07572390a956/BAL-Policy-for-determining- Material-Subsidiaries.pdf?MOD=AJPERES.
Compliance with the Mandatory Requirements of  the Listing Regulations The Board of Directors periodically reviews the compliance  of all applicable laws.
The Company has complied with all  the mandatory requirements of the Code of Corporate  Governance as specified in Regulations 17 to 27 and  clauses (b) to (i) of sub regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of the  Listing Regulations.
It has obtained a certificate affirming the  compliances from S.R.
Batliboi & Associates LLP , Chartered  Accountants, Gurgaon, the Company’s Statutory Auditors  and the same is attached to the Board’s Report.
122 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 (ii)	 Audit	Qualifications   Company’s financial statements are unqualified.
(iii) Separate posts of Chairman and CEO    The positions of the Chairman of the Board and the  Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer of the  Company are held by separate individuals.
(iv) Reporting of Internal Auditor    The Internal Auditors directly reports to the Audit & Risk  Management Committee.
Green Initiatives by MCA In compliance with the provisions of Section 20 of the  Companies Act, 2013 and as a continuing endeavour  towards the ‘Go Green’ initiative, the Company proposes to  send all correspondence / communications through email  to those shareholders who have registered their email id  with their depository participant’s / Company’s registrar  and share transfer agent.
In case the shareholders desire to  receive a printed copy of such communications, they send a  requisition to the Company.
The Company forthwith sends a  printed copy of the communication to the shareholder.
Status of Dividend Declared Status of the dividend declared by the Company for the last seven years is as under  Amount in ` Million Financial Year Rate of Dividend per equity  share of ` 5 each T otal Pay-out Amount Paid to the  shareholders Amount un-paid to the  shareholders 2015-16 ` 1.36 5,436.46 5,435.80 (99.99%) 0.67 (0.01%) 2014-15 ` 2.22 8,874.23 8,873.35 (99.99%) 0.88 (0.01%) 2014-15(Interim Dividend) ` 1.63 6,515.76 6,505.77 (99.85%) 9.99 (0.15%) 2013-14 ` 1.80 7,195.32 7,184.27 (99.85%) 11.05 (0.15%) 2012-13 ` 1 3,797.53 3,791.06 (99.83%) 6.47 (0.17%) 2011-12 ` 1 3,797.53 3,790.80 (99.82%) 6.73 (0.18%) 2010-11 ` 1 3,797.53 3,791.15 (99.83%) 6.38 (0.17%) 2009-10 ` 1 3,797.53 3,790.10 (99.80%) 7.43 (0.20%) The Company constantly endeavours to reduce the unpaid dividend amount.
The shareholders, who have not claimed their dividend for the above financial years  are requested to contact the Company or its Share Transfer Agent.
Equity Shares in the Suspense Account In terms of Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations, the details of the equity shares lying in the suspense accounts, which  were issued in physical form, are as follows: Particulars Number of  Shareholders  Number of equity  shares Number of shareholders and aggregate number of shares as transferred to the  Unclaimed Suspense Account outstanding as on April 01, 2016.
8 21 Number of shareholders who approached the Company for transfer of shares and  shares transferred from suspense account during the year 1 2 Aggregate Number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense  account lying as on March 31, 2017 7 19 The voting rights on the shares in the suspense account as on March 31, 2017 shall remain frozen till the rightful owners of  such shares claim the shares.
Details of Compliances with the Non-mandatory  Requirements of Regulation 27 of the Listing  Regulations  In addition to the mandatory requirements, the Company  has also adopted the following non-mandatory requirements  of Regulation 27(1) of the Listing Regulations: (i)  Shareholders’ Rights      The Company has a policy of announcement of the  audited quarterly results.
The results, as approved  by the Board of Directors (or Committee thereof) are  first submitted to Stock Exchanges within 30 minutes  (under Regulation 30 of the Listing Regulations) of the  approval of the results.
Once taken on record by the  Stock Exchanges, the same are disseminated in the  media through press release.
The quarterly financial  results are published in newspapers and uploaded on  Company’s website www.airtel.com.
On the next day of the announcement of the quarterly  results, an earnings call is organised, where the  management responds to the queries of the investors  / analysts.
These calls are webcast live and transcripts  posted on the website.
In addition, discussion with the  management team is webcast and also aired on the  electronic media.
123 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Means of Communication Quarterly Results: The Company’s Quarterly Audited  Results are published in prominent daily newspapers, viz.
Mint  (English daily) and Hindustan (vernacular newspaper) and are  also uploaded on the Company’s website www.airtel.com.
News releases, presentations: Official news releases  and official media releases are sent to Stock Exchanges and  uploaded on the Company’s website www.airtel.com.
Earning Calls & Presentations to Institutional  Investors / Analysts: The Company organises an  earnings call with analysts and investors on the next day  of announcement of results, which is also broadcast live on  the Company’s website.
The transcript of the earnings call is  posted on the website soon after.
Any specific presentation  made to the analysts / others is also uploaded on the  Company’s website www.airtel.com.
NSE Electronic Application Processing System  (NEAPS)/ BSE Corporate Compliance & Listing  Centre: The NEAPS/ BSE’s Listing Centre is a web-based  application designed for corporates.
All periodical compliance  fillings, like shareholding pattern, Corporate Governance  Report, media releases and other material information is also  filed electronically on the designated portals.
Website: Up-to-date financial results, annual reports,  shareholding patterns, official news releases, financial  analysis reports, latest presentation made to the institutional  investors and other general information about the Company  are available on the website www.airtel.com.
Shareholders Satisfaction Survey: In our constant  endeavour to strengthen the shareholder service standards,  a Shareholders Satisfaction Survey is conducted through a  Shareholders Feedback Form uploaded on the Company’s  website www.airtel.com under ‘Investors’ section.
Accordingly,  members may provide their valuable feedback.
Since the time of listing of shares, Bharti Airtel adopted  a practise of releasing a quarterly report, which contains  financial and operating highlights, key industry and Company  developments, results of operations, stock market highlights,  non-GAAP information, ratio analysis, summarised financial  statements and so on.
The quarterly reports are posted on  the Company’s website and are also submitted to the Stock  Exchanges, where the Company’s shares are listed.
General Shareholders’ Information 22nd Annual General Meeting Date July 24, 2017 Day  Monday Time 3.30 p.m.   Venue  Air Force Auditorium, Subroto Park, New Delhi – 110 010 Financial Calendar (T entative Schedule, subject to change) Financial year April 1 to March 31 Results for the quarter  ending: June 30, 2017 July 25, 2017, (T uesday) September 30, 2017 October 31, 2017, (T uesday) December 31, 2017 January 24, 2018, (Wednesday) March 31, 2018 April 24, 2018 (T uesday) Book Closure Saturday, July 15, 2017 to Monday, July 24, 2017 (both  days inclusive).
Dividend ` 1.00 per equity share of ` 5/- each (i.e.
20.00% on the face  value of the shares).
Dividend Pay-out Date On or after July 24, 2017 (within the statutory time limit of  30 days i.e.
up to August 23, 2017), subject to the approval  of the shareholders.
Equity Shares Listing, Stock Code and Listing Fee Payment Name	and	address	of	the	Stock	Exchange Scrip code Status of fee paid for  FY 2017-18 National Stock Exchange of India Limited Exchange	Plaza’	‘C-1	Block	G Bandra	Kurla	Complex,	Bandra,	Mumbai	–	400001 BHARTIARTL Paid The BSE Limited Phiroze Jeejeebhoy T owers Dalal Street, Mumbai – 400001 532454 Paid Stock Market Data for the Period April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017 Month BSE NSE High Low Volume (Nos.)
High Low Volume (Nos.)
April 2016 384.90 325.70      3,495,441 385.00 325.60 67,669,447 May 2016 377.55 339.00      5,560,316 377.45 339.30 79,289,980 June 2016 369.30 337.25      3,234,013 370.00 337.35 59,786,999 July 2016 383.40 353.20    13,306,457 381.80 353.00 48,144,065 August 2016 370.80 329.00      4,291,126 371.50 328.75 62,978,688 September 2016 332.15 302.00    12,714,097 332.35 301.50 106,956,066 October 2016 326.20 296.60      2,905,050 326.15 296.25 56,378,642 November 2016 326.80 283.95      3,300,189 326.80 283.05 59,718,486 December 2016 337.05 289.25      2,728,128 337.45 288.70 56,092,264 January 2017 370.00 299.55      4,547,940 369.95 299.15 90,087,311 February 2017 400.65 340.80      6,831,542 401.00 340.15 116,190,434 March 2017 369.45 325.50    24,405,352 369.80 325.80 89,901,529 Source: www.bseindia.com Source: www.nseindia.com 124 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Distribution of Shareholding By number of shares held as on March 31, 2017 Sl.
no.
Category   ( by no.
of shares) No.
of  shareholders % to   holders No.
of   shares % of shares 1 1  –   5000  207,816 97.92 17,415,013 0.44% 2 5001  –  10000 1,923 0.90 2,927,390 0.07% 3 10001  –  20000 868 0.41 2,543,415 0.06% 4 20001  –  30000 305 0.14 1,529,024 0.04% 5 30001  –  40000 167 0.08 1,192,169 0.03% 6 40001  –   50000 104 0.05 959,745 0.02% 7 50001  –  100000 206 0.10 2,970,484 0.07% 8 100001 – above 852 0.40 3,967,862,862 99.27% T otal 212,241 100 % 3,997,400,102 100 % Registrar and Transfer Agent All the work related to share registry, both in physical and  electronic form, is handled by the Company’s Registrar  and Transfer Agent at the address mentioned in the  communication addresses section.
Share Transfer System As much as 99.86% of the Company’s equity shares are in  electronic format.
These shares can be transferred through  the depositories without the Company’s involvement.
Transfer of shares in physical form is processed within 15  days from the date of receipt, provided the documents are  complete in all respects.
All transfers are first processed  by the Transfer Agent and are submitted thereafter to  the Company, for approval.
The Transfer Agent has been  authorised to transfer minor shareholding up to 50 shares  per instrument without the Company’s involvement.
Pursuant to Regulation 40(9) of the Listing Regulations, the  Company obtain certificates from a practicing Company  Secretary on a half-yearly basis to the effect that all the  transfers are completed within the statutory stipulated period.
A copy of the certificates so received is submitted to both  Stock Exchanges, where the shares of the Company are listed.
Bharti Airtel Share Prices Vs. BSE Sensex Apr-16 120 110 100 90 80 70 Jul-16 Oct-16Jan-17 May-16 Aug-16Nov-16 Feb-17 Jun-16 Sep-16Dec-16Mar-17 Bharti Airtel Share Price BSE	Sensex Bharti Airtel Share Price Vs. NSE Nifty Apr-16 120 110 100 90 80 70 Jul-16 Oct-16Jan-17 May-16 Aug-16Nov-16 Feb-17 Jun-16 Sep-16Dec-16Mar-17 Bharti Airtel Share Price NSE Nifty 125 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements By category of holders as on March 31, 2017 Sl.
no.
Category No.
of share %age of holding I Promoter and Promoter Group (i) Indian promoters 1,817,987,269 45.48 (ii) Foreign promoters 865,673,286 21.66 T otal Promoters shareholding 2,683,660,555 67.14 II Public Shareholding (A) Institutional Investors (i) Mutual Funds and Unit Trust of India 128,431,707 3.21 (ii) Financial institutions and Banks 2,141,271 0.05 (iii) Insurance companies 315,420,470 7.89 (iv) Foreign Institutional Investors 84,369,720 2.11 (v) Others - Foreign Portfolio Investors 523,856,355 13.10 (B) Others (i) Bodies Corporate (Indian) 8,166,050 0.20 (ii) Bodies Corporate (Foreign) 203,177,716 5.08 (iii) Trusts 6,598,342 0.17 (iv) NRIs / OCBs / Foreign Nationals / QFI 1,857,260 0.05 (v) Resident Individuals 28,467,769 0.71 (vi) Indian Public & Others 11,252,887 0.28 T otal Public Shareholding 1,313,739,547 32.86 T otal Shareholding 3,997,400,102 100.00 Dematerialisation of Shares and Liquidity The Company’s shares are compulsorily traded in dematerialised form and are available for trading with both the depositories  i.e.
National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL).
The shareholders  can hold the Company’s shares with any of the depository participants, registered with these depositories.
ISIN for the  Company’s shares is INE397D01024.
The Company’s equity shares are frequently traded at the BSE Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited.
Outstanding GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any Convertible instruments, conversion date and likely impact  on equity The Company does not have any outstanding GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any convertible instruments as on date.
Disclosure of commodity price risks and commodity hedging activities The Company follows prudent Board approved risk management policies.
A detailed note on commodity price risks and  commodity hedging activities is given in Management Discussion and Analysis forming part of Annual Report.
Plant Locations Being a service provider company, Bharti Airtel has no plant locations.
The Company’s Circle Office addresses are provided at  the end of the Annual Report.
Communication Addresses Category Email Address For	Corporate	Governance	and	  other Secretarial related matters  Mr. Rohit Krishan Puri Deputy Company Secretary compliance.officer@bharti.in	 Bharti Airtel Limited Bharti Crescent, 1,  Nelson Mandela Road,   Vasant Kunj, Phase – II,   New Delhi 110 070 T elephone no.
+91 11 46666100  Fax	no.
+91	11	46666137 Website: www.airtel.com For queries relating to Financial  Statements Mr. Parag T oley Head - Investor Relations ir@bharti.in For Corporate Communication  related matters Mr. Raza Khan Head	-	Group	Corporate	 Communications corporate.communications@ bharti.in Registrar & Transfer Agent Karvy Computershare Pvt.
Ltd. einward.ris@karvy.com Karvy Selenium T ower B,  Plot number 31 & 32,  Gachibowli,	Financial	District,	 Nanakramguda, ,  Hyderabad – 500032 Ph No.
040-67162222 Fax	No.
040-23001153 Website   www.karvy.com 126 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Annexure A Declaration I hereby confirm that the Company has received from all the members of the Board and Senior Management, for the financial  year ended March 31, 2017, a confirmation that they are in compliance with the Company’s Code of Conduct.
For Bharti Airtel Limited Date: May 09, 2017 Gopal Vittal Place: New Delhi  Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia) Annexure B Chief Executive Officer (CEO) / Chief Financial Officer (CFO) certification We, Gopal Vittal, Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia) and Nilanjan Roy, Global Chief Financial Officer of Bharti Airtel  Limited, to the best of our knowledge and belief hereby certify that: (a)  We have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement for the year ended March 31, 2017 and that to the  best of our knowledge and belief :    (i)   these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that  might be misleading;    (ii)  these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing  accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
(b)  There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the year which  are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s code of conduct.
(c)    We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that we have  evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the company pertaining to financial reporting and we have  disclosed to the Auditors and the Audit & Risk Management Committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of such  internal controls, if any, of which we are aware and the steps we have taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies.
(d) We have indicated to the auditors and the Audit & Risk Management Committee:    (i)  significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year;    (ii)  significant changes in accounting policies during the year and that the same have been disclosed in the notes to the  financial statements; and    (iii)  instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the management  or an employee having a significant role in the company’s internal control system over financial reporting.
Place: New Delhi Date: May 09, 2017 Gopal Vittal Managing Director & CEO  (India & South Asia) Nilanjan Roy Global Chief Financial Officer 127 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Standalone Financial Statements (Ind AS) Particulars Page   Nos.
Independent Auditor’s Report 128 Standalone Balance Sheet 134 Statement of Profit and Loss 135 Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity 136 Standalone Statement of Cash Flows 137 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 1.
Corporate Information 138 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies 138 3.
Critical accounting estimates, assumptions   and judgements 145 4.
Standards issued but not effective until the   date of authorisation for issuance of the said   financial statements 146 5.
Significant transactions / new developments 146 6.
Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’) 147 7.
Intangible assets 148 8.
Investments 148 9.
Derivative financial Instruments 151 10.
Loans and security deposits 151 11.
Financial assets – others 151 12.
Income taxes 152 13.
Other non-financial assets 153 14.
Trade receivables 153 15.
Cash and cash equivalents (‘C&CE’) 154 16.
Share capital 154 Particulars Page   Nos.
17.
Borrowings 155 18.
Financial liabilities - others 157 19.
Provisions 157 20.
Other non-financial liabilities 158 21.
Trade payables 158 22.
Contingent liabilities and commitments 158 23.
Revenue from operations 162 24.
Employee benefits 162 25.
Network operating expenses / sales and  marketing expenses / other expenses166 26.
Depreciation and amortisation 166 27.
Finance costs and income 167 28.
Non-operating expense 167 29.
Exceptional items 167 30.
Earnings per share (‘EPS’) 167 31.
Segment reporting 167 32.
Related party disclosures 169 33.
Financial and capital risk 174 34.
Fair Value of financial assets and liabilities 178 35.
Auditor’s remuneration 179 36.
Micro, small & medium enterprises  development act, 2006 (‘MSMED’) disclosure179 37.
Other matters 179 38.
Reconciliation from previous GAAP 179 128 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 T o the Members of Bharti Airtel Limited Report on the Standalone Ind AS financial  statements We have audited the accompanying standalone Ind AS  financial statements of Bharti Airtel Limited (“the Company”),  which comprise the standalone Balance Sheet as at March  31, 2017, the standalone Statement of Profit and Loss  including other comprehensive income, the standalone Cash  Flow Statement and standalone Statement of changes in  Equity for the year then ended, and a summary of significant  accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Management’s Responsibility for the Standalone  Ind AS financial statements The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the  matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Companies Act,  2013 (“the Act”) with respect to the preparation of these  standalone Ind AS financial statements that give a true  and fair view of the financial position, financial performance  including other comprehensive income, cash flows and  changes in equity of the Company in accordance with  accounting principles generally accepted in India, including  the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under  Section 133 of the Act, read with Rule 3 of the Companies  (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 and the  Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment  Rules, 2016 issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
This  responsibility includes maintenance of adequate accounting  records in accordance with the provisions of the Act  for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for  preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities;  selection and application of appropriate accounting policies;  making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and  prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance  of adequate internal financial control that were operating  effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness  of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and  presentation of the standalone Ind AS financial statements  that give a true and fair view and are free from material  misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these  standalone Ind AS financial statements based on our audit.
We have taken into account the provisions of the Act, the  accounting and auditing standards and matters which  are required to be included in the audit report under the  provisions of the Act and the rules made thereunder.
We  conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on  Auditing issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of  India, as specified under Section 143(10) of the Act.
Those  Standards require that we comply with ethical requirements  and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether these standalone Ind AS financial  statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit  evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the  standalone Ind AS financial statements.
The procedures  selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including  the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of  the standalone Ind AS financial statements, whether due  to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the  auditor considers internal financial control relevant to the  Company’s preparation of the standalone Ind AS financial  statements that give a true and fair view in order to design  audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of  accounting policies used and the reasonableness of the  accounting estimates made by the Company’s Directors, as  well as evaluating the overall presentation of the standalone  Ind AS financial statements.
We believe that the audit  evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to  provide a basis for our audit opinion on these standalone Ind  AS financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion and to the best of our information and  according to the explanations given to us, these standalone  Ind AS financial statements give the information required by  the Act in the manner so required and give a true and fair  view in conformity with the accounting principles generally  accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company as at  March 31, 2017, its loss including other comprehensive loss  and its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Emphasis of Matter We draw attention to Note 22(i)(f)(v) to the standalone Ind  AS financial statements which describes the uncertainties  related to the legal outcome of the Department of  T elecommunications’ demand with respect to One Time  Spectrum Charge.
Our opinion is not qualified in respect of  this matter.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory  Requirements 1.
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s report) Order,  2016 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government  of India in terms of sub-section (11) of Section 143 of  the Act, we give in the Annexure 1 a statement on the  matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.
2.
As required by Section 143 (3) of the Act, we report that:  (a)   W e have sought and obtained all the information and  explanations which to the best of our knowledge and  belief were necessary for the purpose of our audit;  (b)   In  our opinion, proper books of account as required  by law have been kept by the Company so far as it  appears from our examination of those books;  (c)     The  Balance Sheet, Statement of Profit and Loss  including the Statement of Other Comprehensive  Independent Auditor’s Report 129 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Income, the Cash Flow Statement and Statement  of Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in  agreement with the books of account;  (d)  In our opinion, these standalone Ind AS financial  statements comply with the Accounting Standards  specified under Section 133 of the Act, read with Rule  3 of the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards)  Rules, 2015 and the Companies (Indian Accounting  Standards) Amendment Rules, 2016 issued by  Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
;  (e)  On the basis of written representations received from  the directors as on March 31, 2017, and taken on  record by the Board of Directors, none of the directors  is disqualified as on March 31, 2017, from being  appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of  the Act;  (f)    With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial  controls over financial reporting of the Company and  the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to  our separate Report dated May 9, 2017 in “Annexure  2” to this report;  (g)  With respect to the other matters to be included in  the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of  the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 and  Companies (Audit and Auditors) Amendment Rules,  2017, in our opinion and to the best of our information  and according to the explanations given to us:   i.
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending  litigations on its financial position in its standalone Ind  AS financial statements – Refer 19 to the standalone  Ind AS financial statements;   ii.
The Company has made provision, as required  under the applicable law or accounting standards,  for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term  contracts including derivative contracts – Refer Note  9 to the standalone Ind AS financial statements;   iii.
There were no amounts which were required to be  transferred to the Investor Education and Protection  Fund by the Company;   iv.
The Company has provided requisite disclosures  in Note 15 to these standalone Ind AS financial  statements as to the holding of Specified Bank Notes  on November 8, 2016 and December 30, 2016 as well  as dealings in Specified Bank Notes during the period  from November 8, 2016 to December 30, 2016.
Based on our audit procedures and relying on the  management representation regarding the holding  and nature of cash transactions, including Specified  Bank Notes, we report that these disclosures are in  accordance with the books of accounts maintained  by the Company and as produced to us by the  Management.
For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W / E300004 per Nilangshu Katriar Partner  Membership No: 58814 Place: New Delhi Date: May 9, 2017 130 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Independent Auditor’s Report Annexure 1 Annexure referred to in paragraph 1 of ‘Report on other  Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ Re: [BHARTI AIRTEL LIMITED] (‘the Company’) (i) (a)  The Company has maintained proper records showing  full particulars with respect to most of its fixed assets,  and is in the process of updating quantitative and  situation details with respect to certain fixed assets in  the records maintained by the Company.
(b)  The capitalised fixed assets are physically verified by  the management according to a regular programme  designed to cover all the items over a period of three  years.
Pursuant to the planned programme during the  year, a substantial portion of fixed assets and capital  work in progress has been physically verified by the  management during the year, which in our opinion is  reasonable having regard to the size of the Company  and nature of its assets.
No material discrepancies  were noted on such verification.
(c)    Based on our audit procedures performed for the  purpose of reporting the true and fair view of the  financial statements and according to information and  explanations given by the management, the title deeds  of immovable properties included in property, plant  and equipment are held in the name of the Company.
(ii)      The management has conducted physical verification  of inventory (other than inventory with third parties) at  reasonable intervals during the year and no material  discrepancies were noticed on such physical verification.
(iii)    According to the information and explanations  given to us, the Company has not granted any  loans, secured or unsecured, to companies, firms,  limited liability partnership firm or other parties  covered in the register maintained under Section  189 of the Companies Act, 2013.
Accordingly, the  provision of clause 3(iii)(a), (b) and (c) of the Order  are not applicable to the Company and hence not  commented upon.
(iv)    In our opinion and according to the information  and explanations given to us, there are no loans,  investments, guarantees, and securities granted in  respect of which provisions of Section 185 and 186  of the Companies Act, 2013 are applicable and hence  not commented upon.
(v)     The Company has not accepted any deposits from  the public.
(vi)    We have broadly reviewed the books of account  maintained by the Company pursuant to the  rules made by the Central Government for the  maintenance of cost records under Section 148(1) of  the Companies Act, 2013, related to the service of  telecommunication and are of the opinion that prima  facie, the prescribed accounts and records have  been made and maintained.
We have not, however,  made a detailed examination of records with a view  to determine whether they are accurate or complete.
(vii) (a)  The Company is regular in depositing with  appropriate authorities undisputed statutory dues  including provident fund, employees’ state insurance,  income-tax, sales-tax, service tax, duty of customs,  value added tax, cess and other material statutory  dues applicable to it.
The provisions relating to duty  of excise are not applicable to the Company.
According to the information and explanations given  to us, no undisputed amounts payable in respect of  provident fund, employees’ state insurance, income- tax, sales-tax, service tax, duty of customs, value  added tax, cess and other material undisputed  statutory dues were outstanding, as at the year end,  for a period of more than six months from the date  they became payable.
(b)   According to the records of the Company, the dues outstanding of income-tax, sales-tax, service tax, duty of customs,  value added tax and cess on account of any dispute, are as follows: Name of  Statutes Nature of the  Dues Amount  Disputed  (In ` Mn)  Period to   Which It Relates Forum where The Dispute Is  Pending Andhra Pradesh  Value Added T ax Act, 2005 Sales T ax  87 2004-13 Tribunal  Bihar Value Added T ax Act, 2005 Sales T ax  58 2005-10 Tribunal  Bihar Value Added T ax Act, 2005 Sales T ax  0 2015-16 Assistant Commissioner Bihar Value Added T ax Act, 2005 Sales T ax  82 2010-15 Joint Commissioner,  Appeal Bihar Value Added T ax Act, 2005 Sales T ax  2 2006-07 Commercial T ax Officer Bihar Value Added T ax Act, 2005 Sales T ax  1 2016-17 Deputy Commissioner Chhattisgarh Value Added T ax Act, 2003 Sales T ax  0 2005-07 Assistant Commissioner Gujarat Value Added T ax Act, 2003 Sales T ax  1 2005-07 Assistant Commissioner  J&K General Sales T ax Sales T ax  34 2004-07 High Court , Jammu & Kashmir  Karnataka VA T Act, 2003 Sales T ax  291 2005-06 Assistant Commissioner   Karnataka VA T Act, 2003 Sales T ax  2 2016-17 Joint Commissioner Kerala Sales T ax Act Sales T ax  1 2002-05 Tribunal   Kerala Sales T ax Act Sales T ax  0 2005-11 Commercial tax Officer  Kerala Sales T ax Act Sales T ax  16 2005-10 Deputy Commissioner, Appeal   Kerala Sales T ax Act Sales T ax  0 2008-10 Intelligence Officer Squad   Kerala Value Added T ax Act, 2003 Sales T ax  71 2006-07 High Court of Kerala 131 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Name of  Statutes Nature of the  Dues Amount  Disputed  (In ` Mn)  Period to   Which It Relates Forum where The Dispute Is  Pending Kerala Value Added T ax Act, 2003 Sales T ax  44 2007-12 Asst.
Commissioner, Spl Circle III,  Ernakulam Kerala Value Added T ax Act, 2003 Sales T ax  0 2016-17 Intelligence Officer, Ernakulam Kerala Value Added T ax Act, 2003 Sales T ax  0 2015-16 Intelligence Inspector, Squad No.
I,  T ellichery Kerala Value Added T ax Act, 2003 Sales T ax  0 2015-16 Intelligence Inspector, Squad No.
3,  Ernakulam Kerala Value Added T ax Act, 2003 Sales T ax  1 2005-17 Commercial tax Officer  Madhya Pradesh Value Added T ax Act, 2002 Sales T ax  24 2006-13 Tribunal Madhya Pradesh Value Added T ax Act, 2002 Sales T ax  22 1997-04 Deputy Commissioner, Appeal  Madhya Pradesh Value Added T ax Act, 2002 Sales T ax  1 2008-10 Deputy Commissioner  Madhya Pradesh Value Added T ax Act, 2002 Sales T ax  0 2004-08 Commercial T ax Officer Maharashtra Sales T ax Act Sales T ax  0 2003-04 Joint Commissioner, Appeal   Punjab Value Added T ax Act, 2005 Sales T ax  30 2003-04 High Court   Punjab Value Added T ax Act, 2005 Sales T ax  1 2008-10 Tribunal  Punjab Value Added T ax Act, 2005 Sales T ax  1 2002-03 Jt.
Director( Enforcement)   Punjab Value Added T ax Act, 2005 Sales T ax  1 2009-16 Deputy Excise and T axation  Commissioner UP Value Added T ax Act Sales T ax  6 2008-10 High court  UP Value Added T ax Act Sales T ax  21 2002-05 Assistant Commissioner  UP Value Added T ax Act Sales T ax  9 2005-10 Tribunal  UP Value Added T ax Act Sales T ax  1 2007-08 Joint Commissioner UP Value Added T ax Act Sales T ax  2 2003-10 Joint Commissioner, Appeal  UP Value Added T ax Act Sales T ax  2 2014-16 Additional Commissioner UP Value Added T ax Act Sales T ax  9 2003-17 Deputy Commissioner UP Value Added T ax Act Sales T ax  11 2005-13 Assessing officer  Uttarakhand Value Added T ax Act, 2005 Sales T ax  0 2013-14 AO West Bengal Value Added T ax Act, 2003 Sales T ax  3 1997-12 Tribunal  West Bengal Value Added T ax Act, 2003 Sales T ax  0 1996-97 The Deputy Commissioner of  Commercial T axes West Bengal Value Added T ax Act, 2003 Sales T ax  0 1995-98 Commercial T ax Officer  West Bengal Value Added T ax Act, 2003 Sales T ax  9 2005-06 Revision Board  Sub T otal (A)  844  Finance Act, 1994 (Service tax provisions ) Service T ax  278 1995-08 Supreme Court   Finance Act, 1994 (Service tax provisions ) Service T ax  7 2002-07 High court  Finance Act, 1994 (Service tax provisions ) Service T ax  9,966 1995-12 Tribunal  Finance Act, 1994 (Service tax provisions ) Service T ax  7 1999-16 Commissioner Adjudication  Finance Act, 1994 (Service tax provisions ) Service T ax  19 2003-10 Commissioner Appeal  Finance Act, 1994 (Service tax provisions ) Service T ax  382 2003-13 Commissioner of Service T ax  Sub T otal (B)  10,659  Income T ax Act, 1961 Income T ax  128 2001-03, 2004-08 Supreme Court Income T ax Act, 1961 Income T ax  10,622 1996-97, 2003-10 High Court Income T ax Act, 1961 Income T ax  31,580 1995-2011 Income T ax Appellate Tribunal Income T ax Act, 1961 Income T ax 2,882 1998-2015 Commissioner of Income T ax  (Appeals) Income T ax Act, 1961 Income T ax  16 1994-95, 1996- 98, 2004-16 Assessing Officer Sub T otal (C)  45,228  Custom Act, 1962 Custom Act  4,128 2001-05 Supreme Court  Custom Act, 1962 Custom Act  189 2003-12 Tribunal   Sub T otal (D)  4,317  Grand T otal:  61,048  The above mentioned figures represent the total disputed cases without any assessment of Probable, Possible and Remote, as done in case of Contingent  Liabilities.
Of the above cases, total amount deposited in respect of Sales T ax is `302 Mn, Service T ax is `452 Mn, Income T ax is `11,056 Mn and Custom Duty  is `2,141 Mn.
132 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Independent Auditor’s Report (viii)  Based on our audit procedures for the purpose  of reporting the true and fair view of the financial  statements and according to information and  explanations given by the management, we are of  the opinion that the Company has not defaulted in  repayment of dues to a financial institution, bank,  debenture holders or government.
(ix)  In our opinion and according to information and  explanations given by the management, monies raised  by the company by way of term loans were applied for  the purpose for which they were raised.
(x)   Based upon the audit procedures performed for the  purpose of reporting the true and fair view of the  financial statements and according to the information  and explanations given by the management, we  report that no fraud by the company or on the  company by the officers and employees of the  Company has been noticed or reported during   the year.
(xi)  Based on our audit procedures performed for the  purpose of reporting the true and fair view of the  financial statements and according to the information  and explanations given by the management, we report  that the managerial remuneration has been paid /  provided in accordance with the requisite approvals  mandated by the provisions of Section 197 read with  Schedule V to the Companies Act, 2013.
(xii)  In our opinion, the Company is not a Nidhi Company.
Therefore, the provisions of clause 3(xi) of the order  are not applicable to the Company and hence not  commented upon.
(xiii)  Based on our audit procedures performed for the  purpose of reporting the true and fair view of the  financial statements and according to the information  and explanations given by the management,  transactions with the related parties are in compliance  with Section 177 and 188 of Companies Act, 2013  where applicable and the details have been disclosed  in the notes to the financial statements, as required by  the applicable accounting standards.
(xiv)  According to the information and explanations given  to us and on an overall examination of the balance  sheet, the Company has not made any preferential  allotment or private placement of shares or fully or  partly convertible debentures during the year under  review and hence not commented upon.
(xv)  Based on our audit procedures performed for the  purpose of reporting the true and fair view of the financial  statements and according to the information and  explanations given by the management, the Company  has not entered into any non-cash transactions with  directors or persons connected with him.
(xvi)  According to the information and explanations given to  us, the provisions of Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank  of India Act, 1934 are not applicable to the Company.
For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W / E300004 per Nilangshu Katriar Partner  Membership No: 58814 Place: New Delhi Date: May 9, 2017 133 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Annexure 2 T o the Independent Auditor’s Report of even  date on the standalone Ind AS financial statements of  Bharti Airtel Limted Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of  Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013  (“the Act”) T o the Members of Bharti Airtel Limited We have audited the internal financial controls over  financial reporting of Bharti Airtel Limited (“the Company”)  as of March 31, 2017 in conjunction with our audit of the  standalone Ind AS financial statements of the Company for  the year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal  Financial Controls The Company’s Management is responsible for establishing  and maintaining internal financial controls based on the  internal control over financial reporting criteria established  by the Company considering the essential components of  internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of  Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued  by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
These  responsibilities include the design, implementation and  maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that  were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and  efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to  the Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the  prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy  and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely  preparation of reliable financial information, as required  under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s  internal financial controls over financial reporting based on  our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the  Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over  Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and the Standards  on Auditing as specified under Section 143(10) of the Act, to  the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls  and, both issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants  of India.
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require  that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about  whether adequate internal financial controls over financial  reporting was established and maintained and if such  controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit  evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial  controls system over financial reporting and their operating  effectiveness.
Our audit of internal financial controls over  financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of  internal financial controls over financial reporting, assessing  the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and  evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of  internal control based on the assessed risk.
The procedures  selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the  assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the  financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is  sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit  opinion on the internal financial controls system over  financial reporting.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls Over  Financial Reporting A Company’s internal financial control over financial  reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable  assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and  the preparation of financial statements for external purposes  in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A Company’s internal financial control over financial  reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)  pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable  detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and  dispositions of the assets of the Company; (2) provide  reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as  necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in  accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,  and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are  being made only in accordance with authorisations of  management and directors of the Company; and (3) provide  reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely  detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of  the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on  the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls  Over Financial Reporting Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial  controls over financial reporting, including the possibility  of collusion or improper management override of controls,  material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and  not be detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the  internal financial controls over financial reporting to future  periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial  control over financial reporting may become inadequate  because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of  compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, an  adequate internal financial controls system over financial  reporting and such internal financial controls over financial  reporting were operating effectively as at March 31, 2017,  based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria  established by the Company considering the essential  components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on  Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting  issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W / E300004 per Nilangshu Katriar Partner  Membership No: 58814 Place: New Delhi Date: May 9, 2017 134 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees) Particulars Notes As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Assets Non-current assets  Property, plant and equipment 6  381,176  312,673  258,156  Capital work-in-progress 6  11,818  28,588  26,898  Intangible assets 7  734,052  606,582  277,892  Intangible assets under development 7  84,184  9,715  64,108  Investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 8  459,538  698,913  652,478  Financial assets  - Investments 8  52  52  52  - Derivative instruments 9  213  396  154  - Loans and security deposits 10  10,389  28,861  42,892  - Others 11  556  598  487  Deferred tax assets (net) 12  8,875  23,070  27,241  Other non-current assets 13  39,854  26,622  17,041   1,730,707  1,736,070  1,367,399  Current assets  Inventories  39  53  94  Financial assets  - Investments 8  -  8  47,567  - Derivative instruments 9  634  462  168  - Trade receivables 14  32,118  31,724  33,047  - Cash and cash equivalents 15  1,087  466  3,852  - Loans 10  72,081  43,376  40,552  - Others 11  8,772  13,959  9,665  Current tax assets (net)  15,297  820  -  Other current assets 13  32,952  23,342  12,945  Assets-held-for-sale 5  13,729  -  -   176,709  114,210  147,890  T otal Assets  1,907,416  1,850,280  1,515,289  Equity and Liabilities  Equity  Share capital 16  19,987  19,987  19,987  Other equity  992,086  1,097,304  1,037,395   1,012,073  1,117,291  1,057,382  Non-current liabilities  Financial liabilities  - Borrowings 17  503,421  414,570  194,209  - Derivative instruments 9  186  8  121  - Others 18  21,881  20,736  19,713  Deferred revenue  18,321  16,984  15,887  Provisions 19  2,330  2,223  1,926   546,139  454,521  231,856  Current liabilities  Financial liabilities  - Borrowings 17  65,478  6,999  6,259  - Current maturities of long-term borrowings 17  33,451  33,434  13,171  - Derivative instruments 9  1,662  696  223  - Trade Payables 21  149,698  119,706  105,769  - Others 18  55,671  78,772  65,250  Deferred revenue  30,311  29,485  28,726  Provisions 19  1,291  1,189  1,174  Current tax liabilities (net)  -  -  507  Other current liabilities 20  11,642  8,187  4,972   349,204  278,468  226,051  T otal Liabilities  895,343  732,989  457,907  T otal Equity and Liabilities  1,907,416  1,850,280  1,515,289  The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone financial statements.
As per our report of even date For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W / E300004 per Nilangshu Katriar Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Partner  Membership No: 58814 Chairman DIN: 00042491 Managing Director  & CEO (India & South Asia) DIN: 02291778 Place: New Delhi Nilanjan Roy Date: May 9, 2017 Global Chief Financial Officer Standalone Balance Sheet 135 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements As per our report of even date For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W / E300004 per Nilangshu Katriar Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Partner  Membership No: 58814 Chairman DIN: 00042491 Managing Director  & CEO (India & South Asia) DIN: 02291778 Place: New Delhi Nilanjan Roy Date: May 9, 2017 Global Chief Financial Officer (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees; except per share data) Particulars Notes For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Income  Revenue from operations 23  622,763  603,003  Other income  1,843  1,729   624,606  604,732  Expenses  Network operating expenses 25  145,360  137,889  Access charges  80,505  80,236  License fee / spectrum charges (revenue share)  69,416  69,635  Employee benefits 24  17,385  18,648  Sales and marketing expenses 25  32,320  32,824  Other expenses 25  38,524  39,640   383,510  378,872  Profit from operating activities before depreciation,  amortisation and exceptional items   241,096  225,860  Depreciation and amortisation 26  122,034  95,753  Finance costs 27  52,546  35,453  Finance income 27  (23,421)  (15,708) Non-operating expense 28  2,324  1,019  Profit before exceptional items and tax  87,613  109,343  Exceptional items 29  172,708  6,799  (Loss) / profit before tax  (85,095)  102,544  T ax expense  Current tax 12  (45)  20,558  Deferred tax 12  14,206  4,183  (Loss) / profit for the year  (99,256)  77,803  Other comprehensive income ('OCI')  Items not to be reclassified to profit or loss:  Re-measurement losses on defined benefit plans 24  (36)  (46) Income tax credit 12  11  12  Other comprehensive loss for the year  (25)  (34) T otal comprehensive (loss) / gain for the year  (99,281)  77,769  Earnings per share (In Rupees) (Face value ` 5/- each)  Basic and Diluted 30  (24.84)  19.46  The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone financial statements.
Statement of Profit and Loss 136 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees; except per share data) Particulars Share capital Other equity - Reserves and Surplus T otal  equityNo of  shares  (in ‘000) Amount Share   premium Retained  earnings General  reserve Business  restructuring  reserve Share  based  payment  reserve Capital  reserve T otal  As of April 1, 2015  3,997,400  19,987  106,650  875,263  27,030  24,912  3,489 51  1,037,395  1,057,382  Profit for the year  -  -  -  77,803  -  -  -  -  77,803  77,803  Other  comprehensive loss   -  -  -  (34)  -  -  -  -  (34)  (34) T otal comprehensive  income   -  -  -  77,769  -  -  -  -  77,769  77,769  Transaction with  owners of equity  Employee share- based payment  expense   -  -  -  -  -  -  209  -  209  209  Exercise of share  options   -  -  -  -  -  -  127  -  127  127  Dividend paid  (including tax)   -  -  -  (8,872)  -  -  (8,872)  (8,872) Merger of subsidiary  -  -  -  (9,425)  -  (8,599)  -  8,700  (9,324)  (9,324) As of March 31, 2016  3,997,400  19,987  106,650  934,735  27,030  16,313  3,825  8,751  1,097,304  1,117,291  Loss for the year  -  -  -  (99,256)  -  -  -  -  (99,256)  (99,256) Other  comprehensive loss   -  -  -  (25)  -  -  -  -  (25)  (25) T otal comprehensive  loss   -  -  -  (99,281)  -  -  -  -  (99,281)  (99,281) Transaction with  owners of equity  Employee share- based payment  expense   -  -  -  -  -  -  298  -  298  298  Exercise of share  options   -  -  -  -  -  -  (144)  -  (144)  (144) Dividend paid  (including tax)   -  -  -  (5,456)  -  -  -  -  (5,456)  (5,456) Merger of subsidiary  -  -  530  (720)  (445)  (635)  (635) As of March 31, 2017  3,997,400  19,987  107,180  829,278  26,585  16,313  3,979  8,751  992,086  1,012,073  The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone financial statements.
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity As per our report of even date For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W / E300004 per Nilangshu Katriar Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Partner  Membership No: 58814 Chairman DIN: 00042491 Managing Director  & CEO (India & South Asia) DIN: 02291778 Place: New Delhi Nilanjan Roy Date: May 9, 2017 Global Chief Financial Officer 137 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Standalone Statement of Cash Flows As per our report of even date For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W / E300004 per Nilangshu Katriar Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Partner  Membership No: 58814 Chairman DIN: 00042491 Managing Director  & CEO (India & South Asia) DIN: 02291778 Place: New Delhi Nilanjan Roy Date: May 9, 2017 Global Chief Financial Officer (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees) Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Cash flows from operating activities (Loss) / profit before tax  (85,095)  102,542  Adjustments for:  Depreciation and amortisation  122,034  95,753  Finance costs  52,546  35,453  Finance income  (23,421)  (15,708) Exceptional items  152,405  (2,925) Employee share-based payment expenses  298  209  Other non-cash items  795  434  Operating cash flow before changes in working capital  219,562  215,758  Changes in working capital Trade receivables  (151)  (3,087) Trade payables  27,092  9,556  Inventories  14  68  Provisions  180  48  Other financial and non-financial liabilities  225  5,816  Other financial and non-financial assets  (20,827)  (11,863) Net cash generated from operations before tax  226,095  216,296  Income tax paid  (14,439)  (21,797) Net cash generated from operating activities (a)  211,656  194,499  Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (156,143)  (111,568) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  3,053  4,853  Purchase of intangible assets  (179,939)  (71,709) Net proceeds from current investments  47  47,376  Proceeds from buyback of share by subsidiary  12,350  -  Proceeds from sale of investment of subsidiaries  146,223  -  Investment in joint venture / associate  -  113  Investment in subsidiaries  (74,283)  (111,685) Advances given to subsidiaries  (98,797)  (17,773) Loan repayment by subsidiaries  82,288  26,517  Dividend received  16,511  9,470  Interest received  5,858  4,513  Net cash used in investing activities (b)  (242,833)  (219,893) Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings  140,419  74,520  Repayment of borrowings  (122,391)  (38,490) Net proceeds / repayment of short-term borrowings  32,832  (3,316) Interest and other finance charges paid  (10,850)  (5,087) Proceeds from exercise of share options  3  231  Dividend paid (including tax)  (5,456)  (8,874) Net cash generated from financing activities (c)  34,557  18,984  Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents during the year (a+b+c)  3,380  (6,410) Add: Cash and cash equivalents as at the beginning of the year  (2,558)  3,852  Cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the year (refer Note 15)  822  (2,558) The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone financial statements.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 138 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 1.
Corporate information Bharti Airtel Limited (‘the Company’) is domiciled and  incorporated in India as a limited liability company with its  shares being listed on the National Stock Exchange and  the Bombay Stock Exchange.
The registered office of the  Company is situated at Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela  Road, Vasant Kunj, Phase – II, New Delhi – 110070.
The Company is principally engaged in provision of  telecommunication services in India.
The details as to the  services provided by the Company are further provided in  Note 31.
For details as to the group entities, refer Note 32.
2.
Summary of significant accounting policies 2.1 Basis of preparation These standalone financial statements (‘financial  statements’) have been prepared to comply in all material  respects with the Indian Accounting Standard (‘Ind AS’)  notified under section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013, read  together with Rule 3 of the Companies (Indian Accounting  Standards) Rules, 2015 and Companies (Indian Accounting  Standards) Amendment Rules, 2016 issued by the Ministry  of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’).
The said financial statements for the year ended March 31,  2017 are the first Ind AS financial statements of the Company.
The transition to Ind AS has been carried out from accounting  standards notified under section 133 of the Companies Act 2013,  read together with paragraph 7 of the Companies (Accounts)  Rules, 2014 (‘IGAAP’), which is considered as the Previous GAAP ,  for purposes of Ind AS 101.
For details, refer Note 2.3.
The financial statements are authorized for issue by the  Company’s Board of Directors on May 09, 2017.
The accounting policies, as set out in the following paragraphs  of this note, have been consistently applied, by the Company,  to all the periods presented in the said financial statements.
The preparation of the said financial statements requires the  use of certain critical accounting estimates and judgements.
It also requires the management to exercise judgement in  the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies.
The areas where estimates are significant to the financial  statements, or areas involving a higher degree of judgement  or complexity, are disclosed in Note 3.
The financial statements are based on the classification  provisions contained in Ind AS 1, ‘Presentation of Financial  Statements’ and division II of schedule III of the Companies  Act 2013.
Further, for the purpose of clarity, various items  are aggregated in the statement of profit and loss and  balance sheet.
Nonetheless, these items are dis-aggregated  separately in the notes to the financial statements, where  applicable or required.
All the amounts included in the financial statements are  reported in millions of Indian Rupees (‘Rupees’ or ‘`’) and are  rounded to the nearest million, except per share data and  unless stated otherwise.
2.2 Basis of measurement The financial statements have been prepared on the accrual  and going concern basis, and the historical cost convention  except where the Ind AS requires a different accounting  treatment.
The principal variations from the historical cost  convention relate to financial instruments classified as fair  value through profit or loss and liability for cash-settled  awards (refer Note 2.16) - which are measured at fair value.
Fair value measurement Fair value is the price at the measurement date, at which an  asset can be sold or paid to transfer a liability, in an orderly  transaction between market participants.
The Company’s  accounting policies require, measurement of certain  financial / non-financial assets and liabilities at fair values  (either on a recurring or non-recurring basis).
Also, the fair  values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost  are required to be disclosed in the said financial statements.
The Company is required to classify the fair valuation  method of the financial / non-financial assets and liabilities,  either measured or disclosed at fair value in the financial  statements, using a three level fair-value-hierarchy (which  reflects the significance of inputs used in the measurement).
Accordingly, the Company uses valuation techniques that  are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient  data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use  of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of  unobservable inputs.
The three levels of the fair-value-hierarchy are described  below: Level 1: Quoted (unadjusted) prices for identical assets or  liabilities in active markets Level 2: Significant inputs to the fair value measurement are  directly or indirectly observable Level 3: Significant inputs to the fair value measurement are  unobservable.
2.3 Basis of transition to Ind AS The adoption of Ind AS is carried out in accordance with Ind  AS 101 on April 1, 2015 being the transition date.
Ind AS  101 requires that all Ind AS standards that are issued and  effective for the year ending March 31, 2017, be applied  retrospectively and consistently for all the periods presented.
However, in preparing these financial statements, the  Company has availed of certain exemptions and exceptions  in accordance with Ind AS 101, as explained below.
The  resulting difference between the carrying values of the  assets and liabilities in the financial statements as at the  transition date under Ind AS and previous GAAP have been  recognised directly in equity at the transition date.
In these financial statements, the Company has presented  three balance sheets - as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016  and April 1, 2015.
The Company has also presented two  statements of profit and loss, two statements of changes in  equity and two statements of cash flows for the year ended  March 31, 2017 and 2016 along with the necessary and  related notes.
Ind AS 101 allows first-time adopters certain optional  exemptions and mandatory exceptions from the  retrospective application of certain requirements under   Ind AS.
Exemptions / exceptions from full retrospective  application (i)   The Company has elected to apply the following optional  exemption from full retrospective application of Ind AS:    The Company has elected the option of fair valuing  the investments in certain subsidiaries to derive the  carrying value of these investments (‘deemed cost’).
(ii)   The following mandatory exceptions from retrospective  application of Ind AS have applied by the Company : (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 139 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements   a)   Estimates exception - On an assessment of  the estimates made under the Previous GAAP  financial statements, the Company has concluded  that there is no necessity to revise the estimates  under Ind AS (except for adjustments to reflect  any difference in accounting policies), as there is  no objective evidence that those estimates were  in error.
However, estimates that were required  under Ind AS but not required under Previous  GAAP , are made by the Company for the relevant  reporting dates, reflecting conditions existing as at  that date without using any hindsight.
b)   De-recognition of financial assets and  liabilities exception - Financial assets and  liabilities de-recognised before transition date are  not re-recognised under Ind AS.
Reconciliations and explanations of the significant  effect of the transition from Previous GAAP to Ind  AS on the Company’s equity, statement of profit  and loss and statement of cash flows are provided  in Note 38.
2.4 Foreign currency transactions    The financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees  which is the functional and presentation currency of the  Company.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded   in the relevant functional currency at the rates prevailing  at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign  currencies are translated into the functional currency at  the closing exchange rate prevailing as at the reporting  date with the resulting foreign exchange differences,  on subsequent re-statement / settlement, recognised  in the statement of profit and loss within finance costs  / finance income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities  denominated in foreign currencies are translated  into the functional currency using the exchange rate  prevalent, at the date of initial recognition (in case they  are measured at historical cost) or at the date when the  fair value is determined (in case they are measured at  fair value) – the resulting foreign exchange difference,  on subsequent re-statement / settlement, recognised  in the statement of profit and loss, except to the  extent that it relates to items recognised in the other  comprehensive income or directly in equity.
The equity items denominated in foreign currencies are  translated at historical cost.
2.5 Current versus non-current classification    The Company presents assets and liabilities in  the balance sheet based on current / non-current  classification.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities, and all assets and  liabilities which are not current (as discussed in the  below paragraphs) are classified as non-current assets  and liabilities.
An asset is classified as current when it is expected  to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed in  normal operating cycle, held primarily for the purpose  of trading, expected to be realised within twelve months  after the reporting period, or cash or cash equivalent  unless restricted from being exchanged or used to  settle a liability for at least twelve months after the  reporting period.
A liability is classified as current when it is expected to  be settled in normal operating cycle, it is held primarily  for the purpose of trading, it is due to be settled within  twelve months after the reporting period, or there is no  unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability  for at least twelve months after the reporting period.
Separated embedded derivatives are classified basis  the host contract.
2.6 Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’)    An item is recognised as an asset, if and only if, it is  probable that the future economic benefits associated  with the item will flow to the Company and its cost  can be measured reliably.
PPE are initially recognised  at cost.
The initial cost of PPE comprises its purchase  price (including non-refundable duties and taxes but  excluding any trade discounts and rebates), and any  directly attributable cost of bringing the asset to its  working condition and location for its intended use.
In  case of multiple element contracts whereby the vendor  supplies PPE as well as other components, PPE is  recorded on the basis of relative fair values.
Subsequent to initial recognition, PPE are stated at cost  less accumulated depreciation and any impairment  losses.
When significant parts of property, plant and  equipment are required to be replaced in regular  intervals, the Company recognises such parts as  separate component of assets.
When an item of PPE  is replaced, then its carrying amount is de-recognised  from the balance sheet and cost of the new item of  PPE is recognised.
Further, in case the replaced part  was not being depreciated separately, the cost of the  replacement is used as an indication to determine the  cost of the replaced part at the time it was acquired.
The expenditures that are incurred after the item of PPE  has been put to use, such as repairs and maintenance,  are normally charged to the statement of profit and loss  in the period in which such costs are incurred.
However,  in situations where the said expenditure can be  measured reliably, and is probable that future economic  benefits associated with it will flow to the Company, it is  included in the asset’s carrying value or as a separate  asset, as appropriate.
Depreciation on PPE is computed using the straight- line method over the estimated useful lives.
Freehold  land is not depreciated as it has an unlimited useful life.
The Company has established the estimated range of  useful lives of different categories of PPE as follows: Particulars Years Leasehold Land Period of lease Building 20 Building on Leased Land 20 Leasehold Improvements Period of lease or 10  years, whichever is  less Plant & Equipment 3 – 20 Computer 3 Office Equipment 2 - 5  Furniture and Fixtures 5 Vehicles  5    The useful lives, residual values and depreciation  method of PPE are reviewed, and adjusted appropriately,  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 140 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 at-least as at each reporting date so as to ensure that the  method and period of depreciation are consistent with  the expected pattern of economic benefits from these  assets.
The effect of any change in the estimated useful  lives, residual values and / or depreciation method are  accounted prospectively, and accordingly the depreciation  is calculated over the PPE’s remaining revised useful  life.
The cost and the accumulated depreciation for PPE  sold, scrapped, retired or otherwise disposed off are de- recognised from the balance sheet and the resulting  gains / (losses) are included in the statement of profit and  loss within other expenses / other income.
The management basis its past experience and  technical assessment has estimated the useful life,  which is at variance with the life prescribed in Part C  of Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013 and has  accordingly, depreciated the assets over such useful life.
The cost of capital work-in-progress is presented  separately in the balance sheet.
2.7 Intangible assets    Identifiable intangible assets are recognised when the  Company controls the asset, it is probable that future  economic benefits attributed to the asset will flow to the  Company and the cost of the asset can be measured  reliably.
The intangible assets are initially recognised at cost.
These assets having finite useful life are carried at cost  less accumulated amortisation and any impairment  losses.
Amortisation is computed using the straight- line method over the expected useful life of intangible  assets.
The Company has established the estimated useful  lives of different categories of intangible assets as  follows:   a.  Softwares       Softwares are amortised over the period of license,  generally not exceeding three years.
b.  Bandwidth       Bandwidth is amortised on straight-line basis over  the period of the agreement.
c.  Licenses (including spectrum)       Acquired licenses and spectrum are amortised  commencing from the date when the related  network is available for intended use in the relevant  jurisdiction.
The useful lives range from two to  twenty years.
The revenue-share based fee on licenses / spectrum  is charged to the statement of profit and loss in the  period such cost is incurred.
d.  Other acquired intangible assets       Other acquired intangible assets include the  following:       Rights acquired for unlimited license access: Over the  period of the agreement which ranges upto five years.
Customer base: Over the estimated life of such  relationships.
Non-compete fee: Over the period of the agreement  which ranges upto five years.
The useful lives and amortisation method are  reviewed, and adjusted appropriately, at least at  each financial year end so as to ensure that the  method and period of amortisation are consistent  with the expected pattern of economic benefits  from these assets.
The effect of any change in the  estimated useful lives and / or amortisation method  is accounted prospectively, and accordingly the  amortisation is calculated over the remaining  revised useful life.
Further, the cost of Intangible Assets under  Development (‘IUD’) includes the amount of  spectrum allotted to the Company and related  costs (including borrowing costs that are directly  attributable to the acquisition or construction of  qualifying assets (refer note 7)), if any, for which  services are yet to be roll out and are presented  separately in the balance sheet.
2.8  Impairment of non-financial assets     Property, plant and equipment and Intangible  assets    PPE and intangible assets with definite lives, are  reviewed for impairment, whenever events or changes in  circumstances indicate that their carrying values may not  be recoverable.
For the purpose of impairment testing,  the recoverable amount (that is, higher of the fair value  less costs to sell and the value-in-use) is determined  on an individual asset basis, unless the asset does not  generate cash flows that are largely independent of those  from other assets, in which case the recoverable amount  is determined at the cash-generating-unit (‘CGU’) level  to which the said asset belongs.
If such individual assets  or CGU are considered to be impaired, the impairment  to be recognised in the statement of profit and loss is  measured by the amount by which the carrying value  of the asset / CGU exceeds their estimated recoverable  amount and allocated on pro rata basis.
Impairment losses, if any, are recognised in statement  of profit and loss.
Reversal of impairment losses    Impairment losses are reversed and the carrying value  is increased to its revised recoverable amount provided  that this amount does not exceed the carrying value  that would have been determined had no impairment  loss been recognised for the said asset in previous  years.
2.9 Financial instruments   a.
Recognition, classification and presentation       The financial instruments are recognised in the  balance sheet when the Company becomes a  party to the contractual provisions of the financial  instrument.
The Company determines the classification of its  financial instruments at initial recognition.
The Company recognises its investment in  subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates at cost  less any impairment losses (basis the recoverable  amount being higher of the fair value less costs to  sell and the value-in-use).
The Company classifies  its financial assets in the following categories: a)  those to be measured subsequently at fair value  through profit or loss, and b) those to be measured  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 141 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements at amortised cost.
The classification depends on the  entity’s business model for managing the financial  assets and the contractual terms of the cash flows.
The Company has classified all the non-derivative  financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
The entire hybrid contract, financial assets with  embedded derivatives, are considered in their  entirety for determining the contractual terms of the  cash flow and accordingly the embedded derivatives  are not separated.
However, derivatives embedded  in non-financial instrument / other financial liabilities  host contracts are classified as separate derivatives  if their economic characteristics and risks are not  closely related to those of the host contracts.
Financial assets and liabilities arising from different  transactions are off-set against each other and the  resultant net amount is presented in the balance  sheet, if and only when, the Company currently  has a legally enforceable right to set-off the related  recognised amounts and intends either to settle on  a net basis or to realise the assets and settle the  liabilities simultaneously.
b.
Measurement – Non-derivative financial  instruments   I.
Initial measurement       At initial recognition, the Company measures  the non-derivative financial instruments (except  financial guarantee) at its fair value plus, in the case  of a financial asset not at fair value through profit  or loss, transaction costs.
Otherwise transaction  costs are expensed in the statement of profit and  loss.
Financial guarantees, issued in relation to  obligations of subsidiaries, are initially recognized at  fair value (as part of the cost of the investment in the  subsidiary).
II.
Subsequent measurement - financial assets       The subsequent measurement of the non-derivative  financial assets depends on their classification as  follows:      i.
Financial assets measured at amortised cost         Assets that are held for collection of contractual  cash flows where those cash flows represent  solely payments of principal and interest are  measured at amortised cost using the effective- interest rate (‘EIR’) method (if the impact of  discounting / any transaction costs is significant).
Interest income from these financial assets is  included in finance income.
ii.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or  loss (‘FVTPL’)         All financial assets that do not meet the criteria  for amortised cost are measured at fair value  through profit or loss.
Interest (basis EIR method)  income from financial assets at fair value through  profit or loss is recognised in the statement of  profit and loss within finance income/ finance  costs separately from the other gains/ losses  arising from changes in the fair value.
Impairment         The company assesses on a forward looking  basis the expected credit losses associated  with its assets carried at amortised cost.
The  impairment methodology applied depends on  whether there has been a significant increase  in credit risk since initial recognition.
If credit risk  has not increased significantly, twelve month ECL  is used to provide for impairment loss, otherwise  lifetime ECL is used.
However, only in case of trade receivables, the  Company applies the simplified approach which  requires expected lifetime losses to be recognised  from initial recognition of the receivables.
iii.
Subsequent measurement - financial liabilities         The financial guarantees are amortised over  the life of the guarantee and are measured  at each reporting date at the higher of (i) the  remaining unamortised balance of the amount  at initial recognition and (ii) the best estimate  of expenditure required to settle the obligation  at the end of the reporting period.
Other  financial liabilities are subsequently measured  at amortised cost using the EIR method (if the  impact of discounting / any transaction costs is  significant).
c.   Measurement – derivative financial  instruments       Derivative financial instruments, including  separated embedded derivatives are classified as  financial instruments at fair value through profit  or loss - Held for trading.
Such derivative financial  instruments are initially recognised at fair value.
They are subsequently re-measured at their fair  value, with changes in fair value being recognised  in the statement of profit and loss within finance  income / finance costs.
d.  Derecognition       The financial liabilities are de-recognised from the  balance sheet when the under-lying obligations are  extinguished, discharged, lapsed, cancelled, expires  or legally released.
The financial assets are de- recognised from the balance sheet when the rights  to receive cash flows from the financial assets have  expired, or have been transferred and the Company  has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of  ownership.
The difference in the carrying amount is  recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
2.10 Leases     The determination of whether an arrangement  is a lease is based on whether fulfillment of the  arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific  asset and the arrangement conveys a right to use the  asset, even if that right is not explicitly specified in an  arrangement.
Leases where the lessor transfers substantially all the  risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset  are classified as finance lease and other leases are  classified as operating lease.
Operating lease receipts / payments are recognised as  an income / expense on a straight-line basis over the  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 142 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 lease term unless the lease payments increase in line  with expected general inflation.
a.
Company as a lessee       Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised  at the lease inception at lower of the fair value of the  leased asset and the present value of the minimum  lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned  between finance charges (recognised in the statement  of profit and loss) and reduction of the lease liability  so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the  remaining balance of the liability for each period.
b.
Company as a lessor        Assets leased to others under finance lease are  recognised as receivables at an amount equal to  the net investment in the leased assets.
Finance  lease income is recognised based on the periodic  rate of return on the net investment outstanding in  respect of the finance lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an  operating lease are added to the carrying amount  of the leased asset and recognised in statement  of profit and loss on a stratght-line basis over the   lease term.
The Company enters into ‘Indefeasible right to  use’ arrangement wherein the assets are given  on lease over the substantial part of the asset life.
However, the title to the assets and significant risk  associated with the operation and maintenance of  these assets remains with the Company.
Hence,  such arrangements are recognised as operating  lease.
The contracted price is recognised as revenue  during the tenure of the agreement.
Unearned  IRU revenue received in advance is presented as  deferred revenue within liabilities in the balance  sheet.
2.11 T axes     The income tax expense comprises of current and  deferred income tax.
Income tax is recognised in the  statement of profit and loss, except to the extent that it  relates to items recognised in the other comprehensive  income or directly in equity, in which case the related  income tax is also recognised accordingly.
a.
Current tax       The current tax is calculated on the basis of the  tax rates, laws and regulations, which have been  enacted or substantively enacted as at the reporting  date.
The payment made in excess / (shortfall) of  the Company’s income tax obligation for the period  are recognised in the balance sheet as current  income tax assets / liabilities.
Any interest, related to accrued liabilities for potential  tax assessments are not included in Income tax  charge or (credit), but are rather recognised within  finance costs.
b.
Deferred tax       Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability  method, on temporary differences arising between  the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their  carrying values in the financial statements.
However,  deferred tax are not recognised if it arises from initial  recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction  other than a business combination that at the time  of the transaction affects neither accounting nor  taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the  extent that it is probable that future taxable profit  will be available against which the temporary  differences can be utilised.
The unrecognised deferred tax assets / carrying  amount of deferred tax assets are reviewed at  each reporting date for recoverability and adjusted  appropriately.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates (and  laws) that have been enacted or substantively  enacted by the reporting date and are expected to  apply when the related deferred income tax asset is  realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Income tax assets and liabilities are off-set against  each other and the resultant net amount is  presented in the balance sheet, if and only when,  (a) the Company currently has a legally enforceable  right to set-off the current income tax assets and  liabilities, and (b) when it relate to income tax levied  by the same taxation authority and where there  is an intention to settle the current income tax  balances on net basis.
2.12 Inventories     I nventories are stated at the lower of cost (determined  using the first-in-first-out method) and net realisable  value.
The costs comprise its purchase price and any  directly attributable cost of bringing to its present  location and condition.
Net realisable value is the  estimated selling price in the ordinary course of  business, less the estimated costs of completion and  the estimated variable costs necessary to make the  sale.
2.13 Cash and cash equivalents     Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank  balances and any deposits with original maturities of  three months or less (that are readily convertible to  known amounts of cash and cash equivalents and  subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value).
However, for the purpose of the statement of cash  flows, in addition to above items, any bank overdrafts  / cash credits that are integral part of the Company’s  cash management, are also included as a component  of cash and cash equivalents.
2.14 Non-current assets held for sale     Non-current assets are classified as assets-held-for- sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered  principally through a sale transaction and a sale is  considered highly probable.
The sale is considered  highly probable only when the asset is available for  immediate sale in its present condition, it is unlikely  that the sale will be withdrawn and sale is expected  within one year from the date of the classification.
Assets classified as held for sale are stated at the lower  of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Assets classified as held for sale are presented  separately in the balance sheet.
Loss is recognised for any initial or subsequent write- down of the asset to fair value less costs to sell.
A gain  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 143 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements is recognised for any subsequent increases in fair value  less costs to sell of an asset, but not in excess of any  cumulative loss previously recognised.
2.15 Share capital / Share premium     Ordinary shares are classified as Equity when the  Company has an un-conditional right to avoid delivery  of cash or another financial asset, that is, when the  dividend and repayment of capital are at the sole and  absolute discretion of the Company and there is no  contractual obligation whatsoever to that effect.
2.16 Employee benefits     The Company’s employee benefits mainly include  wages, salaries, bonuses, defined contribution to  plans, defined benefit plans, compensated absences,  deferred compensation and share-based payments.
The employee benefits are recognised in the year in  which the associated services are rendered by the  Company employees.
a.
Defined contribution plans       The contributions to defined contribution plans are  recognised in profit or loss as and when the services  are rendered by employees.
The Company has no  further obligations under these plans beyond its  periodic contributions.
b.
Defined benefit plans       In accordance with the local laws and regulations, all  the employees in India are entitled for the Gratuity  plan.
The said plan requires a lump-sum payment  to eligible employees (meeting the required vesting  service condition) at retirement or termination of  employment, based on a pre-defined formula.
The Company provides for the liability towards  the said plans on the basis of actuarial valuation  carried out quarterly as at the reporting date, by an  independent qualified actuary using the projected- unit-credit method.
The obligation towards the said benefits is  recognised in the balance sheet, at the present  value of the defined benefit obligations less the fair  value of plan assets (being the funded portion).
The  present value of the said obligation is determined  by discounting the estimated future cash outflows,  using interest rates of government bonds.
The interest income / (expense) are calculated  by applying the above mentioned discount rate  to the plan assets and defined benefit obligations  liability.
The net interest income / (expense) on  the net defined benefit liability is recognised in the  statement of profit and loss.
However, the related  re-measurements of the net defined benefit liability  are recognised directly in the other comprehensive  income in the period in which they arise.
The said  re-measurements comprise of actuarial gains and  losses (arising from experience adjustments and  changes in actuarial assumptions), the return on  plan assets (excluding interest).
Re-measurements  are not re-classified to the statement of profit and  loss in any of the subsequent periods.
c.  Other long-term employee benefits       The employees of the Company are entitled to  compensated absences as well as other long- term benefits.
Compensated absences benefit  comprises of encashment and availment of leave  balances that were earned by the employees over  the period of past employment.
The Company provides for the liability towards  the said benefit on the basis of actuarial valuation  carried out quarterly as at the reporting date, by an  independent qualified actuary using the projected- unit-credit method.
The related re-measurements  are recognised in the statement of profit and loss in  the period in which they arise.
d.  Share-based payments       The Company operates equity-settled and cash- settled, employee share-based compensation plans,  under which the Company receives services from  employees as consideration for stock options either  towards shares of the Company / cash settled units.
In case of equity-settled awards, the fair value  is recognised as an expense in the statement  of profit and loss within employee benefits as  employee share-based payment expenses, with a  corresponding increase in share-based payment  reserve (a component of equity).
However, in case of cash-settled awards, the  credit is recognised as a liability within other non- financial liabilities.
Subsequently, at each reporting  period, until the liability is settled, and at the date  of settlement, liability is re-measured at fair value  through statement of profit and loss.
The total amount so expensed is determined by  reference to the grant date fair value of the stock  options granted, which includes the impact of any  market performance conditions and non-vesting  conditions but excludes the impact of any service  and non-market performance vesting conditions.
However, the non-market performance vesting and  service conditions are considered in the assumption  as to the number of options that are expected to  vest.
The forfeitures are estimated at the time of  grant and reduce the said expense rateably over the  vesting period.
The expense so determined is recognised over the  requisite vesting period, which is the period over  which all of the specified vesting conditions are to  be satisfied.
As at each reporting date, the Company  revises its estimates of the number of options that  are expected to vest, if required.
It recognises the impact of any revision to original  estimates in the period of change.
Accordingly,  no expense is recognised for awards that do not  ultimately vest, except for which vesting is conditional  upon a market performance / non-vesting condition.
These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether  or not the market / non-vesting condition is satisfied,  provided that service conditions and all other non- market performance are satisfied.
Where the terms of an award are modified, in  addition to the expense pertaining to the original  award, an incremental expense is recognised for any  modification that results in additional fair value, or is  otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured  at the date of modification.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 144 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17       Where an equity-settled award is cancelled  (including due to non-vesting conditions not being  met), it is treated as if it is vested thereon, and any  un-recognised expense for the award is recognised  immediately.
This includes any award where non- vesting conditions within the control of either the  entity or the employee are not met.
However, if  a new replacement award is substituted for the  cancelled award, the arrangement is treated as a  modification and accounted accordingly.
2.17   Provisions   a.
General       Provisions are recognised when the Company has  a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a  result of past event, it is probable that an outflow  of resources will be required to settle the said  obligation, and the amounts of the said obligation  can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the  expenditures expected to be required to settle the  relevant obligation, using a pre-tax rate that reflects  current market assessments of the time value of  money (if the impact of discounting is significant)  and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase  in the provision due to un-winding of discount over  passage of time is recognised within finance costs.
b.
Asset Retirement Obligation (‘ARO’)       ARO are recognised for those operating lease  arrangements where the Company has an obligation  at the end of the lease period to restore the leased  premises in a condition similar to inception of lease.
ARO are provided at the present value of expected  costs to settle the obligation and are recognised  as part of the cost of that particular asset.
The  estimated future costs of decommissioning are  reviewed annually and any changes in the estimated  future costs or in the discount rate applied are  adjusted from the cost of the asset.
2.18  Contingencies      A disclosure for a contingent liability is made when  there is a possible obligation or a present obligation  that may, but probably will not, require an outflow of  resources.
When there is a possible obligation or a  present obligation in respect of which the likelihood  of outflow of resources is remote, no provision or  disclosure is made.
2.19  Revenue recognition      Revenue is recognised when it is probable that the  entity will receive the economic benefits associated  with the transaction and the related revenue can be  measured reliably.
Revenue is recognised at the fair  value of the consideration received or receivable,  which is generally the transaction price, net of any  taxes / duties, discounts and process waivers.
In order to determine if it is acting as a principal or as an  agent, the Company assesses whether it has exposure  to the significant risks and rewards associated with  the sale of goods or the rendering of services.
a.
Service revenues       Service revenues mainly pertain to usage  subscription and activation charges for voice, data,  messaging and value added services.
It also includes  revenue towards interconnection charges for usage  of the Company’s network by other operators for  voice, data, messaging and signalling services.
Usage charges are recognised based on actual  usage.
Subscription charges are recognised over  the estimated customer relationship period or  subscription pack validity period, whichever is lower.
Activation revenue and related activation costs are  amortised over the estimated customer relationship  period.
However, any excess of activation costs over  activation revenue are expensed as incurred.
The billing/ collection in excess of revenue  recognised is presented as deferred revenue in  the balance sheet whereas unbilled revenue is  recognised within other current financial assets.
Revenues from long distance operations comprise  of voice services and bandwidth services (including  installation), which are recognised on provision  of services and over the period of arrangement  respectively.
b.
Multiple element arrangements       The Company has entered into certain multiple- element revenue arrangements which involve  the delivery or performance of multiple products,  services or rights to use assets.
At the inception  of the arrangement, all the deliverables therein are  evaluated to determine whether they represent  separately identifiable component basis it is  perceived from the customer perspective to have  value on standalone basis.
T otal consideration related to the multiple element  arrangements is allocated among the different  components based on their relative fair values  (i.e., ratio of the fair value of each element to the  aggregated fair value of the bundled deliverables).
c.  Equipment sales       Equipment sales mainly pertain to sale of  telecommunication equipment and related  accessories.
Such transactions are recognised  when the significant risks and rewards of ownership  are transferred to the customer.
However, in case  of equipment sale forming part of multiple-element  revenue arrangements which is not separately  identifiable component, revenue is recognised over  the customer relationship period.
d.  Capacity Swaps       The exchange of network capacity is recognised at  fair value unless the transaction lacks commercial  substance or the fair value of neither the capacity  received nor the capacity given is reliably  measurable.
e.  Interest income       The interest income is recognised using the EIR  method.
For further details, refer Note 2.9.   f.  Dividend income       Dividend income is recognised when the Company’s  right to receive the payment is established.
2.20 Borrowing costs     Borrowing costs consist of interest and other ancillary  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 145 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements costs that the Company incurs in connection with  the borrowing of funds.
The borrowing costs directly  attributable to the acquisition or construction of any  asset that takes a substantial period of time to get  ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised.
All the  other borrowing costs are recognised in the statement  of profit and loss within finance costs of the period in  which they are incurred.
2.21 Exceptional items     Exceptional items refer to items of income or expense within  the statement of profit and loss from ordinary activities  which are non-recurring and are of such size, nature or  incidence that their separate disclosure is considered  necessary to explain the performance of the Company.
2.22 Dividends Paid     Dividend to shareholders is recognised as a liability  and deducted from equity, in the year in which the  dividends are approved by the shareholders.
However,  interim dividends declared by the Board of directors,  which does not need shareholder’s approval, are  recognised as a liability and deducted from retained  earnings, in the year in which the dividends are so  declared.
2.23  Earnings per share (‘EPS’)      The Company presents the Basic and Diluted EPS  data.
Basic EPS is computed by dividing the profit for  the period attributable to the shareholders of the  Company by the weighted average number of shares  outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is computed by adjusting, the profit for the  year attributable to the shareholders and the weighted  average number of shares considered for deriving Basic  EPS, for the effects of all the shares that could have  been issued upon conversion of all dilutive potential  shares.
The dilutive potential shares are adjusted for the  proceeds receivable had the shares been actually issued  at fair value.
Further, the dilutive potential shares are  deemed converted as at beginning of the period, unless  issued at a later date during the period.
3.
Critical accounting estimates, assumptions  and judgements   The estimates and judgements used in the preparation of  the said financial statements are continuously evaluated  by the Company, and are based on historical experience  and various other assumptions and factors (including  expectations of future events), that the Company believes  to be reasonable under the existing circumstances.
The  said estimates and judgements are based on the facts  and events, that existed as at the reporting date, or that  occurred after that date but provide additional evidence  about conditions existing as at the reporting date.
Although the Company regularly assesses these  estimates, actual results could differ materially from these  estimates - even if the assumptions under-lying such  estimates were reasonable when made, if these results  differ from historical experience or other assumptions do  not turn out to be substantially accurate.
The changes in  estimates are recognised in the financial statements in  the period in which they become known.
3.1  Critical accounting estimates and  assumptions    The estimates and assumptions that have a significant  risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying  values of assets and liabilities within the next financial  year are discussed below.
a.
Property, plant and equipment       Refer Note 2.6 and 6 for the estimated useful life  and carrying value of property, plant and equipment  respectively.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the  Company has reassessed useful life of certain  categories of network assets due to technological  developments and accordingly has revised the  estimate of its useful life in respect of those assets.
Out of these assets, the additional depreciation  charge of ` 2,920 on assets for which the revised  useful life has expired by March 31, 2016 has been  recognised and disclosed as ‘exceptional items’ and  additional depreciation charge of ` 6,276 for other  assets has been recognised within ‘Depreciation  and amortisation’.
The impact of above change on  the depreciation charge for the future years is as  follows: Particulars Year ended Future  Period   till end  of life March   31, 2018 March   31, 2019 March   31, 2020 Impact  on future  depreciation  charge  (2,764)  (2,646) (1,109) 15,715    b.  Allowance for impairment of trade receivables       The expected credit loss is mainly based on the  ageing of the receivable balances and historical  experience.
The receivables are assessed on an  individual basis or grouped into homogeneous  groups and assessed for impairment collectively,  depending on their significance.
Moreover, trade  receivables are written off on a case-to-case basis if  deemed not to be collectible on the assessment of  the underlying facts and circumstances   c.  Contingencies      Refer Note 22 for details of contingent liabilities.
3.2  Critical judgements in applying the  Company’s accounting policies    The critical judgements, which the management  has made in the process of applying the Company’s  accounting policies and has the most significant  impact on the amounts recognised in the said financial  statements, is discussed below:   Multiple element contracts with vendors    The Company has entered into multiple element  contracts for supply of goods and rendering of services.
In certain cases, the consideration paid is determined  independent of the value of supplies received and  services availed.
Accordingly, the supplies and services  are accounted for based on their relative fair values to the  overall consideration.
The supplies with finite life under  the contracts have been accounted under Property,  Plant and Equipment and / or as Intangible assets, since  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 146 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 the Company has economic ownership in these assets  and represents the substance of the arrangement.
Arrangement containing lease    The Company assesses the contracts entered with  telecom operators / passive infrastructure services  providers to share tower infrastructure services so  as to determine whether these contracts that do not  take the legal form of a lease convey a right to use an  asset or not.
The Company has determined, based  on an evaluation of the terms and conditions of the  arrangements, that such contracts are in the nature of  leases.
Most of these leases are classified as operating  unless the term of the agreement is for the major part of  the estimated economic life of the leased asset, which  is accounted for as finance lease.
4.
Standards issued but not effective until the  date of authorisation for issuance of the said  financial statements    The new Standards, amendments to Standards  that are issued but not yet effective until the date  of authorisation for issuance of the said financial  statements are discussed below.
The Company has not  early adopted these amendments and intends to adopt  when they become effective.
Ind AS 102, ‘Share based payments’    In March 2017, MCA issued amendments to Ind  AS 102 pertaining to measurement of cash–settled  share based payments, classification of share- based payments settled net of tax withholdings and  accounting for modification of a share based payment  from cash-settled to equity-settled method.
The amendments are applicable to annual periods  beginning on or after April 1, 2017 with early adoption  permitted.
The Company does not expect that the  adoption of the amendments will not have any  significant impact on the said financial statements.
Ind AS 7, ‘Statement of cash flows’    In March 2017, MCA issued amendments to Ind AS 7,  which requires certain additional disclosures to be made  for changes in liabilities / assets arising from financial  activities on account of non-cash transaction such as effect  of changes in foreign exchange rates, fair values and others.
The amendments are applicable to annual periods  beginning on or after April 1, 2017 with early adoption  permitted.
The Company will be providing the requisite  disclosure in its statement of cash flows.
5.
Significant transactions / new developments   (i)    During the year ended March 31, 2017, the  Company has been allotted 155.60 MHz spectrum  across 1800/2100/2300 MHz.
Consequently, the  Company has paid amount of ` 67,764 upfront and  opted the deferred payment option for ` 66,764.
(ii)    The Scheme of Arrangement (‘Scheme’) under  Sections 391 to 394 of the Companies Act,  1956 with respect to the amalgamation of Airtel  Broadband Services Private Limited (‘ABSPL’)  with the Company, was approved by the Hon’ble  High Court of Bombay in 2014.
Department  of T elecommunications (‘DoT’) had given its  approval for taking on record the merger of ABSPL  with the Company, subject to certain conditions  as stipulated in the letter.
One of the conditions  of merger requires payment of ` 4,361, equal to  the difference between the entry fee for Unified  Access Service License and Internet Service  Provider License.
The Hon’ble T elecom Disputes  Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (‘TDSA T’) vide  its interim order in 2015 has allowed the Company  to operationalise the spectrum subject to the  company paying a sum of ` 4,361 along with  interest as may be determined by the Tribunal, in  case the petition fails.
Further, during the year ended March 31, 2016, the  Company had entered into a definitive agreement  for acquisition of Augere Wireless Broadband  Private Limited (‘AWBPL’).
On June 7, 2016, on  fulfillment of the relevant closing conditions the  transaction has been consummated.
The Scheme  of Arrangement (‘Scheme’) under Sections 391 to  394 of the Companies Act, 1956 with respect to  the amalgamation of AWBPL with the Company,  was approved by the Hon’ble High Court of Delhi.
The Company has filed the Scheme with Registrar  of Companies (‘ROC’) on April 9, 2015 and  February 15, 2017 which are the effective date  and appointed date of merger for ABSPL and  AWBPL respectively.
Accordingly, these entities  have ceased to exist and have merged with the  Company.
Accordingly, entire assets (` 64,837  and ` 1,536 - mainly pertains to PPE & CWIP of   ` 4,843 and IUD of ` 55,689), liabilities (` 8,890 and  ` 323 – mainly pertains to borrowings of ` 5,396  and capex payable of ` 2,582) and the differential  value of equity in the respective entity books have  been recognised by the Company as the date of  the transaction at same carrying values as in the  books of ABSPL and AWBPL respectively.
The  difference of ` 8,599 and ` 445 between the share  capital and the carrying values of investment in  ABSPL and AWBPL in the books of the Company  has been adjusted with business restructuring  reserve and general reserve respectively.
(iii)   During the year ended March 31, 2017, Bharti  Infratel Limited (‘BIL’), a subsidiary of the Company  has bought back its 47,058,823 shares against  a consideration of ` 425 per share.
Out of which  the Company has tendered 29,101,272 shares  and received the consideration of ` 12,368  and accordingly, the excess of proceeds (net of  associated costs, taxes and levies) over the cost  of investment amounting to ` 1,687 has been  recognised as gain and disclosed as other income.
(iv)   During the year ended March 31, 2017, the  Company has sold 400,000,000 shares in BIL,  against a consideration aggregating to ` 130,000  and accordingly the excess of cost of investment  over the proceeds (net of associated costs, taxes  and regulatory levies) amounting to ` 25,375 has  been recognised as loss under exceptional items.
Subsequent to the transaction, the shareholding  of the Company in BIL has reduced to 50.3%.
(v)   During the year ended March 31, 2017, the  Company has entered into an agreement to  sell the investment in subsidiaries Bharti Airtel  International (Netherlands) B. V .
(‘BAIN’), Bharti  International (Singapore) Pte Ltd (‘BISPL’) and  Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Limited  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 147 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements (‘BAIML’) to its wholly owned subsidiary Network  i2i Limited.
However, sale of investment in BISPL  is subject to certain customary closing conditions,  hence has not been consummated.
The same  has been classified as assets-held-for-sale.
Accordingly, the excess of cost of investment over  sales consideration, amounting to ` 118,582 and  ` 14,906 pertaining to BAIN / BAIML and BISPL  respectively has been recognised as loss under  exceptional items.
(vi)   During the year ended March 31, 2017,  the Company has entered into a scheme of  amalgamation for the merger of T elenor (India)  Communication Private Limited with the Company  and definitive agreement to acquire 100%  equity stake in Tikona Digital Networks.
The said  transactions are subject to requisite regulatory  approvals and other closing conditions.
(vii)  During the year ended March 31, 2017, Bharti  T elemedia Limited, a subsidiary of the Company,  has allotted 475 shares to the Company against a  consideration of ` 4,750.
(viii)  During the year ended March 31, 2017, the  Company has entered into a definitive agreement  with Aircel Limited and its subsidiaries Dishnet  Wireless Limited and Aircel cellular Limited, to  acquire rights to use spectrum in the 2300 MHz  band for seven circles against a consideration of   ` 34,840.
The Company has received the requisite  approvals for the transfer of right to use the  spectrum and accordingly the spectrum has been  recorded in the books.
(ix)   During the year ended March 31, 2016, the Company  had entered into a definitive agreement with Videocon  T elecommunications Limited to acquire rights to use  spectrum in the 1800 MHz band for six circles against  a consideration of ` 46,530.
During the year ended  March 31, 2017, the Company has received the requisite  approvals for the transfer of right to use the spectrum and  accordingly the spectrum has been recorded in the books.
6.
Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’)    The following table presents the reconciliation of changes in the carrying value of PPE and capital work-in-progress for  the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016: Particulars PPE Leasehold  Improvement Land and  Building Plant and  machinery Furniture &  Fixture Vehicles Office  equipment Computer T otal Capital   work-in- progress Gross carrying value Balance as of   April 1, 2015  4,416  8,366  607,176  1,597  281  3,661  29,018 654,515  26,898  Additions  119  46  -  127  21  661  1,879  2,853  125,379  Disposals / adjustment  (4)  (52)  (8,778)  (14)  (9)  (72)  (8,102)  (17,031)  -  Capitalisation /  reclassification  143  (213)  123,758  4  -  -  (3)  123,689  (123,689) Balance as of   March 31, 2016  4,674  8,147  722,156  1,714  293  4,250  22,792  764,026  28,588  Additions  221  73  -  98  34  531  3,039  3,996  130,153  Acquisition through  Business Combinations@  -  -  489  -  -  -  -  489  123  Disposals / adjustment  (8)  (57)  (15,384)  (13)  (46)  (50)  229  (15,329)  -  Capitalisation /  reclassification  7  (7)  147,104  -  -  (2)  (56)  147,046  (147,046) Balance as of   March 31, 2017  4,894  8,156  854,365  1,799  281  4,729  26,004  900,228  11,818  Accumulated depreciation   Balance as of   April 1, 2015  3,154  2,274  360,217  1,329  219  2,474  26,692 396,359  -  Charge*  397  334  66,415  115  18  485  1,838  69,602  -  Disposals / adjustment  33  (51)  (6,437)  (14)  (3)  (64)  (8,072)  (14,608)  -  Reclassification  40  (52)  1  -  -  3  8  -  -  Balance as of   March 31, 2016  3,624  2,505  420,196  1,430  234  2,898  20,466  451,353  -  Charge*  393  312  76,174  116  20  593  1,727  79,335  -  Disposals / adjustment  (3)  (26)  (11,784)  (4)  (30)  (46)  257  (11,636)  -  Balance as of   March 31, 2017  4,014  2,791  484,586  1,542  224  3,445  22,450  519,052  -  Net carrying value    As of April 1, 2015  1,262  6,092  246,959  268  62  1,187  2,326  258,156  26,898  As of March 31, 2016  1,050  5,642  301,960  284  59  1,352  2,326  312,673  28,588  As of March 31, 2017  880  5,365  369,779  257  57  1,284  3,554  381,176  11,818  @ Refer Note 5 (ii) * Includes exceptional item of ` 1,672 and ` 2,925 for the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 with respect to plant and machinery (refer Note 29 (i) a, b, c & (ii) b) Refer note 22(ii)(a) for assets given on operating lease.
Capital work in progress mainly includes ` 10,928, ` 27,950 and ` 26,260 towards plant and machinery as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 respectively.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 148 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17    The following table summarises the detail of lease hold land taken on finance lease which represents the significant part  of assets taken on finance lease: Particulars Grossing   Carrying value Accumulated  depreciation Net carrying   value As of March 31, 2017 411 46  365  As of March 31, 2016  411  44  367  As of April 1, 2015  411  40  371  7.
Intangible assets    The following table presents the reconciliation of changes in the carrying value of intangible assets and intangible assets  under development for the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016: Particulars Intangible assets Intangible  assets under  development Software Bandwidth Licenses  (including  spectrum) Other  acquired  intangible  assets T otal Gross carrying value Balance as of April 1, 2015  14,964  24,167  307,231  2,172  348,534  64,108  Additions  3,086  1,644  -  -  4,730  298,643  Disposals / adjustment @  (4,236)  -  (9,403)  -  (13,639)  -  Capitalisation / reclassification  -  -  353,036  -  353,036  (353,036) Balance as of March 31, 2016  13,814  25,811  650,864  2,172  692,661  9,715  Additions  2,657  2,687  -  5,366  10,710  234,815  Acquisition through Business  Combinations^  -  -  899  -  899  -  Disposals / adjustment  (138)  (85)  (8)  -  (231)  -  Capitalisation / reclassification  -  -  160,346  -  160,346  (160,346) Balance as of March 31, 2017  16,333  28,413  812,101  7,538  864,385  84,184  Accumulated amortisation Balance as of April 1, 2015  11,972  9,015  49,222  433  70,642  -  Charge  2,396  1,652  24,594  434  29,076  -  Disposals / adjustment @  (4,236)  -  (9,403)  -  (13,639)  -  Balance as of March 31, 2016  10,132  10,667  64,413  867  86,079  -  Charge  2,502  1,863  38,249  1,757  44,371  -  Disposals / adjustment  (138)  28  (7)  -  (117)  -  Balance as of March 31, 2017  12,496  12,558  102,655  2,624  130,333  -  Net Carrying Amount As of April 1, 2015  2,992  15,152  258,009  1,739  277,892  64,108  As of March 31, 2016  3,682  15,144  586,451  1,305  606,582  9,715  As of March 31, 2017  3,837  15,855  709,446  4,914  734,052  84,184    @ Mainly pertains to gross block and accumulated amortisation of license (including spectrum) and software whose useful life has expired.
Weighted average remaining amortisation period of license as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 is  16.85, 17.53 and 17.37 years, respectively.
During the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 the Company has capitalised borrowing cost of ` 2,748 and ` 1,937 respectively.
Addition in intangible assets under development mainly pertains to Spectrum.
8.
Investments Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Non- current Investments - FVTPL  52  52  52  Investment in subsidiaries  459,494  698,869  652,321  Investment in joint ventures and associates  44  44  157   459,590  698,965  652,530  Current Investments - FVTPL  -  8  47,567   -  8  47,567  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 149 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Non-current investments  No of shares As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Investment in Subsidiaries  175,000,000  175,000,000  175,000,000 Bharti Hexacom Limited: Equity Shares of ` 10 each  5,718  5,718  5,718   100,000  100,000  100,000 Bharti Airtel Services Limited: Equity Shares of ` 10 each *  1  126  1   300  300  300 Bharti Airtel (USA) Limited: Equity Shares of USD .0001 each *  1,997  1,997  1,997   123,663  123,663  123,663 Bharti Airtel (UK) Limited: Equity Shares of GBP 1 each *  1,777  1,777  1,777   4,959,480  4,959,480  4,959,480 Bharti Airtel (Hongkong) Limited: Equity Shares of HKD 1 each *  454  454  454   -  -  75,100 Bharti Airtel (Canada) Limited: Equity Shares of CAD 1 each (dissolved  on December 31, 2015)  -  -  3   817,427,896  52,227,896  52,227,896 Network i2i Limited: Equity Shares of USD 1 each  58,750  7,925  7,925   930,898,728  1,360,000,000  1,360,000,000 Bharti Infratel Limited: Equity Shares of ` 10 each (refer note 5) *  341,111  498,347  498,347   484,689,995  9,690,000  9,690,000 Bharti T elemedia Limited: Equity Shares of ` 10 each (refer note 5) *  41,320  39,259  39,259   27,146,471,771  27,146,471,771  26,126,080,053 Bharti Airtel Lanka (Private) Limited : Equity Shares of SLR 10 each (net of provision) #  -  471  -   -  1  1 Bharti Airtel Holdings (Singapore) Pte Limited: Equity Shares of SGD 1 each (merged with BISPL w.e.f.
July 15, 2016)  -  15,475  15,475  - 338,642,771 338,642,771 Bharti Airtel Holdings (Singapore) Pte.
Limited: Equity Shares of USD 1 each (merged with BISPL w.e.f.
July 15, 2016) (refer note 5)  -  3,384,970,000  1,699,970,000 Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Limited: Equity Shares of USD 1 each # (refer note 5)  -  118,027  7,872   796,499,995  396,000,000  290,000,000 Airtel Payments Bank Limited (formarly known as Airtel M Commerce Services Limited) : Equity Shares of ` 10 each  7,965  3,960  2,900   -  593,739,000  593,739,000 Bharti International (Singapore) Pte.
Limited: Equity Shares of USD 1 each (refer note 5) #  -  3,782  3,782   1  908,443,919  908,443,919 Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) B. V .
: Equity Shares of EURO 1 each (refer note 5) #  0  -  -   89,230,796  89,230,796  89,230,796 T elesonic Networks Limited : Equity Shares of ` 10 each  91  91  91   5,050,000  5,050,000  5,050,000 Nxtra Data Limited: Equity Shares of ` 10 each *  309  1,452  1,452   -  -  - Airtel Broadband Services Private Limited: Equity Shares of ` 10 each (merged with the Company) (refer note 5)  -  -  65,270   21,850,000  21,850,000  - Indo T eleports Limited (formerly known as Bharti T eleports Limited)  285  285  -   Equity Shares of ` 10 each   50,000  50,000  50,000 Wynk Limited: Equity Shares of ` 10 each *  1  8  1   45,000  -  - Nettle Infrastructure Investments Limited: Equity Shares of  ` 10 each  0  -  -  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 150 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17  No of shares As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Investment in joint ventures and associates  800,000  800,000  800,000 Bridge Mobile PTE Limited : Equity shares of USD 1 each  34  34  34   1,000,000  1,000,000  1,000,000 Firefly Networks Limited : Equity Shares of ` 10 each  10  10  10   -  -  11,270,000 Indo T eleport Limited (formerly known as Bharti T eleport Limited)  Equity shares of ` 10 each  -  -  113  Other Investments (FVTPL)  100,000  100,000  100,000 IFFCO Kissan Sanchar Limited : Equity Shares of ` 10 each  50  50  50  Investment in mutual funds  -  -  47,550  Investment in deposits and Bonds  2  10  19   459,875  699,258  700,100  Less: Provision for diminution in value of investments  285  285  3   459,590  698,973  700,097  Aggregate book value of unquoted investments  118,764  200,911  154,203  Aggregate book value of quoted investments  341,111  498,347  545,897  Aggregate market value of quoted investments  302,961  519,452  571,150  Aggregate provision for diminution in value of investments  285  285  3  Investment value has been increased by ` 453,244 and ` 453,244 / ` 14,864 and ` 14,730 for deemed cost / fair valuation adjustment on Ind-As transition as of March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, respectively (refer  note 38 III (4) / (5)).
# Investment value has been reduced by ` 199,401 for fair valuation adjustments on Ind-AS transition (refer note 38 III (4)).
All the above investments are unquoted except Bharti Infratel Limited and mutual funds.
Detail of significant investments in subsidiaries are as below: As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Sl.
No Name of the Subsidiaries Place of incorporationPrincipal activities % of   shareholding 1 Bharti Hexacom Limited India T elecommunication services  70.00  70.00  70.00  2 Bharti Infratel Limited (refer note 5) India Infrastructure sharing services  50.30  71.76  71.88  3 Bharti T elemedia Limited India Direct T o Home services  95.00  95.00  95.00  4 Airtel Payments Bank Limited (formerly known as Airtel M Commerce Services Limited)India Mobile commerce services  80.10  80.10  100.00  5 Airtel Broadband Services Private Limited (refer note 5) India T elecommunication services  -  -  100.00  6 Network i2i Limited Mauritius Submarine Cable System  100.00  100.00  100.00  7 Bharti Airtel Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd (refer note 5) Singapore Investment Company  -  100.00  100.00  8 Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Limited (refer note 5) Mauritius Investment Company  -  100.00  100.00  9 Bharti International (Singapore) Pte.
Ltd (refer note 5) Singapore T elecommunication services  100.00  100.00  100.00  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 151 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements 9.
Derivative financial Instruments    The Company uses foreign exchange option contracts, swap contracts, forward contracts and interest rate swaps to  manage some of its transaction exposures.
The details of derivative financial instruments are as follows:- Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Assets Currency swaps, forward and option contracts  187  549  215  Interest swaps  106  -  -  Embedded derivatives  554  309  107   847  858  322  Liabilities Currency swaps, forward and option contracts  1,848  596  111  Embedded derivatives  -  108  233   1,848  704  344  Non-current derivative financial assets  213  396  154  Current derivative financial assets  634  462  168  Non-current derivative financial liabilities  (186)  (8)  (121) Current derivative financial liabilities  (1,662)  (696)  (223)  (1,001)  154  (22)   Embedded derivative    The Company entered into agreements denominated / determined in foreign currencies.
The value of these contracts  changes in response to the changes in specified foreign currencies.
Some of these contracts have embedded foreign  currency derivatives having economic characteristics and risks that are not closely related to those of the host contracts.
These embedded foreign currency derivatives have been separated and carried at fair value through profit or loss.
10.
Loans and security deposits Unsecured, considered good As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Non - current Loans to related parties (refer note 32)  623  18,546  33,240  Security deposits *  9,766  10,315  9,652   10,389  28,861  42,892  Current Loans to related parties (refer note 32)  72,081  43,376  40,552   72,081  43,376  40,552  *Security deposits primarily include deposits given towards rented premises, cell sites, interconnect ports and other miscellaneous deposits.
11.
Financial Assets – Others   Non-Current Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Rent equalisation  49  38  23  Restricted cash *  22  10  6  Others  485  550  458  556 598 487   Current Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Restricted cash *  647  636  558  Unbilled revenue  7,501  11,148  7,492  Claims recoverable  450  617  397  Interest accrued on investments  24  1,431  1,182  Others  150  127  36   8,772  13,959  9,665      * Restricted cash represents amount given as collateral for legal cases and / or bank guarantees for disputed matter and earmarked balances for dividend payouts.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 152 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 12.
Income taxes   The major components of Income T ax Expense are: Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Current income tax - For the year 95  20,014  - Adjustments for prior periods  (140)  544   (45)  20,558  Deferred tax* - Origination and reversal of temporary differences  17,455  5,269  - Adjustments for prior periods  (3,249)  (1,086)  14,206  4,183  Income tax expense  14,161  24,741     * Includes minimum alternate tax (MA T) credit of ` 1,218 and ` 17,631 for the year ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 respectively.
The reconciliation between the amount computed by applying the statutory income tax rate to the (loss) / profit before  tax and tax (income) / expenses charge is summarised below: Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 (Loss) / profit before tax  (85,095)  102,544  T ax (income) / expense @ company's domestic tax rate of 34.608%  (29,450)  35,488  Effect of: T ax holiday  (144)  (8,214) Adjustments in respect to previous years  (3,389)  (542) T ax for which no credit is allowed  469  583  (Income) / expense (net) not (taxable) / deductible  46,380  (2,745) Others  295  171  Income tax expense  14,161  24,741    The analysis of deferred tax assets and liabilities is as follows: Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Deferred tax assets Provision for impairment of debtors / advances  10,520  7,978  7,178  Carry forward losses  1,575  -  -  Employee benefits  1,044  840  820  Minimum tax credit  57,498  56,280  38,649  Lease rent equalization  6,478  6,189  5,676  Fair valuation of financial instruments and  exchange differences  5,791  4,865  4,133  Depreciation / amortisation on property, plant and  equipment / intangible assets  (76,574)  (54,076)  (30,396) Rates and taxes  1,527  -  -  Others  1,016  994  1,181  Net deferred tax assets  8,875  23,070  27,241  Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Deferred tax expense Provision for impairment of debtors / advances  2,542  800  Carry forward losses  1,575  -  Employee benefits  204  20  Minimum tax credit  1,218  17,631  Lease rent equalization  289  513  Fair valuation of financial instruments and exchange differences  926  732  Depreciation / amortisation on property, plant and equipment / intangible assets  (22,498)  (23,680) Rates and taxes  1,527  -  Others  11  (199) Net deferred tax expense  (14,206)  (4,183) (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 153 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements   The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year is as follows: Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Opening balance  23,070  27,241  T ax expense recognised in statement of profit and loss  (14,206)  (4,183) T ax income recognised in OCI  11  12  Closing balance  8,875  23,070  13.
Other non-financial assets   Non-Current Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Capital advances *  1,033  3,989  77  Other advances  23,007  22,632  16,959  T axes recoverable  14,139  -  -  Others  1,675  1  5   39,854  26,622  17,041  Current Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Prepaid expenses  1,960  2,522  2,561  Advances to suppliers  9,579  11,073  2,690  T axes recoverable  20,404  8,846  6,193  Others  1,009  901  1,501   32,952  23,342  12,945    * Includes advance payment of ` 3,657 towards spectrum during the year ended March 31, 2016.
Other advances represent payments made to various Government authorities under protest and are disclosed net of  provision (refer Note 19).
T axes recoverable primarily include customs duty, excise duty, service tax and sales tax.
Non-current tax recoverable  represents service tax recoverable on spectrum beyond one year period.
Advance to Suppliers are disclosed net of provision of `1,092, ` 2,056 and ` 3,003 as of March 31, 2017, 2016 and April  1, 2015, respectively.
Others primarily include employee receivables which principally consist of advances given for business purpose.
14.
Trade Receivables Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Unsecured Considered good *  32,118  31,724  33,047  Considered doubtful  25,530  18,181  16,229  Less: Provision for doubtful receivables  (25,530)  (18,181)  (16,229)  32,118  31,724  33,047    *Includes amount due from related parties (refer Note 32).
The movement in allowances for doubtful debts is as follows: Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Opening balance  18,181  16,229  Additions  7,678  6,327  Write off (net of recovery)  329  4,375  Closing balance  25,530  18,181  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 154 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 15.
Cash and cash equivalents (‘C&CE’) Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Balances with banks - On current accounts  1,030  240  878  - Bank deposits with original maturity of   three months or less  -  -  2,700  Cheques on hand  6  166  222  Cash on hand  51  60  52   1,087  466  3,852    For the purpose of statement of cash flows, C&CE comprise of following:- Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 C&CE as per balance sheet  1,087  466  3,852  Bank overdraft (refer Note 17)  (265)  (3,024)  -   822  (2,558)  3,852     The details of Specified Bank Notes held and transacted during the period November 8, 2016 to December 30, 2016 are  provided below:- Particulars Specified   Bank Notes Other   Denomination Notes T otal Closing cash on hand as at November 8, 2016  41  1  42  (+) Permitted receipts  39  674  713  (-) Permitted payments  -  -  -  (-) Amount deposited in Banks  80  639  719  Closing cash on hand as at December 30, 2016  -  36  36  16.
Share Capital Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Authorised shares 5,500,000,000 (March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015-  5,000,000,000) equity shares of ` 5 each  27,500  25,000  25,000  Issued, Subscribed and fully paid-up shares 3,997,400,102 equity shares of ` 5 each  19,987  19,987  19,987   19,987  19,987  19,987    a.  T erms/rights attached to equity shares       The Company has only one class of equity shares having par value of ` 5 per share.
Each holder of equity shares is  entitled to cast one vote per share.
b.
Details of shareholders (as per the register of shareholders) holding more than 5% shares in   the Company Particulars As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 As of April 1, 2015  No.
of   shares '000   %  holding   No.
of   shares '000   %   holding   No.
of   shares '000   %   holding  Equity shares of ` 5 each fully paid up Bharti T elecom Limited 1,817,987 45.48% 1,802,318 45.09% 1,747,545 43.72% Pastel Limited 591,319 14.79% 591,319 14.79% 591,319 14.79% Indian Continent Investment Limited 265,861 6.65% 265,861 6.65% 265,861 6.65% LIC of India Child Fortune Plus Balanced Fund 211,832 5.30% 203,879 5.10%  -  -  Three Pillar Pte Limited  199,870 5.00%  199,870 5.00%  199,870 5.00% (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 155 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements c.   Shares held by Bharti Airtel Welfare Trust against employee share-based payment plans   (face value of ` 5/- each) Particulars As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016  Shares  '000  Amount  Shares  '000  Amount  Opening balance  1,882  524  1,411  114  Purchased during the year  -  -  1,500  514  Exercised during the year  (537)  (157)  (1,029)  (104)  1,345  367  1,882  524  d. Dividend paid and proposed Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 A Declared and paid during the year:  Final dividend for 2015-16 : ` 1.36 per share (including dividend  distribution tax @ 20.358% of ` 1,107 Mn) 6543  -  Final dividend for 2014-15 : ` 2.22 per share (including dividend  distribution tax @ 20.358% of ` 1,807 Mn)  -  10,681   6,543  10,681  B Proposed dividend Final dividend for 2016-17: ` 1.00 per share (2015-16 : ` 1.36 per share)  3,997  5,436  Dividend distribution tax @ 20.358%  814  1,107   4,811  6,543    The proposed dividend is subject to approval at annual general meeting and hence has not been recognised as liability.
During the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company has availed tax credit of ` 1,087 and ` 1,807 respectively,  on account of dividend distribution tax on dividend received from subsidiary companies.
17.
Borrowings   Non-current Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Secured  T erm loans  -  -  -   Others*  31  20  19   31  20  19  Less: Current portion (A)  (15)  (10)  (9)  16  10  10  Unsecured T erm loans  31,457  39,207  64,050  Non convertible bonds @  64,082  65,402  -  Deferred payment liabilities **  439,205  341,424  143,167  Finance lease obligations  2,097  1,951  144   536,841  447,984  207,361   Less: Current portion (B)  (33,436)  (33,424)  (13,162)  503,405  414,560  194,199   503,421  414,570  194,209  Current maturities of long-term borrowings (A+B)  33,451  33,434  13,171    *Others include vehicle loans taken from banks which were secured by hypothecation of the vehicles.
@ During the year ended March 31, 2016, the Company had issued 4.375% USD 1,000 Mn (` 63,973) senior unsecured notes (‘Bonds’) at issue price of  99.304% which are listed on Singapore stock exchange and due for repayment in the year 2025.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 156 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Current Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Unsecured T erm loans  65,213  3,975  6,259  Bank overdraft  265  3,024  -   65,478  6,999  6,259     ** During the year ended March 31, 2017, 2015 and 2014, the Company had won the auction for spectrum aggregating to 350.6 Mhz.
The Company  had opted for deferred payment in certain circles for a specified portion of the auction price.
The deferred payment liability recognised in the financial  statements is payable in 10 equal annual installments (including the related interest) after a moratorium of two years.
17.1 Analysis of borrowings   The details given below are gross of debt origination cost.
17.1.1 Repayment terms of borrowings     The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s borrowings based on contractual undiscounted  payments.
Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Within one year  99,332  40,433  19,430  Between one and two years  41,830  27,023  25,119  Between two and five years  91,535  71,101  42,368  Over five years  371,242  318,447  128,779   603,939  457,004  215,696  The borrowings of ` 265, ` 3,024 and ` Nil outstanding as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015,  comprising bank overdraft facilities from banks which are repayable on demand.
The borrowings of ` 601,577, ` 452,029  and ` 215,552 outstanding as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, comprising various loans, are  repayable in total 368, Nil and Nil monthly installments, 586, 732 and 842 half yearly installments, 36, 20 and 15 yearly  installments, 11, 1 and Nil bullet installments, and finance lease obligation of ` 2,097, ` 1,951 and ` 144 in total 85, 84  and 15 yearly, quarterly and monthly installments.
17.1.2 Interest rate and currency of borrowings The below details do not necessarily represents foreign currency or interest rate exposure to the statement of profit and  loss, since the Company has taken derivatives for offsetting the foreign currency & interest rate exposure.
For foreign  currency and interest rate sensitivity, refer Note 33.
Particulars Weighted Average   Rate of Interest T otal   borrowings Floating rate  borrowings Fixed rate  borrowings INR 9.60%  502,918  46,765  456,153  USD 3.58%  101,021  36,555  64,466  March 31, 2017  603,939  83,320  520,619  INR 9.99%  346,430  3,036  343,394  USD 3.22%  110,574  44,762  65,812  March 31, 2016  457,004  47,798  409,206  INR 10.08%  163,483  20,153  143,330  USD 1.16%  52,213  52,213  -  April 1, 2015  215,696  72,366  143,330    17.2 Unused lines of credit * The below table provides the details of un-drawn credit facilities that are available to the Company.
Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Unsecured  172,646  126,561  151,118    * Excluding non-fund based facilities.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 157 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements 18 Financial Liabilities - Others    Non-Current Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Equipment supply payable  -  -  452  Lease rent equalisation  19,541  19,913  18,439  Others  2,340  823  822   21,881  20,736  19,713  Current Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Equipment supply payables  44,304  65,874  53,790  Employees payables  2,290  2,944  2,262  Interest accrued but not due  1,409  1,164  237  Security deposit *  2,538  2,602  2,722  Others  5,130  6,188  6,239   55,671  78,772  65,250    * It pertains to deposits received from subscriber / channel partners which are repayable on disconnection, net of outstanding, if any.
‘Others’ include payable to Qualcomm Asia Pacific Pte.
Limited of ` 4,104 towards purchase of balance equity shares  upon satisfaction of certain conditions as per the share purchase agreement for acquisition of erstwhile Airtel Broadband  Services Private Limited (formerly known as Wireless Business Services private Limited) 19 Provisions Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Asset retirement obligation  921  921  703  Gratuity  1,827  1,668  1,587  Compensated absence  789  730  720  Other employee benefit plans  84 93  90   3,621  3,412  3,100  Non-current - provisions 2330 2223 1926 Current - provisions 1291 1189 1174 3621 3412 3100   The movement of provision toward Asset retirement obligations is as below: Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Opening Balance  921  703  Additions 22  243  Interest cost  (22) (25)   921  921  Due to large number of lease arrangements of the Company, the range of expected period of outflows of provision for  asset retirement obligation is significantly wide.
Refer Note 24 for movement of provision towards employee benefits.
The movement of provision towards subjudice matters is as below: Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Opening Balance  75,196  55,205  Net additions  10,758  19,991   85,954  75,196  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 158 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17   The said provision has been disclosed under: Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Other non-financial assets - non-current (refer note 13)  40,985  34,586  27,362  Other non-financial liabilities - current (refer note 20)  674  603  530  Trade payables (refer note 21)  44,295  40,007  27,313   85,954  75,196  55,205  20 Other non-financial liabilities Current Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 T axes payable  11,501  7,844  4,629  Others  141  343  343   11,642  8,187  4,972     T axes payable include service tax, sales tax and other taxes payable and also include provision towards sub judice  matters (refer Note 19).
21 Trade Payables Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Trade payables*  149,698  119,706  105,769    * It includes amount due to related parties (refer Note 32) and provision towards sub judice matters (refer Note 19).
22 Contingent liabilities and commitments   (i) Contingent liabilities   Claims against the company not acknowledged as debt: Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 (i) T axes, Duties and Other demands   (under adjudication / appeal / dispute) -Sales T ax and Service T ax  11,245  11,259  11,120  -Income T ax  12,527  16,282  16,335  -Customs Duty  4,317  4,254  4,254  -Entry T ax  5,509  5,061  4,221  -Stamp Duty  404  404  411  -Municipal T axes  121  122  122  -Department of T elecom ('DoT') demands  36,540  4,809  4,766  -Other miscellaneous demands  962  818  59  (ii) Claims under legal cases including arbitration  matters -Access Charges / Port Charges  8,733  8,196  6,952  -Others  599  610  562   80,957  51,815  48,802     Further, refer Note f(iv), f(v) and f(vi) below for other  DoT matter.
The category wise detail of the contingent liability has  been given below:-   a)  Sales and Service T ax    The claims for sales tax comprised of cases relating  to the appropriateness of declarations made by the  Company under relevant sales tax legislations which  were primarily procedural in nature and the applicable  sales tax on disposals of certain property and  equipment items.
Pending final decisions, the Company  has deposited amounts under protest with statutory  authorities for certain cases.
The service tax demands relate to cenvat claimed on  tower and related material, levy of service tax on SIM  cards and employee talk time, cenvat credit disallowed  for procedural lapses and usage in excess of 20% limit.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 159 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements   b)  Income T ax demand    Income tax demands mainly include the appeals filed  by the Company before various appellate authorities  against the disallowance by income tax authorities of  certain expenses being claimed, non-deduction of tax  at source with respect to dealers / distributor’s margin  and payments to international operators for access  charges.
c)   Access charges (Interconnect Usage  Charges) / Port charges   (i)    Despite the interconnect usage charges (‘IUC’)  rates being governed by the Regulations issued by  T elecom Regulatory Authority of India (‘TRAI’); BSNL  had raised a demand for IUC at the rates contrary to  the regulations issued by TRAI in 2009.
Accordingly,  the Company filed a petition against the demand  with the TDSA T which allowed payments by the  Company based on the existing regulations.
The matter was then challenged by BSNL and is  currently pending with the Hon’ble Supreme Court.
(ii)   The Hon’ble TDSA T allowed BSNL to recover  distance based carriage charges.
The private  telecom operators have jointly filed an appeal  against the said order and the matter is currently  pending before the Hon’ble Supreme Court.
(iii)  BSNL challenged before TDSA T the port charges  reduction contemplated by the regulations issued  by TRAI in 2007 which passed its judgment in favour  of BSNL.
The said judgment has been challenged  by the private operators in Hon’ble Supreme Court.
Pending disposal of the said appeal, in the interim,  private operators were allowed to continue paying  BSNL as per the revised rates i.e.
TRAI regulation  issued in 2007, subject to the bank guarantee  being provided for the disputed amount.
The rates  were further reduced by TRAI in 2012 which was  challenged by BSNL before the Hon’ble Delhi High  Court.
The Hon’ble Delhi High Court, in the interim,  without staying the rate revision, directed the  private operators to secure the difference between  TRAI regulation of 2007 and 2012 rates by way of  bank guarantee pending final disposal of appeal.
d)  Customs Duty    The custom authorities, in some states, demanded  custom duty for the imports of special software.
The  view of the Company is that such imports should not be  subject to any custom duty as it is operating software  exempt from any custom duty.
In response to the  application filed by the Company, the Hon’ble Central  Excise and Service T ax Appellate Tribunal (‘CEST A T’)  has passed an order in favour of the custom authorities.
The Company has filed an appeal with Hon’ble Supreme  Court against the CEST A T order.
e) Entry T ax    In certain states, an entry tax is levied on receipt of  material from outside the state.
This position has been  challenged by the Company in the respective states,  on the grounds that the specific entry tax is ultra vires  the Constitution.
Classification issues have also been  raised, whereby, in view of the Company, the material  proposed to be taxed is not covered under the specific  category.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Hon’ble  Supreme Court of India upheld the constitutional validity  of entry tax levied by few States.
However, Supreme  Court did not conclude certain aspects such as present  levies in each State is discriminatory in nature or not,  leaving them open to be decided by regular benches of  the Courts.
Pending disposition by the regular benches,  the Company has decided to maintain status-quo  on its position and hence continued to disclose it as  contingent liability.
f)  DoT Demands   (i)   DoT demands include Demand for license fees  pertaining to computation of Adjusted Gross  Revenue (‘AGR’) and the interest thereon, due to  difference in its interpretation.
The definition of  AGR is sub-judice and under dispute since 2005  before the TDSA T .
However, the Hon’ble High  Courts vide interim orders in 2012 had permitted  the Company to continue paying license fee on  similar basis as the Company has been paying  throughout the period of the license.
Further, TDSA T  had pronounced its judgment in 2015, quashed all  demands raised by DoT and directed DoT to rework  the demands basis the principles enunciated in  its judgment.
Subsequently, the Union of India  (‘UOI’) and the Company along with various other  operators have filed appeals / cross appeals before  the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India against the  TDSA T judgment.
In 2016, all the appeals were  tagged together and Hon’ble Supreme Court has  permitted DoT to raise demands with a direction not  to enforce any demand till the final adjudication of  the matter by Hon’ble Supreme Court.
Accordingly,  DoT has raised the demand basis special audit  done by DoT and Comptroller and Auditor General  of India.
The contingent liability includes such  demand and interest thereto (excluding certain  contentious matters, penalty and interest thereto)  for the financial year 2006-07, 2007-08, 2008-09  and 2009-10.
(ii)  DoT demands also include the contentious matters  in respect of subscriber verification norms and  regulations including validity of certain documents  allowed as proof of address / identity.
(iii)  Penalty for alleged failure to meet certain procedural  requirements for EMF radiation self-certification  compliance.
The matters stated above are being contested by the  Company and based on legal advice, the Company  believes that it has complied with all license related  regulations and does not expect any financial impact  due to these matters.
In addition to the amounts disclosed in the table  above, the contingent liability on DoT matters includes  the following:   (iv)   Post the Hon’ble Supreme Court Judgment in  2011, on components of AGR for computation of  license fee, based on the legal advice, the Company  believes that the foreign exchange gain should  not be included in AGR for computation of license  fee thereon.
Further as per TDSA T judgement in  2015, foreign exchange fluctuation does not have  any bearing on the license fees.
Accordingly, the  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 160 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 license fee on foreign exchange gain has not been  provided in the financial statements.
Also, due to  ambiguity of interpretation of ‘foreign exchange  differences’, the license fee impact on such  exchange differences is not quantifiable.
Further  as stated in point (i) above, the interpretation as  to the components of AGR (including the above  component) is subject to litigation and the  Hon’ble High Courts vide interim orders in 2012  had permitted the Company to continue paying  license fee on similar basis as the Company has  been paying throughout the period of the license.
The matter is currently pending adjudication of the  matter by Hon’ble Supreme Court.
(v)   On January 8, 2013, DoT issued a demand on  the Company for ` 51,353 towards levy of one  time spectrum charge.
The demand includes a  retrospective charge of ` 8,940 for holding GSM  Spectrum beyond 6.2 MHz for the period from  July 1, 2008 to December 31, 2012 and also a  prospective charge of ` 42,413 for GSM spectrum  held beyond 4.4 MHz for the period from January  1, 2013, till the expiry of the initial terms of the  respective licenses.
In the opinion of the Company, inter-alia, the above  demand amounts to alteration of financial terms of  the licenses issued in the past.
Based on a petition  filed by the Company, the Hon’ble High Court of  Bombay, vide its order dated January 28, 2013,  has directed the DoT to respond and not to take  any coercive action until the next date of hearing.
The DoT has filed its reply and the next date  of hearing is awaited.
The Company, based on  independent legal opinions, till date has not given  any effect to the above demand.
(vi)   DoT had issued notices to the Company (as well as  other telecom service providers) to stop provision  of services (under 3G Intra Circle Roaming (‘ICR’)  arrangements) in the service areas where such  service providers had not been allocated 3G  Spectrum and levied a financial penalty of ` 3,500  on the Company.
The Company contested the  notices and upon various rounds of litigations, in  response to which TDSA T in 2014 held 3G ICR  arrangements to be competent and compliant  with the licensing conditions and quashed the  notice imposing penalty.
The DoT has challenged  the order of TDSA T before the Hon’ble Supreme  Court which is yet to be listed for hearing.
Guarantees:     Guarantees outstanding as of March 31, 2017, March  31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 amounting to ` 123,614,   ` 99,911 and ` 101,379, respectively have been  issued by banks and financial institutions on behalf  of the Company.
These guarantees include certain  financial bank guarantees which have been given for  subjudice matters and in compliance with licensing  conditions, the amount with respect to these have been  disclosed under capital commitments, contingencies  and liabilities, as applicable, in compliance with the  applicable accounting standards.
(ii)  Commitments   Capital commitments    Estimated amount of contracts to be executed on  capital account and not provided for (net of advances)  ` 69,623, ` 45,115 and ` 274,832 (including ` Nil,  ` 10,970 and ` 244,040 towards spectrum) as of  March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015,  respectively.
Lease Commitments   a) Operating Lease    As per the agreements maximum obligation on long- term non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:   As lessee    The future minimum lease payments obligations are as follows:- Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015  Not later than one year  72,725  68,645  60,478   Later than one year but not later than five years  277,273  215,297  218,622   Later than five years  90,895  102,969  111,760   440,893  386,911  390,860  Lease Rentals  71,059  63,941  Lease equalisation adjustments  (421)  1,473  The escalation clause includes escalation ranging from 0 to 25%, includes option of renewal from 1 to 15 years and there  is no restrictions imposed by lease arrangements.
As lessor (i)   The Company has entered into non–cancellable lease arrangements to provide dark fiber on indefeasible right of use  (‘IRU’) basis.
Due to the nature of the transaction, it is not possible to compute gross carrying amount, depreciation for  the year and accumulated depreciation of the asset given on operating lease as of March 31, 2017 and accordingly,  disclosures required by Ind AS-17 are not provided.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 161 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements (ii) The future minimum lease payment receivables are as follows:   As lessor Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015  Not later than one year  221  337  328   Later than one year but not later than five years  929  1,344  1,207   Later than five years  430  430  904   1,580  2,111  2,439    b)  Finance Lease    As lessee Finance lease obligation of the Company as of March 31, 2017 is as follows:- Particulars Future minimum  lease payments  Interest  Present value   Not later than one year  668  111  557   Later than one year but not later than five years  1,387  223  1,164   2,055  334  1,721  Finance lease obligation of the Company as of March 31, 2016 is as follows: Particulars Future minimum  lease payments  Interest  Present value   Not later than one year  713  92  621   Later than one year but not later than five years  1,519  228  1,291   2,232  320  1,912  Finance lease obligation of the Company as of April 1, 2015 is as follows: Particulars Future minimum  lease payments  Interest  Present value   Not later than one year  42  12  30   Later than one year but not later than five years  117  16  101   159  28  131  The escalation clause includes escalation ranging from 0% to 7.5%, includes option of renewal in block of 3 years.
As lessor The future minimum lease payments receivable of the Company as of March 31, 2017 is as follows:- Particulars Future minimum  lease payments  Interest  Present value   Not later than one year  133  25  107   Later than one year but not later than five years  189  17  172   322  42  279  The future minimum lease payments receivable of the Company as of March 31, 2016 is as follows:- Particulars Future minimum  lease payments  Interest  Present value   Not later than one year  126  33  94   Later than one year but not later than five years  297  37  260   423  70  354  The future minimum lease payments receivable of the Company as of April 1, 2015 is as follows:- Particulars Future minimum  lease payments  Interest  Present value   Not later than one year  45  13  32   Later than one year but not later than five years  123  17  106   168  30  138  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 162 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 23 Revenue from operations Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Service revenue  622,637  602,617  Sale of products  126  386   622,763  603,003  24 Employee benefits  Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Salaries and bonus  14,731  15,742  Contribution to provident and other funds  672  652  Staff welfare expenses  611  682  Defined benefit plan / other long-term benefits  557  531  Share based payment expense - Equity-settled plans  298  204  - Cash-settled plans  157  360  Others  359  477   17,385  18,648  24.1 Share based payment plans   The following table provides an overview of all existing share option plans of the Company: Scheme Plan Vesting period   (years) Contractual   term (years) Equity settled Plans Scheme I 2006 Plan 1 - 5 7 Scheme 2005 2008 Plan & Annual   Grant Plan (AGP) 1 - 3 7 Scheme 2005 Performance Share Plan (PSP)  2009 Plan 3 - 4 7 Scheme 2005 Special ESOP & Restricted  Share Units (RSU) Plan 1 - 5 7 Scheme 2005 Long T erm Incentive (L TI) Plan 1 - 3 7 Cash settled Plans Performance Unit Plan (PUP) Performance Unit Plan (PUP)  2013, 2014 & 2015 1 - 4 3-5    The stock options vesting are subject to service and certain performance conditions mainly pertaining to certain financial  parameters.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 163 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements   The movement in the number of stock options and the related weighted average exercise prices are as follows: Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended   March 31, 2016 Number of    share options  (‘000) Weighted  average   exercise price  (`)  Number of   share options  (‘000) Weighted  average   exercise price  (`) 2006 Plan Outstanding at beginning of year  305  5.00  390  5.00  Granted  -  -  -  -  Exercised  (100)  5.00  (75)  5.00  Forfeited / Expired  -  -  (10)  5.00  Outstanding at end of year  205  5.00  305  5.00  Exercisable at end of year  36  5.00  30  5.00  2008 Plan and AGP Outstanding at beginning of year  639  402.50  2,534  355.45  Granted  -  -  -  -  Exercised  -  -  (686)  334.89  Forfeited / Expired  (639)  402.50  (1,209)  342.24  Outstanding at end of year  -  -  639  402.50  Exercisable at end of year  -  -  639  402.50  PSP 2009 Plan Outstanding at beginning of year  53  5.00  83  5.00  Granted  -  -  -  -  Exercised  (37)  5.00  (22)  5.00  Forfeited / Expired  (10)  5.00  (8)  5.00  Outstanding at end of year  6  5.00  53  5.00  Exercisable at end of year  5  5.00  53  5.00  Special ESOP and RSU Plan Outstanding at beginning of year  126  5.00  189  5.00  Granted  -  -  -  -  Exercised  (91)  5.00  (44)  5.00  Forfeited / Expired  (1)  5.00  (19)  5.00  Outstanding at end of year  34  5.00  126  5.00  Exercisable at end of year  34  5.00  126  5.00  L TI Plans Outstanding at beginning of year  1,709  5.00  523  5.00  Granted  820  5.00  1,576  5.00  Exercised  (308)  5.00  (201)  5.00  Forfeited / Expired  (219)  5.00  (189)  5.00  Outstanding at end of year  2,002  5.00  1,709  5.00  Exercisable at end of year  358  5.00  208  5.00  PUP Number of shares under option: Outstanding at beginning of year  3,118  -  4,801  -  Granted  9  -  18  -  Exercised  (1,257)  -  (822)  -  Forfeited / Expired  (469)  -  (879)  -  Outstanding at end of year  1,401  -  3,118  -  Exercisable at end of year  -  -  -  -  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 164 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17    The following table summarises information about weighted average remaining contractual life, weighted average fair value and weighted average share price for the  options: Plan Weighted average remaining contractual  life for the options outstanding as of  (years)  Weighted Avg Fair Value for the options  granted during the year ended   (`) Weighted average share price for the  options exercised during the year ended   (`) March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,   2015 March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,   2015 March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,   2015 Equity settled Plans 2006 Plan 4.07 5.00 5.86  -  -  361.19  316.50  350.45  371.70  2008 Plan & AGP  - 0.25 0.63  -  -  -  -  397.45  383.30  PSP 2009 Plan 0.34 0.69 1.87  -  -  -  346.84  367.51  352.26  Special ESOP & RSU Plan 0.10 1.20 2.26  -  -  -  329.91  319.66  350.09  L TI Plan (2011, 2012, 2015 & 2016) 5.65 5.98 4.27  338.50  398.32  291.63  296.90  348.28  368.36  Cash settled Plans PUP 2013, 2014 & 2015 1.20 1.85 2.58  379.25  361.11  389.29  466.38  420.81  354.24  The carrying value of cash settled plans liability is ` 141, ` 697 and ` 658 as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, respectively.
The fair value of options is measured using Black-Scholes valuation model.
The key inputs used in the measurement of the grant date fair valuation of equity settled plans and fair value of cash settled plans are given in the table below: Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Risk free interest rates  5.79% to 6.86%  6.86% to 7.83%  Expected life  4 to 60 months  4 to 60 months  Volatility  27.08% to 27.59%  26.63% to 27.45%  Dividend yield  0.39% to 0.63%  0.54% to 0.63%  Wtd average exercise price (`) 0 to 5 0 to 5    The expected life of the stock options is based on the Company’s expectations and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may actually occur.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility over a period similar to the expected life of the options is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome.
Further, the expected volatility is based on the weighted average volatility of the comparable benchmark companies.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 165 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements 24.2 Defined benefit plan    The details of defined benefit obligations and plan assets are as follows: Particulars For the year   March 31, 2017 For the year   March 31, 2016 Gratuity  Compensated  absence Gratuity  Compensated  absence Obligation: Balance as at beginning of the year  1,668  730 1587 720 Current service cost 256 150 247 145 Interest cost 133 58 135 61 Benefits paid  (273)  (113)  (340)  (145) Transfers 7 4  (7) 6 Remeasurements 36  (40)  46  (57) Present value of funded obligation  1,827  789  1,668  730  Current portion  498  789  454  730  Non-current portion  1,329  -  1,214  -     The expected contribution for the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 for Gratuity plan is ` 389 and ` 380, respectively.
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Experience losses  15  6  Gains from change in demographic assumptions  (20)  4  Losses from change in financial assumptions  41  36  Remeasurements on liability  36  46    Due to its defined benefit plans, the Company is exposed to the following significant risks:   Changes in bond yields - A decrease in bond yields will increase plan liability.
Salary risk - The present value of the defined benefit plans liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of the  plan participants.
As such, an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability.
The financial (per annum rates) and demographic assumptions used to determine defined benefit obligations are as follows: Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Discount rate 7.40% 8.00% 8.50% Rate of return on plan assets N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Rate of salary increase 10.00% 10.00% 10.00% Rate of attrition 21% to 29% 20% to 23% 19% to 27% Retirement age 58 58 58 The Company regularly assesses these assumptions with the projected long-term plans and prevalent industry standards.
The impact of sensitivity due to changes in the significant actuarial assumptions on the defined benefit obligations is  given in the table below: Particulars Change in  assumption As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Gratuity  Compensated  absence  Gratuity Compensated  absence Discount Rate +1% -59 -33 -73 -33 -1% 64 36 80 36 Salary Growth Rate +1% 62 -33 77 35 -1% -59 36 -72 -33    The above sensitivity analysis is determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on the net defined benefit  obligations, as a result of reasonable possible changes in the significant actuarial assumptions.
Further, the above sensitivity  analysis is based on a reasonably possible change in a particular under-lying actuarial assumption, while assuming all other  assumptions to be constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 166 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17   The table below summarises the maturity profile and duration of the gratuity liability: Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Within one year  498  454  450  Within one - three years  569  463  433  Within three - five years  327  287  278  Above five years  433  464  426  Weighted average duration (in years) 3.42 3.75 3.69 25 Network operating expenses / sales and marketing expenses / other expenses   a.
Network operating expenses Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Internet, bandwidth and leasedline charges  4,834  6,040  Passive infrastructure charges  48,884  45,444  Power and fuel  65,093  57,589  Repair and maintenance  21,240  25,683  Others  5,309  3,133   145,360  137,889    b.
Sales and marketing expenses Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Advertisement & marketing  7,200  7,485  Sales commission and distribution expenses  21,957  19,087  Business promotion  1,706  4,829  Others  1,457  1,423   32,320  32,824    c.  Other expenses Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Cost of good sold  58  375  Charity and donation#  1,146  575  Legal and professional fees  7,925  7,981  Bad debts written off  329  4,375  Provision for doubtful debts  7,349  1,952  Content costs  5,934  6,506  Collection and recovery expenses  3,955  3,625  Customer care expenses  3,540  3,611  Travelling and conveyance  1,084  1,261  IT expenses  4,754  4,610  Others  2,450  4,769   38,524  39,640     # As per the requirements of section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Company was required to spend an amount of ` 2,079 and ` 1,890 for the  year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 on corporate social responsibility expenditure.
During the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company has  spent in cash an amount of ` 56 and ` 535 towards education and sanitation respectively.
Further, amount paid to Satya Electoral Trust for political purpose  amounting to ` 170 and ` Nil during the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 respectively.
26 Depreciation and amortisation Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Depreciation *  77,663  66,677  Amortisation  44,371  29,076   122,034  95,753    * includes impact of reassessment of useful life, refer Note 3.1 a.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 167 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements 27 Finance costs and income Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Finance costs Interest expense  42,902  23,544  Net loss on derivative financial instruments  2,244  -  Net loss on FVTPL investments  -  184  Net exchange loss  -  4,561  Other finance charges  7,400  7,164   52,546  35,453  Finance income Interest income  18,242  15,220  Net gain on FVTPL investments  1,725  -  Net exchange gain  3,454  -  Net gain on derivative financial instruments  -  488   23,421  15,708     ‘Other finance charges’ include bank charges, trade finance charges, charges relating to derivative instruments and  interest charges towards sub judice matters.
28 Non-operating expense    Non-operating expense comprises regulatory levies  applicable to finance income.
29 Exceptional Items   Exceptional items comprise of the following:   (i)  For the year ended March 31, 2017:       a.
Charge of ` 2,396 towards operating costs  (including accelerated depreciation) on  network re-farming and up-gradation program.
b.
Charge of ` 2,920 resulting from reassessment  of the useful life of certain categories of network  assets of the Company due to technological  advancements.
(Refer Note 3.1 (a))       c.  Net charge aggregating to ` 7,506 pertaining  to regulatory levies related assessment /  provisions, settlement of tax related contingent  liability and reconciliation of balances.
d.  Loss of ` 159,886 pertains to internal  restructuring and divestment.
(Refer Note 5 (v))   (ii)  For the year ended March 31, 2016:       a.
Charge for regulatory fee provisions of   ` 2,659 arising out of re-assessment of certain  positions.
b.
Charge of ` 4,140 towards operating costs  (including accelerated depreciation) on  network refarming and up-gradation program.
T ax expense includes:    (a)  T ax benefit of ` 5,864 and ` 2,243 for the year  ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively on  above exceptional items.
(b)  T ax benefit of ` 1,892 during the year ended  March 31, 2017 on account of reassessment of  tax provisions.
30 Earnings per share (‘EPS’)    The followings is a reconciliation of the equity shares used in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per equity  share: Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Weighted average shares outstanding for basic / diluted EPS  3,997,400  3,997,400  (Loss) / profit for the year  (99,256)  77,803  31 Segment Reporting    The Company’s operating segments are organised and  managed separately through the respective business  managers, according to the nature of products and  services provided with each segment representing  a strategic business unit.
These business units are  reviewed by the Chairman of the Company (Chief  Operating Decision Maker - ‘CODM’).
The amounts reported to CODM are based on the  accounting principles used in the preparation of financial  statements as per Ind AS.
Segment’s performance is  evaluated based on segment revenue and segment  result viz.
profit or loss from operating activities before  exceptional items and tax.
Accordingly, finance costs  / income, non – operating expenses and exceptional  items are not allocated to individual segment.
Inter-segment pricing and terms are reviewed and  changed by the management to reflect changes in  market conditions and changes to such terms are  reflected in the period in which the changes occur.
Inter- segment revenues are eliminated upon consolidation  of segments and reflected in the ‘Eliminations’ column.
Segment assets / liabilities comprise assets / liabilities  directly managed by each segment.
Segment assets  primarily include receivables, property, plant and  equipment, capital work-in-progress, intangibles,  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 168 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 intangible assets under development, non-current  investments, inventories, cash and cash equivalents,  inter-segment assets.
Segment liabilities primarily  include operating liabilities.
Segment capital  expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and  equipment and intangible assets.
Effective April 1, 2016, the Company has realigned  the reporting of its corporate data and fixed-line  business with Airtel business and accordingly renamed  T elemedia Service to Homes Services.
The historical  periods have been restated for the above mention  segmental changes to make them comparable.
The revised reporting segments of the Company are as  below:    Mobile Services: These services cover voice and  data telecom services provided through wireless  technology (2G / 3G / 4G) in India.
This includes the  captive national long distance networks which primarily  provide connectivity to the mobile services business in  India.
This also includes intra-city fibre networks.
Airtel Business: These services cover end-to-end  telecom solutions being provided to large Indian and  global corporations by serving as a single point of  contact for all telecommunication needs across data  and voice (domestic as well as international long  distance), network integration and managed services.
Homes Services: These services cover voice and  data communications through fixed-line network and  broadband technology.
Unallocated: Unallocated items include expenses /  results, assets and liabilities (including inter-segment  assets and liabilities) of corporate headquarters of  the Company, non-current investment, current taxes,  deferred taxes and certain financial assets and liabilities,  not allocated to the operating segments.
Summary of the segmental information for the year ended and as of March 31, 2017 is as follows: Particulars Mobile   Services India  Airtel   Business   Homes Services  Unallocated  Eliminations  T otal  Revenue from external customers  505,670  90,421  26,672  -  -  622,763  Inter-segment revenue  21,075  7,979  198  -  (29,252)  -  T otal revenue  526,745  98,400  26,870  -  (29,252)  622,763  Segment result  94,680  19,469  6,331  (1,418)  -  119,062  Finance costs  52,546  Finance income  (23,421) Non-operating expense  2,324  Exceptional items (refer note 29)  172,708  Profit before tax  (85,095) Other segment items Capital expenditure  362,700  14,058  19,286  1,633  (20,862)  376,815  Depreciation and amortisation  113,230  9,737  5,951  12  (6,896)  122,034  As of March 31, 2017 Segment assets  1,541,193  233,317  296,014  616,542  (779,650)  1,907,416  Segment liabilities  736,333  151,419  231,935  555,306  (779,650)  895,343  Summary of the segmental information for the year ended, as of March 31, 2016 and as of April 1, 2015 is as follows: Particulars Mobile   Services India  Airtel   Business   Homes Services  Unallocated  Eliminations  T otal  Revenue from external customers  500,080  78,624  24,299  -  -  603,003  Inter-segment revenue  18,226  8,527  215  -  (26,968)  -  T otal revenues  518,306  87,151  24,514  -  (26,968)  603,003  Segment result  112,068  14,031  5,540  (1,532)  -  130,107  Finance income  (15,708) Finance costs  35,453  Other expenses  1,019  Exceptional items (refer note 29)  6,799  Profit before tax  102,544  Other segment items Capital expenditure  425,861  13,759  6,026  932  (11,042)  435,536  Depreciation and amortisation  86,279  10,367  4,749  14  (5,656)  95,753  As of March 31, 2016 Segment assets  1,376,117  167,483  166,534  800,866  (660,720)  1,850,280  Segment liabilities  611,172  103,148  108,295  571,094  (660,720)  732,989  As of April 1, 2015 Segment assets  1,070,350  125,483  105,051  817,726  (603,321)  1,515,289  Segment liabilities  387,377  73,302  50,727  549,822  (603,321)  457,907  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 169 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Unallocated assets comprise of : Derivative financial assets  847  858  322  Deferred tax asset  8,875  23,070  27,241  Current tax assets  15,297  820  -  Inter-segment loans / receivables  27,701  3,185  2,284  Other investments  52  60  47,619  Investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and  associates  459,538  698,913  652,478  Loans to related parties  72,704  61,922  73,792  Others  31,528  12,038  13,990   616,542  800,866  817,726  Unallocated liabilities comprise of : Borrowings  160,783  108,604  70,328  Derivative financial liabilities  1,848  704  344  Current tax liabilities  -  -  507  Inter-segment loans / payables  359,597  437,856  470,627  Others  33,078  23,930  8,016   555,306  571,094  549,822    Geographical information: Information concerning geographical areas by location of the entity is as follows:   (a)  Revenue from external customers: Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 India  575,319  562,697  Others  47,444  40,306   622,763  603,003  (b)  Non-current operating assets: Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 India  1,197,249  942,372  621,865  Others  13,981  15,186  5,189   1,211,230  957,558  627,054  Non-current operating assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment, capital work-in-progress,  intangible assets and intangible assets under development.
32 Related Party disclosures   Subsidiaries   - Indian    Airtel Broadband Services Private Limited (merged with  the Company w.e.f April 9, 2015)    Airtel Payments Bank Limited (formerly known as Airtel  M Commerce Services Limited)   Bharti Airtel Services Limited Bharti Hexacom Limited Bharti Infratel Limited Bharti Infratel Services Limited # Bharti T elemedia Limited Indo T eleports Limited (formerly known as Bharti  T eleports Limited) Nxtra Data Limited Smartx Services Limited (subsidiary w.e.f.
September  21, 2015) T elesonic Networks Limited Wynk Limited Nettle Infrastructure Investments Limited (formerly known as Nettle Developers Limited,  subsidiary w.e.f.
March 14, 2017) Augere Wireless Broadband India Private Limited  (subsidiary w.e.f.
June 7, 2016, subsequently merged  with the Company w.e.f.
February 15, 2017) ^   - Foreign Africa T owers N. V .
Africa T owers Services Limited ## Airtel (Seychelles) Limited Airtel (SL) Limited (sold on July 19, 2016) Airtel Bangladesh Limited (Merged with Robi Axiata  Limited w.e.f.
November 16, 2016) Airtel Burkina Faso S.A. (sold on June 22, 2016) Airtel Congo (RDC) S.A. Airtel Congo S.A. (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 170 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Airtel DTH Services (SL) Limited # Airtel DTH Services Congo (RDC) S.p.r.l.
### Airtel DTH Services Nigeria Limited ## Airtel Gabon S.A. Airtel Ghana Limited Airtel Madagascar S.A. Airtel Malawi Limited Airtel Mobile Commerce (Ghana) Limited Airtel Mobile Commerce (Kenya) Limited Airtel Mobile Commerce (Seychelles) Limited Airtel Mobile Commerce (SL) Limited (sold on July 19,  2016) Airtel Mobile Commerce (T anzania) Limited Airtel Mobile Commerce B. V .
Airtel Mobile Commerce Burkina Faso S.A. (sold on  June 22, 2016) Airtel Mobile Commerce Holdings B. V .
Airtel Mobile Commerce Limited, Malawi Airtel Mobile Commerce Madagascar S.A. Airtel Mobile Commerce Rwanda Limited Airtel Mobile Commerce T chad S.a.r.l.
Airtel Mobile Commerce Uganda Limited Airtel Mobile Commerce Zambia Limited Airtel Money (RDC) S.A. Airtel Money Niger S.A. Airtel Money S.A. (Gabon) Airtel Money Transfer Limited Airtel Money T anzania Limited (incorporated on June  10, 2016) Airtel Networks Kenya Limited Airtel Networks Limited Airtel Networks Zambia Plc Airtel Rwanda Limited Airtel T anzania Limited Airtel T chad S.A. Airtel T owers (Ghana) Limited # Airtel T owers (SL) Company Limited # Airtel Uganda Limited Bangladesh Infratel Networks Limited ## Bharti Airtel (Canada) Limited ### Bharti Airtel (France) SAS Bharti Airtel (Hong Kong) Limited Bharti Airtel (Japan) Kabushiki Kaisha Bharti Airtel (UK) Limited Bharti Airtel (USA) Limited Bharti Airtel Africa B. V .
Bharti Airtel Burkina Faso Holdings B. V .
Bharti Airtel Chad Holdings B. V .
Bharti Airtel Congo Holdings B. V .
Bharti Airtel Developers Forum Limited Bharti Airtel DTH Holdings B. V .
Bharti Airtel Gabon Holdings B. V .
Bharti Airtel Ghana Holdings B. V .
Bharti Airtel Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd (merged with  Bharti International (Singapore) Pte Ltd w.e.f.
July 15, 2016) Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Limited^ Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) B. V .^ Bharti Airtel Kenya B. V .
Bharti Airtel Kenya Holdings B. V .
Bharti Airtel Lanka (Private) Limited Bharti Infratel Lanka (Private) Limited ## Bharti Airtel Madagascar Holdings B. V .
Bharti Airtel Malawi Holdings B. V .
Bharti Airtel Mali Holdings B. V .
Bharti Airtel Niger Holdings B. V .
Bharti Airtel Nigeria B. V .
Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings B. V .
## Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings II B. V .
Bharti Airtel RDC Holdings B. V .
Bharti Airtel Rwanda Holdings Limited Bharti Airtel Services B. V .
Bharti Airtel Sierra Leone Holdings B. V .
(sold on July 19,  2016) Bharti Airtel T anzania B. V .
Bharti Airtel Uganda Holdings B. V .
Bharti Airtel Zambia Holdings B. V .
Bharti International (Singapore) Pte.
Ltd Burkina Faso T owers S.A. ### Celtel (Mauritius) Holdings Limited Celtel Niger S.A. Channel Sea Management Company (Mauritius)  Limited Congo RDC T owers S.A. Congo T owers S.A. # Gabon T owers S.A. ## Indian Ocean T elecom Limited Kenya T owers Limited ### Madagascar T owers S.A. Malawi T owers Limited Mobile Commerce Congo S.A. Montana International MSI-Celtel Nigeria Limited ## Network i2i Limited Niger T owers S.A. ### Partnership Investment Sprl Société Malgache de T éléphone Cellulaire S.A. T anzania T owers Limited T chad T owers S.A. # T owers Support Nigeria Limited ## Uganda T owers Limited ### Warid T elecom Uganda Limited (Merged with Airtel  Uganda Limited w.e.f.
July 31, 2016) Zambian T owers Limited ### Zap Trust Company Nigeria Limited ## Associates - Indian Seynse T echnologies Private Limited (Stake acquird on  February 21, 2017)   - Foreign T anzania T elecommunications Company Ltd (‘TTCL’)  (Stake sold on June 23, 2016) Seychelles Cable Systems Company Limited Robi Axiata Limited (stake acquired w.e.f.
November 16,  2016) (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 171 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements   Joint Ventures   - Indian Indus T owers Limited Firefly Networks Limited Forum I Aviation Limited (Investment sold on January  7, 2016)   - Foreign Bridge Mobile Pte Limited Entities having significant influence over the Company   - Indian Bharti T elecom Limited   - Foreign Singapore T elecommunications Limited Pastel Limited   Others related parties*    i) Key Management Personnel and their  relatives exercise significant influence   - Indian Bharti Foundation Bharti Airtel Employees Welfare Trust Hike Private Limited (formerly known as Hike Limited) Cedar Support Services Limited   ii) Group Companies   - Indian Brightstar T elecommunication India Limited (formerly  known as Beetel T eletech Limited) Bharti Axa General Insurance Company Limited Bharti Axa Life Insurance Company Limited Bharti Realty Holdings Limited Bharti Realty Limited Future Retail Limited (ceased w.e.f.
May 01, 2016) Deber T echnologies Private Limited (formerly known as  Ignite World Private Limited) Hike Messenger Limited (formerly known as BSB  Innovation India Limited) Centum Learning Limited Fieldfresh Foods Private Limited Indian Continent Investment Limited Jersey Airtel Limited Nile T ech Limited Y2CF Digital Media Limited Bharti Enterprises Limited Atrium Restaurants India Private Limited Bharti Land Limited Centum Work skills India Limited Oak Infrastructure Developers Limited Gourmet Investments Private Limited   Key Management Personnel (‘KMP’) Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal    * ‘Other related parties’ though not ‘Related Parties’ as per the definition  under IND AS 24, ‘Related party disclosures’, have been included by  way of a voluntary disclosure, following the best corporate governance  practices.
# Dissolved during the year ended March 31, 2017.
## Under liquidation.
### Dissolved during the year ended March 31, 2016.
^ Refer note 5.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 172 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 The summary of transactions with the above mentioned parties is as follows: Particulars For the Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Subsidiaries Joint  Ventures Associates Entities  having  significant  influence Other  related  parties Subsidiaries Joint  Ventures Associates Entities  having  significant  influence Other  related  parties Purchase of fixed assets/bandwidth  4,119  -  -  -  2,705  3,729  -  -  -  2,390  Sale of fixed assets/IRU given  799  -  -  -  -  1,026  -  -  -  -  Purchase of investments*  85,425  -  -  -  -  111,858  -  -  -  -  Sale of Investments  96,809  -  -  -  -  3  -  -  -  -  Rendering of Services  22,680  49  3  1,383  285  20,957  36  4  1,266  339  Receiving of services  48,818  40,423  12  211  2,729  46,759  36,815  -  210  2,738  Fund transferred/expenses incurred on  behalf of others  2,647  11  -  -  0  2,554  14  5  -  42  Fund received/expenses incurred on behalf of the Company  169  -  -  -  116  169  25  -  -  121  Donation  -  -  -  -  921  -  -  -  -  524  Security deposit given/advances paid  24  136  -  -  37  50  117  -  0  23  Advance received/refund of Security deposit given  3  50  -  0  -  7  -  -  -  28  Loans given  98,566  -  -  -  -  14,755  5  14  -  554  Repayment of loans given*  91,562  -  -  -  156  26,503  -  14  -  104  Interest charged by others  -  -  -  -  -  6  -  -  -  -  Interest charged by the Company  804  0  -  -  -  707  0  21  -  2  Reimbursement of energy expenses  13,742  24,614  -  -  -  12,456  21,988  -  -  -  Guarantees and collaterals given # (Including performance guarantees)  709,615  -  -  -  -  799,179  -  -  -  -  Dividend Paid  -  -  -  3,255  364  -  -  -  5,199  592  Dividend Income  16,512  -  -  -  -  9,470  -  -  -  -  * Includes loan converted into equity investments.
# mainly pertains to BAIN (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 173 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements The significant related party transactions are summarised below: Particulars For the year ended  March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Rendering of Services  Subsidiaries Bharti Hexacom Limited  9,802  8,244  Bharti Airtel (UK) Limited  9,597  8,787  Receiving of Services  Subsidiaries Bharti Hexacom Limited  4,526  3,353  Bharti Infratel Limited  20,543  19,426  Bharti Airtel (UK) Limited  9,366  7,763  T elesonic Networks Limited  4,408  4,317  Joint Venture of subsidiary Indus T owers Limited  40,369  36,765  Reimbursement of energy expenses Subsidiary Bharti Infratel Limited  13,742  12,456  Joint Venture of subsidiary Indus T owers Limited  24,614  21,988  Loans given Subsidiaries Bharti T elemedia Limited  23,357  13,592  Nettle Infrastructure Investments Limited  68,140  -  Repayment of Loans given Subsidiaries Bharti T elemedia Limited  42,563  26,079  Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) B. V .
33,788  -  Bharti International (Singapore) Pte Limited *  9,357  -  * loan conversion into equity Purchase of investments Subsidiaries Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Limited 14,620 110,155 Network i2i Limited 50,825 - Sale of investment Subsidiary Nettle Infrastructure Investments Limited  68,060  -  Dividend income Subsidiaries Bharti Hexacom Limited  1,348 630 Bharti Infratel Limited  15,164  8,840  Dividend paid Entity having significant influence over the Company Bharti T elecom Limited  2,451  3,886  The outstanding balances are as follows: Particulars Subsidiaries Joint ventures Associates Entities having  significant  influence Other related  parties As of March 31, 2017 Trade Payables (5,342) (10,563) (10) (223) (410) Trade Receivables 748 1 0 0 69 Loans (including accrued interest) * 72,699 5 0 0 352 Security Deposit 2,602 3,717 0 0 931 As of March 31, 2016 Trade Payables (6,010) (8,115) 0 (120) (403) Trade Receivables 1,301 0 0 0 212 Loans (including accrued interest) * 62,766 5 0 0 559 Security Deposit 2,580 3,631 0 0 894 As of April 1, 2015 Trade Payables (5,720) (7,740) 0 (32) (420) Trade Receivables 1,954 0 114 0 157 Loans (including accrued interest) * 74,383 0 466 0 98 Security Deposit 2,537 3,513 0 0 901 * Refer note 38 III.
5.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 174 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Outstanding balances at period end are un-secured and settlement occurs in cash.
KMP are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Company, directly  or indirectly, including any director, whether executive or otherwise.
Remuneration to key management personnel were as follows: Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Short-T erm employee benefits  250  223  Performance linked Incentive ('PLI')#  118  94  Post-employment benefit  26  24  Share-based payment 62 57 456 398 # Value of PLI considered above represents incentive at 100% performance level.
However, same will be paid on the basis of actual performance parameters in  next year.
Additional provision of ` 28 and ` 29 has been recorded in the books towards PLI for the year ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, respectively.
During the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, PLI of ` 116 and ` 143 respectively pertaining to previous year has been paid.
As the liabilities for the gratuity and compensated absences  are provided on an actuarial basis, and calculated for the  Company as a whole rather than each of the individual  employees, the said liabilities pertaining specifically to KMP  are not known and hence, not included in the above table.
In addition to above ` 313 thousand and ` 322 thousand  have been paid as equity divided to key management  personnel during the year ended March 31, 2017 and March  31, 2016 respectively.
The Company has agreed to ensure appropriate financial  support only if and to the extent required by its subsidiaries  (namely, Bharti Airtel Services Limited, Bharti T elemedia  Limited, Airtel Payments Bank Limited, Bharti T eleports  Limited, Nxtra Data Limited, Bharti Airtel (Hongkong)  Limited, Bharti Airtel Lanka (Private) Limited and Bharti Airtel  International (Netherlands) B. V .
including its subsidiaries).
33 Financial and Capital risk   1.
Financial Risk    The business activities of the Company expose it to  a variety of financial risks, namely market risks (that  is, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and price  risk), credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Company’s risk  management strategies focus on the un-predictability  of these elements and seek to minimise the potential  adverse effects on its financial performance.
Further, the  Company uses certain derivative financial instruments  to mitigate some of these risk exposures (as discussed  below in this note).
The financial risk management for the Company is  driven by the Company’s senior management (‘GSM’),  in close co-ordination with the operating entities  and internal / external experts subject to necessary  supervision.
The Company does not undertake any  speculative transactions either through derivatives or  otherwise.
The GSM are accountable to the Board of  Directors and Audit Committee.
They ensure that the  Company’s financial risk-taking activities are governed  by appropriate financial risk governance frame work,  policies and procedures.
The BOD of the respective  operating entities periodically reviews the exposures  to financial risks, and the measures taken for risk  mitigation and the results thereof.
(i)  Foreign currency risk    Foreign exchange risk arises on all recognised  monetary assets and liabilities, and any highly probable  forecasted transactions, which are denominated in  a currency other than the functional currency of the  Company.
The Company has foreign currency trade  payables, receivables and borrowings.
However, foreign  exchange exposure mainly arises from borrowings and  trade payables denominated in foreign currencies.
The foreign exchange risk management policy of the  Company requires it to manage the foreign exchange  risk by transacting as far as possible in the functional  currency.
Moreover, the Company monitors the  movements in currencies in which the borrowings /  capex vendors are payable and manage any related  foreign exchange risk, which inter-alia include entering  into foreign exchange derivative contracts - as  considered appropriate and whenever necessary.
For  further details as to foreign currency borrowings, refer  Note 17.
Further, for the details as to the fair value of  various outstanding derivative financial instruments,  refer Note 34.
Foreign currency sensitivity     The impact of foreign exchange sensitivity on profit for the year and other comprehensive income is given in the table below: Particulars Change in currency  exchange rate Effect on profit   before tax Effect on   equity (OCI) For the year ended March 31, 2017 US Dollars +5%  (5,244)  -  -5%  5,244  -  Others +5%  (2)  -  -5%  2  -  For the year ended March 31, 2016 US Dollars +5%  (7,664)  -  -5%  7,664  -  Others +5%  8  -  -5%  (8)  -  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 175 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements    The sensitivity disclosed in the above table is mainly  attributable to, in case of to foreign exchange gains /  (losses) on translation of USD denominated borrowings,  derivative financial instruments, trade payables, and  trade receivables.
The above sensitivity analysis is based on a reasonably  possible change in the under-lying foreign currency  against the respective functional currency while  assuming all other variables to be constant.
Based on the movements in the foreign exchange rates  historically and the prevailing market conditions as at  the reporting date, the Company’s management has  concluded that the above mentioned rates used for  sensitivity are reasonable benchmarks.
(ii)  Interest rate risk    As the Company does not have exposure to any  floating-interest bearing assets, or any significant long- term fixed-interest bearing assets, its interest income  and related cash inflows are not affected by changes  in market interest rates.
Consequently, the Company’s  interest rate risk arises mainly from borrowings.
Borrowings    Borrowings with floating and fixed interest rates expose  the Company to cash flow and fair value interest rate  risk respectively.
However, the short-term borrowings  of the Company do not have a significant fair value or  cash flow interest rate risk due to their short tenure.
Accordingly, the components of the debt portfolio are  determined by the GSM in a manner which enables the  Company to achieve an optimum debt-mix basis its  overall objectives and future market expectations.
The Company monitors the interest rate movement  and manages the interest rate risk based on its  risk management policies, which inter-alia include  entering into interest swaps contracts - as considered  appropriate and whenever necessary.
Interest rate sensitivity of borrowings    The impact of the interest rate sensitivity on profit before tax is given in the table below: Interest rate sensitivity Increase / decrease in  basis points Effect on profit   before tax For the year ended March 31, 2017 INR - borrowings +100  (468) -100  468  US Dollar -borrowings +100  (228) -100  228  For the year ended March 31, 2016 INR - borrowings +100  (30) -100  30  US Dollar -borrowings +100  (448) -100  448     The sensitivity disclosed in the above table is  attributable to floating-interest rate borrowings and the   interest swaps.
The above sensitivity analysis is based on a reasonably  possible change in the under-lying interest rate of  the Company’s borrowings in INR, USD (being the  significant currencies in which it has borrowed funds),  while assuming all other variables (in particular foreign  currency rates) to be constant.
Based on the movements in the interest rates  historically and the prevailing market conditions as at  the reporting date, the Company’s management has  concluded that the above mentioned rates used for  sensitivity are reasonable benchmarks.
(iii) Price risk    The Company invests its surplus funds in various  mutual funds (debt fund, equity fund, liquid schemes  and income funds etc.
), short term debt funds,  government securities and fixed deposits.
In order  to manage its price risk arising from investments, the  Company diversifies its portfolio in accordance with the  limits set by the risk management policies.
(iv) Credit risk    Credit risk refers to the risk of default on its obligation  by the counter-party, the risk of deterioration of credit- worthiness of the counter-party as well as concentration  risks of financial assets, and thereby exposing the  Company to potential financial losses.
The Company is exposed to credit risk mainly with  respect to trade receivables, and derivative financial  instruments.
Trade receivables     The Trade receivables of the Company are typically non- interest bearing un-secured and derived from sales made  to a large number of independent customers.
As the  customer base is widely distributed both economically and  geographically, there is no concentration of credit risk.
As there is no independent credit rating of the customers  available with the Company, the management reviews  the credit-worthiness of its customers based on their  financial position, past experience and other factors.
The  credit risk related to the trade receivables is managed  / mitigated by each business unit, basis the Company’s  established policy and procedures, by setting  appropriate payment terms and credit period, and by  setting and monitoring internal limits on exposure to  individual customers.
The credit period provided by the  Company to its customers generally ranges from 14-30  days except Airtel business segment wherein it ranges  from 7-90 days.
The Company uses a provision matrix to measure  the expected credit loss of trade receivables, which  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 176 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 comprise a very large numbers of small balances.
Refer note 14 for details on the impairment of trade receivables.
Based  on the industry practices and the business environment in which the entity operates, management considers that the  trade receivables are credit impaired if the payments are more than 90 days past due.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables as of the reporting date is as follows: Particulars Neither past  due nor  impaired  (excluding  unbilled) Past due but not impaired T otalLess Than   30 days 30 to 60  days 60 to 90  days Above 90  days Trade Receivables as of March 31, 2017  15,997  8,624  3,970  3,203  324  32,118  Trade Receivables as of March 31, 2016  16,885  9,189  2,651  2,165  833  31,724  Trade Receivables as of April 1, 2015  21,097  8,702  858  1,910  480  33,047     The Company performs on-going credit evaluations  of its customers’ financial condition and monitors the  credit-worthiness of its customers to which it grants  credit in its ordinary course of business.
The gross  carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either  partially or in full) to the extent that there is no realistic  prospect of recovery.
This is generally the case when  the Company determines that the debtor does not  have assets or sources of income that could generate  sufficient cash flows to repay the amount due.
Where  the financial asset has been written-off, the Company  continues to engage in enforcement activity to attempt  to recover the receivable due.
Where recoveries are  made, these are recognised in profit and loss.
Financial instruments and cash deposits    The Company’s treasury, in accordance with the  board approved policy, maintains its cash and cash  equivalents, deposits and investment in mutual funds,  and enters into derivative financial instruments - with  banks, financial and other institutions, having good  reputation and past track record, and high credit  rating.
Similarly, counter-parties of the Company’s other  receivables carry either no or very minimal credit risk.
Further, the Company reviews the credit-worthiness of  the counter-parties (on the basis of its ratings, credit  spreads and financial strength) of all the above assets  on an on-going basis, and if required, takes necessary  mitigation measures.
(v)  Liquidity risk    Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able  to meet its financial obligations as they become due.
Accordingly, as a prudent liquidity risk management  measure, the Company closely monitors its liquidity  position and deploys a robust cash management  system.
It maintains adequate sources of financing  including bilateral loans, debt, and overdraft from both  domestic and international banks at an optimised  cost.
It also enjoys strong access to domestic and  international capital markets across debt and equity.
Moreover, the Company’s senior management regularly  monitors the rolling forecasts of the entities’ liquidity  reserve (comprising of the amount of available un-drawn  credit facilities and Cash and cash equivalents) and the  related requirements, to ensure they have sufficient  cash on an on-going basis to meet operational needs  while maintaining sufficient headroom at all times on  its available un-drawn committed credit facilities, so  that there is no breach of borrowing limits or relevant  covenants on any of its borrowings.
For details as to the  Borrowings, refer Note 17.
Based on past performance and current expectations,  the Company believes that the Cash and cash  equivalents, cash generated from operations and  available un-drawn credit facilities, will satisfy its  working capital needs, capital expenditure, investment  requirements, commitments and other liquidity  requirements associated with its existing operations,  through at least the next twelve months.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the  Company’s financial liabilities based on contractual  undiscounted payments:- Particulars As of March 31, 2017 T otalCarrying  amount On Demand Less than  6 months 6 to 12  months 1 to 2  years > 2  years Interest bearing  borrowings*#  603,759  265  72,941  31,725  70,808  732,139  907,878  Other financial liabilities#  76,143  2,538  51,724  -  -  21,881  76,143  Trade payables  149,698  -  149,698  -  -  -  149,698  Financial liabilities  (excluding derivatives)  829,600  2,803  274,363  31,725  70,808  754,020  1,133,719  Derivative assets  847  -  536  98  44  169  847  Derivative liabilities  (1,848)  -  (1,319)  (343)  (58)  (128)  (1,848) Net derivatives  (1,001)  -  (783)  (245)  (14)  41  (1,001) (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 177 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Particulars As of March 31, 2016 T otalCarrying  amount On Demand Less than  6 months 6 to 12  months 1 to 2  years > 2  years Interest bearing  borrowings*#  456,167  3,036  11,338  30,859  69,284  614,419  728,936  Other financial liabilities#  98,344  2,602  75,006  -  -  20,736  98,344  Trade payables  119,706  -  119,706  -  -  -  119,706  Financial liabilities  (excluding derivatives)  674,217  5,638  206,050  30,859  69,284  635,155  946,986  Derivative assets  858  -  387  75  243  153  858  Derivative liabilities  (704)  -  (572)  (124)  (3)  (5)  (704) Net derivatives  154  -  (185)  (49)  240  148  153  Particulars As of April 1, 2015 T otalCarrying  amount On Demand Less than   6 months 6 to 12   months 1 to 2   years > 2   years Interest bearing  borrowings*#  213,876  -  14,171  7,550  38,208  273,711  333,640  Other financial liabilities#  84,726  2,722  62,291  -  -  19,713  84,726  Trade payables  105,769  -  105,769  -  -  -  105,769  Financial liabilities  (excluding derivatives)  404,371  2,722  182,231  7,550  38,208  293,424  524,135  Derivative assets  322  -  116  52  86  68  322  Derivative liabilities  (344)  -  (158)  (65)  (112)  (9)  (344) Net derivatives  (22)  -  (42)  (13)  (26)  59  (22)    * Includes contractual interest payment based on interest rate prevailing at the end of the reporting period after adjustment for the impact of interest swaps,  over the tenor of the borrowings.
# Interest accrued but not due of ` 1,409, ` 1,164 and ` 237 as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, respectively, has been included in  interest bearing borrowings and excluded from other financial liabilities.
The Company from time to time in its usual course  of business guarantees certain indebtedness of its  subsidiaries.
Accordingly, as of March 31, 2017, March  31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 company has issued  corporate guarantee for debt of ` 340,855, ` 393,128  and ` 433,987, respectively.
The outflow in respect  of these guarantees arises only on any default/non- performance of the subsidiary with respect to the  guaranteed debt and substantial amount of such loans  are due for payment after two years from the reporting  date.
2.
Capital Risk    The Company’s objective while managing capital is to  safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern (so  that it is enabled to provide returns and create value for  its shareholders, and benefits for other stakeholders),  support business stability and growth, ensure  adherence to the covenants and restrictions imposed  by lenders and / or relevant laws and regulations, and  maintain an optimal and efficient capital structure so as  to reduce the cost of capital.
However, the key objective  of the Company’s capital management is to, ensure that  it maintains a stable capital structure with the focus  on total equity, uphold investor; creditor and customer  confidence, and ensure future development of its  business activities.
In order to maintain or adjust the  capital structure, the Company may issue new shares,  declare dividends, return capital to shareholders, etc.
The Company manages its capital structure and makes  adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic  conditions or its business requirements.
The Company monitors capital using a gearing ratio,  which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt.
Net debt is calculated as loans and borrowings less  cash and cash equivalents.
Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Borrowings  602,350  455,003  213,639  Less: Cash and Cash Equivalents  1,087  466  3,852  Net Debt  601,263  454,537  209,787  Equity  1,012,073  1,117,291  1,057,382  T otal Capital  1,012,073  1,117,291  1,057,382  Capital and Net Debt  1,613,336  1,571,828  1,267,169  Gearing Ratio 37.3% 28.9% 16.6% (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 178 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 34 Fair Value of financial assets and liabilities   The category wise details as to the carrying value and fair value of the Company’s financial instruments are as follows: Particulars Level Carrying Value as of Fair Value as of  March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,   2015 March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,   2015 Financial Assets FVTPL Derivatives  - Currency swaps, forward and  option contracts Level 2  187  549  215  187  549  215  - Interest rate swaps  106  -  -  106  -  -  - Embedded derivatives Level 2  554  309  107  554  309  107  Investments Level 1  -  -  47,550  -  -  47,550  Investments Level 2  52  60  69  52  60  69  Amortised cost Loans and security deposits Level 2  82,470  72,237  83,444  82,470  72,237  83,444  Trade receivables Level 2  32,118  31,724  33,047  32,118  31,724  33,047  Cash and cash equivalents Level 1  1,087  466  3,852  1,087  466  3,852  Other financial assets Level 2  9,328  14,557  10,152  9,328  14,557  10,152   125,902  119,902  178,436  125,902  119,902  178,436  Financial Liabilities FVTPL Derivatives  - Currency swaps, forward and  option contracts Level 2  1,848  596  111  1,848  596  111  - Embedded derivatives Level 2  -  108  233  -  108  233  Amortised cost Borrowings- fixed rate Level 1  64,082  65,402  -  65,008  67,469  -  Borrowings- fixed rate Level 2  456,153  343,395  143,330  490,251  353,949  143,330  Borrowings- floating rate Level 2  82,115  46,206  70,309  82,115  46,206  70,309  Trade payables Level 2  149,698  119,706  105,769  149,698  119,706  105,769  Other financial liabilities Level 2  77,552  99,508  84,963  77,552  99,508  84,963   831,448  674,921  404,715  866,472  687,542  404,715     The following methods / assumptions were used to  estimate the fair values:    i.
The carrying value of trade receivables, trade  payables, short-term borrowings, other current  financial assets and liabilities approximate their fair  value mainly due to the short-term maturities of  these instruments.
ii.
Fair value of quoted financial instruments is based  on quoted market price at the reporting date.
iii.
The fair value of long-term borrowings and non- current financial assets / liabilities is estimated  by discounting future cash flows using current  rates applicable to instruments with similar terms,  currency, credit risk and remaining maturities.
iv.
The fair values of derivatives are estimated by using  pricing models, wherein the inputs to those models  are based on readily observable market parameters.
The valuation models used by the Company reflect  the contractual terms of the derivatives (including  the period to maturity), and market-based  parameters such as interest rates, foreign exchange  rates, volatility etc.
These models do not contain a  high level of subjectivity as the valuation techniques  used do not require significant judgement and  inputs thereto are readily observable.
During the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016,  there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level  2 fair value measurements.
None of the financial  assets and financial liabilities are in Level 3.
Following table describes the valuation techniques used and key inputs thereto for the Level 2 financial assets / liabilities  as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015: Financial assets / liabilities Valuation technique Inputs used - Currency swaps, forward and option  contracts  Discounted Cash Flow Forward currency exchange rates, Interest rates.
- Interest swaps  Discounted Cash Flow Prevailing / forward interest rates in market, Interest rates.
- Embedded derivatives  Discounted Cash Flow Forward currency exchange rates, Interest rates.
- Investments  Discounted Cash Flow Prevailing / forward interest rates in market, Interest rates.
- Other financial assets  Discounted Cash Flow Prevailing / forward interest rates in market, Interest rates.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 179 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Financial assets / liabilities Valuation technique Inputs used - Other borrowings- fixed rate  Discounted Cash Flow Prevailing interest rates in market,   Future payouts, Interest rates.
- Other financial liabilities  Discounted Cash Flow Prevailing interest rates in market,    Future payouts, Interest rates.
35 Auditor’s remuneration Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 - Audit fee*  76  78  - Reimbursement of expenses*  6  6  - As advisor for taxation matters*  0  -  - Other services*  9  18   91  102    *Excluding service tax 36 Micro, small & medium enterprises development act, 2006 (‘MSMED’) disclosure     The dues to micro and small enterprises as required under MSMED Act, 2006, based on the information available with  the Company, is given below: Sr  No.
Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 1 The principal amount and the interest due thereon [` Nil (March 31,  2016 – ` Nil)] remaining unpaid to any supplier as at the end of each  accounting year   10  32  2 The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 16 of the  MSMED Act, 2006, along with the amounts of the payment made to  the supplier beyond the appointed day during each accounting year  96 - 3 The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in  making payment (which have been paid but beyond the appointed  day during the year) but without adding the interest specified under  MSMED Act, 2006.
- - 4 The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of  each accounting year; 0 - 5 The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the  succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as above are  actually paid to the small enterprise for the purpose of disallowance as  a deductible expenditure under section 23 of the MSMED Act, 2006.
- - 37 Other Matters (i)    In 1996, the Company had obtained the permission  from DoT to operate its Punjab license through one of  its wholly owned subsidiary.
However DoT cancelled the  permission to operate in April, 1996 and subsequently  reinstated in March, 1998.
Accordingly, for the period  from April 1996 to March, 1998 (‘blackout period’) the  license fee was disputed and not paid by the Company.
Subsequently, basis the demand from DoT in 2001,  the Company paid the disputed license fee of ` 4,856  for blackout period under protest.
Consequently, the  license was restored subject to arbitrator’s adjudication  on the dispute.
The arbitrator adjudicated the matter in  favour of DoT , which was challenged by the Company  before Hon’ble Delhi High Court.
In 2012, Hon’ble Delhi  High Court passed an order setting aside the arbitrator’s  award, which was challenged by DoT and is pending  before its division bench.
Meanwhile, the Company had  filed a writ petition for recovery of the disputed license  fee and interest thereto.
However, the single bench,  despite taking the view that the Company is entitled  to refund, dismissed the writ petition on the ground  that the case is still pending with the larger bench.
The  Company therefore has filed appeal against the said  order with division bench and is currently pending.
(ii)   TRAI vide T elecom Interconnect Usages Charges  Regulation (Eleventh Amendment) 2015 has reduced  the IUC charges for mobile termination charges to  14  paisa from 20  paisa and abolished the fixed-line  termination charges.
The company has challenged the  said Regulation before the Hon’ble Delhi High Court  and the matter is currently pending.
38 Reconciliation from previous GAAP The following reconciliations provide a quantification of the  effect of differences arising from the transition from Previous  GAAP to Ind AS in accordance with Ind AS 101 whereas the  notes explain the significant differences thereto.
I.
Balance sheet reconciliations as of April 1, 2015 II a.
Balance sheet reconciliations as of March 31, 2016 II b.  Reconciliations of statement of profit and loss for the  year ended March 31, 2016 III.
Notes to the balance sheet and statement of profit and  loss reconciliations  IV .
Explanation of material adjustments to statement of  cash flows (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 180 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 I.
Balance sheet reconciliation as of April 1, 2015 Particulars Notes Regrouped IGAAP Ind AS  Adjustment Ind AS Assets Non-current assets  Property, plant and equipment  1 / 2 / 3  256,552  1,604  258,156  Capital work-in-progress  2  26,561  337  26,898  Intangible assets  277,892  -  277,892  Intangible assets under development  64,108  -  64,108  Investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and  associates  4 / 5  383,908  268,570  652,478  Financial Assets  - Investments  7  52  -  52  - Derivative instruments  6  -  154  154  - Loans and security deposits  3 / 5  49,650  (6,758)  42,892  - Others  487  -  487  Deferred tax assets (net)  10  27,935  (694)  27,241  Other non-current assets  3  17,041  -  17,041   1,104,186  263,213  1,367,399  Current assets  Inventories  94  -  94  Financial Assets  - Investments  7  47,211  356  47,567  - Derivative instruments  6  -  168  168  - Trade receivables  33,047  -  33,047  - Cash and cash equivalents  3,852  -  3,852  - Loans  40,552  -  40,552  - Others  9,665  -  9,665  Other current assets  12,864  81  12,945   147,285  605  147,890  T otal Assets  1,251,471  263,818  1,515,289  Equity and Liabilities  Equity  Shares capital  19,987  -  19,987  Other Equity  762,743  274,652  1,037,395   782,730  274,652  1,057,382  Non-current liabilities  Financial liabilities  -Borrowings  194,209  -  194,209  -Derivative instruments  6  126  (5)  121  -Others  19,713  -  19,713  Deferred revenue  3  16,012  (125)  15,887  Provisions  1  1,969  (43)  1,926   232,029  (173)  231,856  Current liabilities  Financial liabilities  -Borrowings  6,259  -  6,259  -Current maturities of long term borrowings  13,171  -  13,171  -Derivative instruments  6  126  97  223  -Trade payables  105,890  (121)  105,769  -Others  3  65,328  (78)  65,250  Deferred revenue  3  28,604  122  28,726  Provisions  1,174  -  1,174  Current tax liabilities (net)  507  -  507  Other current liabilities  8  15,653  (10,681)  4,972   236,712  (10,661)  226,051  T otal Liabilities  468,741  (10,834)  457,907  T otal Equity and Liabilities  1,251,471  263,818  1,515,289  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 181 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements II a.
Balance sheet reconciliation as of March 31, 2016 Particulars Notes Regrouped IGAAP Ind AS  Adjustment Ind AS Assets Non-current assets  Property, plant and equipment  1 / 2 / 3  311,563  1,110  312,673  Capital work-in-progress  2  28,251  337  28,588  Intangible assets  606,582  -  606,582  Intangible assets under development  9,715  -  9,715  Investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures   and associates  4 / 5  430,209  268,704  698,913  Financial assets  - Investments  7  52  -  52  - Derivative instruments  6  -  396  396  - Loans and security deposits  3 / 5  33,199  (4,338)  28,861  - Others  598  -  598  Deferred tax assets (net)  10  23,503  (433)  23,070  Other non-current assets  3  26,622  -  26,622   1,470,294  265,776  1,736,070  Current assets  Inventories  53  -  53  Financial assets  - Investments  8  -  8  - Derivative instruments  6  -  462  462  - Trade receivables  31,724  -  31,724  - Cash and cash equivalents  466  -  466  - Loans  43,376  -  43,376  - Others  13,959  -  13,959  Current tax assets (net)  820  -  820  Other current assets  23,483  (141)  23,342   113,889  321  114,210  T otal Assets  1,584,183  266,097  1,850,280  Equity and Liabilities  Equity  Shares capital  19,987  -  19,987  Other Equity  824,481  272,823  1,097,304   844,468  272,823  1,117,291  Non-current Liabilities  Financial liabilities  - Borrowings  414,622  (52)  414,570  - Derivative instruments  6  11  (3)  8  - Others  20,736  -  20,736  Deferred revenue  3  17,110  (126)  16,984  Provisions  1  2,262  (39)  2,223   454,741  (220)  454,521  Current liabilities  Financial liabilities  - Borrowings  6,961  38  6,999  - Current maturities of long-term borrowings  33,434  -  33,434  - Derivative instruments  6  108  588  696  - Trade payables  120,280  (574)  119,706  - Others  3  78,907  (135)  78,772  Deferred revenue  3  29,364  121  29,485  Provisions  1,189  -  1,189  Other current liabilities  8  14,731  (6,544)  8,187   284,974  (6,506)  278,468  T otal Liabilities  739,715  (6,726)  732,989  T otal Equity and Liabilities  1,584,183  266,097  1,850,280  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 182 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 II b. Reconciliation of Statement of profit and loss for the year ended March 31, 2016 Particulars Notes Regrouped IGAAP Ind AS  Adjustment Ind AS Income  Revenue from operations  603,002  1  603,003  Other Income  1,729  -  1,729  T otal Income  604,731  1  604,732  Expenses  Network operating expenses  3  137,540  349  137,889  Access charges  80,236  -  80,236  License fee / spectrum charges (revenue share)  69,635  -  69,635  Employee benefits  9  18,693  (45)  18,648  Sales and marketing Expenses  32,824  -  32,824  Other expenses  3  39,610  30  39,640  T otal Expenses  378,538  334  378,872  Profit from operating activities before  depreciation, amortisation and exceptional  items   226,193  (333)  225,860  Depreciation and amortisation expense  1 / 2 / 3  95,431  322  95,753  Finance costs  1 / 3 / 6 / 7  35,002  451  35,453  Finance income  3 / 5 / 6 / 7  (12,458)  (3,250)  (15,708) Non operating expense  1,019  -  1,019  Profit before exceptional items and tax  107,199  2,144  109,343  Exceptional items  6,799  -  6,799  Profit before tax  100,400  2,144  102,544  T ax expenses  Current tax  20,558  -  20,558  Deferred tax  10  4,376  (193)  4,183  Profit for the year  75,466  2,337  77,803  Other comprehensive income ('OCI') :  Items not to be reclassified to profit or loss :  Re-measurement losses on defined benefit plans  9  -  (46)  (46) Income tax credit  9  -  12  12  Other comprehensive loss for the year  -  (34)  (34) T otal comprehensive income for the year  75,466  2,303  77,769  III.
Notes to the balance sheet and statement of  profit and loss reconciliations    As the presentation requirements under IGAAP differ  from Ind AS, the IGAAP information has been regrouped  for ease and facilitation of reconciliation with Ind AS.
1.
Asset retirement obligations (‘ARO’)    Under previous GAAP , ARO is initially measured at the  expected cost to settle the obligation.
Under Ind AS,  the ARO is initially measured at the present value of  expected cost to settle the obligation.
The Company  accordingly has recognized the adjustment to the cost  of fixed assets and the consequent depreciation and  finance cost.
The corresponding impact on the date of  transition has been recognised in equity.
2.
Foreign exchange gain / losses    Under previous GAAP , certain foreign exchange gains  or losses on foreign currency denominated liabilities  were capitalized into the carrying value of fixed assets  until March 31st 2008.
Under Ind AS, such gains and  losses are not allowed to capitalised.
The Company  accordingly has recognised the adjustment to the cost  of fixed assets and the consequent depreciation.
The  corresponding impact on the date of transition has  been considered in equity.
3.
Non-current financial assets / liabilities    Under previous GAAP , certain non-current financial  assets / liabilities which were measured at cost /  best estimate of the expenditure required to settle  the obligation, at the balance sheet date without  considering the effect of discounting whereas these  are measured at the present value on the balance  sheet date under Ind AS.
Accordingly, the Company has  recognised the adjustment to the respective carrying  amount and the consequent impact on finance cost /  finance income due to the unwinding of the discounting  impact.
The corresponding impact on the date of  transition has been recognised in equity.
4.
Investment in subsidiaries – deemed cost  exemption    Under previous GAAP , investments in subsidiaries  were measured at cost.
Under Ind AS, the Company  has elected the option of fair value the investments  in certain subsidiaries basis the requirements of Ind  AS 101, First Time Adoption of Indian Accounting  Standards for deriving the carrying value of these  Investments (‘deemed cost’).
5.
Fair valuation of loans    Under previous GAAP , interest free loans given by Parent  to its subsidiaries are not required to be fair valued on  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 183 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements initial recognition and hence these were recognised  at the amount of loan given.
Under Ind AS, such loans  are measured at fair value on initial recognition basis  discounting at market interest rates and the difference  is accounted as investment in respective subsidiary.
The consequent unwinding of discounted fair value is  recognised as interest income in the statement of profit  and loss with the corresponding increase in loans.
6.
Derivatives    Under previous GAAP , derivative contracts are  measured at fair value at each balance sheet date with  the changes over the previous carrying amount being  recognised in the statement of profit and loss, but  recognition of increase in the fair value is restricted only  to the extent it represents any subsequent reversal of  previously recognised losses.
Under Ind AS, the entire  changes the fair values of derivative contracts are  recognised in statement of profit and loss in the year of  change.
7.
Investments    Under previous GAAP , current investments were  measured at lower of cost or fair value.
Under Ind AS,  these financial assets are classified as FVTPL and the  changes in fair value are recognised in statement of  profit and loss.
On the transition date, these financial  assets have been measured at their fair value which is  higher than its cost as per previous GAAP , resulting in  an increase in carrying value of the investments with  corresponding increase being recognised in equity.
8.
Proposed dividend    Under previous GAAP , dividend on equity shares  recommended by the board of directors (‘proposed  dividend’) was recognised as a liability in the financial  statements in the period to which it relates.
Under  Ind AS, such dividend is recognised as a liability when  approved by the shareholders in the general meeting.
The Company accordingly, has de-recognised the  proposed dividend liability with the corresponding  increase being recognised in equity.
9.
Remeasurement differences    Under previous GAAP , there was no concept of other  comprehensive income and hence, previous GAAP  profit is reconciled to total comprehensive income as  per Ind AS.
Under previous GAAP , the remeasurements  of the net defined benefit liability were recognised  in the statement of profit and loss.
Under Ind AS, the  said remeasurement differences net of the related tax  impact are recognised in other comprehensive income.
10.
Deferred T axes    Under Ind AS, the Company has recognised the  consequential deferred tax implications on the impact  on account of adjustments explained above.
IV .
Explanation of material adjustments to  Statement of Cash Flows    There were no material differences between the  statement of cash flows presented under Ind AS and the  previous GAAP except due to various re-classification  adjustments recorded under Ind AS and difference in  the definition of cash and cash equivalents under these  two GAAPs.
184 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Consolidated Financial Statements (Ind AS) Particulars Page   Nos.
Independent Auditor’s Report 185 Consolidated Balance Sheet 188 Consolidated Statement of Profit & Loss 189 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 190 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 191 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Corporate Information 192 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies 192 3.
Critical accounting estimates, assumptions   and judgements 202 4.
Standards issued but not effective until the   date of authorisation for issuance of the said   financial statements 203 5.
Significant transactions / new developments 204 6.
Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’) 206 7.
Intangible assets 207 8.
Investment in joint ventures and associates 209 9.
Investments in subsidiaries 212 10.
Investments 214 11.
Derivative financial Instruments 215 12.
Security deposits 215 13.
Financial assets – others 215 14.
Income tax 216 15.
Other non-financial assets 218 16.
Trade receivables 219 17.
Cash and bank balances 219 Particulars Page   Nos.
18.
Non-current assets-held-for-sale 220 19.
Share capital 221 20.
Retained earnings and other reserves 222 21.
Borrowings 223 22.
Financial liabilities - others 226 23.
Provisions 226 24.
Other non - financial liabilities 227 25.
Trade payables 227 26.
Contingent liabilities and commitments 228 27.
Revenue from operations 232 28.
Employee benefits 232 29.
Network operating expenses / sales and  marketing expenses / other expenses236 30.
Depreciation and amortisation 237 31.
Finance costs and income 237 32.
Non-operating expense (net) 237 33.
Exceptional Items 237 34.
Earnings per share (‘EPS’) 238 35.
Segment reporting 238 36.
Related party disclosures 241 37.
Financial and capital risk 243 38.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities 249 39.
Other matters 251 40.
Additional information as required under  Schedule III of the Companies Act 2013252 41.
Reconciliation from previous GAAP 262 185 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report T o the Members of Bharti Airtel Limited Report on the Consolidated Ind AS Financial  Statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated Ind AS  financial statements of Bharti Airtel Limited (‘the Holding  Company’), its subsidiaries (together referred to as “the  Group”), its associates and jointly controlled entities,  comprising of the consolidated Balance Sheet as at March  31, 2017, the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss  including other comprehensive income, the consolidated  Cash Flow Statement, the consolidated Statement of  Changes in Equity for the year then ended, and a summary  of significant accounting policies and other explanatory  information (hereinafter referred to as “the consolidated Ind  AS financial statement”).
Management’s Responsibility for the  Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the  preparation of these consolidated Ind AS financial statements  in terms of the requirement of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the  Act”) that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial  position, consolidated financial performance including  other comprehensive income, consolidated cash flows and  consolidated statement of changes in equity of the Group  including its associates and jointly controlled entities and in  accordance with accounting principles generally accepted  in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS)  specified under Section 133 of the Act, read with Rule 3 of the  Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 and  the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment  Rules, 2016 issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
The  respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the  Group and of its associates and jointly controlled entities are  responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records  in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding  of the assets of the Group and of its associates and jointly  controlled entities and for preventing and detecting frauds and  other irregularities; the selection and application of appropriate  accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that  are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation  and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls,  that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy  and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to  the preparation and presentation of the consolidated Ind AS  financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free  from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,  which have been used for the purpose of preparation of the  consolidated Ind AS financial statements by the Directors of  the Company, as aforesaid.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these  consolidated Ind AS financial statements based on our audit.
While conducting the audit, we have taken into account the  provisions of the Act, the accounting and auditing standards  and matters which are required to be included in the audit  report under the provisions of the Act and the Rules made  thereunder.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the  Standards on Auditing, issued by the Institute of Chartered  Accountants of India, as specified under Section 143(10)  of the Act.
Those Standards require that we comply with  ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to  obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial  statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit  evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the  consolidated Ind AS financial statements.
The procedures  selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the  assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the  consolidated Ind AS financial statements, whether due to  fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor  considers internal financial control relevant to the Holding  Company’s preparation of the consolidated Ind AS financial  statements that give a true and fair view in order to design  audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of  accounting policies used and the reasonableness of the  accounting estimates made by the Holding Company’s Board  of Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of  the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence  obtained by us and the audit evidence obtained by the other  auditors in terms of their reports referred to in paragraph (a)  of the Other Matters below, is sufficient and appropriate to  provide a basis for our audit opinion on the consolidated Ind  AS financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion and to the best of our information and  according to the explanations given to us and based on  the consideration of reports of other auditors on separate  financial statements and on the other financial information  of a associate and a jointly controlled entity, the aforesaid  consolidated Ind AS financial statements give the information  required by the Act in the manner so required and give a true  and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles  generally accepted in India of the consolidated state of affairs  of the Group, its associates and jointly controlled entities as  at March 31, 2017, their consolidated profit including other  comprehensive loss, and their consolidated cash flows and  consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year  ended on that date.
Emphasis of Matter We draw attention to Note 26(i)(f)(v) to these consolidated  Ind AS financial statements which, describes the  uncertainties related to the legal outcome of the Department  of T elecommunications’ demand with respect to One Time  Spectrum Charge.
Our opinion is not qualified in respect of  this matter.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory  Requirements As required by section 143 (3) of the Act based on our audit  and on the consideration of report of the other auditors  on separate financial statements and the other financial  information of subsidiaries, an associate and a jointly  controlled entity, as noted in the ‘other matter’ paragraph,  we report, to the extent applicable, that: (a)   W e / the other auditors whose reports we have relied  upon, have sought and obtained all the information and  explanations which to the best of our knowledge and  belief were necessary for the purpose of our audit of the  aforesaid consolidated Ind AS financial statements; (b)   In  our opinion proper books of account as required by  law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidation  of the Ind AS financial statements have been kept so far  as it appears from our examination of those books and  reports of the other auditors; 186 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Independent Auditor’s Report (c)    The consolidated Balance Sheet, consolidated  Statement of Profit and Loss including the Statement  of Other Comprehensive Income, the consolidated  Cash Flow Statement and consolidated Statement  of Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in  agreement with the books of account; (d)  In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated Ind AS  financial statements comply with the Accounting  Standards specified under section 133 of the Act, read  with Rule 3 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2015  and the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards)  Rules, 2016 issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs; (e)  On the basis of the written representations received  from the directors of the Holding Company as on March  31, 2017 taken on record by the Board of Directors of  the Holding Company and the reports of the statutory  auditors who are appointed under Section 139 of the  Act, of its subsidiaries, an associate company and  jointly controlled company incorporated in India, none  of the directors of the Group’s companies, its associate  and jointly controlled companies incorporated in  India is disqualified as on March 31, 2017 from being  appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of  the Act; (f)    With respect to the adequacy and the operating  effectiveness of the internal financial controls over  financial reporting of the Holding Company and its  subsidiary companies, associate companies and jointly  controlled companies incorporated in India, refer to our  separate report in “Annexure 1” to this report; (g)  With respect to the other matters to be included in  the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of  the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014  Companies (Audit and Auditors) Amendment Rules,  2017, in our opinion and to the best of our information  and according to the explanations given to us:   i.
The consolidated Ind AS financial statements  disclose the impact of pending litigations on its  consolidated financial position of the Group, its  associates and jointly controlled entities – Refer  Note 23 to the consolidated Ind AS financial  statements;   ii.
Provision has been made in the consolidated Ind  AS financial statements, as required under the  applicable law or accounting standards, for material  foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts  including derivative contracts – Refer (a) Note 11  to the consolidated Ind AS financial statements  in respect of such items as it relates to the Group,  its associates and jointly controlled entities and  (b) the Group’s share of net profit in respect of its  associates;   iii.
There were no amounts which were required to be  transferred to the Investor Education and Protection  Fund by the Holding Company, its subsidiaries,  associates and jointly controlled companies  incorporated in India during the year ended March  31, 2017.   iv.
The Company has provided requisite disclosures  in Note 17 to these Ind AS consolidated financial  statements as to the holding of Specified Bank  Notes on November 8, 2016 and December  30, 2016 as well as dealings in Specified Bank  Notes during the period from November 8, 2016  to December 30, 2016 of the Group entities as  applicable.
Based on our audit procedures and  relying on the management representation of the  Holding Company regarding the holding and nature  of cash transactions, including Specified Bank Notes,  we report that these disclosures are in accordance  with the books of accounts maintained by those  entities as produced to us by the management of  the respective Group entities.
Other Matter We did not audit the financial statements of the joint venture  included herein with the Company’s share of profit in joint  venture of ` 11,083 Mn for the year ended March 31, 2017.
These financial statements and other financial information  have been audited by other auditors whose report has been  furnished to us by the management.
Our opinion in so far as  it relates to the affairs of such joint venture,and our report in  terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the Act in so far as  it relates to the aforesaid joint venture is based solely on the  report of such other auditors.
Our opinion is not qualified in  respect of this matter.
These consolidated Ind AS financial statements include  the Company’s share of losses for the post-merger period  effective November 16, 2016 in an associate of ` 1,182  Mn for the year ended March 31, 2017.
These financial  statements and other financial information are audited  upto period ended December 31, 2016 and unaudited for  three months period ended March 31, 2017 and have been  furnished to us by the management based on management  accounts of the associate pending approval of its quarterly  accounts.
Our opinion in so far as it relates to the affairs of  such associate, and our report in terms of sub-section (3) of  Section 143 of the Act in so far as it relates to the aforesaid  associate, is based solely on such audited and unaudited  financial statements and other unaudited financial  information for the period ended December 31, 2016 and  March 31, 2017 respectively.
Our above opinion on the consolidated Ind AS financial  statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory  Requirements above, is not modified in respect of the above  matters with respect to our reliance on the work done and  the reports of the other auditors and the financial statements  and other financial information certified by the Management.
For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W/E300004 per Nilangshu Katriar Partner  Membership Number: 58814 Place: New Delhi Date: May 9, 2017 187 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Annexure 1 T o the Independent Auditor’s Report of even  date on the Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements  of Bharti Airtel Limited Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause  (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act,  2013 (“the Act”) T o the Members of Bharti Airtel Limited In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated Ind AS  financial statements of Bharti Airtel Limited as of and for the  year ended March 31, 2017, we have audited the internal  financial controls over financial reporting of Bharti Airtel  Limited (hereinafter referred to as the “Holding Company”)  and its subsidiary companies, its associate companies  and jointly controlled companies, which are companies  incorporated in India, as of that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal  Financial Controls The respective Board of Directors of the Holding Company,  its subsidiary companies, its associate companies and  jointly controlled companies, which are companies  incorporated in India, are responsible for establishing and  maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal  control over financial reporting criteria established by the  Holding Company considering the essential components  of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of  Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued  by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
These  responsibilities include the design, implementation and  maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that  were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and  efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to  the respective Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its  assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors,  the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records,  and the timely preparation of reliable financial information,  as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s  internal financial controls over financial reporting based  on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with  the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls  Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and the  Standards on Auditing, both, issued by Institute of Chartered  Accountants of India, and deemed to be prescribed under  section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an  audit of internal financial controls.
Those Standards and  the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical  requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain  reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal  financial controls over financial reporting was established  and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in  all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit  evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial  controls system over financial reporting and their operating  effectiveness.
Our audit of internal financial controls over  financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of  internal financial controls over financial reporting, assessing  the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and  evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of  internal control based on the assessed risk.
The procedures  selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the  assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the  consolidated Ind AS financial statements, whether due to  fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and  the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms  of their reports referred to in the Other Matters paragraph  below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our  audit opinion on the internal financial controls system over  financial reporting.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls Over  Financial Reporting A Company’s internal financial control over financial  reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable  assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and  the preparation of financial statements for external purposes  in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A Company’s internal financial control over financial  reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)  pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable  detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and  dispositions of the assets of the Company; (2) provide  reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as  necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in  accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,  and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are  being made only in accordance with authorisations of  management and directors of the Company; and (3) provide  reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely  detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of  the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on  the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial  Controls Over Financial Reporting Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial  controls over financial reporting, including the possibility  of collusion or improper management override of controls,  material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and  not be detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the  internal financial controls over financial reporting to future  periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial  control over financial reporting may become inadequate  because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of  compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion In our opinion, the Holding Company, its subsidiary  companies, its associate companies and jointly controlled  companies, which are companies incorporated in India, have,  maintained in all material respects, an adequate internal  financial controls system over financial reporting and such  internal financial controls over financial reporting were  operating effectively as at March 31, 2017, based on the  internal control over financial reporting criteria established by  the Holding Company considering the essential components  of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of  Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued  by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
Other Matters Our report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the  adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal  financial controls over financial reporting of the Holding  Company, in so far as it relates to the jointly controlled  company, which is Company incorporated in India, is based  on the corresponding reports of the auditors of such jointly  controlled company incorporated in India.
For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W/E300004 per Nilangshu Katriar Partner  Membership Number: 58814 Place: New Delhi Date: May 9, 2017 188 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees) Particulars Notes As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Assets Non-current assets  Property, plant and equipment 6  620,088  610,508  543,936  Capital work-in-progress 6  23,942  47,304  48,702  Goodwill 7  338,082  428,381  414,823  Other intangible assets 7  824,181  684,039  341,718  Intangible assets under development 7  84,443  9,716  118,487  Investment in joint ventures and associates 8  82,277  60,990  51,936  Financial assets  - Investments 10  44,187  28,622  31,310  - Derivative instruments 11  4,732  13,999  7,303  - Security deposits 12  9,630  10,441  9,529  - Others 13  16,653  17,502  8,031  Deferred tax assets (net) 14  26,262  46,738  59,502  Other non-current assets 15  49,875  70,440  75,684   2,124,352  2,028,680  1,710,961  Current assets  Inventories  488  1,692  1,339  Financial assets  - Investments 10  16,923  16,159  84,017  - Derivative instruments 11  2,060  4,765  1,207  - Trade receivables 16  49,838  55,039  51,961  - Cash and cash equivalents 17  12,817  37,087  11,721  - Bank deposits 17  3,360  13,900  8,823  - Others 13  52,105  32,511  25,171  Current tax assets  21,454  11,570  5,721  Other current assets 15  44,105  48,827  32,196  Assets-held-for-sale 18  -    7,002  32,618   203,150  228,552  254,774  T otal Assets  2,327,502  2,257,232  1,965,735  Equity and Liabilities  Equity    Share capital 19  19,987  19,987  19,987  Other equity  654,576  647,706  610,603  Equity attributable to owners of the Parent  674,563  667,693  630,590  Non-controlling interests ('NCI')  68,750  54,981  51,613   743,313  722,674  682,203  Non-current liabilities  Financial liabilities  - Borrowings 21  896,373  892,686  591,575  - Derivative instruments 11  2,726  8  164  - Others 22  15,681  16,084  14,537  Deferred revenue  22,335  17,787  17,917  Provisions 23  7,471  7,350  7,648  Deferred tax liabilities (net) 14  9,429  12,512  13,077  Other non-current liabilities 24  727  1,527  1,466   954,742  947,954  646,384  Current liabilities  Financial liabilities  - Borrowings 21  129,442  57,238  86,680  - Current maturities of long-term borrowings 21  48,466  54,602  125,366  - Derivative instruments 11  2,335  1,931  628  - Trade payables 25  268,537  255,806  215,896  - Others 22  88,808  131,180  127,306  Deferred revenue  48,785  51,336  50,074  Provisions 23  2,215  2,332  2,066  Current tax liabilities (net)   6,089  9,296  9,271  Other current liabilities 24  34,770  21,844  15,898  Liabilities-held-for-sale 18  -    1,039  3,963   629,447  586,604  637,148   T otal Liabilities  1,584,189  1,534,558  1,283,532   T otal Equity and Liabilities  2,327,502  2,257,232  1,965,735  The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
As per our report of even date For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W / E300004 per Nilangshu Katriar Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Partner  Membership No: 58814 Chairman DIN: 00042491 Managing Director  & CEO (India & South Asia) DIN: 02291778 Place: New Delhi Nilanjan Roy Date: May 9, 2017 Global Chief Financial Officer Consolidated Balance Sheet 189 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements As per our report of even date For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W / E300004 per Nilangshu Katriar Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Partner  Membership No: 58814 Chairman DIN: 00042491 Managing Director  & CEO (India & South Asia) DIN: 02291778 Place: New Delhi Nilanjan Roy Date: May 9, 2017 Global Chief Financial Officer (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees; except per share data) Particulars Notes For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Income  Revenue from operations 27  954,683  965,321  Other income  1,206  871   955,889  966,192  Expenses  Network operating expenses 29  209,154  201,567  Access charges  102,786  109,423  License fee / spectrum charges (revenue share)  92,760  94,928  Employee benefits 28  43,032  49,108  Sales and marketing expenses 29  71,400  82,410  Other expenses 29  82,253  88,043   601,385  625,479  Profit from operating activities before depreciation,  amortisation  and exceptional items   354,504  340,713  Share of results of joint ventures and associates 8  (10,449)  (10,666) Depreciation and amortisation 30  197,730  174,498  Finance costs 31  95,466  85,461  Finance income 31  (18,492)  (16,326) Non-operating expense (net) 32  1,319  1,024  Profit before exceptional items and tax  88,930  106,722  Exceptional items 33  11,697  (21,741) Profit before tax  77,233  128,463  T ax expense  Current tax 14  21,240  44,690  Deferred tax 14  13,579  14,843  Profit for the year  42,414  68,930  Other comprehensive income ('OCI')  Items to be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss :  Net losses due to foreign currency translation differences  (41,424)  (4,920) Net losses on net investments hedge  (10,330)  (7,108) Net gains / (losses) on cash flow hedge  857  (724) Net gains on fair value through OCI investments  107  9  Income tax (charge) / credit  14  (16)  503   (50,806)  (12,240) Items not to be reclassified to profit or loss :  Re-measurement losses on defined benefit plans  28  (73)  (129) Share of joint ventures and associates 8  (9)  (4) Income tax credit  20  25   (62)  (108) Other comprehensive loss for the year  (50,868)  (12,348) T otal comprehensive (loss) / gain for the year  (8,454)  56,582  Profit for the year attributable to :  42,414  68,930  Owners of the Parent  37,998  60,767  Non-controlling interests  4,416  8,163  Other comprehensive loss for the year attributable to :  (50,868)  (12,348) Owners of the Parent  (48,655)  (11,977) Non-controlling interests  (2,213)  (371) T otal comprehensive (loss) / gain for the year attributable to :  (8,454)  56,582  Owners of the Parent  (10,657)  48,790  Non-controlling interests  2,203  7,792  Earnings per share (In Rupees) (Face value ` 5/- each)  Basic 34  9.51  15.21  Diluted 34  9.51  15.20  The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 190 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees; except per share data) Particulars Equity attributable to owners of the Parent  Non- controlling  interests T otal  equity Share capital Other equity No of  shares  (in ‘000) Amount Reserves and surplus Other  components  of equity  (Note 20) T otal  Share   premium Retained  earnings  (Note  20) General  reserve Share- based  payment   reserve Transactions  with NCI  reserve As of April 1, 2015 3,997,400  19,987  123,456  404,792  27,030  4,805  50,634  (114)  610,603  51,613  682,203  Profit for the year  -    -    -    60,767  -    -    -    -    60,767  8,163  68,930  Other comprehensive  loss   -    -    -    (108)  -    -    -    (11,869) (11,977)  (371) (12,348) T otal comprehensive  income / (loss)   -    -    -    60,659  -    -    -    (11,869)  48,790  7,792  56,582  Transaction with  owners of equity  Employee share-based  payment expense   -    -    -    -    -    237  -    -    237  11  248  NCI arising on a  business combination   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (16)  (16) Purchase of treasury  shares   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (514)  (514)  -    (514) Exercise of share  options   -    -    -    -    -    127  -    104  231  338  569  Transaction with NCI  -    -    -    -    -    -    531  -    531  453  984  Dividend paid  (including tax) to  Company's    shareholders   -    -    -    (10,679)  -    -    -    -   (10,679)  -   (10,679)  Dividend paid  (including tax) to NCI   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (4,625)  (4,625) Movement on account  of court approved  schemes  -    -    -    (1,493)  -    -    -    -    (1,493)  (585)  (2,078) As of March 31, 2016 3,997,400  19,987  123,456  453,279  27,030  5,169  51,165  (12,393)  647,706  54,981  722,674  Profit for the year  -    -    -    37,998  -    -    -    -    37,998  4,416  42,414  Other comprehensive  loss   -    -    -    (62)  -    -    -    (48,593)   (48,655)  (2,213) (50,868) T otal comprehensive  income / (loss)   -    -    -    37,936  -    -    -    (48,593) (10,657)  2,203  (8,454) Transaction with  owners of equity  Employee share-based  payment expense   -    -    -    -    -    328  -    -    328  10  338  Exercise of share  options   -    -    -    -    -    (1,432)  -    157  (1,275)  (1,236)  (2,511) Transaction with NCI  -    -    -    -    -    -    26,051  -    26,051  26,303  52,354  Dividend paid  (including tax) to  Company's    shareholders   -    -    -    (6,543)  -    -    -    -    (6,543)  -    (6,543) Dividend paid  (including tax) to NCI   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (12,869) (12,869) Movement on account  of court approved  schemes   -    -    -    (1,034)  -    -    -    -    (1,034)  (642)  (1,676) As of March 31, 2017 3,997,400  19,987  123,456  483,638  27,030  4,065  77,216  (60,829)  654,576  68,750  743,313  The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity As per our report of even date For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W / E300004 per Nilangshu Katriar Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Partner  Membership No: 58814 Chairman DIN: 00042491 Managing Director  & CEO (India & South Asia) DIN: 02291778 Place: New Delhi Nilanjan Roy Date: May 9, 2017 Global Chief Financial Officer 191 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows As per our report of even date For S. R. Batliboi & Associates LLP For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited Chartered Accountants ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W/E300004 per Nilangshu Katriar Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Partner  Membership No: 58814 Chairman DIN: 00042491 Managing Director  & CEO (India & South Asia) DIN: 02291778 Place: New Delhi Nilanjan Roy Date: May 9, 2017 Global Chief Financial Officer (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees) Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax  77,233  128,463  Adjustments for : Depreciation and amortisation  197,730  174,498  Finance costs  95,466  85,461  Finance income  (18,492)  (16,326) Share of results of joint ventures and associates  (10,449)  (10,666) Exceptional items  (276)  (31,321) Employee share-based payment expense  338  248  Other non-cash items  265  (143) Operating cash flow before changes in working capital  341,815  330,214  Changes in working capital Trade receivables  13,001  12,656  Trade payables  9,633  (3,504) Inventories  948  (872) Provisions  (26)  (277) Other financial and non financial liabilities  3,558  9,939  Other financial and non financial assets  (54,543)  (21,897) Net cash generated from operations before tax and dividend  314,386  326,259  Dividend received  9,510  -    Income tax paid  (31,587)  (46,836) Net cash generated from operating activities (a)  292,309  279,423  Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (223,030)  (193,313) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  4,462  3,798  Purchase of intangible assets  (165,477)  (81,452) Net movement in current investments  5,785  63,771  Purchase of non-current investments  (89,073)  (3,218) Sale of non-current investments  82,557  7,642  Investment in subsidiaries, net of cash acquired  (283)  (135) Sale of subsidiaries (refer note 5)  59,604  -    Sale of tower assets  7,120  56,821  Investment in associate  (250)  -    Proceeds from sale of interest in associate / joint venture (refer note 5)  447  55  Loan to joint venture / associate  -    (19) Loan repayment received from joint venture / associate  -    14  Dividend received  279  118  Interest received  2,305  3,661  Net cash used in investing activities (b)  (315,554)  (142,257) Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings  258,584  187,265  Repayment of borrowings  (274,608)  (309,656) Net proceeds from short-term borrowings  25,377  4,558  Proceeds from sale and finance leaseback of towers  6,277  48,120  Repayment of finance lease liabilities  (3,899)  (2,593) Purchase of treasury shares  -    (514) Interest and other finance charges paid  (58,566)  (32,890) Proceeds from exercise of share options  65  569  Dividend paid (including tax)  (9,168)  (15,304) Proceeds from issuance of equity shares to NCI (refer note 5)  1,245  984  Sale of interest in a subsidiary (refer Note 5)  61,863  -    Purchase of shares from NCI (refer note 5)  (10,684)  -    Net cash used in financing activities (c)  (3,514)  (119,461) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents during the year (a+b+c)  (26,759)  17,705  Effect of exchange rate on cash and cash equivalents  (756)  1,343  Cash and cash equivalents as at beginning of the year  17,635  (1,413) Cash and cash equivalents as at end of the year (refer Note 17)  (9,880)  17,635  The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 192 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 1.
Corporate information Bharti Airtel Limited (‘the Company’ or ‘the Parent’) is  domiciled and incorporated in India as a limited liability  company with its shares being listed on the National  Stock Exchange and the Bombay Stock Exchange.
The  registered office of the Company is situated at Bharti  Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road, Vasant Kunj, Phase  – II, New Delhi – 110070.
The Company together with its subsidiaries (hereinafter  referred to as ‘the Group’) has presence in India, Africa  and South Asia.
The principal activities of the Group,  its joint ventures and associates consist of provision  of telecommunication services, tower infrastructure  services and direct-to-home digital television services.
The details as to the services provided by the Group are  further provided in Note 35.
For details as to the Group  structure, refer Note 40.
2.
Summary of significant accounting policies 2.1 Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements (‘financial  statements’) have been prepared to comply in all material  respects with the Indian Accounting Standard (‘Ind AS’)  notified under section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013,  read together with Rule 3 of the Companies (Indian  Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 and Companies  (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2016  issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’).
The said financial statements for the year ended March  31, 2017 are the first Ind AS financial statements of  the Group.
The transition to Ind AS has been carried  out from accounting standards notified under section  133 of the Companies Act 2013, read together with  paragraph 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014  (‘IGAAP’), which is considered as the Previous GAAP , for  purposes of Ind AS 101.
For details, refer Note 2.3.
The financial statements are authorized for issue by the  Company’s Board of Directors on May 9, 2017.
The accounting policies, as set out in the following  paragraphs of this note, have been consistently applied,  by all the group entities, to all the periods presented in  the said financial statements.
The preparation of the said financial statements  requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates  and judgements.
It also requires the management  to exercise judgement in the process of applying the  Group’s accounting policies.
The areas where estimates  are significant to the financial statements, or areas  involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity,  are disclosed in Note 3.
The financial statements are based on the classification  provisions contained in Ind AS 1, ‘Presentation of  Financial Statements’ and division II of schedule III of  the Companies Act 2013.
Further, for the purpose of  clarity, various items are aggregated in the statement of  profit and loss and balance sheet.
Nonetheless, these  items are dis-aggregated separately in the notes to the  financial statements, where applicable or required.
All the amounts included in the financial statements  are reported in millions of Indian Rupees (‘Rupees’ or  ‘`’) and are rounded to the nearest million, except per  share data and unless stated otherwise.
2.2 Basis of measurement The financial statements have been prepared on the  accrual and going concern basis, and the historical  cost convention except where the Ind AS requires a  different accounting treatment.
The principal variations  from the historical cost convention relate to financial  instruments classified as fair value through profit or  loss or through other comprehensive income (refer  Note 2.11 b), liability for cash-settled awards (refer Note  2.18), the component of carrying values of recognised  liabilities that are designated in fair value hedges (refer  Note 2.11 d) - which are measured at fair value.
Fair value measurement Fair value is the price at the measurement date, at which  an asset can be sold or paid to transfer a liability, in an  orderly transaction between market participants.
The  Group’s accounting policies require, measurement of  certain financial / non-financial assets and liabilities at  fair values (either on a recurring or non-recurring basis).
Also, the fair values of financial instruments measured  at amortised cost are required to be disclosed in the  said financial statements.
The Group is required to classify the fair valuation method  of the financial / non-financial assets and liabilities,  either measured or disclosed at fair value in the financial  statements, using a three level fair-value-hierarchy  (which reflects the significance of inputs used in the  measurement).
Accordingly, the Group uses valuation  techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances  and for which sufficient data are available to measure  fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable  inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
The three levels of the fair-value-hierarchy are described  below: Level 1: Quoted (unadjusted) prices for identical assets  or liabilities in active markets Level 2: Significant inputs to the fair value measurement  are directly or indirectly observable Level 3: Significant inputs to the fair value measurement  are unobservable 2.3 Basis of transition to Ind AS The adoption of Ind AS is carried out in accordance  with Ind AS 101 on April 1, 2015 being the transition  date.
Ind AS 101 requires that all Ind AS standards that  are issued and effective for the year ending March 31,  2017, be applied retrospectively and consistently for  all the periods presented.
However, in preparing these  financial statements, the Group has availed of certain  exemptions and exceptions in accordance with Ind  AS 101, as explained below.
The resulting difference  between the carrying values of the assets and liabilities  in the financial statements as at the transition date  under Ind AS and previous GAAP have been recognised  directly in equity at the transition date.
In these financial statements, the Group has presented  three balance sheets - as of March 31, 2017, March 31,  2016 and April 1, 2015.
The Group has also presented  two statements of profit and loss, two statements of  changes in equity and two statements of cash flows for  the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 along with  the necessary and related notes.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 193 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Ind AS 101 allows first-time adopters certain optional  exemptions and mandatory exceptions from the  retrospective application of certain requirements under  Ind AS.
Exemptions / exceptions from full retrospective  application (i)     The Group has elected to apply the following  optional exemption from full retrospective  application of Ind AS:   (a)   Foreign currency translation reserve  exemption -      The Group has elected to reset all the cumulative  translation differences to zero at the date of  transition to Ind AS.
(ii)   The following mandatory exceptions from  retrospective application of Ind AS have been  applied by the Group:   (a)   Estimates exception - On an assessment of  the estimates made under the Previous GAAP  financial statements, the Group has concluded  that there is no necessity to revise the estimates  under Ind AS (except for adjustments to reflect  any difference in accounting policies), as there is  no objective evidence that those estimates were  in error.
However, estimates, that were required  under Ind AS but not required under Previous  GAAP , are made by the Group for the relevant  reporting dates, reflecting conditions existing as  at that date without using any hindsight.
(b)   De-recognition of financial assets and  liabilities exception - Financial assets and  liabilities de-recognized before transition date are  not re-recognized under Ind AS.
Reconciliations and explanations of the significant  effect of the transition from Previous GAAP to Ind  AS on the Group’s equity, statement of profit and  loss and statement of cash flow are provided in  Note 41.
2.4 Basis of consolidation   a.
Subsidiaries     Subsidiaries include all the entities over which  the  Group has control.
The Group controls an  entity when it is exposed or has right to variable  return from its involvement with the entity, and  has the ability to affect those returns through  its power (that is, existing rights that give it the  current ability to direct the relevant activities) over  the entity.
The Group re-assesses whether or not  it controls the entity, in case the under-lying facts  and circumstances indicate that there are changes  to above mentioned parameters that determine the  existence of control.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date  on which control is transferred to the Group,  and they are de-consolidated from the date that  control ceases.
Non-controlling interests is the  equity in a subsidiary not attributable to a parent  and presented separately from the Group’s equity.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount at  the date of the business combination and its share  of changes in equity since that date.
Profit or loss  and other comprehensive income are attributed  to the controlling and non-controlling interests in  proportion to their ownership interests, even if this  results in the non-controlling interests having a  deficit balance.
However, in case where there are  binding contractual arrangements that determine  the attribution of the earnings, the attribution  specified by such arrangement is considered.
The profit or loss on disposal (associated with  loss of control) is recognised in the statement of  profit and loss being the difference between (i) the  aggregate of the fair value of consideration received  and the fair value of any retained interest, and (ii) the  previous carrying amount of the assets (including  goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary and any  non-controlling interests.
In addition, any amounts  previously recognised in the other comprehensive  income in respect of that de-consolidated entity, are  accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed  off the related assets or liabilities.
This may mean  that amounts previously recognised in the other  comprehensive income are re-classified to the  statement of profit and loss.
Any retained interest  in the entity is remeasured to its fair value with the  resultant change in carrying value being recognised  in statement of profit and loss.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary,  without a change of control, is accounted for as  a transaction with equity holders.
Any difference  between the amount of the adjustment to non- controlling interests and any consideration  exchanged is recognised in ‘reserve arising on  transactions with NCI’, a component of equity.
b.
Joint ventures and associates     A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement  whereby the parties that have joint control of the  arrangement have rights to the net assets of the  joint venture.
Joint control is the contractually  agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which  exists only when decisions about the relevant  activities require unanimous consent of the parties  sharing control.
An associate is an entity over which the Group has  significant influence.
Significant influence is the  power to participate in the financial and operating  policy decisions of the investee but is not control or  joint control over those policies.
Joint ventures and associates are accounted for  from the date on which Group obtains joint control  over the joint venture / starts exercising significant  influence over the associate.
c.  Method of consolidation     Accounting policies of the respective individual  subsidiary, joint venture and associate are aligned  wherever necessary, so as to ensure consistency  with the accounting policies that are adopted by the  Group under Ind AS.
The standalone financial statements of subsidiaries  are fully consolidated on a line-by-line basis.
Intra- group balances and transactions, and income and  expenses arising from intra-group transactions,  are eliminated while preparing the said financial  statements.
The un-realised gains r esulting from  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 194 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 intra-group transactions are also eliminated.
Similarly, the un-realised losses are eliminated,  unless the transaction provides evidence as to  impairment of the asset transferred.
The Group’s investments in its joint ventures and  associates are accounted for using the equity  method.
Accordingly, the investments are carried  at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes  in the Group’s share of the net assets of investees.
Any excess of the cost over the Group’s share of net  assets in its joint ventures / associates at the date of  acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill  is included within the carrying amount of the  investment.
The un-realised gains / losses resulting  from transactions (including sale of business)  with joint ventures and associates are eliminated  against the investment to the extent of the Group’s  interest in the investee.
However, un-realised losses  are eliminated only to the extent that there is no  evidence of impairment.
At each reporting date, the Group determines  whether there is objective evidence that the  investment is impaired.
If there is such evidence,  the Group calculates the amount of impairment as  the difference between the recoverable amount of  investment and its carrying value.
2.5 Business Combinations The Group accounts for business combinations  using the acquisition method of accounting, and  accordingly, the identifiable assets acquired and the  liabilities assumed in the acquiree are recorded at their  acquisition date fair values (except certain assets and  liabilities which are required to be measured as per the  applicable standard) and the non-controlling interest  is initially recognised at the non-controlling interest’s  proportionate share of the acquiree’s net identifiable  assets.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition  of a subsidiary is aggregation of the fair values of the  assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity  interests issued by the Group in exchange for control of  the acquiree.
The consideration transferred also includes the  fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a  contingent consideration arrangement.
Any contingent  consideration to be transferred by the acquirer  is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Contingent consideration classified as an asset or  liability is subsequently measured at fair value with  changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity  is not re-measured and its subsequent settlement is  accounted for within equity.
The excess of the consideration transferred, along  with the amount of any non-controlling interests in the  acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value (with the  resulting difference being recognised in statement of  profit and loss) of any previous equity interest in the  acquiree, over the fair value of the Group’s share of the  identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed in the period in  which the costs are incurred.
If the initial accounting for a business combination  is incomplete as at the reporting date in which the  combination occurs, the identifiable assets and liabilities  acquired in a business combination are measured at  their provisional fair values at the date of acquisition.
Subsequently adjustments to the provisional values  are made within the measurement period, if new  information is obtained about facts and circumstances  that existed as of the acquisition date and, if known,  would have resulted in the recognition of those assets  and liabilities as of that date; otherwise the adjustments  are recorded in the period in which they occur.
A contingent liability recognised in a business  combination is initially measured at its fair value.
Subsequently, it is measured at the higher of the  amount that would be recognised in accordance  with Ind AS 37, ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and  Contingent Assets’, or amount initially recognised less,  when appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised  in accordance with Ind AS 18 ‘Revenue’.
2.6 Foreign currency transactions   a.  Functional and presentation currency     The items included in financial statements of each  of the Group’s entities are measured using the  currency of primary economic environment in which  the entity operates (i.e.
‘functional currency’).
The financial statements are presented in Indian  Rupees which is the functional and presentation  currency of the Company.
b.
Transactions and balances     Transactions in foreign currencies are initially  recorded in the relevant functional currency at the  rates prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in  foreign currencies are translated into the functional  currency at the closing exchange rate prevailing  as at the reporting date with the resulting foreign  exchange differences, on subsequent re-statement  / settlement, recognised in the statement of profit  and loss within finance costs / finance income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in  foreign currencies are translated into the functional  currency using the exchange rate prevalent, at the  date of initial recognition (in case they are measured  at historical cost) or at the date when the fair value is  determined (in case they are measured at fair value)  – the resulting foreign exchange difference, on  subsequent re-statement / settlement, recognised  in the statement of profit and loss, except to the  extent that it relates to items recognised in the  other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
The equity items denominated in foreign currencies  are translated at historical cost.
c.  Foreign operations     The assets and liabilities of foreign operations  (including the goodwill and fair value adjustments  arising on the acquisition of foreign entities) are  translated into Rupees at the exchange rates prevailing  at the reporting date whereas their statements of  profit and loss are translated into Rupees at monthly  average exchange rates and the equity is recorded at  the historical rate.
The resulting exchange differences  arising on the translation are recognised in other  comprehensive income and held in foreign currency  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 195 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements translation reserve (‘FCTR’), a component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation (that is, disposal  involving loss of control), the component of other  comprehensive income relating to that particular  foreign operation is reclassified to profit or loss.
2.7 Current versus non-current classification The Group presents assets and liabilities in the balance  sheet based on current / non-current classification.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities, and all assets and  liabilities which are not current (as discussed in the  below paragraphs) are classified as non-current assets  and liabilities.
An asset is classified as current when it is expected  to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed in  normal operating cycle, held primarily for the purpose  of trading, expected to be realised within twelve months  after the reporting period, or cash or cash equivalent  unless restricted from being exchanged or used to  settle a liability for at least twelve months after the  reporting period.
A liability is classified as current when it is expected to  be settled in normal operating cycle, it is held primarily  for the purpose of trading, it is due to be settled within  twelve months after the reporting period, or there is no  unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability  for at least twelve months after the reporting period.
The derivatives designated in hedging relationship and  separated embedded derivatives are classified basis  the hedged item and host contract respectively.
2.8 Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’) An item is recognised as an asset, if and only if, it is  probable that the future economic benefits associated  with the item will flow to the Group and its cost can  be measured reliably.
PPE are initially recognised at  cost.
The initial cost of PPE comprises its purchase  price (including non-refundable duties and taxes but  excluding any trade discounts and rebates), and any  directly attributable cost of bringing the asset to its  working condition and location for its intended use.
In  case of multiple element contracts whereby the vendor  supplies PPE as well as other components, PPE is  recorded on the basis of relative fair values.
Further, it  includes assets installed on the premises of customers  as the associated risks, rewards and control remain  with the Group.
Subsequent to initial recognition, PPE are stated  at cost less accumulated depreciation and any  impairment losses.
When significant parts of property,  plant and equipment are required to be replaced in  regular intervals, the Group recognises such parts as  separate component of assets.
When an item of PPE  is replaced, then its carrying amount is de-recognised  from the balance sheet and cost of the new item of  PPE is recognised.
Further, in case the replaced part  was not being depreciated separately, the cost of the  replacement is used as an indication to determine the  cost of the replaced part at the time it was acquired.
The expenditures that are incurred after the item of PPE  has been put to use, such as repairs and maintenance,  are normally charged to the statement of profit and loss  in the period in which such costs are incurred.
However,  in situations where the said expenditure can be  measured reliably, and is probable that future economic  benefits associated with it will flow to the Group, it is  included in the asset’s carrying value or as a separate  asset, as appropriate.
Depreciation on PPE is computed using the straight-line  method over the estimated useful lives.
Freehold land is  not depreciated as it has an unlimited useful life.
The  Group has established the estimated range of useful  lives of different categories of PPE based on technical  evaluation as follows: Particulars Years Leasehold improvements Period of lease or  10 -20 years, as  applicable, whichever  is less Leasehold land Period of lease Buildings 20 Plant and machinery - Network equipment 3 – 20 - Customer premise equipment 5-6 - Assets taken on finance lease Period of lease or 10  years, as applicable,  whichever is less Other equipment, operating and  office equipment: Computer equipment 3 Furniture & fixture and Office  equipment 2 - 5 Vehicles 3 - 5    The useful lives, residual values and depreciation  method of PPE are reviewed, and adjusted appropriately,  at-least as at each reporting date so as to ensure that  the method and period of depreciation are consistent  with the expected pattern of economic benefits from  these assets.
The effect of any change in the estimated  useful lives, residual values and / or depreciation  method are accounted prospectively, and accordingly,  the depreciation is calculated over the PPE’s remaining  revised useful life.
The cost and the accumulated  depreciation for PPE sold, scrapped, retired or otherwise  disposed off are de-recognised from the balance sheet  and the resulting gains / (losses) are included in the  statement of profit and loss within other expenses /  other income.
The cost of capital work-in-progress is presented  separately in the balance sheet.
2.9 Intangible assets    Identifiable intangible assets are recognised when  the Group controls the asset, it is probable that future  economic benefits attributed to the asset will flow to  the Group and the cost of the asset can be measured  reliably.
Goodwill represents the cost of the acquired businesses  in excess of the fair value of identifiable net assets  purchased (refer Note 2.5).
Goodwill is not amortised;  however it is tested annually for impairment (refer  Note 2.10) and carried at cost less any accumulated  impairment losses.
The gains/ (losses) on the disposal  of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill  relating to the entity sold.
The intangible assets that are acquired in a business  combination are recognised at its fair value thereat.
Other intangible assets are recognised at cost.
These  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 196 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 assets having finite useful life are carried at cost  less accumulated amortisation and any impairment  losses.
Amortisation is computed using the straight- line method over the expected useful life of intangible  assets.
The Group has established the estimated useful lives of  different categories of intangible assets as follows:   a.  Softwares       Softwares are amortised over the period of license,  generally not exceeding three years.
b.  Bandwidth        Bandwidth is amortised on straight-line basis over  the period of the agreement.
c.  Licenses (including spectrum)       Acquired licenses and spectrum are amortised  commencing from the date when the related  network is available for intended use in the relevant  jurisdiction.
The useful lives range from two years to  twenty five years.
The revenue-share based fee on licenses / spectrum  is charged to the statement of profit and loss in the  period such cost is incurred.
d.  Other acquired intangible assets       Other acquired intangible assets include the  following:       Rights acquired for unlimited license access:  Over the period of the agreement which ranges  upto five years.
Distribution network: One year to two years       Customer base: Over the estimated life of such  relationships which ranges from one year to five  years.
Non-compete fee: Over the period of the  agreement which ranges upto five years.
The useful lives and amortisation method are  reviewed, and adjusted appropriately, at least at  each financial year end so as to ensure that the  method and period of amortisation are consistent  with the expected pattern of economic benefits  from these assets.
The effect of any change in the  estimated useful lives and / or amortisation method  is accounted prospectively, and accordingly, the  amortisation is calculated over the remaining  revised useful life.
Further, the cost of intangible assets under  development includes the amount of spectrum  allotted to the Group and related costs (including  borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the  acquisition or construction of qualifying assets)  (refer Note 2.22), if any, for which services are yet  to be rolled out and are presented separately in the  balance sheet.
2.10 Impairment of non-financial assets   a.
Goodwill       Goodwill is tested for impairment, at-least annually  and whenever circumstances indicate that it may  be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing,  the goodwill is allocated to a cash-generating-unit  (‘CGU’) or group of CGUs, which are expected to  benefit from the acquisition-related synergies and  represent the lowest level within the entity at which  the goodwill is monitored for internal management  purposes, within an operating segment.
A CGU is the  smallest identifiable group of assets that generates  cash inflows that are largely independent of the  cash inflows from other assets or group of assets.
Impairment occurs when the carrying value of a  CGU including the goodwill, exceeds the estimated  recoverable amount of the CGU.
The recoverable  amount of a CGU is the higher of its fair value less  costs to sell and its value in use.
Value-in-use is the  present value of future cash flows expected to be  derived from the CGU.
The total impairment loss of a CGU is allocated first  to reduce the carrying value of Goodwill allocated to  that CGU and then to the other assets of that CGU -  on pro-rata basis of the carrying value of each asset.
b.
Property, plant and equipment and Intangible  assets       PPE and intangible assets with definite lives,  are reviewed for impairment, whenever events  or changes in circumstances indicate that their  carrying values may not be recoverable.
For the  purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable  amount (that is, higher of the fair value less costs  to sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an  individual asset basis, unless the asset does not  generate cash flows that are largely independent  of those from other assets, in which case the  recoverable amount is determined at the CGU level  to which the said asset belongs.
If such individual  assets or CGU are considered to be impaired, the  impairment to be recognised in the statement of  profit and loss is measured by the amount by which  the carrying value of the asset / CGU exceeds their  estimated recoverable amount and allocated on  pro-rata basis.
Impairment losses, if any, are recognised in  statement of profit and loss.
Reversal of impairment losses       An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not  reversed.
Other impairment losses are reversed  and the carrying value is increased to its revised  recoverable amount provided that this amount  does not exceed the carrying value that would have  been determined had no impairment loss been  recognised for the said asset in previous years.
2.11 Financial instruments   a.
Recognition, classification and presentation        The financial instruments are recognised in the  balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to  the contractual provisions of the financial instrument.
The Group determines the classification of its  financial instruments at initial recognition.
The Group classifies its financial assets in the  following categories: a) those to be measured  subsequently at fair value (either through other  comprehensive income, or through profit or loss),  and b) those to be measured at amortised cost.
The classification depends on the entity’s business  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 197 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements model for managing the financial assets and the  contractual terms of the cash flows.
The Group has classified all the non-derivative  financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
The entire hybrid contract, financial assets with  embedded derivatives, are considered in their  entirety for determining the contractual terms of the  cash flow and accordingly, the embedded derivatives  are not separated.
However, derivatives embedded  in non-financial instrument / other financial liabilities  host contracts are classified as separate derivatives  if their economic characteristics and risks are not  closely related to those of the host contracts.
Financial assets and liabilities arising from different  transactions are off-set against each other and the  resultant net amount is presented in the balance  sheet, if and only when, the Group currently has  a legally enforceable right to set-off the related  recognised amounts and intends either to settle on  a net basis or to realise the assets and settle the  liabilities simultaneously.
b.
Measurement - Non-derivative financial  instruments   I.
Initial measurement       At initial recognition, the Group measures the non- derivative financial instruments at its fair value  plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value  through profit or loss, transaction costs.
Otherwise  transaction costs are expensed in the statement of  profit and loss.
II.
Subsequent measurement - financial assets       The subsequent measurement of the non-derivative  financial assets depends on their classification as  follows:      i.
Financial assets measured at amortised cost         Assets that are held for collection of contractual  cash flows where those cash flows represent  solely payments of principal and interest are  measured at amortised cost using the effective  interest rate  (‘EIR’) method (if the impact of  discounting / any transaction costs is significant).
Interest income from these financial assets is  included in finance income.
ii.
Financial assets at fair value through other  comprehensive income (‘FVTOCI’)         Equity investments which are not held for  trading and for which the Group has elected  to present the change in the fair value in other  comprehensive income and debt instruments  that are held for collection of contractual cash  flows and for selling the financial assets, where  the assets’ cash flow represent solely payment of  principal and interest, are measured at FVTOCI.
The changes in fair value are taken through OCI,  except for the impairment (on debt), interest  (basis EIR method), dividend and foreign  exchange differences which are recognised in  the statement of profit and loss.
When the financial asset is derecognised, the related  accumulated fair value adjustments in OCI as at the  date of derecognition are reclassified from equity  and recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
However, there is no subsequent reclassification  of fair value gains and losses to statement of profit  and loss in case of equity instruments.
iii.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or  loss (‘FVTPL’)      All equity instruments and financial assets that do  not meet the criteria for amortised cost or FVTOCI  are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Interest (basis EIR method) and dividend income  from financial assets at FVTPL is recognised in the  statement of profit and loss within finance income /  finance costs separately from the other gains/losses  arising from changes in the fair value.
Impairment      The Company assesses on a forward looking basis  the expected credit losses associated with its assets  carried at amortised cost and debt instrument carried  at FVTOCI.
The impairment methodology applied  depends on whether there has been a significant  increase in credit risk since initial recognition.
If credit  risk has not increased significantly, twelve month  ECL is used to provide for impairment loss, otherwise  lifetime ECL is used.
However, only in case of trade receivables, the  Company applies the simplified approach which  requires expected lifetime losses to be recognised  from initial recognition of the receivables.
III.
Subsequent measurement - financial  liabilities       Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured  at amortised cost using the EIR method (if the  impact of discounting / any transaction costs is  significant).
c.   Measurement - derivative financial  instruments       Derivative financial instruments, including  separated embedded derivatives, that are not  designated as hedging instruments in a hedging  relationship are classified as financial instruments  at fair value through profit or loss - Held for trading.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially  recognised at fair value.
They are subsequently re- measured at their fair value, with changes in fair  value being recognised in the statement of profit  and loss within finance income / finance costs.
d.  Hedging activities    I.
Fair value hedge       Some of the group entities use certain type of  derivative financial instruments (viz.
interest rate  / currency swaps) to manage / mitigate their  exposure to the risk of change in fair value of the  borrowings.
The Group designates certain interest  swaps to hedge the risk of changes in fair value of  recognised borrowings attributable to the hedged  interest rate risk.
The effective portion of changes  in the fair value of derivatives that are designated  and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the  statement of profit and loss within finance income /  finance costs, together with any changes in the fair  value of the hedged liability that are attributable to  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 198 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 the hedged risk.
If the hedge no longer meets the  criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the  carrying amount of the hedged item is amortised to  profit or loss over the period to remaining maturity  of the hedged item.
II.
Cash flow hedge       Some of the group entities use certain types of  derivative financial instruments (viz.
foreign currency  forwards, options, swaps) to manage / mitigate  their exposure to foreign exchange and price  risk.
Further, the Group designates certain such  derivative financial instruments (or its components)  as hedging instruments for hedging the exchange  rate fluctuation risk attributable to is either to an  recognised item or a highly probable forecast  transaction (‘Cash flow hedge’).
The effective portion  of changes in the fair value of Derivative financial  instruments (or its components) that are designated  and qualify as Cash flow hedges, are recognised in  the Other comprehensive income and held in Cash  flow hedge reserve (‘CFHR’) - a component of Equity.
Any gains / (losses) relating to the ineffective portion,  are recognised immediately in the statement of profit  and loss within finance income / finance costs.
The  amounts accumulated in Equity are re-classified to  the statement of profit and loss in the periods when  the hedged item affects profit / (loss).
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or  when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for  hedge accounting, any cumulative gains / (losses)  existing in equity at that time remains in equity  and is recognised (on the basis as discussed in the  above paragraph) when the forecast transaction is  ultimately recognised in the statement of profit and  loss.
However, at any point of time, when a forecast  transaction is no longer expected to occur, the  cumulative gains / (losses) that were reported in  equity is immediately transferred to the statement of  profit and loss within finance income / finance costs.
III.
Net investment hedge       The Group hedges its certain net investment in  foreign subsidiaries which are accounted for similar  to cash flow hedges.
Accordingly, any foreign  exchange differences on the hedging instrument  (viz.
borrowings) relating to the effective portion  of the hedge is recognized in other comprehensive  income and held in foreign currency translation  reserve (‘FCTR’) - a component of equity, so as to  offset the change in the value of the net investment  being hedged.
The ineffective portion of the gain  or loss on these hedges is immediately recognised  in the statement of profit and loss.
The amounts  accumulated in equity are included in the statement  of profit and loss when the foreign operation is  disposed or partially disposed.
e.  Derecognition       The financial liabilities are de-recognised from the  balance sheet when the under-lying obligations are  extinguished, discharged, lapsed, cancelled, expires  or legally released.
The financial assets are de- recognised from the balance sheet when the rights  to receive cash flows from the financial assets have  expired, or have been transferred and the Group  has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of  ownership.
The difference in the carrying amount is  recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
2.12 Leases     The determination of whether an arrangement  is a lease is based on whether fulfillment of the  arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific  asset and the arrangement conveys a right to use the  asset, even if that right is not explicitly specified in an  arrangement.
Leases where the lessor transfers substantially all the  risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset  are classified as finance lease and other leases are  classified as operating lease.
Operating lease receipts / payments are recognised as  an income / expense on a straight-line basis over the  lease term unless the lease payments increase in line  with expected general inflation.
Contingent rents are recognised as income / expense  in the period in which they are earned/ incurred.
a.
Group as a lessee        Assets acquired under finance leases are  capitalised at the lease inception at lower of the  fair value of the leased asset and the present value  of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments  are apportioned between finance charges  (recognised in the statement of profit and loss)  and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve  a constant rate of interest on the remaining  balance of the liability for each period.
Sale and leaseback transaction involves the sale  and the leasing back of the same asset.
In case  it results in a finance lease, any profit or loss is  not recognised, instead the asset leased back is  retained at its carrying value.
However, in case it  results in an operating lease, any profit or loss is  recognised immediately provided the transaction  occurs at fair value.
b.
Group as a lessor        Assets leased to others under finance lease are  recognised as receivables at an amount equal to  the net investment in the leased assets.
Finance  lease income is recognised based on the periodic  rate of return on the net investment outstanding in  respect of the finance lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an  operating lease are added to the carrying amount  of the leased asset and recognised in statement  of profit and loss on a stratght-line basis over the  lease term.
The Group enters into ‘Indefeasible right to use’  arrangement wherein the assets are given on  lease over the substantial part of the asset life.
However, the title to the assets and significant risk  associated with the operation and maintenance of  these assets remains with the Group.
Hence, such  arrangements are recognised as operating lease.
The contracted price is recognised as revenue  during the tenure of the agreement.
Unearned  IRU revenue received in advance is presented   as deferred revenue within liabilities in the   balance sheet.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 199 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements 2.13 T axes     The income tax expense comprises of current and  deferred income tax.
Income tax is recognised in the  statement of profit and loss, except to the extent that it  relates to items recognised in the other comprehensive  income or directly in equity, in which case the related  income tax is also recognised accordingly.
a.
Current tax       The current tax is calculated on the basis of  the tax rates, laws and regulations, which have  been enacted or substantively enacted as at the  reporting date in the respective countries where  the group entities operate and generate taxable  income.
The payment made in excess / (shortfall) of  the respective group entities’ income tax obligation  for the period are recognised in the balance sheet  as current income tax assets / liabilities.
Any interest, related to accrued liabilities for potential  tax assessments are not included in Income tax  charge or (credit), but are rather recognised within  finance costs.
The Group periodically evaluates positions taken  in the tax returns with respect to situations in  which applicable tax regulations are subject to  interpretation and establishes provisions where  appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be  paid to the tax authorities.
b.
Deferred tax       Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability  method, on temporary differences arising between  the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their  carrying values in the financial statements.
However,  deferred tax are not recognised if it arises from initial  recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction  other than a business combination that at the time  of the transaction affects neither accounting nor  taxable profit or loss.
Further, deferred tax liabilities  are not recognised if they arise from the initial  recognition of goodwill.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the  extent that it is probable that future taxable profit  will be available against which the temporary  differences can be utilised.
Moreover, deferred tax  is recognised on temporary differences arising on  investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and  associates - unless the timing of the reversal of  the temporary difference can be controlled and it  is probable that the temporary difference will not  reverse in the foreseeable future.
The unrecognised deferred tax assets / carrying  amount of deferred tax assets are reviewed at  each reporting date for recoverability and adjusted  appropriately.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates (and  laws) that have been enacted or substantively  enacted by the reporting date and are expected to  apply when the related deferred income tax asset is  realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Income tax assets and liabilities are off-set against  each other and the resultant net amount is  presented in the balance sheet, if and only when,  (a) the Group currently has a legally enforceable  right to set-off the current income tax assets and  liabilities, and (b) when it relate to income tax levied  by the same taxation authority and where there  is an intention to settle the current income tax  balances on net basis.
2.14 Inventories     Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (determined  using the first-in-first-out method) and net realisable  value.
The costs comprise its purchase price and  any directly attributable cost of bringing to its  present location and condition.
Net realisable value  is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of  business, less the estimated costs of completion and  the estimated variable costs necessary to make the  sale.
2.15 Cash and cash equivalents     Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank  balances and any deposits with original maturities of  three months or less (that are readily convertible to  known amounts of cash and cash equivalents and  subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value).
However, for the purpose of the statement of cash  flows, in addition to above items, any bank overdrafts /  cash credits that are integral part of the Group’s cash  management, are also included as a component of  cash and cash equivalents.
2.16  Non-current assets (or disposal groups) held  for sale     Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified  as assets-held-for-sale when their carrying amount is  to be recovered principally through a sale transaction  and a sale is considered highly probable.
The sale  is considered highly probable only when the asset  or disposal group is available for immediate sale in  its present condition, it is unlikely that the sale will  be withdrawn and sale is expected within one year  from the date of the classification.
Disposal groups  classified as held for sale are stated at the lower of  carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell except  for assets such as deferred tax assets, financial assets  that are carried at fair value.
Non-current assets are not  depreciated or amortised while they are classified as  held for sale.
Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale are  presented separately in the balance sheet.
Loss is recognised for any initial or subsequent write- down of the asset (or disposal group) to fair value less  costs to sell.
A gain is recognised for any subsequent  increases in fair value less costs to sell of an asset (or  disposal group), but not in excess of any cumulative  loss previously recognised.
If the criteria for the held for sale are no longer met,  it ceases to be classified as held for sale and are  measured at the lower of (i) its carrying amount before  the asset was classified as held for sale, adjusted for  any depreciation / amortisation that would have been  recognised had that asset not been classified as held  for sale, and (ii) its recoverable amount at the date  when the disposal group ceases to be classified as  held for sale.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 200 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 2.17  Share capital / Share premium / Treasury  shares     Ordinary shares are classified as Equity when the  Company has an un-conditional right to avoid delivery  of cash or another financial asset, that is, when the  dividend and repayment of capital are at the sole and  absolute discretion of the Company and there is no  contractual obligation whatsoever to that effect.
When the Company purchases its ordinary shares  through Bharti Airtel Employees’ Welfare Trust, they are  treated as treasury shares, and the consideration paid  is deducted from the Equity.
When the treasury shares  are subsequently re-issued, any difference between  its carrying amount and consideration received is  recognised in share-based-payment reserve.
2.18 Employee benefits     The Group’s employee benefits mainly include  wages, salaries, bonuses, defined contribution to  plans, defined benefit plans, compensated absences,  deferred compensation and share-based payments.
The employee benefits are recognised in the year in  which the associated services are rendered by the  Group employees.
a.
Defined contribution plans        The contributions to defined contribution plans  are recognised in profit or loss as and when the  services are rendered by employees.
The Group  has no further obligations under these plans  beyond its periodic contributions.
b.
Defined benefit plans        In accordance with the local laws and regulations,  all the employees in India are entitled for the  Gratuity plan.
The said plan requires a lump-sum  payment to eligible employees (meeting the  required vesting service condition) at retirement  or termination of employment, based on a pre- defined formula.
The Group provides for the liability towards the  said plans on the basis of actuarial valuation  carried out quarterly as at the reporting date,  by an independent qualified actuary using the  projected-unit-credit method.
The obligation towards the said benefits is  recognised in the balance sheet, at the present  value of the defined benefit obligations less  the fair value of plan assets (being the funded  portion).
The present value of the said obligation  is determined by discounting the estimated future  cash outflows, using interest rates of government  bonds.
The interest income / (expense) are calculated  by applying the above mentioned discount rate  to the plan assets and defined benefit obligations  liability.
The net interest income / (expense) on  the net defined benefit liability is recognised in the  statement of profit and loss.
However, the related  re-measurements of the net defined benefit liability  are recognised directly in the other comprehensive  income in the period in which they arise.
The said  re-measurements comprise of actuarial gains and  losses (arising from experience adjustments and  changes in actuarial assumptions), the return on  plan assets (excluding interest).
Re-measurements  are not re-classified to the statement of profit and  loss in any of the subsequent periods.
c.  Other long-term employee benefits        The employees of the Group are entitled to  compensated absences as well as other long- term benefits.
Compensated absences benefit  comprises of encashment and availment of leave  balances that were earned by the employees over  the period of past employment.
The Group provides for the liability towards the  said benefit on the basis of actuarial valuation  carried out quarterly as at the reporting date, by an  independent qualified actuary using the projected- unit-credit method.
The related re-measurements  are recognised in the statement of profit and loss  in the period in which they arise.
d.  Share-based payments        The Group operates equity-settled and cash- settled, employee share-based compensation  plans, under which the Group receives services  from employees as consideration for stock options  either towards shares of the Company / cash  settled units.
In case of equity-settled awards, the fair value  is recognised as an expense in the statement  of profit and loss within employee benefits as  employee share-based payment expenses, with a  corresponding increase in share-based payment  reserve (a component of equity).
However, in case of cash-settled awards, the  credit is recognised as a liability within other non- financial liabilities.
Subsequently, at each reporting  period, until the liability is settled, and at the date  of settlement, liability is re-measured at fair value  through statement of profit and loss.
The total amount so expensed is determined by  reference to the grant date fair value of the stock  options granted, which includes the impact of any  market performance conditions and non-vesting  conditions but excludes the impact of any service  and non-market performance vesting conditions.
However, the non-market performance vesting  and service conditions are considered in the  assumption as to the number of options that are  expected to vest.
The forfeitures are estimated  at the time of grant and reduce the said expense  rateably over the vesting period.
The expense so determined is recognised over the  requisite vesting period, which is the period over  which all of the specified vesting conditions are to  be satisfied.
As at each reporting date, the Group  revises its estimates of the number of options that  are expected to vest, if required.
It recognises the impact of any revision to original  estimates in the period of change.
Accordingly,  no expense is recognised for awards that do  not ultimately vest, except for which vesting is  conditional upon a market performance / non- vesting condition.
These are treated as vesting  irrespective of whether or not the market / non- vesting condition is satisfied, provided that service  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 201 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements conditions and all other non-market performance  are satisfied.
Where the terms of an award are modified, in  addition to the expense pertaining to the original  award, an incremental expense is recognised for  any modification that results in additional fair  value, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee  as measured at the date of modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled  (including due to non-vesting conditions not being  met), it is treated as if it is vested thereon, and any  un-recognised expense for the award is recognised  immediately.
This includes any award where non- vesting conditions within the control of either the  entity or the employee are not met.
However, if  a new replacement award is substituted for the  cancelled award, the arrangement is treated as a  modification and accounted accordingly.
2.19 Provisions    a.
General        Provisions are recognised when the Group has  a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a  result of  a past event, it is probable that an outflow  of resources will be required to settle the said  obligation, and the amounts of the said obligation  can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the present value of  the expenditures expected to be required to settle  the relevant obligation, using a pre-tax rate that  reflects current market assessments of the time  value of money (if the impact of discounting is  significant) and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to un-winding of  discount over passage of time is recognised within  finance costs.
b.
Asset Retirement Obligation (‘ARO’)        ARO are recognised for those operating lease  arrangements where the Group has an obligation  at the end of the lease period to restore the leased  premises in a condition similar to inception of lease.
ARO are provided at the present value of expected  costs to settle the obligation and are recognised  as part of the cost of that particular asset.
The  estimated future costs of decommissioning  are reviewed annually and any changes in the  estimated future costs or in the discount rate  applied are adjusted from the cost of the asset.
2.20 Contingencies     A disclosure for a contingent liability is made when  there is a possible obligation or a present obligation  that may, but probably will not, require an outflow of  resources.
When there is a possible obligation or a  present obligation in respect of which the likelihood  of outflow of resources is remote, no provision  or disclosure is made.
Contingent assets are not  recognised and disclosed only where an inflow of  economic benefits is probable.
2.21 Revenue recognition     Revenue is recognised when it is probable that the  entity will receive the economic benefits associated  with the transaction and the related revenue can be  measured reliably.
Revenue is recognised at the fair  value of the consideration received or receivable,  which is generally the transaction price, net of any  taxes, duties, discounts and process waivers.
In order to determine if it is acting as a principal or as  an agent, the Group assesses whether it has exposure  to the significant risks and rewards associated with the  sale of goods or the rendering of services.
a.
Service revenues        Service revenues mainly pertain to usage,  subscription and activation charges for voice,  data, messaging, value added services and  broadcasting.
It also includes revenue towards  interconnection charges for usage of the Group’s  network by other operators for voice, data,  messaging and signalling services.
Usage charges are recognised based on actual  usage.
Subscription charges are recognised over  the estimated customer relationship period or  subscription pack validity period, whichever is  lower.
Activation revenue and related activation  costs are amortised over the estimated customer  relationship period.
However, any excess of  activation costs over activation revenue are  expensed as incurred.
The billing / collection in excess of revenue  recognised is presented as deferred revenue in  the balance sheet whereas unbilled revenue is  recognised in other current financial assets.
Certain business’ service revenues include  income from registration and installation, which  are amortised over the period of agreement since  the date of activation of services.
Revenues from long distance operations comprise  of voice services and bandwidth services (including  installation), which are recognised on provision  of services and over the period of arrangement  respectively.
b.
Multiple element arrangements        The Group has entered into certain multiple- element revenue arrangements which involve  the delivery or performance of multiple products,  services or rights to use assets.
At the inception  of the arrangement, all the deliverables therein are  evaluated to determine whether they represent  separately identifiable component basis it is  perceived from the customer perspective to have  value on standalone basis.
T otal consideration related to the multiple  element arrangements is allocated among the  different components based on their relative fair  values (i.e., ratio of the fair value of each element  to the aggregated fair value of the bundled  deliverables).
In case the relative fair value of  different components cannot be determined  on a reasonable basis, the total consideration  is allocated to the different components on a  residual value method.
c.   Equipment sales        Equipment sales mainly pertain to sale of  telecommunication equipment and related  accessories.
Such transactions are recognised  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 202 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 when the significant risks and rewards of  ownership are transferred to the customer.
However, in case of equipment sale forming part of  multiple-element revenue arrangements which is  not separately identifiable component, revenue is  recognised over the customer relationship period.
d.  Capacity Swaps        The exchange of network capacity is recognised at  fair value unless the transaction lacks commercial  substance or the fair value of neither the capacity  received nor the capacity given is reliably measurable.
e.  Interest income        The interest income is recognised using the EIR  method.
For further details, refer Note 2.11.    f.   Dividend income        Dividend income is recognised when the Group’s  right to receive the payment is established.
For  further details, refer Note 2.11 2.22 Borrowing costs     Borrowing costs consist of interest and other ancillary  costs that the Group incurs in connection with the  borrowing of funds.
The borrowing costs directly  attributable to the acquisition or construction of any  asset that takes a substantial period of time to get  ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised.
All the  other borrowing costs are recognised in the statement  of profit and loss within finance costs of the period in  which they are incurred.
2.23 Exceptional items     Exceptional items refer to items of income or expense  within the statement of profit and loss from ordinary  activities which are non-recurring and are of such size,  nature or incidence that their separate disclosure is  considered necessary to explain the performance of  the Group.
2.24 Dividends Paid     Dividend to shareholders is recognised as a liability  and deducted from equity, in the year in which the  dividends are approved by the shareholders.
However,  interim dividends declared by the Board of directors,  which does not need shareholders’ approval, are  recognised as a liability and deducted from retained  earnings, in the year in which the dividends are so  declared.
2.25 Earnings per share (‘EPS’)     The Company presents the Basic and Diluted EPS data.
Basic EPS is computed by dividing the profit for  the period attributable to the shareholders of the  Company by the weighted average number of shares  outstanding during the period excluding the treasury  shares.
Diluted EPS is computed by adjusting, the profit for  the year attributable to the shareholders and the  weighted average number of shares considered for  deriving Basic EPS, for the effects of all the shares  that could have been issued upon conversion of all  dilutive potential shares.
The dilutive potential shares  are adjusted for the proceeds receivable had the  shares been actually issued at fair value.
Further, the  dilutive potential shares are deemed converted as at  beginning of the period, unless issued at a later date  during the period.
3.
Critical accounting estimates, assumptions  and judgements     The estimates and judgements used in the preparation of  the said financial statements are continuously evaluated  by the Group, and are based on historical experience  and various other assumptions and factors (including  expectations of future events), that the Group believes  to be reasonable under the existing circumstances.
The  said estimates and judgements are based on the facts  and events, that existed as at the reporting date, or that  occurred after that date but provide additional evidence  about conditions existing as at the reporting date.
Although the Group regularly assesses these  estimates, actual results could differ materially from  these estimates - even if the assumptions under- lying such estimates were reasonable when made,  if these results differ from historical experience or  other assumptions do not turn out to be substantially  accurate.
The changes in estimates are recognised  in the financial statements in the year in which they  become known.
3.1   Critical accounting estimates and assumptions     The estimates and assumptions that have a significant  risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying  values of assets and liabilities within the next financial  year are discussed below.
a.  Impairment reviews        Goodwill is tested for impairment at-least on  an annual basis and when events that occur  / changes in circumstances - indicate that the  recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its  carrying value.
In calculating the value in use, the  Group is required to make significant judgements,  estimates and assumptions inter-alia concerning  the growth in EBITDA, long-term growth rates;  discount rates to reflect the risks involved.
Also,  judgement is involved in determining the CGU / grouping of CGUs for allocation of the goodwill.
The Group mainly operates in developing markets  and in such markets, the plan for shorter duration is  not indicative of the long-term future performance.
Considering this and the consistent use of such  robust ten year information for management  reporting purpose, the Group uses ten year plans  for the purpose of impairment testing.
b.  T axes        Uncertainties exist with respect to the  interpretation of complex tax regulations and  the amount and timing of future taxable income.
Given the wide range of international business  relationships and the long-term nature and  complexity of existing contractual agreements,  differences arising between the actual results  and the assumptions made, or future changes  to such assumptions, could necessitate future  adjustments to tax income and expense already  recorded.
The Group establishes provisions,  based on reasonable estimates, for possible  consequences of audits by the tax authorities of  the respective countries in which it operates.
The  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 203 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements amount of such provisions is based on various  factors, such as experience of previous tax audits  and differing interpretations of tax regulations by  the taxable entity and the relevant tax authority.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for the  unused tax losses for which there is probability  of utilisation against the taxable profit.
Significant  management judgement is required to determine  the amount of deferred tax assets that can be  recognised, based upon the likely timing and the  level of future taxable profits, future tax planning  strategies and recent business performances and  developments.
c.  Property, plant and equipment        Refer Note 2.8 and 6 for the estimated useful  life and carrying value of property, plant and  equipment respectively.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the  Group has reassessed useful life of certain  categories of network assets due to technological  developments and accordingly, has revised the  estimate of its useful life in respect of those assets.
Out of these assets, the additional depreciation  charge of ` 3,258 on assets for which the revised  useful life has expired by March 31, 2016 has  been recognized and disclosed as ‘exceptional  items’, net’ and additional depreciation charge of   ` 6,969 for other assets has been recognised  within ‘Depreciation and amortisation’.
The impact  of above change on the depreciation charge for  the future year is as follows: Particulars Year ended Future  Period   till end  of life March   31, 2018 March   31, 2019 March   31, 2020 Impact  on future  depreciation  charge  (2,863)  (2,765)  (1,133)  16,988     d.   Allowance for impairment of trade receivables        The expected credit loss is mainly based on the  ageing of the receivable balances and historical  experience.
The receivables are assessed on an  individual basis or grouped into homogeneous  groups and assessed for impairment collectively,  depending on their significance.
Moreover, trade  receivables are written off on a case-to-case basis  if deemed not to be collectible on the assessment  of the underlying facts and circumstances    e.  Contingent liability       Refer Note 26 (i) for details of contingent liability.
3.2    Critical judgement’s in applying the Group’s  accounting policies     The critical judgement’s, which the management has  made in the process of applying the Group’s accounting  policies and has the most significant impact on the  amounts recognised in the said financial statements,  is discussed below:    a.
Arrangement containing lease        The Group assesses the contracts entered  with telecom operators / passive infrastructure  services providers to share tower infrastructure  services so as to determine whether these  contracts that do not take the legal form of a lease  convey a right to use an asset or not.
The Group  has determined, based on an evaluation of the  terms and conditions of the arrangements, that  such contracts are in the nature of leases.
Most of  these leases are classified as operating unless the  term of the agreement is for the major part of the  estimated economic life of the leased asset, which  is accounted for as finance lease.
b.
Revenue recognition and presentation        The Group assesses its revenue arrangements in  order to determine if it is acting as a principal or as  an agent by determining whether it has primary  obligation basis pricing latitude and exposure to  credit / inventory risks associated with the sale of  goods / rendering of services.
In the said assessment, both the legal form and  substance of the agreement are reviewed to  determine each party’s role in the transaction.
c.  Multiple element contracts with vendors        The Group has entered into multiple element  contracts for supply of goods and rendering of  services.
In certain cases, the consideration paid  is determined independent of the value of supplies  received and services availed.
Accordingly, the  supplies and services are accounted for based on  their relative fair values to the overall consideration.
The supplies with finite life under the contracts  have been accounted under Property, Plant and  Equipment and / or as Intangible assets, since the  Group has economic ownership in these assets  and represents the substance of the arrangement.
d.  Determination of functional currency        The Group has determined the functional  currency of the group entities by identifying the  primary economic environment in which the  entity operates - based on under-lying facts /  circumstances.
However, in respect of certain  intermediary foreign operations of the Group, the  determination of functional currency is not very  obvious due to mixed indicators and the extent  of autonomy enjoyed by the foreign operation.
In such cases management uses its judgement  to determine the functional currency that most  faithfully represents the economic effects of the  underlying transactions, events and conditions.
e.  T axes        The identification of temporary differences  pertaining to the investment in subsidiaries that  are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future  and the determination of the related deferred  income tax liabilities after considering the requisite  tax credits require the Group to make significant  judgements.
4.
Standards issued but not effective until the  date of authorisation for issuance of the said  financial statements     The new Standards, amendments to Standards  that are issued but not yet effective until the date  of authorisation for issuance of the said financial  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 204 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 statements are discussed below.
The Group has not  early adopted these amendments and intends to  adopt when they become effective.
Ind AS 102 ‘Share based payments’     In March 2017, MCA issued amendments to Ind  AS 102 pertaining to measurement of cash–settled  share based payments, classification of share- based payments settled net of tax withholdings and  accounting for modification of a share based payment  from cash-setlled to equity-settled method.
The amendments are applicable to annual periods  beginning on or after April 1, 2017 with early adoption  permitted.
The group does not expect that the adoption  of the amendments will not have any significant impact  on the said financial statements.
Ind AS 7, ‘Statement of cash flows’     In March 2017, MCA issued amendments to Ind AS  7, which requires certain additional disclosures to be  made for changes in liabilities / assets arising from  financial activities on account of non-cash transaction  such as effect of changes in foreign exchange rates,  fair values and others.
The amendments are applicable to annual periods  beginning on or after April 1, 2017 with early adoption  permitted.
The Group will be providing the requisite  disclosure in its statement of cash flows.
5.
Significant transactions / new developments   a)   During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group  has been allotted 172 MHz spectrum across  1800/2100/2300 MHz.
Consequently, the Group  has paid amount of ` 74,018 upfront and opted the  deferred payment option for ` 66,764.   b)  (i)  During the year ended March 31, 2016, the  Group had entered into a definitive agreement  with Axiata Group Berhad for combining the  business operations of their telecommunication  subsidiaries in Bangladesh.
On November  16, 2016, on the fulfillment of the regulatory  and other closing conditions the Group has  consummated the transaction.
Accordingly, the  Group has lost control over Airtel Bangladesh  Limited and acquired 25% stake in the merged  entity (viz.
Robi Axiata Limited) as an associate of  the Group.
(ii)  During the year ended March 31, 2016, the  Group had entered into definitive agreement to  sell Group’s operations in Burkina Faso and Sierra  Leone.
During the year ended March 31, 2017,  on the fulfillment of the regulatory and other  closing conditions the Group has consummated  the divestment of these subsidiaries.
The details of consideration received, assets and  liabilities over which control was lost (net asset  disposed off) and gain on disposal (as exceptional  item) recorded in financial statement is as follows: Particulars As of  June 22, 2016 As of July 19, 2016 As of November 16, 2016 Burkina Faso Sierra Leone Bangladesh  A.
Consideration received Fair value of consideration received  39,554  22,185  25,956  B.
Net assets disposed off Non-current assets  Property, plant and equipment  6,922  4,110  18,661  Goodwill and other intangible assets  25,232  8,972  16,765  Others  1,203  1,014  720  Current Assets Cash and cash equivalents  1,017  402  426  Trade receivables  1,153  132  689  Other current assets  3,953  629  1,752  T otal Assets (a)  39,480  15,259  39,013  Non-current liabilities  Others  1,018  153  961  Current liabilities  Borrowings  1,074  73  7,445  Trade payable  9,090  904  4,681  Others  1,096  69  2,812  T otal Liabilities (b)  12,278  1,199  15,899  Net assets disposed off (a-b)  27,202  14,060  23,114  C. Gain on disposal *  8,404  1,778  2,038  D. Net cash inflow on disposal Consideration received in cash and cash equivalent  (net of transaction tax)  39,554  20,820  -    Less: cash and cash equivalents held by the entity  58  (402)  (426)  39,612  20,418  (426)    * Gain on disposal has been computed after adjusting FCTR reclassified to statement of profit and loss, transactional taxes, deferred gains on account of  transaction with associate and provision towards future contractual settlement.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 205 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements   c)   During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group  has sold its entire stake in its African associate,  T anzania T elecommunications Company Limited  and recognised gain of ` 443 on disposal as  exceptional item (refer Note 33 (i) a).
d)  On November 25, 2016, the Group acquired 4.20%  equity stake in Airtel Networks Limited, thereby,  increasing its shareholding to 83.25%.
The excess of  consideration paid to NCI over the carrying value of  the interest acquired, ` 3,923, has been recognised  in transaction with NCI reserve, a component of  equity.
e)   On November 22, 2016, the Group acquired 24.89%  of shares in Airtel Ghana Limited by subscribing to  the right issue through the conversion of existing  shareholder loans hereby, increasing its shareholding  to 99.89%.
The excess of consideration over the  carrying value of the interest acquired, ` 9,130, has  been recognised in transaction with NCI reserve, a  component of equity.
f)   During the year the Group signed a definitive  agreement to enter into 50% joint venture (JV Co)  between Bharti Airtel Ghana Holdings B. V .
and MIC  Africa B. V .
against consideration of the ownership  interest in Airtel Ghana Limited and Millicom Ghana.
The closing of the said transactions is subject to  requisite regulatory approvals and other closing  conditions.
g)  During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group  entered into a definitive agreement with Aircel  Limited and its subsidiaries Dishnet Wireless  Limited and Aircel cellular Limited, to acquire rights  to use spectrum in the 2300 MHz band for eight  circles against a consideration of ` 35,000.
The  Group has received the requisite approvals for the  transfer of right to use spectrum and accordingly,  the spectrum has been recorded in the books.
h)   During the year ended March 31, 2016, the Group  had entered into a definitive agreement with  Videocon T elecommunications Limited to acquire  rights to use spectrum in the 1800 MHz band for six  circles against a consideration of ` 46,530.
During  the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group has  received the requisite approvals for the transfer of  right to use spectrum and accordingly, the spectrum  has been recorded in the books.
i)   During the year ended March 31, 2016, the  Group had entered into a definitive agreement for  acquisition of Augere Wireless Broadband Private  Limited (‘AWBPL’).
On June 7, 2016, on fulfillment of  the relevant closing conditions the transaction has  been consummated and goodwill of ` 150 has been  recognised.
The Scheme of Arrangement (‘Scheme’)  under Sections 391 to 394 of the Companies Act,  1956 with respect to the amalgamation of AWBPL  with the Company, was approved by the Hon’ble High  Court of Delhi.
The Company has filed the Scheme  with Registrar of Companies (‘ROC’) on February 15,  2017 which is the effective date and appointed date  of merger.
Accordingly, AWBPL has ceased to exist  and have merged with the Company.
j)   During the year ended March 31, 2017, Bharti  Infratel Limited (‘BIL’), a subsidiary of the Company  has bought back its 47,058,823 shares against  a consideration of ` 425 per share aggregating  to ` 20,000, wherein the Company and other  shareholders have tendered the shares in the ratio  of 62% and 38% approximately.
Accordingly, the  shareholding of the Company in BIL has increased  by 0.25%, and hence the consideration paid to  NCI over and above the reduction in their carrying  value (due to revised net worth and relative  interest) amounting ` 1,514 has been recognised  in transaction with NCI reserve, a component of  equity.
Subsequently, the Group also sold 190,583,357  shares in BIL, against a consideration aggregating  to ` 61,940.
The excess of proceeds over  the change in non-controlling interests net of  associated transaction costs, taxes and regulatory  levies, amounting to ` 39,241 has been recognised  directly in consolidated statement of changes in  equity.
Due to the said transaction, shareholding of  the Group in BIL has reduced to 61.68%.
k)   During the year ended March 31, 2017, Bharti  T elemedia Limited (‘BTL’), a subsidiary of the Company  allotted 500 Mn shares, against a consideration of `  10 per share aggregating to ` 5,000, to the Company  and Bharti Enterprises Limited (‘BEL’) in the ratio of  their existing shareholding (viz.
95:5).
Accordingly,  the Group has allocated BEL’s share of accumulated  losses in BTL to the extent of capital contribution  received from BEL.
l)   During the year ended March 31, 2016, Airtel  Payments Bank Limited (‘APBL’) (formerly Airtel M  Commerce Services Limited), Kotak Mahindra Bank  Limited (‘KMBL’) and the Company have entered into  a Share Subscription and Shareholders’ agreement  to allot 19.90% of the post issue share capital of  APBL to KMBL.
Accordingly, the shareholding of the  Company in APBL stands reduced to 80.10% and  the corresponding non-controlling interests has  been recognised.
Excess of proceeds over net assets  attributable to non-controlling interests, amounting  to ` 498 has been recognised directly in equity as  attributable to the equity shareholders of the parent.
m)  During the year ended March 31, 2016, the Group  acquired additional 46% of the share capital of  Indo T eleports Limited (formerly known as Bharti  T eleports Limited) increasing its ownership to  95% and accordingly, goodwill of ` 311 has been  recognised in the transaction.
n)    During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group has  entered into a scheme of amalgamation for the merger  of T elenor (India) Communication Private Limited with  the Company and definitive agreement to acquire  100% equity stake in Tikona Digital Networks.
The  closing of the said transactions are subject to requisite  regulatory approvals and other closing conditions.
o)   The Scheme of Arrangement (‘Scheme’) under  Sections 391 to 394 of the Companies Act,  1956 with respect to the amalgamation of Airtel  Broadband Services Private Limited (‘ABSPL’)  with the Company, was approved by the Hon’ble  High Court of Bombay in 2014.
Department of  T elecommunications (‘DoT’) had given its approval  for taking on record the merger of ABSPL with the  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 206 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Company, subject to certain conditions as stipulated in the letter.
One of the conditions of merger requires payment  of ` 4,361, equal to the difference between the entry fee for Unified Access Service License and Internet Service  Provider license.
The Hon’ble T elecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (‘TDSA T’) vide its interim order  in 2015 has allowed the Company to operationalise the spectrum subject to the company paying a sum of ` 4,361  along with interest as may be determined by the Tribunal, in case the petition fails.
The Company has filed the Scheme with Registrar of Companies (‘ROC’) on April 9, 2015 which is the effective date  and appointed date of merger.
Accordingly, ABSPL has ceased to exist and have merged with the Company.
6.
Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’)    The following table presents the reconciliation of changes in the carrying value of PPE and capital work-in-progress for  the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 Particulars PPE Leasehold  Improvement Land &  Building Plant &  machinery Furniture &  Fixture Vehicles Office  equipment Computer T otal Capital   work-in- progress Gross carrying value Balance as of April 1, 2015  8,981  15,746  1,056,752  2,888  2,285  8,649  80,868  1,176,169  48,702  Additions  477  484  -    665  86  1,158  12,368  15,238  191,144  Acquisition through Business  Combinations^  -    -    161  -    -    1  -    162  -    Disposals / adjustment  (48)  (484)  (18,087)  -    (55)  (229)  (8,991)  (27,894)  -    Net transfers to/from assets- held-for-sale@  -    -    (4,634)  -    -    -    -    (4,634)  655  Exchange differences  137  (20)  1,940  (25)  98  86  680  2,896  438  Capitalisation /  reclassification*  (384)  (166)  194,379  133  -    (453)  820  194,329  (193,635) Balance as of March 31, 2016  9,163  15,560  1,230,511  3,661  2,414  9,212  85,745  1,356,266  47,304  Additions  378  437  -    710  157  981  4,309  6,972  179,982  Acquisition through business  combinations^  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    534  Disposals / adjustment  (544)  (62)  (28,714)  (140)  (155)  (1,629)  (2,776)  (34,020)  -    Sale of subsidiaries/towerco  operation^  (130)  (707)  (69,400)  (970)  (115)  (328)  (4,777)  (76,427)  (747) Net transfers to/from assets- held-for-sale@  -    -    4,990  -    -    -    -    4,990  -    Exchange differences  (537)  (1,050)  (53,624)  (317)  (131)  (942)  (10,635)  (67,236)  (1,129) Capitalisation /  reclassification*  73  (332)  202,705  (221)  4  133  (360)  202,002  (202,002) Balance as of March 31, 2017  8,403  13,846  1,286,468  2,723  2,174  7,427  71,506  1,392,547  23,942  Accumulated Depreciation Balance as of April 1, 2015  5,888  2,419  541,977  2,301  1,783  6,282  71,583  632,233  -    Charge#  822  640  126,826  511  168  778  9,147  138,892  -    Disposals / adjustment  -    (212)  (14,945)  -    (43)  (219)  (8,876)  (24,295)  -    Net transfers to/from assets- held-for-sale@  -    -    (1,524)  -  -  -  -  (1,524)  -    Exchange differences  132  (59)  (1,051)  (34)  71  20  725  (196)  -    Reclassification*  (168)  180  18  (285)  (2)  (70)  975  648  -    Balance as of March 31, 2016  6,674  2,968  651,301  2,493  1,977  6,791  73,554  745,758  -    Charge#  804  575  136,400  561  177  1,040  6,474  146,031  -    Disposals / adjustment  (543)  1  (26,462)  (15)  (150)  (1,626)  (2,675)  (31,470)  -    Sale of subsidiaries/towerco  operation^  (98)  (152)  (38,421)  (900)  (96)  (268)  (3,949)  (43,884)  -    Net transfers to/from assets- held-for-sale@  -    -    1,374  -    -    -    -    1,374  -    Exchange differences  (392)  (254)  (33,975)  (491)  (94)  (621)  (9,523)  (45,350)  -    Reclassification*  40  681  (114)  703  (1)  (652)  (657)  -    -    Balance as of March 31, 2017  6,485  3,819  690,103  2,351  1,813  4,664  63,224  772,459  -    Net carrying value As of April 1, 2015  3,093  13,327  514,775  587  502  2,367  9,285  543,936  48,702  As of March 31, 2016  2,489  12,592  579,210  1,168  437  2,421  12,191  610,508  47,304  As of March 31, 2017  1,918  10,027  596,365  372  361  2,763  8,282  620,088  23,942  @ Refer Note 18 ^ Refer Note 5 * ` 694 and ` 648 of gross block and accumulated depreciation respectively, has been reclassified mainly from Software to computer during the year ended  March 31, 2016.
# Includes exceptional item of ` 2,936 (March 31, 2016 ` 3,041) with respect to plant and machinery (refer Note 33 (i) b, c, d & (ii) f) and ` 510 (March 31, 2016  ` 571) is on account of court approved scheme/arrangements.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 207 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements    The following table summarises the detail of assets taken on finance lease: Particulars Grossing   Carrying value Accumulated  depreciation Net carrying   value As of March 31, 2017 Plant and machinery  37,165  18,757  18,408  Leasehold land  681  102  579  Computer  -    -    -    Vehicles  66  12  54  As of March 31, 2016 Plant and machinery  38,930  17,563  21,367  Leasehold land  502  100  402  Computer  1,097  835  262  As of April 1, 2015 Plant and machinery  435  7  428  Leasehold land  662  104  559  Computer  831  431  400  Capital work in progress mainly includes ` 21,883, ` 46,190 and ` 47,652 towards Plant and machinery as of March 31,  2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 respectively.
For details towards pledge of the above assets refer Note 21.
7.
Intangible assets    The following table presents the reconciliation of changes in the carrying value of goodwill, other intangible assets and  intangible assets under development for the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016: Particulars Other intangible assets Intangible  assets under  development Goodwill# Software Bandwidth Licenses  (including  spectrum) Other  acquired  intangibles T otal Gross carrying value Balance as of April 1, 2015  417,460  17,713  16,573  408,398  4,325  447,009  118,487  Additions  -    3,363  3,244  -    70  6,677  262,709  Acquisition through Business  Combinations^  314  -    -    -    128  128  -    Disposals / adjustment@  -    (4,255)  -    (15,130)  (143)  (19,528)  -    Exchange differences  13,244  103  72  6,374  25  6,574  75  Capitalisation / reclassification*  -    (706)  12  371,555  -    370,861  (371,555) Balance as of March 31, 2016  431,018  16,218  19,901  771,197  4,405  811,721  9,716  Additions  -    2,783  4,903  -    5,463  13,149  280,099  Acquisition through business  combinations^  150  -    -    1,250  -    1,250  -    Disposals / adjustment@  -    (92)  (86)  (1,095)  -    (1,273)  -    Sale of subsidiaries/towerco operation^  (44,066)  (944)  (182)  (19,015)  -    (20,141)  -    Exchange differences  (46,383)  17  (954)  (24,497)  (91)  (25,525)  -    Capitalisation / reclassification  -    -    -    205,372  -    205,372  (205,372) Balance as of March 31, 2017  340,719  17,982  23,582  933,212  9,777  984,553  84,443  Accumulated amortisation Balance as of April 1, 2015  -    14,116  3,961  85,881  1,333  105,291  -    Charge  -    2,723  1,207  34,204  1,084  39,218  -    Disposals / adjustment@  -    (4,255)  -    (15,130)  (119)  (19,504)  -    Exchange differences  -    103  162  3,056  4  3,325  -    Reclassification*  -    (660)  12  -    -    (648)  -    Balance as of March 31, 2016  -    12,027  5,342  108,011  2,302  127,682  -    (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 208 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Particulars Other intangible assets Intangible  assets under  development Goodwill# Software Bandwidth Licenses  (including  spectrum) Other  acquired  intangibles T otal Charge  -    2,780  1,507  48,611  2,247  55,145  -    Disposals / adjustment@  -    (92)  (86)  (1,095)  -    (1,273)  -    Sale of subsidiaries/towerco operation^  -    (792)  (68)  (8,849)  -    (9,709)  -    Exchange differences  -    13  (79)  (11,344)  (63)  (11,473)  -    Reclassification  -    128  4  (32)  (100)  -    -    Balance as of March 31, 2017  -    14,064  6,620  135,302  4,386  160,372  -    Net Carrying Value As of April 1, 2015  414,823  3,597  12,612  322,517  2,992  341,718  118,487  As of March 31, 2016  428,381  4,191  14,559  663,186  2,103  684,039  9,716  As of March 31, 2017  338,082  3,918  16,962  797,910  5,391  824,181  84,443    # Net carrying value of goodwill includes accumulated impairment of ` 2,637.
^ Refer Note 5   @ Mainly pertains to gross block and accumulated amortisation of license (including spectrum) and software whose useful life has expired.
* ` 694 and ` 648 of gross block and accumulated depreciation respectively, has been reclassified mainly from software to computer during the year  ended March 31, 2016.
During the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 the Group has capitalised borrowing cost of ` 2,750 and ` 2,265  respectively.
Weighted average remaining amortization period of licenses as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 is  16.60 years, 16.64 years and 15.69 years, respectively.
Addition to the intangible assets under development pertains to Spectrum.
For details towards pledge of the above assets refer Note 21.
Impairment review of goodwill    The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually on December 31.
The impairment assessment is based on value in use  calculations except in case of Mobile Services - Bangladesh during the year ended March 31, 2016, where fair value less  cost to sell was used in view of then impending merger of Airtel Bangladesh Limited with Robi Axiata Limited (refer Note  5 (b) (i)).
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the testing did not result in any impairment in the carrying amount of goodwill.
The carrying amount of goodwill is attributable to the following CGU / group of CGUs: Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Mobile Services - India  39,676  39,527  39,524  Mobile Services - Bangladesh  -    8,937  8,479  Airtel business  6,103  6,224  5,597  Mobile Services - Africa  291,959  373,349  360,879  Homes Services  344  344  344   338,082  428,381  414,823   The recoverable amount of the above CGUs are based  on value-in-use (except in case of Mobile Services  -Bangladesh during the year ended March 31, 2016),  which is determined based on ten year business  plans that have been approved by management  for internal purposes.
The said planning horizon  reflects the assumptions for short-to-mid term market  developments.
The cash flows beyond the planning  period are extrapolated using appropriate terminal  growth rates.
The terminal growth rates used do not  exceed the long term average growth rates of the  respective industry and country in which the entity  operates and are consistent with the internal / external  sources of information.
During the year ended March  31, 2016 the measurement of the fair value less cost to  sell in case of Mobile Services – Bangladesh had been  determined based on the fair value of stake (basis 10  year plan) to be received by the Group in the merged  entity (i.e.
combined entity after merger of Robi Axiata  Limited and Airtel Bangladesh Limited) in consideration  of contribution to merged entity.
The key assumptions used in value-in-use calculations  are as follows:    Earnings before interest and taxes margins (‘EBIT’)    Discount rate    Growth rates    Capital expenditures  EBIT margins: The margins have been estimated  based on past experience after considering incremental  revenue arising out of adoption of valued added and  data services from the existing and new customers,  though these benefits are partially offset by decline in  tariffs in competitive scenario.
Margins will be positively  impacted from the efficiencies and initiatives driven  by the Company; whereas, factors like higher churn,  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 209 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements increased cost of operations may impact the margins  negatively.
Discount rate: Discount rate reflects the current  market assessment of the risks specific to a CGU or  group of CGUs and estimated based on the weighted  average cost of capital for respective CGU / group of  CGUs.
Pre-tax discount rate used ranged from 10.28%  to 21.98% for the year ended March 31, 2017 and  ranged from 13.1% to 19.9% for the year ended March  31, 2016 (higher rate used for CGU group ‘Mobile  Services – Africa’).
Growth rates: The growth rates used are in line with  the long-term average growth rates of the respective  industry and country in which the entity operates and  are consistent with the internal / external sources  of information.
The average growth rates used in  extrapolating cash flows beyond the planning period  ranged from 3.5% to 4.0% for March 31, 2017 and  ranged from 3.5% to 4.0% for March 31, 2016.
Capital expenditures: The cash flow forecasts of  capital expenditure are based on past experience after  considering the additional capital expenditure required  for roll out of incremental coverage requirements and  to provide enhanced voice and data services adjusted  and impact of any proposed divestment of towers.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions    With regard to the assessment of value-in-use for  Mobile Services - India, Homes Services and Airtel  Business, and fair value less cost to sell in Mobile  Services – Bangladesh, no reasonably possible change  in any of the above key assumptions would have  caused the carrying amount of these units to exceed  their recoverable amount.
In case of Mobile Services - Africa CGU group, the  recoverable amount exceeds the carrying amount  by approximately 8.1% as of December 31, 2016  and approximately 10.0% as of December 31, 2015.
An increase of 0.9% (December 31, 2015: 1.1%) in  discount rate shall equate the recoverable amount with  the carrying amount of the Mobile Services – Africa  CGU group as of December 31, 2016.
Further, no  reasonably possible change in the terminal growth rate  beyond the planning horizon would cause the carrying  amount to exceed the recoverable amount.
8.
Investment in joint ventures and associates   Details of joint ventures: S.  No.
Name   of Joint Ventures Principal  place of  business Principal activities Ownership interest % As of March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1, 2015 1 Indus T owers Limited * India Passive infrastructure  services  25.91  30.14  30.19  2 Bridge Mobile Pte Limited Singapore Provision of regional mobile  services  10  10  10  3 Forum I Aviation Ltd India Aircraft chartering services  -    -    16.67  4 FireFly Networks Limited India T elecommunication services  50  50  50     * Bharti Infratel Limited, in which the Group has 61.68% equity interest (71.76% as of March 31, 2016 and 71.88% as of April 1, 2015), owns 42% of Indus  T owers Limited.
Details of associates: S.  No.
Name   of associates Principal  place of  business Principal activities Ownership interest % As of March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1, 2015 1 Indo T eleports Limited (formerly  known as Bharti T eleports Limited) *India Uplinking channels  for broadcasters  -    -    49  2 T anzania T elecommunications  Company Limited #T anzania T elecommunication  services  -    35  35  3 Seychelles Cable Systems Company  LimitedSeychelles Submarine Cable  System  26  26  26  4 Robi Axiata Limited(refer Note 5(b)) Bangladesh T elecommunication  services  25  -    -    5 Seynse T echnologies Private  Limited@India Financial Services  22.54  -    -      *  The Group has acquired additional 46% stake in the company and therefore became subsidiary w.e.f.
from  August 27, 2015   # The Group has sold its shareholding in the Company on June 23, 2016   @ The Group has acquired stake in the company on February 21, 2017.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 210 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Joint ventures  59,461  60,990  51,936  Associates  22,816  -    -     82,277  60,990  51,936  The amounts recognised in the statement of profit and loss are as follows: Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Recognised in profit and loss Joint ventures  11,091  10,666  Associates  (642)  -     10,449  10,666  Recognised in other comprehensive income Joint ventures  (9)  (4) Associates  -    -     (9)  (4)   The summarised financial information of joint venture and associate that are material to the Group are as follows:   Summarised balance sheet Particulars As of   March 31, 2017 As of   March 31, 2016 As of   April 1, 2015 As of   March 31, 2017 Indus T owers Limited   ( joint venture) Robi Axiata Limited (associate)# Assets Non current assets  207,357  207,634  209,213  95,480  Current assets Cash and cash equivalents ('C&CE')  1,121  752  533  1,507  Other current assets (excluding 'C&CE')  17,182  15,956  17,922  6,904  T otal current assets  18,303  16,708  18,455  8,411  Liabilities Non current liabilities Borrowings  10,589  25,585  37,203  8,578  Other liabilities  30,294  28,104  26,908  2,706  T otal non current liabilities  40,883  53,689  64,111  11,284  Current liabilities Borrowings  24,090  14,999  24,186  11,620  Other liabilities  28,522  21,891  28,349  33,521  T otal current liabilities  52,612  36,890  52,535  45,141  Equity  132,165  133,763  111,022  47,466  Percentage of Group's ownership interest 42% 42% 42% 25% Interest in joint venture / associate  55,509  56,181  46,629  11,867  Consolidation adjustment*  3,900  4,767  5,184  10,700  Carrying amount of investment  59,409  60,948  51,813  22,567    * includes Goodwill of ` 11,176 pertaining to Robi Axiata Limited.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 211 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Summarised information on statement of profit and loss Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 For the period ended March 31, 2017 Indus T owers Limited   ( joint venture) Robi Axiata Limited  (associate) # Revenue  174,817  161,353  19,901  Depreciation and amortisation  26,116  25,442  7,958  Finance income  315  344  52  Finance cost  5,064  5,806  479  Income tax expense  15,273  14,227  (1,814) Profit for the year / period  28,451  26,355  (4,932) OCI for the  year / period  (22)  (10)  -    Percentage of Group's ownership interest 42% 42% 25% Group's share in profit for the period  11,949  11,069  (1,233) Group's share in OCI for the year / period  (9)  (4)  -    Consolidation adjustments  (867)  (417)  51  Group's share in profit recognised@  11,083  10,652  (1,182) Dividend received from Joint venture / asscoiate  9,510  -    -      # The information is based on the financial statements which are only audited up-to period ended December 31, 2016.
@  Loss of ` 540 has been recognised as exceptional item for Robi Axiata Limited.
Refer Note 33 (i) (f).
Aggregate information of joint ventures that are individually immaterial is as follows: Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Carrying amount of investments  52  42  123  Cumulative unrecognised losses  -    2  2    Group’s share in joint ventures’ Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Net profit  8  14  T otal comprehensive income  8  14  Unrecognised losses  -    -      Aggregate information of associates that are individually immaterial is as follows: Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Carrying amount of investments  249  -    -    Cumulative unrecognised losses*  90  1,765  1,559    Group’s share in Associates Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Net profit / (loss)  0  (206) T otal comprehensive income / (loss)  0  (206) Unrecognised losses  46  206    * Reduced due to sale of associate refer Note 5 (c).
Refer Note 26 for Group’s share of joint venture’s and associate’s commitments and contingencies.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 212 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 9.
Investments in subsidiaries   Information about the subsidiaries which are part of the Group is as follows: S.  No.
Principal Activity Principal place of  business Number of wholly-owned subsidiaries As of March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 1 T elecommunication services India  3  3  4  2 T elecommunication services Africa  7  10  10  3 T elecommunication services South Asia  1  2  2  4 T elecommunication services Others  6  6  7  5 Mobile commerce services India  -    -    1  6 Mobile commerce services Africa  14  16  17  7 Infrastructure services Africa  4  6  9  8 Infrastructure services South Asia  2  2  2  9 Direct to Home services Africa  1  2  3  10 Submarine cable Mauritius  1  1  1  11 Investment company Netherlands  25  26  26  12 Investment company Mauritius  6  6  6  13 Investment company Others  4  4  5  14 Others India  1  1  1   75  85  94  S.  No.Principal Activity Principal place of  business Number of non wholly-owned subsidiaries As of March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 1 T elecommunication services India  2  2  1  2 T elecommunication services Africa  8  8  9  3 Mobile commerce services India  1  1  -    4 Mobile commerce services Africa  3  2  -    5 Infrastructure services India  1  2  2  6 Infrastructure services Africa  3  5  7  7 Direct to Home services India  1  1  1  8 Investment company Africa  1  1  -    9 Others India  1  1  -     21  23  20    Additionally the Group also controls the trusts as mentioned here below:   Details of controlled trust: S. No.
Name of trust Principal place of business 1 Bharti Airtel Employees' Welfare Trust India 2 Bharti Infratel Employees' Welfare Trust India (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 213 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Summarised financial information of subsidiaries (including acquisition date fair valuation and adjustments thereto, and accounting policies alignment) having material  non-controlling interests is as follows:- Summarised balance sheet Particulars Bharti Infratel Limited* Bharti Hexacom Limited Airtel Networks Limited As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Assets Non current assets  178,274  171,644  167,514  89,157  79,331  77,719  63,174  99,144  97,130  Current assets  47,118  55,454  51,659  6,984  5,443  4,289  5,343  8,835  19,610  Liabilities Non current liabilities  14,705  16,893  15,170  3,560  9,372  6,551  37,798  45,831  37,249  Current liabilities  43,952  14,166  13,799  25,753  12,857  22,127  43,049  50,294  85,573  Equity  166,735  196,039  190,204  66,828  62,545  53,330  (12,330)  11,854  (6,082) % of ownership  interest held by NCI 38.32% 28.24% 28.12% 30.00% 30.00% 30.00% 16.75% 20.94% 20.94% Accumulated NCI  63,893  55,360  53,491  20,049  18,738  15,977  (2,064)  2,482  (1,274) Summarised statement of profit and loss Particulars Bharti Infratel Limited* Bharti Hexacom Limited Airtel Networks Limited For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Revenue  60,178  57,272  51,313  51,922  69,543  83,491  Net profit/(loss)  25,624  22,353  6,601  10,279  (22,173)  8,990  Other comprehensive income / (loss)  84  (18)  (1)  (2)  (2,010)  8,946  T otal comprehensive income / (loss)  25,708  22,335  6,600  10,277  (24,183)  17,936  Profit / (loss) allocated to NCI  7,242  6,309  2,007  3,086  (4,810)  1,883  Summarised statement of cash flows Particulars Bharti Infratel Limited* Bharti Hexacom Limited Airtel Networks Limited For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Net cash inflow from operating activities  28,662  19,115  15,162  15,109  13,605  17,677  Net cash (outflow)/inflow from investing activities  (2,434)  15,483  (16,443)  (6,937)  (10,291)  19,090  Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities  (26,648)  (14,529)  49  (8,413)  (6,497)  (34,240) Net cash (outflow)/inflow  (420)  20,069  (1,232)  (241)  (3,183)  2,527  Dividend paid to NCI (including tax)  1,873  4,183  695  325  -    -    *Based on consolidated financial statements of the entity.
Also, refer Note 5 ( j).
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 214 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 10  Investments    Non-current Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Investments - FVTPL  42,051  25,396  31,310  Investments - FVTOCI  2,136  3,226  -     44,187  28,622  31,310  Current Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Investments - FVTPL  15,212  16,159  84,017  Investments - FVTOCI  1,711  -    -     16,923  16,159  84,017  Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Investment in equity instruments (Unqouted) IFFCO Kissan Sanchar Limited : 100,000  equity  shares of ` 10 each fully paid up  50  50  50  Greenenergy Wind Corporation Pvt Ltd : 41,535  equity shares of ` 10 each fully paid up (FVTOCI)  4  4  -    Helios T owers Africa Ltd. : 29,629,629 equity  shares of 1.35 USD each  2,594  -    -    Investment in preference share (Unquoted) T ube INC (Data Mi) : 5,294,781 (March 31,  2016 4,947,871) non-cumulative convertible  preference shares of 0.9208 Euro each  316  302  -    Investment in government securities * (Quoted /   Unquoted)  53,584  2  2  Investment in mutual funds (Quoted)  529  38,345  115,258  Investment in corporate deposits and bonds  (Quoted / Unquoted)  3,556  6,078  17  Investment in commercial paper (Quoted)  477  -    -     61,110  44,781  115,327  Aggregate book / market value of quoted  investments  56,688  44,416  115,258  Aggregate book value of unquoted investments  4,422  365  69    * Investment in government securities mainly pertains to investment in Govt.
stock 2026.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 215 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements 11 Derivative financial Instruments    The Group uses foreign exchange option contracts, swap contracts, forward contracts and interest rate swaps to manage  some of its transaction exposures.
The details of derivative financial instruments are as follows:- Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Assets Currency swaps, forward and option contracts  814  3,788  280  Interest swaps  4,963  14,545  5,598  Embedded derivatives  1,015  431  2,632   6,792  18,764  8,510  Liabilities Currency swaps, forward and option contracts  3,412  1,096  381  Interest swaps  880  -    73  Embedded derivatives  769  843  338   5,061  1,939  792  Non-current derivative financial assets  4,732  13,999  7,303  Current derivative financial assets  2,060  4,765  1,207  Non-current derivative financial liabilities  (2,726)  (8)  (164) Current derivative financial liabilities  (2,335)  (1,931)  (628)  1,731  16,825  7,718    Embedded derivative    The Group entered into agreements denominated/determined in foreign currencies.
The value of these contracts changes in  response to the changes in specified foreign currencies.
Some of these contracts have embedded foreign currency derivatives  having economic characteristics and risks that are not closely related to those of the host contracts.
These embedded foreign  currency derivatives have been separated and carried at fair value through profit or loss.
12 Security deposits Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Considered good*  9,630  10,441  9,529  Considered doubtful  1,464  1,123  620  Less: provision for doubtful deposits  (1,464)  (1,123)  (620)  9,630  10,441  9,529     Security deposits primarily include deposits given towards rented premises, cell sites, interconnect ports and other  miscellaneous deposits.
*Includes amount due from related party refer Note 36.
For details towards pledge of the above assets refer Note 21.
13 Financial assets – others   Non-current Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Rent equalisation  4,183  4,093  3,517  T ower sale receivable  10,323  10,658  -     Restricted cash  554  1,048  1,296  Claims recoverable  73  1,360  1,227  Bank deposits  744  5  4  Others*  776  338  1,987   16,653  17,502  8,031  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 216 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17   Current Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Restricted cash  34,806  14,626  10,075   Unbilled revenue  13,442  11,064  10,273   Claims recoverable  2,007  5,151  4,481  Interest accrued on investments  1,447  1,554  63   Others*  403  116  279   52,105  32,511  25,171    *Primarily includes finance lease receivables and also includes amount due from related party refer Note 36.
Restricted cash represents cash received from subscribers of mobile commerce services, earmarked balances for  dividend payouts and amount given as collateral for legal cases and/or bank guarantees for disputed matters.
For details towards pledge of the above assets refer Note 21.
14 Income tax   The major components of the income tax expense are: Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Current income tax - For the year  21,332  43,749  - Adjustments for prior periods  (92)  941   21,240  44,690  Deferred tax*# - Origination and reversal of temporary differences  18,436  5,329  - Adjustments for prior periods  (4,857)  9,514   13,579  14,843  Income tax expense  34,819  59,533    * Includes Minimum Alternate T ax (‘MA T’) credit of ` 1,222 and ` 17,661 during the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
# Includes reversal of deferred tax asset of ` 8,612 during the year ended March 31, 2016, in one of the subsidiary on account of surrender of depreciation  with T ax authority.
The reconciliation between the amount computed by applying the statutory income tax rate to the profit before tax and the income tax charge is  summarised below: Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Profit before tax  77,233  128,463  T ax expense @ company's domestic tax rate of 34.608%  26,728  44,459  Effect of: Share of profits in associates and joint ventures  (3,618)  (3,342) T ax holiday  778  (7,249) Adjustments in respect of previous years  (4,967)  10,453  Additional T ax / T ax for which no credit is allowed  4,466  4,688  Difference in overseas tax rates (465)  (1,451) Items on which tax is lower than applicable rate  (4,311)  (7,992) (Income) / expense (net) not taxable / deductible  1,065  2,288  T ax on undistributed retained earnings  2,184  1,667  T ax losses and temporary difference for which no deferred tax asset was  recognised 12,311  16,240  Settlement of various disputes  369  480  Others  279  (708) Income tax expense  34,819  59,533  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 217 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements   The analysis of deferred tax assets and liabilities is as follows: Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Deferred tax assets (net) a) Deferred tax liability due to Depreciation / amortisation on property, plant  and equipment / intangible assets  (66,798)  (37,899)  (7,112) b) Deferred tax asset arising out of Provision for impairment of debtors / advances  13,004  9,950  9,625  Carry forward losses  3,382  1,876  3,333  Unearned Income  385  400  357  Employee benefits  1,133  925  820  Minimum T ax Credit  57,532  56,310  38,649  Lease Rent Equilisation  6,983  6,725  6,172  Fair valuation of financial instruments and  exchange differences  7,748  7,267  6,132  Rates and taxes  1,527  -    -    Others  1,366  1,185  1,526   26,262  46,738  59,502  Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Deferred tax liabilities (net) a) Deferred tax liability due to Lease Rent Equilisation (net)  4,076  4,597  4,431  Fair valuation of financial instruments and  exchange differences  691  1,430  2,254  Depreciation / amortisation on property, plant  and equipment / intangible assets  4,112  6,522  6,971  Undistributed retained earnings  2,986  3,232  1,456  Others  187  -    -    b) Deferred tax asset arising out of Provision for impairment of debtors / advances  (1,389)  (2,076)  (1,121) Carry forward losses  (720)  (832)  (383) Unearned Income  (301)  (71)  (196) Employee benefits  (214)  (187)  (257) Others  -    (103)  (78)  9,429  12,512  13,077  Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Deferred tax expense Provision for impairment of debtors / advances  2,858  1,425  Carry forward losses  (99)  (872) Unearned Income  23  (94) Employee benefits  235  134  Minimum T ax Credit  1,223  17,661  Lease Rent Equilisation (net)  789  395  Fair valuation of financial instruments and exchange differences  2,377  492  Rates and taxes  1,527  -    Depreciation / amortisation on property, plant and equipment / intangible  assets  (22,496)  (32,195) Undistributed retained earnings  (259)  (1,667) Others  243  (122) Net deferred tax expense  (13,579)  (14,843) (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 218 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17   The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year is as follows: Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Opening balance  34,226  46,425  T ax expense recognised in profit or loss  (13,579)  (14,843) T ax income recognised in equity  1,426  -    Disposal of subsidiary  -    785  T ax expense recognised in OCI - on net investments hedge  (10)  506  T ax expense recognised in OCI - on fair value through OCI investments  (6)  (3) Exchange differences and others  (5,224)  1,356  Closing balance  16,833  34,226     The deferred tax assets are recognised for carry-forward losses and credits, to the extent that the realisation of the  related tax benefit is probable.
Accordingly, deferred tax assets are recognised for the entire credits and certain carry- forward losses, since the Group estimates that the realisation of the related tax benefit in future, through adjustment  against future taxable profits and reversal of deferred tax liabilities in the relevant tax jurisdictions, is probable.
Accordingly, the Group has not recognised deferred tax assets in respect of deductible temporary differences, carry  forward of unabsorbed depreciation and unused tax losses of ` 184,022, ` 269,200 and ` 229,893 as of March 31,  2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, respectively as it is not probable that taxable profits will be available in future.
The tax rates applicable to these unused tax losses, unabsorbed depreciation and deductible temporary differences vary  from 3% to 45% depending on the jurisdiction in which the respective group entity operates.
Of the above balance as  of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, tax losses, unabsorbed depreciation and deductible temporary  differences to the extent of ` 75,724, ` 147,654 and ` 143,308, respectively have an indefinite carry forward period and  the balance amount expires unutilised as follows: Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Expiry date                          Within one - three years  33,442  25,469  20,224  Within three - five years  36,045  38,187  30,370  Above five years  38,811  57,891  35,991   108,298  121,547  86,585     Moreover, deferred tax liability has not been recognised with respect to unremitted retained earnings and associated  foreign currency translation reserve with respect to certain of its subsidiaries where the Group is in a position to  control the timing of distribution of the profits and it is probable that the subsidiary will not distribute the profits in the  foreseeable future.
The temporary differences associated with respect to unremitted retained earnings and associated  foreign currency translation reserve aggregating to ` 100,437, ` 96,573 and ` 96,364 as of March 31, 2017, March  31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, respectively.
The distribution of the same is expected to attract tax in the range of Nil to  20% depending on the tax rates applicable as of March 31, 2017 in the jurisdiction in which the respective group entity  operates.
Further, the Group has been substantially availing the tax credit and believes that it would continue to avail the  tax credit, for the dividend distribution tax payable by the subsidiaries on its dividend distribution.
15 Other non-financial assets   Non-Current Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Capital advances  2,961  40,890  48,812  Other advances  29,367  28,703  26,069  T axes recoverable  15,092  -    -    Others  2,455  847  803   49,875  70,440  75,684  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 219 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements   Current Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Prepaid expenses  11,490  15,590  10,573  T axes recoverable  13,524  15,828  12,504  Advances to Suppliers  17,054  15,895  6,341  Others  2,037  1,514  2,778   44,105  48,827  32,196     Capital advances includes advance payment of ` 1,720, ` 40,314 and ` 47,255 towards spectrum as at March 31, 2017,  March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, respectively.
Other advances represent payments made to various government authorities under protest and are disclosed net of  provision refer Note 23.
T axes recoverable primarily include customs duty, excise duty, service tax and sales tax.
Non-current tax recoverable  represents service tax recoverable on spectrum beyond one year period.
Others primarily include employee receivables which principally consist of advances given for business purposes and  non-current prepaid expenses.
Advance to suppliers are disclosed net of provision of ` 2,128, ` 2,056 and ` 3,003 as of March 31, 2017, March 31,  2016 and April 1, 2015, respectively.
16 Trade Receivables Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Unsecured Considered good *  49,838  55,039  51,961  Considered doubtful  42,258  35,080  27,795   Less: Provision for doubtful receivables  (42,258)  (35,080)  (27,795)  49,838  55,039  51,961    *Includes amount due from related party refer Note 36.
Refer Note 37 (iv) for credit risk.
The movement in allowances for doubtful debts is as follows: Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Opening balance  35,080  27,795  Additions*  8,509  11,167  Write off (net of recovery)  (873)  (4,960) Exchange differences  (458)  1,078  Closing balance  42,258  35,080    *includes exceptional item of ` 2,066 (refer Note 33 (ii) (d)) for the year ended March 31, 2016.
For details towards pledge of the above assets refer Note 21.
17 Cash and bank balances   Cash and cash equivalents (‘C&CE’) Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Balances with banks     - On current accounts  9,871  14,950  7,522 - Bank deposits with original maturity of 3 months  or less  2,532  21,145  2,850  Cheques on hand  16  184  418  Cash on hand  398  808  931   12,817  37,087  11,721 (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 220 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Other bank balances Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Bank deposits with remaining maturity of less than  12 months  3,360  13,900  8,823    For the purpose of consolidated cash flow statement, C&CE are as following: Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 C&CE as per balance sheet  12,817  37,087  11,721  C&CE included in the assets-held-for-sale  -    -    73  Bank overdraft  (refer Note 21)  (22,697)  (19,452)  (13,207)  (9,880)  17,635  (1,413)    The details of specified bank notes held and transacted during  the period November 8, 2016 to December 30, 2016, of  the group entities as applicable, are provided below: Particulars Specified   Bank Notes Other   Denomination Notes T otal Closing cash in hand as at November 8, 2016  43  1  44  (+) Permitted receipts  42  716  758  (-) Permitted payments  -    -    -    (-) Amount deposited in Banks  85  680  765  Closing cash in hand as at December 30, 2016  -  37  37  18  Non-current assets-held-for-sale   a.
Until March 31, 2015, the Group had entered into agreements to sale and leaseback a dedicated portion of towers in  eight of the African countries.
Further during the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, the Group has entered into  an agreement to sale and leaseback a dedicated portion of towers in one of the African country each.
The Group, on  the basis of approval by relevant Board of Directors, considers that the criteria relevant for classification as assets- held-for-sale have been met, and accordingly has classified the assets and associated liabilities (collectively referred  to as ‘disposal group’) that are part of the sale and will not be leased back as held for sale.
These assets and liabilities  pertain to ‘Mobile Services Africa’ segment.
The completion of the transactions is subject to certain customary closing conditions and is expected to be completed  within a period of one year from the date of classification as held for sale.
Assets-held-for-sale mainly consist of property plant and equipment (refer Note 6).
The Group has ceased depreciation  on the telecom tower assets, to the extent it has estimated such assets would not be leased back, from the respective  dates of classification as held for sale.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the agreement for sale of tower assets in one of the African countries with  American T ower Corporation have lapsed and therefore stand terminated thereby.
Accordingly, assets and the related  liabilities have been re-classified from held for sale to its earlier classification.
b.
The major classes of assets and liabilities classified as held for sale are as follows: Assets of disposal group classified as held for sale As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Non current assets  -    6,870  30,012  Other current assets  -    132  2,606   -    7,002  32,618  Liabilities of disposal group classified as   held for sale As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Non current liabilities  -    (1,039)  (2,763) Current liabilities  -    -    (1,200)  -    (1,039)  (3,963) (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 221 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements    c.   During the year ended March 31, 2017, sale and lease back of 1,510 towers in two of the African countries was  completed for a consideration of ` 13,193.
The portion leased back which have been classified as finance lease, has  been retained at the carrying value of ` 5,430 and the finance lease obligation has been recorded at ` 5,855, being  the fair value of the leased back portion.
During the year ended March 31, 2016, sale and lease back of 8,740 towers in seven African countries was completed  for a consideration of ` 116,229 respectively.
The portion leased back which have been classified as finance lease,  has been retained at the carrying value of ` 16,339 and the finance lease obligation has been recorded at ` 51,141,  being the fair value of the leased back portion.
19.
Share capital Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Issued, Subscribed and fully paid-up shares 3,997,400,102 equity shares of ` 5 each  19,987  19,987  19,987   19,987  19,987  19,987  a.  T erms/rights attached to equity shares       The Company has only one class of equity shares having par value of ` 5 per share.
Each holder of equity shares is  entitled to cast one vote per share.
b.
Treasury Shares Particulars For the year ended March 31, 2017 For the year ended March 31, 2016  No.
of shares  (‘000’)  Amount No.
of  Shares  '000  Amount  Opening balance  1,882  524  1,411  114  Purchased during the year  -    -    1,500  514  Excercised during the year  (537)  (157)  (1,029)  (104) Closing balance  1,345  367  1,882  524  c.  Dividend paid and proposed Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 A Declared and paid during the year:  Final dividend for 2015-16 : ` 1.36 per share  6,541 - Dividend on treasury shares  2 - (including dividend distribution tax of ` 1,107 @ 20.358%) Final dividend for 2014-15 : ` 2.22 per share  -   10,679 Dividend on treasury shares  -   2 (including dividend distribution tax of ` 1,807 @ 20.358%)  6,543 10,681 B Proposed dividend Final dividend for 2016-17: ` 1 per share   (2015-16 : ` 1.36 per share)  3,997  5,436  Dividend distribution tax @ 20.358%  814  1,107   4,811  6,543    The proposed dividend is subject to approval at annual general meeting and hence has not been recognised as liability.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 222 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 20  Retained earnings and other reserves    Retained earnings     Retained earnings represent the amount of accumulated earnings of the Group, remeasurement differences on defined  benefit plans and the reserves due to the court scheme accounting and adjustments thereto (as explained below for  material Scheme of Arrangements).
The Scheme of Arrangement under Section 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956 for transfer of all assets and  liabilities at their respective fair values from Bharti Infratel Ventures Limited (erstwhile subsidiary company), Vodafone  Infrastructure Limited, Idea Cellular T ower Infrastructure Limited to its joint venture Indus T owers Limited, was approved  by the Hon’ble High Court of Delhi vide order dated April 18, 2013 and filed with the Registrar of Companies on June  11, 2013 with appointed date April 1, 2009 and hence was accounted retrospectively with effect from April 01, 2009.
Similarly, pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement of the Company under sections 391 to 394 of the Companies Act,  1956, the telecom infrastructure undertaking of the Company was transferred to one of its subsidiary Bharti Infratel  Limited during the year ended March 31, 2008.
Further, pursuant to the said schemes, mainly the excess of the fair values over the original book values of the assets  transferred to them and the periodic depreciation thereto is adjusted in retained earnings.
In absence of any specific provision under Ind AS with respect to court schemes, and the fact that the court schemes are  part of the law, accounting prescribed therein (as explained above) will continue to prevail even in the Ind AS financial  statements of the Group after being adjusted for intra-group eliminations / equity accounting as required.
Other components of equity Particulars FCTR CFHR FVTOCI  reserve Treasury  shares T otal  As of April 1, 2015  -    -    -    (114)  (114)  Net losses due to foreign currency translation differences  (4,497)  -    -    -    (4,497)  Net losses on net investments hedge  (6,652)  -    -    -    (6,652)  Net losses on cash flow hedge  -    (724)  -    -    (724)  Net gains on fair value through OCI investments  -    -    4  -    4   Purchase of treasury shares  -    -    -    (514)  (514)  Exercise of share options  -    -    -    104  104   As of March 31, 2016  (11,149)  (724)  4  (524)  (12,393)  Net losses due to foreign currency translation differences  (42,134)  -    -    -    (42,134)  Net losses on net investments hedge  (7,402)  -    -    -    (7,402)  Net gains on cash flow hedge  -    857  -    -    857   Net gains on fair value through OCI investments  -    -    86  -    86   Exercise of share options  -    -    -    157  157   As of March 31, 2017  (60,685)  133  90  (367)  (60,829)   a) Foreign currency translation reserve (‘FCTR’)       During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group has reclassified loss of ` 2,073 respectively, to statement of profit  and loss on sale of foreign subsidiaries.
Refer Note 5 (b).
b) Cash flow hedge reserve (‘CFHR’)       The Group has designated certain CHF / Euro forward contracts as a cash flow hedge of the foreign currency risk  arising from the CHF / Euro borrowings.
The Group had designated certain of its foreign currency borrowings denominated in USD as a cash flow hedge of  the foreign currency risk arising from the expected sale consideration receivable from the highly probable forecasted  transaction relating to the sale of telecom towers.
Foreign exchange loss of ` 1,440 (` 852, net of tax and non- controlling interests) during the year ended March 31, 2016 has been recognised in other comprehensive income.
Further, on occurrence of forecasted sale transaction during year ended March 31, 2016, the same has been  reclassified from other comprehensive income to statement of profit and loss and disclosed as exceptional item.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 223 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements 21 Borrowings   Non-current Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Secured T erm loans  11,344  26,279  68,943  Others*  31  20  19   11,375  26,299  68,962  Less: Current portion (A)  (4,322)  (7,543)  (37,323)  7,053  18,756  31,639  Unsecured T erm loans#  68,800  126,402  209,366  Non-convertible bonds @  368,912  395,292  294,688  Deferred Payment Liabilities**  439,205  341,424  143,167  Finance lease obligations^  56,547  57,871  758   933,464  920,989  647,979  Less: Current portion (B)  (44,144)  (47,059)  (88,043)  889,320  873,930  559,936   896,373  892,686  591,575  Current maturities of long-term borrowings [A+B]  48,466  54,602  125,366  Current Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Secured T erm loans  -    17,165  10,396  Bank overdraft  663  513  987   663  17,678  11,383  Unsecured T erm Loans  106,745  20,621  63,077  Bank overdraft  22,034  18,939  12,220   128,779  39,560  75,297   129,442  57,238  86,680    * Others include vehicle loans taken from banks which were secured by hypothecation of the vehicles.
# Includes re-borrowable term loans of ` 9,810, ` 2,887 and ` Nil as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, respectively which have daily  prepayment flexibility.
@ For impact of change in fair value with respect to the hedged risk refer note 37 (ii).
^ includes finance lease liabilities primarily arising on sale and lease back of tower assets (refer Note 18 (c)).
** During the year ended March 31, 2017, 2015 and 2014, the Group had won the auction for spectrum aggregating to 398.6 Mhz.
The Group had opted  for deferred payment in certain circles for a specified portion of the auction price.
The deferred payment liability recognised in the financial statements is  payable in 10 equal annual installments (including the related interest) after a moratorium of two years.
21.1    During the year ended March 31, 2016, the Company had issued 4.375% USD 1,000 Mn (` 63,973) senior  unsecured notes (‘Bonds’) at issue price of 99.304% which are listed on Singapore stock exchange and due for  repayment in the year 2025.
21.2   Analysis of borrowings       The details given below are gross of debt origination cost and fair valuation adjustments with respect to the hedged risk.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 224 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 21.2.1 Repayment terms of borrowings      The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s borrowings: Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Within one year  178,928  112,243  212,260  Between one and two years  128,393  52,605  46,214  Between two and five years  207,068  259,181  206,490  Over five years  562,742  574,826  343,591   1,077,131  998,855  808,555        The borrowings of ` 22,697, ` 19,452 and ` 13,207 outstanding as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1,  2015, comprising bank overdraft facilities from banks which are repayable on demand.
The borrowings of ` 1,054,434,  ` 979,403 and ` 795,348 outstanding as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, comprising various  loans, are repayable in total 1,361, 907 and 118 monthly installments, 173, 104 and 70 quarterly installments, 700,  888 and 1107 half yearly installments, 44, 43 and 44 yearly installments and 53, 312 and 172 bullet payments.
21.2.2 Interest rate and currency of borrowings       The below details do not necessarily represents foreign currency or interest rate exposure to the income statement,  since the Group has taken derivatives for offsetting the foreign currency & interest rate exposure.
For foreign currency and interest rate sensitivity refer Note 37.
Particulars Average Rate   of Interest T otal   borrowings Floating rate  borrowings Fixed rate  borrowings INR 9.48%  542,731  86,577  456,154  USD 5.05%  372,361  88,598  283,763  Euro 3.73%  121,037  -    121,037  CHF 3.00%  22,705  -    22,705  XAF 6.56%  5,893  -    5,893  XOF 7.10%  5,180  -    5,180  Others 11.06% to 25.74%  7,224  4,886  2,338  March 31, 2017  1,077,131  180,061  897,070  INR 10.06%  178,537  35,207  143,330  USD 3.40%  404,491  243,833  160,658  Euro 3.58%  135,796  18,639  117,157  CHF 3.00%  22,544  -    22,544  NGN 15.56%  31,864  31,423  441  XAF 7.03%  11,077  -    11,077  XOF 8.58%  7,710  -    7,710  BDT 10.77%  10,297  242  10,055  Others 8.64% to 27%  6,239  2,981  3,258  April 1, 2015  808,555  332,325  476,230  INR 9.95%  365,771  22,377  343,394  USD 4.78%  424,973  133,185  291,788  Euro 3.68%  136,356  4,715  131,641  CHF 3.00%  24,211  -    24,211  NGN 17.75%  6,491  6,491  -    XAF 7.26%  9,438  -    9,438  XOF 6.79%  5,831  -    5,831  BDT 9.88%  18,485  513  17,972  Others 8.91% to 25.7%  7,299  5,797  1,502  March 31, 2016  998,855  173,078  825,777  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 225 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements 21.3 Security details    The Group has taken borrowings in various countries towards funding of its acquisition and working capital requirements.
The details of security provided by the Group in various countries are as follows: Entity Outstanding loan amount Security DetailAs of   March 31,  2017 As of  March 31,  2016 As of  April 1,  2015 Bharti Airtel Ltd  31  20  19  Hypothecation of vehicles Airtel Bangladesh  Ltd (refer Note 5  (b)) -  26,289  21,731  (i)  Deed of Hypothecation by way of fixed charge  creating a first-ranking  pari passu fixed charge over  listed machinery and equipment of the company,  favouring the Bank / FIIs investors and the Offshore  Security Agent and filed with the Registrar of Joint  Stock Companies.
Third Modification to Deed of  Hypothecation for for EKN-1, EKN-2, SCB Mauritius &  HDFC Loan facilities.
(ii)  Deed of Hypothecation by way of floating charge  creating a first-ranking pari passu floating charge over  plant, machinery and equipment, both present and  future, excluding machinery and equipment covered  under the foregoing Deed of Hypothecation by way  of  fixed charge and  a first-ranking pari passu floating  charge over all current assets of the company, both  present and future, including but not limited to stock,  book debts, receivables and accounts of the company,  entered into or to be entered into by the company,  favouring the Bank / FIIs Facility Investors and Offshore  Security Agent and filed with the Registrar of Joint  Stock Companies for EKN-1, EKN-2, SCB Mauritius &  HDFC loan facility.
(iii)  Corporate Guarantee by BAHSPL (Bharti Airtel  Holdings Pte.
Ltd.) to Airtel Bangladesh Limited for  EKN-1, EKN-2, HDFC & SCB Mauritius loan facility.
Counter Guarantee to BAHSPL by BAL (Bharti Airtel  Limited) for EKN-1, EKN-2, HDFC loan facility.
(iv)  Register Hypothecations of all present and future  book debts, receivables, monies, and movable  property of the Borrower consisting of raw materials,  stocks, inventory work in progress, finished goods  and insurance proceeds thereof, of Airtel Bangladesh  on Pari Passu basis with other Lenders, under a  Letter of Hypothecation dated February 8, 2012 and  its subsequent modifications to the hypothecation  executed in favor of the existing lenders and filed with  the Registrar of Joint Stock Companies.
(For Short  T erm Working Capital Lenders (STL & OD) except  Citibank N.A).
Bharti Airtel  Africa BV and its  subsidiaries  12,128  18,062  59,349 (i)   Pledge of all fixed and floating assets - Kenya, Nigeria,  T anzania, Uganda, DRC, Ghana and Rwanda .
(ii)  Pledge of specific fixed assets - Chad.
12,159  44,371  81,099    Africa operations acquisition related borrowing: Borrowings include certain loans which have been taken to refinance the Africa acquisition related borrowing.
These  loan agreements contains a negative pledge covenants that prevents the Group (excluding Airtel Bangladesh Limited,  Bharti Airtel Africa B. V , Bharti Infratel Limited, and their respective subsidiaries) to create or allow to exist any security  interest or any of its assets without prior written consent of the majority lenders except in certain agreed circumstances.
The Euro bonds due in 2018 and USD bonds due in 2023 issued by BAIN contain certain covenants relating to limitation  on indebtedness and all bonds carry a restriction on incurrence of any lien on its assets other than as permitted under  the agreement, unless an effective provision is made to secure the bonds and guarantee equally and ratably with such  indebtedness for so long as such indebtedness is so secured by such lien.
The limitation on indebtedness covenant on  Euro bonds due in 2018 and USD bonds due in 2023 gets suspended on bonds meeting certain agreed criteria.
The  debt covenants remained suspended as of the date of the authorisation of the financial statements.
The other bonds  issued do not carry any restrictions on the limitation of indebtedness.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 226 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 21.4 Unused lines of credit *  The below table provides the details of un-drawn credit facilities that are available to the Group.
Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Secured  57  19,909  20,253  Unsecured  194,592  156,999  160,722   194,649  176,908  180,975    * Excluding non-fund based facilities.
22.
Financial liabilities - others   Non Current Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Equipment supply payables  -    264  939  Security deposits  1,237  1,013  849  Lease rent equalisation  13,377  12,671  11,109  Others  1,067  2,136  1,640   15,681  16,084  14,537  Current Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015  Equipment supply payables  65,860  103,988  102,787  Employees payables  5,364  6,509  4,212  Interest accrued but not due  5,960  6,599  6,802  Security deposit*  4,148  4,492  4,304  Others  7,476  9,592  9,201   88,808  131,180  127,306    * It pertains to deposits received from subscriber / channel partners which are repayable on disconnection, net of outstanding, if any.
‘Others’ include payable to Qualcomm Asia Pacific Pte.
Limited of ` 4,104 towards purchase of balance equity shares  upon satisfaction of certain conditions as per the share purchase agreement for acquisition of erstwhile ABSPL.
It also  includes non-interest bearing advance received from customers and international operators, liability towards cash settled  employee share based payment plans and payment bank related liabilities.
23 Provisions Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Asset retirement obligation  5,786  5,761  6,127  Gratuity  2,572  2,590  2,322  Compensated absence  1,158  1,127  1,071  Other employee benefit plans  170  204  194   9,686  9,682  9,714  Non-current  7,471  7,350  7,648  Current  2,215  2,332  2,066   9,686  9,682  9,714  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 227 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements   The movement of provision towards asset retirement obligation is as below: Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Opening Balance  5,761  6,127  Additions  553  175  Interest cost  248  286  Disposal's of tower operations (refer Note 18)  (776)  (827)  5,786  5,761    Refer note 28 for movement of provision towards employee benefits.
Due to large number of lease arrangements of the Group, the range of expected period of outflows of provision for asset  retirement obligation is significantly wide.
The movement of provision towards subjudice matters is as below: Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Opening balance  113,436  86,531  Net additions  17,625  26,905  Closing balance  131,061  113,436    The said provision has been disclosed under: Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Other non-financial assets (refer Note 15)  48,915  42,096  34,424  Other non-financial liabilities (refer Note 24)  4,619  4,318  3,529  Trade payables (refer Note 25)  77,527  67,022  48,578   131,061  113,436  86,531  24 Other non - financial liabilities   Non-current Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Deferred rent  727  691  630  Others  -    836  836   727  1,527  1,466    Current Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 T axes payable  25,961  21,844  15,898  Others#  8,809  -    -     34,770  21,844  15,898    # includes dividend payable to NCI ` 8,512 by one of the subsidiary.
T axes payable mainly pertains to service tax, sales tax, other taxes payable and provision towards sub judice matters  (refer Note 23).
25 Trade payables Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Trade payables*  268,537  255,806  215,896    Trade payables include provision towards subjudice matters refer Note 23.
*Includes amount due from related party refer Note 36.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 228 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 26 Contingent liabilities and commitments    (i) Contingent liabilities   Claims against the company not acknowledged as debt: Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 (i) T axes, Duties and Other demands  (under adjudication / appeal / dispute) -Sales T ax and Service T ax  39,085  40,214  38,225  -Income T ax  20,150  19,746  20,130  -Customs Duty  5,899  6,601  6,136  -Entry T ax  9,252  8,201  6,957  -Stamp Duty  596  596  603  -Municipal T axes  1,276  1,114  863  -Department of T elecom ('DoT') demands *  37,560  5,273  5,020  -Other miscellaneous demands  8,000  7,105  2,133  (ii) Claims under legal cases including arbitration  matters -Access Charges / Port Charges  9,371  8,761  7,443  -Others  3,631  4,370  5,703   134,820  101,981  93,213     Further, refer Note f (iv), (v), (vi) and g below for other  DoT matter.
In addition to the above, the Group’s share of joint  ventures and associates contingent liabilities is   ` 17,507, ` 12,032 and ` 9,083 as of March 31, 2017,  March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 respectively.
The category wise detail of the contingent liability has  been given below:-   a) Sales and Service T ax    The claims for sales tax comprised of cases relating  to the appropriateness of declarations made by the  Company under relevant sales tax legislations which  were primarily procedural in nature and the applicable  sales tax on disposals of certain property and  equipment items.
Pending final decisions, the Company  has deposited amounts under protest with statutory  authorities for certain cases.
The service tax demands relate to cenvat claimed on  tower and related material, levy of service tax on SIM  cards and employee talk time, cenvat credit disallowed  for procedural lapses and usage in excess of 20% limit.
b) Income tax demand    Income tax demands mainly include the appeals filed  by the Group before various appellate authorities  against the disallowance by income tax authorities of  certain expenses being claimed, non-deduction of tax  at source with respect to dealers / distributor’s margin  and payments to international operators for access  charges.
c) Access charges (Interconnect Usage  Charges) / Port charges   (i)   Despite the interconnect usage charges (‘IUC’)  rates being governed by the Regulations issued by  T elecom Regulatory Authority of India (‘TRAI’); BSNL  had raised a demand for IUC at the rates contrary to  the regulations issued by TRAI in 2009.
Accordingly,  the Company filed a petition against the demand  with the TDSA T which allowed payments by the  Group based on the existing regulations.
The matter  was then challenged by BSNL and is currently  pending with the Hon’ble Supreme Court.
(ii)  The Hon’ble TDSA T allowed BSNL to recover  distance based carriage charges.
The private  telecom operators have jointly filed an appeal  against the said order and the matter is currently  pending before the Hon’ble Supreme Court.
(iii)  BSNL challenged before TDSA T the port charges  reduction contemplated by the regulations issued  by TRAI in 2007 which passed its judgment in favour  of BSNL.
The said judgment has been challenged  by the private operators in Hon’ble Supreme Court.
Pending disposal of the said appeal, in the interim,  private operators were allowed to continue paying  BSNL as per the revised rates i.e.
TRAI regulation  issued in 2007, subject to the bank guarantee  being provided for the disputed amount.
The rates  were further reduced by TRAI in 2012 which was  challenged by BSNL before the Hon’ble Delhi High  Court.
The Hon’ble Delhi High Court, in the interim,  without staying the rate revision, directed the  private operators to secure the difference between  TRAI regulation of 2007 and 2012 rates by way of  bank guarantee pending final disposal of appeal.
d) Customs Duty       The custom authorities, in some states, demanded  custom duty for the imports of special software on  the ground that this would form part of the hardware  on which it was pre-loaded at the time of import.
The  view of the Company is that such imports should  not be subject to any custom duty as it is operating  software exempt from any custom duty.
In response  to the application filed by the Company, the Hon’ble  Central Excise and Service T ax Appellate Tribunal  (‘CEST A T’) has passed an order in favour of the  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 229 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements custom authorities.
The Company has filed an  appeal with Hon’ble Supreme Court against the  CEST A T order.
e) Entry T ax       In certain states, an entry tax is levied on receipt of  material from outside the state.
This position has  been challenged by the Company in the respective  states, on the grounds that the specific entry tax  is ultra vires the Constitution.
Classification issues  have also been raised, whereby, in view of the  Company, the material proposed to be taxed is not  covered under the specific category.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Hon’ble  Supreme Court of India upheld the constitutional  validity of entry tax levied by few States.
However,  Supreme Court did not conclude certain aspects  such as present levies in each State is discriminatory  in nature or not, leaving them open to be decided by  regular benches of the Courts.
Pending disposition  by the regular benches, the Company has decided  to maintain status-quo on its position and hence  continued to disclose it as contingent liability.
f)  DoT demands   (i)     DoT demands include Demand for license fees  pertaining to computation of Adjusted Gross  Revenue (‘AGR’) and the interest thereon, due to  difference in its interpretation.
The definition of AGR  is sub-judice and under dispute since 2005 before  the TDSA T .
However, the Hon’ble High Courts vide  interim orders in 2012 had permitted the Group to  continue paying license fee on similar basis as the  Company has been paying throughout the period  of the license Further, TDSA T had pronounced its  judgment in 2015, quashed all demands raised  by DoT and directed DoT to rework the demands  basis the principles enunciated in its judgment.
Subsequently, the Union of India (‘UOI’) and the  Group along with various other operators have filed  appeals / cross appeals before the Hon’ble Supreme  Court of India against the TDSA T judgment.
In 2016,  all the appeals were tagged together and Hon’ble  Supreme Court has permitted DOT to raise demands  with a direction not to enforce any demand till the  final adjudication of the matter by Hon’ble Supreme  Court.
Accordingly, DoT has raised the demand  basis special audit done by DoT and Comptroller  and Auditor General of India.
The contingent  liability includes such demand and interest thereto  (excluding certain contentious matters, penalty  and interest thereto) for the financial year 2006-07,  2007-08, 2008-09 and 2009-10.
(ii)  DoT demands also include the contentious matters  in respect of subscriber verification norms and  regulations including validity of certain documents  allowed as proof of address / identity.
(iii)  Penalty for alleged failure to meet certain procedural  requirements for EMF radiation self-certification  compliance.
The matters stated above are being contested  by the Company and based on legal advice, the  Company believes that it has complied with all  license related regulations and does not expect any  financial impact due to these matters.
In addition to the amounts disclosed in the table  above, the contingent liability on DoT matters  includes the following:   (iv)  Post the Hon’ble Supreme Court Judgment in  2011, on components of AGR for computation of  license fee, based on the legal advice, the Company  believes that the foreign exchange gain should not  be included in AGR for computation of license fee  thereon.
Further as per TDSA T judgement in 2015,  foreign exchange fluctuation does not have any  bearing on the license fees.
Accordingly, the license  fee on foreign exchange gain has not been provided  in the financial statements.
Also, due to ambiguity of  interpretation of ‘foreign exchange differences’, the  license fee impact on such exchange differences  is not quantifiable.
Further as stated in point (i)  above, the interpretation as to the components of  AGR (including the above component) is subject to  litigation and the Hon’ble High Courts vide interim  orders in 2012 had permitted the Group to continue  paying license fee on similar basis as the Company  has been paying throughout the period of the  license.
The matter is currently pending adjudication  of the matter by Hon’ble Supreme Court.
(v)  On January 8, 2013, DoT issued a demand on the  Company and one of its subsidiaries for ` 52,013  towards levy of one time spectrum charge.
The  demand includes a retrospective charge of ` 9,090  for holding GSM Spectrum beyond 6.2 MHz for the  period from July 1, 2008 to December 31, 2012  and also a prospective charge of ` 42,923 for GSM  spectrum held beyond 4.4 MHz for the period from  January 1, 2013, till the expiry of the initial terms of  the respective licenses.
In the opinion of the Company, inter-alia, the above  demand amounts to alteration of financial terms of  the licenses issued in the past.
Based on a petition  filed by the Company, the Hon’ble High Court of  Bombay, vide its order dated January 28, 2013, has  directed the DoT to respond and not to take any  coercive action until the next date of hearing.
The  DoT has filed its reply and the next date of hearing  is awaited.
The Company, based on independent  legal opinions, till date has not given any effect to  the above demand.
(vi)  DoT had issued notices to the Company (as well as  other telecom service providers) to stop provision  of services (under 3G Intra Circle Roaming (‘ICR’)  arrangements) in the service areas where such  service providers had not been allocated 3G  Spectrum and levied a financial penalty of ` 3,500  on the Company.
The Company contested the  notices and upon various rounds of litigations, in  response to which TDSA T in 2014 held 3G ICR  arrangements to be competent and compliant with  the licensing conditions and quashed the notice  imposing penalty.
The DoT has challenged the  order of TDSA T before the Hon’ble Supreme Court  which is yet to be listed for hearing.
g) Airtel Networks Limited – Ownership       Airtel Networks Limited (‘Airtel Networks’) (formerly  known as Celtel Nigeria Limited) was incorporated  on December 21, 2000 as Econet Wireless Nigeria  Limited and since 2010 been a subsidiary of Bharti  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 230 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Airtel Nigeria B. V .
(‘BANBV’), which is an indirect  subsidiary of Bharti Airtel Limited.
Airtel Networks  and / or BANBV have since 2010 been defending  cases filed by Econet Wireless Limited (‘EWL’)  where EWL was claiming, amongst others, a breach  of its alleged pre-emption rights against erstwhile  and current shareholders.
EWL inter alia commenced arbitral proceedings in  Nigeria contesting the acquisition by Celtel Nigeria  B. V .
(now, Bharti Airtel Nigeria B. V .
– ‘BANBV’) of the  controlling stake in Airtel Networks Limited in 2006,  wherein BANBV was one of the defendants.
The Final  Award (‘FA’) by the Arbitral Tribunal as to the same  was pronounced in 2014.
Subsequently, various  applications were filed to challenge / enforce the FA  in the High Court and the Supreme Court of Nigeria  by BANBV and Econet respectively.
Further, EWL  had filed conservatory attachment proceedings in  the Netherlands against BANBV for enforcement  of the Final Award, and also pursuing a claim for  compensation against BANBV’s parent (Bharti  Airtel Nigeria Holdings II B. V .)
and Grandparent  (Bharti Airtel Africa B. V .)
alleging that these entities  acted unlawfully and induced breach of contract by  the selling shareholders.
Separately, Airtel Networks  Limited was a defendant in an action where EWL  was claiming entitlement to 5% of the issued share  capital of Airtel Networks Limited.
Under the 2010 share purchase agreement, the  Group had certain indemnities from Zain BV in  relation to these proceedings.
In 2016, the Group  had initiated arbitration against Zain B. V .
and its  guarantor, Mobile T elecommunications Company  in relation to the said indemnities under the share  purchase agreement.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, Zain and  Company has entered into an agreement to settle  these matters along with other tax cases covered  under indemnities.
Separately, the Company and  EWL have entered into an agreement to settle all  these disputes and consequent withdrawal of all the  proceedings in all courts across all jurisdictions.
The  net settlement amount as adjusted for the related  indemnification assets and provisions resulted in  a loss of ` 732 which has been recognised and  disclosed as an exceptional item.
Guarantees:       Guarantees outstanding as of March 31, 2017,  March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 amounting to  ` 129,131, ` 106,255 and ` 112,525, respectively  have been issued by banks and financial institutions  on behalf of the Company.
These guarantees  include certain financial bank guarantees which  have been given for subjudice matters and in  compliance with licensing conditions, the amount  with respect to these have been disclosed under  capital commitments, contingencies and liabilities,  as applicable, in compliance with the applicable  accounting standards.
In addition to the above, the Group’s share of  guarantees of joint ventures and associates is   ` 396, Nil and Nil as of March 31, 2017, March 31,  2016 and April 1, 2015 respectively.
(ii) Commitments      Capital Commitments       Estimated amount of contracts to be executed  on capital account and not provided for (net of  advances) ` 102,008, ` 74,061 and ` 343,859  (including ` Nil, ` 10,970 and ` 244,040 towards  spectrum) as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016  and April 1, 2015, respectively.
The above includes ` 155, ` 2,537 and ` 38,083  as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1,  2015, respectively pertaining to certain agreements,  under which the vendor supplies assets as well as  services to the Group.
The amount represents total  minimum commitment over the unexpired period  of the contracts (upto four years from the reporting  date), since it is not possible for the Group to  determine allocation between assets and services  to be provided over the unexpired period of the  contract.
In addition to the above, the Group’s share of capital  commitments of joint ventures and associates is   ` 4,684, ` 1,624 and ` 1,214 as of March 31, 2017,  March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 respectively.
Lease Commitments   a) Operating Lease   The future minimum lease payments are as follows:-   As lessee Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Not later than one year  64,929  58,732  51,007  Later than one year but not later than five years  248,872  173,036  174,444  Later than five years  99,439  88,217  82,463   413,240  319,985  307,914  Lease Rentals  68,333  65,174  Lease equalisation adjustments  2,550  1,445  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 231 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements    The future minimum lease payments obligation disclosed above include the below future minimum lease payments  obligations payable to joint ventures, which mainly pertain to amounts payable under the agreement entered by the  Parent and its subsidiaries, with a joint venture of the Group.
Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Not later than one year  41,639  38,053  35,511  Later than one year but not later than five years  159,691  97,262  117,671  Later than five years  31,677  25,779  24,640   233,007  161,094  177,822    Certain lease agreements have escalation clause upto 25%, includes option of renewal from 1 to 15 years.
As lessor Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Not later than one year  21,424  19,835  16,761  Later than one year but not later than five years  85,126  70,185  64,870  Later than five years  37,345  32,648  29,777   143,895  122,668  111,408    b) Finance Lease    As lessee   Finance lease obligation of the Group as of March 31, 2017 is as follows:- Particulars Future minimum  lease payments  Interest  Present value  Not later than one year  10,416  5,446  4,970  Later than one year but not later than five years  40,117  16,449  23,668  Later than five years  33,221  5,689  27,533   83,754  27,584  56,171    Finance lease obligation of the Group as of March 31, 2016 is as follows: Particulars Future minimum  lease payments  Interest  Present value  Not later than one year  10,161  5,415  4,746  Later than one year but not later than five years  38,263  16,973  21,290  Later than five years  39,380  7,545  31,835   87,804  29,933  57,871    Finance lease obligation of the Group as of April 1, 2015 is as follows: Particulars Future minimum  lease payments  Interest  Present value  Not later than one year  721  164  557  Later than one year but not later than five years  1,083  421  662  Later than five years  575  166  409   2,379  751  1,628    Certain lease arrangements have escalation clause upto 7.5% and includes option of renewal in block of 3 years.
As lessor   The future minimum lease payments receivable of the Group as of March 31, 2017 is as follows:- Particulars Future minimum  lease payments  Interest  Present value  Not later than one year  133  25  107  Later than one year but not later than five years  189  17  172  Later than five years  -    -    -     322  42  279  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 232 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17   The future minimum lease payments receivable of the Group as of March 31, 2016 is as follows:- Particulars Future minimum  lease payments  Interest  Present value  Not later than one year  126  33  93  Later than one year but not later than five years  297  37  260  Later than five years  -    -    -     423  70  353    The future minimum lease payments receivable of the Group as of April 1, 2015 is as follows:- Particulars Future minimum  lease payments  Interest  Present value  Not later than one year  45  13  32  Later than one year but not later than five years  123  17  106  Later than five years  -    -    -     168  30  138  27 Revenue from operations Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Service revenue  951,213  959,451  Sale of products  3,470  5,870   954,683  965,321  28 Employee benefits Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Salaries  37,300  40,795  Contribution to provident and other funds  1,746  2,179  Staff welfare expenses  1,617  2,549  Defined benefit plan/ other long term benefits  887  926  Employee Share-based payment  expense - Equity-settled plans  337  248  - Cash-settled plans  61  750  Others  1,084  1,661   43,032  49,108  28.1 Share based payment plans   The following table provides an overview of all existing share option plans of the Group: Scheme Plan Vesting period   (years) Contractual   term (years) Equity settled Plans Scheme I 2006 Plan 1 - 5 7 Scheme 2005 2008 Plan & Annual Grant Plan (AGP) 1 - 3 7 Scheme 2005 Performance Share Plan (PSP) 2009 Plan 3 - 4 7 Scheme 2005 Special ESOP & Restricted Share Units  (RSU) Plan 1 - 5 7 Infratel plan Infratel 2008 Plan 1 - 5 7 Scheme 2005 Long T erm Incentive (L TI) Plan 1 - 3 7 Infratel plan Infratel L TI plans 1 - 3 7 Cash settled Plans Performance Unit Plan (PUP) PUP 2013 - PUP 2016 1 - 5 3-5 Infratel plan PUP 1 - 3 7    The stock options vesting is subject to service and certain performance conditions mainly pertaining to certain financial  parameters.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 233 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements  The movement in the number of stock options and the related weighted average exercise prices are as follows: Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended   March 31, 2016 Number of    share options  (‘000) Weighted  average   exercise price  (`)  Number of   share options  (‘000) Weighted  average   exercise price  (`) 2006 Plan Outstanding at beginning of year  305  5.00  390  5.00  Granted  -    -    -    -    Exercised  (100)  5.00  (75)  5.00  Forfeited / Expired  -    -    (10)  5.00  Outstanding at end of year  205  5.00  305  5.00  Exercisable at end of year  36  5.00  30  5.00  2008 Plan & AGP Outstanding at beginning of year  639  402.50  2,534  355.45  Granted  -    -    -    -    Exercised  -    -    (686)  334.89  Forfeited / Expired  (639)  402.50  (1,209)  342.24  Outstanding at end of year  -    -    639  402.50  Exercisable at end of year  -    -    639  402.50  PSP 2009 Plan Outstanding at beginning of year  53  5.00  83  5.00  Granted  -    -    -    -    Exercised  (37)  5.00  (22)  5.00  Forfeited / Expired  (10)  5.00  (8)  5.00  Outstanding at end of year  6  5.00  53  5.00  Exercisable at end of year  6  5.00  53  5.00  Special ESOP & RSU Plan Outstanding at beginning of year  126  5.00  189  5.00  Granted  -    -    -    -    Exercised  (91)  5.00  (44)  5.00  Forfeited / Expired  (1)  5.00  (19)  5.00  Outstanding at end of year  34  5.00  126  5.00  Exercisable at end of year  34  5.00  126  5.00  Infratel 2008 Plan  Outstanding at beginning of year  732  109.67  3,834  109.67  Granted  -    -    -    -    Exercised  (564)  109.67  (3,078)  109.67  Forfeited / Expired  (10)  109.67  (24)  109.67  Outstanding at end of year  158  109.67  732  109.67  Exercisable at end of year  158  109.67  732  109.67  L TI Plans Outstanding at beginning of year  1,709  5.00  523  5.00  Granted  820  -    1,576  5.00  Exercised  (308)  5.00  (201)  5.00  Forfeited / Expired  (219)  5.00  (189)  5.00  Outstanding at end of year  2,002  5.00  1,709  5.00  Exercisable at end of year  358  5.00  208  5.00  Infratel L TI plans Number of shares under option: Outstanding at beginning of year  94  10.00  6  10.00  Granted  105  10.00  90  10.00  Exercised  (19)  10.00  (2)  10.00  Expired  -    -    -    -    Forfeited / Expired  (5)  10.00  -    10.00  Outstanding at end of year  175  10.00  94  10.00  Exercisable at end of year  11  10.00  4  10.00  Performance Unit Plans Number of shares under option: Outstanding at beginning of year 5,231  -    7,221  -    Granted  366  -    1,056  -    Exercised  (1,442)  -    (873)  -    Forfeited / Expired  (1,786)  -    (2,174)  -    Outstanding at end of year  2,369  -    5,231  -    Exercisable at end of year  25  -    37  -    (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 234 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17    The following table summarises information about weighted average remaining contractual life, weighted average fair value and weighted average share price for the  options: Entity Plan Weighted average remaining  contractual life for the options  outstanding as of (years) Weighted Average fair value for the  options granted during the year ended   (`) Weighted average share price for the  options exercised during the year ended   (`) March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,   2015 March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,   2015 March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,   2015 Equity settled Plans Bharti Airtel 2006 Plan  4.07  5.00  5.86  -    -    361.19  316.50  350.45  371.70  Bharti Airtel 2008 Plan & AGP  -  0.25  0.63  -    -    -    -    397.45  383.30  Bharti Airtel PSP 2009 Plan  0.34  0.69  1.87  -    -    -    346.84  367.51  352.26  Bharti Airtel Special ESOP & RSU Plan  0.10  1.20  2.26  -    -    -    329.91  319.66  350.09  Bharti Airtel L TI Plan (2011, 2012, 2015 &  2016)  5.65  5.98  4.27  338.50  398.32  291.63  296.90  348.28  368.36  Bharti Infratel 2008 Plan  0.25  1.95  1.95  -    -    -  348.64  394.02  262.40  Bharti Infratel L TI Plan (Part of 2008 Plan,2015 & 2016))  5.90  6.20  4.42  318.70  414.41  -  402.31  394.02  262.40  Cash settled Plans Bharti Airtel PUP 2013 - PUP 2016  1.30  1.88  2.52  304.34  342.75  383.86  457.60  420.81  354.24  Bharti Infratel Performance Unit Plan  3.34  4.34  5.34  -    -    336.29  486.77  439.11  262.40    The carrying value of cash settled plans liability is ` 752, ` 1,230 and ` 799 as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, respectively.
The fair value of options is measured using Black-Scholes valuation model.
The key inputs used in the measurement of the grant date fair valuation of equity settled  plans and fair value of cash settled plans are given in the table below: Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Risk free interest rates  5.79% to 7.1%  6.86% to 7.87%  Expected life  4  to 76 months  4  to 60 months  Volatility  27.08% to 38.94%  26.63% to 37.23%  Dividend yield  0.39% to 1.83%  0.54% to 1.44%  Wtd average exercise price (`) 0-10 0-10    The expected life of the stock options is based on the Group’s expectations and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may actually occur.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility over a period similar to the expected life of the options is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome.
Further, the expected volatility is based on the weighted average volatility of the comparable benchmark companies.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 235 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements 28.2 Defined benefit plans    The details of defined benefit obligations and plan assets are as follows: Particulars For the year ended  March 31, 2017 For the year ended   March 31, 2016 Gratuity  Compensated  absence Gratuity  Compensated  absence Obligation: Balance as at beginning of the year  2,656  1,127  2,426  1,071  Current service cost 412 234  416  233  Interest cost 207 84  209  92  Benefits paid  (541)  (163)  (494)  (209) Transfers  (189)  (79)  (22)  1  Remeasurements  73  (45)  121  (61) Present value of funded obligation  2,618  1,158  2,656  1,127  Assets: Balance as at beginning of year  66  -    104  -    Interest income  5  -    9  -    Benefits paid  (25)  -    (39)  -    Remeasurements  (0)  -    (8)  -    Fair value of plan assets  46  -    66  -    Liability recognised in the balance sheet  2,572  1,158  2,590  1,127  Current portion  616  1,158  563  1,127  Non-current portion  1,956  -    2,027  -       The expected contribution for the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 for Gratuity plan is ` 583 and ` 225, respectively.
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Experience losses  41  121  Gains from change in demographic assumptions  (31)  -    Losses from change in financial assumptions  63  -    Remeasurements on Liability  73  121  Return on plan assets, excluding interest income  (0)  (8) Remeasurements on plan assets  (0)  (8) Net remeasurements recognised in OCI  73  129    The above mentioned plan assets are entirely represented by funds invested with LIC.
Due to its defined benefit plans, the Group is exposed to the following significant risks:   Changes in bond yields - A decrease in bond yields will increase plan liability.
Salary risk - The present value of the defined benefit plans liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of the  plan participants.
As such, an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability.
The financial (per annum rates) and demographic assumptions used to determine defined benefit obligations  are as follows: Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Discount rate 7.40% 8.00% 8.50% Rate of return on plan assets 7.40% 9.00% 8.00% Rate of salary increase 10.00% 10.00% 10.00% Rate of attrition 21% to 29% 20% to 23% 22% to 28% Retirement age 58 58 58 The Company regularly assesses these assumptions with the projected long-term plans and prevalent industry standards.
The impact of sensitivity due to changes in the significant actuarial assumptions on the defined benefit obligations is  given in the table below: Particulars Change in  assumption As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Gratuity  Compensated  absence  Gratuity  Compensated  absence Discount Rate +1% (89) (49) (243) (98) -1% 96 54 267 107 Salary Growth Rate +1% 93 52 265 104 -1% (88) (48) (246) (98) (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 236 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17    The above sensitivity analysis is determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on the net defined benefit  obligations, as a result of reasonable possible changes in the significant actuarial assumptions.
Further, the above sensitivity  analysis is based on a reasonably possible change in a particular under-lying actuarial assumption, while assuming all other  assumptions to be constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
The table below summarises the maturity profile and duration of the gratuity liability: Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Within one year 662  611  603  Within one-three years 709  679  621  Within three-five years 413  787  689  above five years 834  579  513   2,618  2,656  2,426  Weighted average duration (in years) 3.42 3.75 3.69 29 Network operating expenses / sales and marketing expenses / other expenses   a.
Network operating expenses Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Internet, bandwidth and leasedline charges  7,785  7,776  Passive infrastructure charges 78,490 74,531 Power and fuel  72,946  69,049  Repair and maintenance 45,612 49,669 Others 4,321 542  209,154  201,567    b.
Sales and marketing expenses Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Advertisement and marketing  14,440  20,648  Sales commission and distribution expenses  48,588  51,321  Business promotion  4,812  6,211  Others  3,560  4,230   71,400  82,410    c.  Other expenses Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Content cost 21,507 22,775 Customer care expenses  7,357  9,170  Legal and professional fees  6,535  7,048  Provision for doubtful debts  7,635  4,141  Bad debts written off  873  4,960  Cost of good sold  4,406  6,053  Charity and donation*  1,702  1,233  Rates and taxes  2,752  2,115  Travelling and conveyance  2,989  3,666  IT expenses  10,012  7,349  Collection and recovery expenses  3,987  3,869  Diminution in value of inventory  170  288  Others  12,328  15,376   82,253  88,043    * includes ` 220 and ` 310 paid to Satya Electoral Trust for political purpose for the year ended  March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Other includes printing and stationary, security, rent and communication expenses.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 237 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements 30 Depreciation and amortisation Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Depreciation*  142,585  135,280  Amortisation  55,145  39,218   197,730  174,498    *includes impact of reassessment of useful life, refer note 3.1 c.  31 Finance costs and income Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Finance costs Interest expense  67,131  47,472  Net loss on derivative financial instruments  13,231  -    Net exchange loss  3,624  16,852  Net fair value loss on financial instruments   (fair value hedges)  -    9,785  Other finance charges  11,480  11,352   95,466  85,461  Finance income Dividend from mutual funds  279  118  Interest income  3,207  5,526  Net gain on FVTPL investments  5,154  2,209  Net fair value gain on financial instruments   (fair value hedges)  9,852  -    Net gain on derivative financial instruments  -    8,473   18,492  16,326     ‘Interest income’ includes ` 46 and ` 355 towards unwinding of discount on security deposits for the years ended March  31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
‘Other finance charges’ include bank charges, trade finance charges, charges relating to derivative instruments and  interest charges towards sub judice matters and also includes ` 110 and ` 99 towards unwinding of discount on other  financial liabilities for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
32 Non-operating expense (net)    Non-operating expense comprises regulatory levies  applicable to finance income in some of the geographies.
Non-operating income pertains to certain fee income in  one of the group entities.
33 Exceptional Items   Exceptional items comprises of the following:   (i)  For the year ended March 31, 2017:       a.
Net gain of ` 10,157 pertaining to the  divestment of Group’s operations in Burkina  Faso and Sierra Leone, telecom towers in DRC  and Niger and an African associate (viz.
T anzania  T elecommunications Company Limited) (refer  Note 5 (b) and (c)).
b.
Net charge of ` 6,881 due to settlement of past  litigations, regulatory levies, vendor claims,  reconciliation of balances, restructuring  activities and tax related contingent liability.
c .
Charge of ` 3,356 towards operating costs  (including accelerated depreciation) on  network re-farming and up-gradation program.
d .
Charge of ` 3,258 resulting from reassessment  of the useful life of certain categories of network  assets of the group due to technologies  advancements.
Refer Note 3.1.c.
e.   Net charge of ` 9,460 relating to the translation  to impact in Nigeria due to the new flexible  exchange rate regime.
f .
Net gain of ` 1,641 (net of related expenses)  pertaining to the divestment of stake in  Bangladesh and charge of ` 540 due to share in  the post-merger restructuring activities (refer Note  5 (b)(i)).
(ii)  For the year ended March 31, 2016:       a .
Net gain of ` 38,505 pertaining to the divestment  of telecom tower assets in Kenya, Zambia,  Uganda, Ghana, Congo Brazzaville and Nigeria  (refer Note 18), net of cash flow hedge reserve  amounting to ` 1,440 reclassified to statement  of profit and loss (refer Note 20).
b .
Charge for regulatory fee provisions of ` 2,712  arising out of re-assessment of certain positions.
c .
Charge of ` 2,096 towards de-recognition of  embedded derivative assets and ` 1,124 arising  from amendment of tenure and in various terms  of the related long-term contract.
d .
Charge for provision against certain disputed  receivables/expired claims amounting to ` 2,829.       e.   Charge of ` 3,713 towards restructuring  activities in a few countries.
f.   Charge of ` 4,290 towards operating costs  (including accelerated depreciation) on network  refarming and up-gradation program.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 238 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 34 Earnings per share (‘EPS’)    The following is a reconciliation of the equity shares used in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per equity share: (Shares in thousands) Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 Weighted average shares outstanding for basic EPS  3,995,817  3,995,870  Effect of dilution due to employee share options  1,359  784  Weighted average shares outstanding for diluted EPS  3,997,176  3,996,654     Profit attributable to equity holders for basic and diluted EPS is ` 37,998 and ` 60,767 for the year ended March 31,  2017 and 2016, respectively.
35 Segment Reporting    The Group’s operating segments are organised and  managed separately through the respective business  managers, according to the nature of products and services  provided and geographies in which services are provided,  with each segment representing a strategic business unit.
These business units are reviewed by the Chairman of the  Group (chief operating decision maker - ‘CODM’).
The amounts reported to CODM are based on the  accounting principles used in the preparation of financial  statements as per Ind AS.
Segment’s performance is  evaluated based on segment revenue and segment  result viz.
profit or loss from operating activities before  exceptional items and tax but including share of result of  joint ventures and associates.
Accordingly, finance costs  / income, non-operating expenses and exceptional  items are not allocated to individual segment.
Inter-segment pricing and terms are reviewed and  changed by the management to reflect changes in  market conditions and changes to such terms are  reflected in the period in which the changes occur.
Inter-segment revenues eliminated upon consolidation  of segments / group accounting policy alignments are  reflected in the eliminations / adjustment column.
Segment assets / liabilities comprise assets / liabilities  directly managed by each segment.
Segment assets  primarily include receivables, property, plant and  equipment, capital work-in-progress, intangibles assets,  intangible assets under development, inventories, cash  and cash equivalents, inter-segment assets.
Segment  liabilities primarily include operating liabilities.
Segment  capital expenditure comprises additions to property,  plant and equipment and intangible assets.
Effective April 1, 2016, the company has realigned  the reporting of its corporate data and fixed line  business with Airtel business and accordingly, renamed  T elemedia Service to Homes Services.
Further, effective  January 1, 2017, the company has moved the reporting  of Airtel Payment Bank operations to Others segment  from Mobile Services India.
The historical periods  have been restated for the above mention segmental  changes to make them comparable.
The revised reporting segments of the Group are as  below:    Mobile Services India: These services cover voice  and data telecom services provided through wireless  technology (2G / 3G / 4G) in India.
This includes the  captive national long distance networks which primarily  provide connectivity to the mobile services business in  India.
This also includes intra-city fibre networks.
Mobile Services South Asia: These services cover voice  and data telecom services provided through wireless  technology (2G / 3G) in Sri Lanka and Bangladesh.
Mobile Services Africa: These services cover  provision of voice and data telecom services provided  through wireless technology (2G / 3G / 4G) offered  to customers in Africa.
This also includes corporate  headquarter costs of the Group’s Africa operations.
Airtel Business: These services cover end-to-end  telecom solutions being provided to large Indian and  global corporations by serving as a single point of  contact for all telecommunication needs across data  and voice (domestic as well as international long  distance), network integration and managed services.
T ower Infrastructure Services: These services  include setting up, operating and maintaining wireless  communication towers in India.
Homes Services: These services cover voice and  data communications through fixed-line network and  broadband technology.
Digital TV Services: This includes digital broadcasting  services provided under the direct-to-home platform.
Others: It includes administrative and support services  provided to other segments and also include Airtel  Payment Bank Operations.
Unallocated items include expenses / results, assets and  liabilities (including inter-segment assets and liabilities)  of corporate headquarters of the Group, current taxes,  deferred taxes and certain financial assets and liabilities,  not allocated to the operating segments.
T ax expenses include:    (a)   T ax benefit of ` 5,163 and tax expense of ` 6,337  during the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016  respectively on above exceptional items.
(b)   T ax benefit of ` 4,248 during the year ended  March 31, 2017 on account of recognition of  deferred tax on earlier business combination and  assessment of tax provisions.
Profit / (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests  include benefit of ` 2,147 and expense of ` 2,621  during the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016  respectively, relating to the above exceptional items.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 239 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements   Summary of the segmental information for the year ended and as of March 31, 2017 is as follows: Particulars Mobile  Services  India   Mobile  Services  South Asia  Mobile  Services  Africa   Airtel  Business   T ower  Infrastructure  Services Homes  Services Digital TV  Services  Others             Unallocated  Eliminations/  Adjustments  Consolidated  Revenue from external customers  543,901  11,198  214,093  94,855  28,384  27,223  34,240  718  -    71  954,683  Inter-segment revenue 21,610 545 5,475 14,574 32,445 295 66  3,018  -    (78,028)  -    T otal revenues  565,511  11,743  219,568  109,429  60,829  27,518  34,306  3,736  -   (77,957)  954,683  Share of results of  joint ventures and  associates  9  (642)  -  -  11,949  -  -  -  -  (867)  10,449  Segment results  105,494  (4,660)  10,189  22,737  29,195  6,868  3,577  (2,481)  (1,433)  (2,263)  167,223  Finance costs  95,466  Finance income (18,492) Non - operating expense (net) 1,319 Exceptional items (refer note 33) 11,697 Profit before tax 77,233 Other segment items Capital expenditure (380,011) (1,801) (25,235) (17,142) (9,829) (19,649) (8,608) (19) (1,597) 21,204 (442,687) Depreciation and amortisation (121,189) (4,256) (41,894) (11,024) (11,658) (6,080) (8,642) (49) 0 7,062 (197,730) As of March 31, 2017Segment assets 1,642,949 29,048 556,281 331,833 210,023 311,890 22,935 9,327 114,882 (901,666)  2,327,502  Segment liabilities 722,363 7,968 226,314 180,624 47,535 246,864 28,341 5,083 1,039,065 (919,968)  1,584,189   Investment in joint ventures and  associates (included in segment assets)   52  22,567  -    -    59,409  -    -    249  -    -    82,277    Summary of the segmental information for the year ended as of March 31, 2016 and April 1 2015 is as follows: Particulars Mobile  Services  India   Mobile  Services  South Asia  Mobile  Services  Africa   Airtel  Business   T ower  Infrastructure  Services Homes  Services Digital TV  Services  Others             Unallocated  Eliminations/  Adjustments  Consolidated Revenue from external customers  542,037  15,866  245,775  82,156  25,051  24,739  29,119  234  -  344  965,321  Inter-segment revenue  18,600  588  5,558  14,837  30,537  327  59  3,212  -  (73,718)  -  T otal revenues  560,637  16,454  251,333  96,993  55,588  25,066  29,178  3,446  -  (73,374)  965,321  Share of results of  joint ventures and  associates  10  -  -  -  11,069  -  -  4  -  (417)  10,666  Segment results  128,320  (6,394)  4,909  18,853  25,506  5,682  1,843  (556)  (1,544)  262  176,881  Finance costs  85,461  Finance income  (16,326) Non - operating expense (net)  1,024  Exceptional items (refer note 33)  (21,741) Profit before tax  128,463  Other segment items Capital expenditure  (372,416)  (3,465)  (58,955)  (15,610)  (9,900)  (6,646)  (11,067)  (7)  (932)  11,144  (467,854) Depreciation and amortisation  (90,528)  (5,593)  (47,857)  (11,436)  (11,550)  (4,927)  (8,132)  (178)  0  5,703  (174,498) As of March 31, 2016 Segment assets  1,489,052  47,038  710,446  229,437  209,382  168,010  22,756  4,950  181,847  (805,686)  2,257,232  Segment liabilities  625,414  31,499  278,878  129,797  19,806  110,033  46,958  3,146  1,107,281  (818,254)  1,534,558  Investment in joint ventures and  associates (included in segment assets)  43  -  -  -  60,947  -  -  -  -  -  60,990  As of April 1, 2015 Segment assets  1,249,164  47,416  678,806  170,321  202,444  105,756  19,125  2,762  237,443  (747,502)  1,965,735  Segment liabilities  407,037  29,076  205,181  88,834  18,798  51,167  54,550  2,506  1,185,717  (759,334)  1,283,532  Investment in joint ventures and  associates (included in segment assets)  30  -  -  -  51,814  -  -  92  -  -  51,936  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 240 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Unallocated assets comprise of : Derivative financial assets  6,792  18,764  8,510  Deferred tax asset  26,262  46,738  59,502  Current tax assets  21,454  11,570  5,721  Inter-segment loans / receivables  32,302  89,135  100,194  Other investments  -  8  47,567  Others  28,072  15,632  15,949  T otal  114,882  181,847  237,443  Unallocated liabilities comprise of : Borrowings  578,529  605,231  659,696  Derivative financial liabilities  5,061  1,939  792  Deferred tax liability  9,429  12,512  13,077  Current tax liabilities  6,089  9,296  9,271  Inter-segment loans / payables  404,411  463,575  491,026  Others  35,546  14,728  11,855  T otal  1,039,065  1,107,281  1,185,717    Geographical information: Information concerning geographical areas by location of the entity is as follows:   (a)  Revenue from external customers: Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 India  708,462  685,735  Africa  214,093  245,775  Others  32,128  33,811   954,683  965,321  (b)  Non-current operating assets: Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 India  1,409,162  1,112,037  826,916  Africa  466,539  614,895  587,733  Others  15,035  53,016  53,017   1,890,736  1,779,948  1,467,666  Non-current operating assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment, capital work-in-progress, goodwill,  other intangible assets and intangible assets under development.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 241 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements 36 Related party disclosures   (a)  List of related parties    - For list of subsidiaries, joint venture and associates  refer Note no.
40.
- Entities having significant influence over the  Company   Singapore T elecommunications Limited   Pastel Limited   Bharti T elecom Limited   - Other related parties*    (i) Entities where Key Management Personnel  and their relatives exercise significant influence   Bharti Foundation   Bharti Airtel Employees Welfare Trust   Hike Private Limited (formerly known as Hike Limited)   Cedar Support Services Limited   (ii) Group Companies    Brightstar T elecommunication India Limited (Formerly  known as Beetel T eletech Limited)   Bharti Axa General Insurance Company Limited   Bharti Axa Life Insurance Company Limited   Bharti Realty Holdings Limited   Bharti Realty Limited   Future Retail Limited (ceased w.e.f.
May 01, 2016)     Deber T echnologies Private Limited (Formerly known  as Ignite World Private Limited)    Hike Messenger Limited (formerly known as BSB  Innovation India Limited)   Centum Learning Limited   Fieldfresh Foods Private Limited   Indian Continent Investment Limited   Jersey Airtel Limited    Nile T ech Limited   Y2CF Digital Media Limited    Bharti Enterprises Limited   Atrium Restaurants India Private Limited   Bharti Land Limited   Centum Work skills India Limited   Oak Infrastructure Developers Limited   Gourmet Investments Private Limited     - Key Management Personnel (KMP)   Sunil Bharti Mittal   Gopal Vittal   Christian de Faria (until December 31, 2016)   Raghunath Mandava (w.e.f.
January 1, 2017)    * ‘Other related parties’ though not ‘Related Parties’ as per the  definition under IND AS 24, Related party disclosure’s have been  included by way of a voluntary disclosure, following the best corporate  governance practices.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 242 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17    In the ordinary course of business, there are some transactions among the Group entities.
However, the intra-group transactions and balances, and the income and  expenses arising from such transactions, are eliminated on consolidation.
The transactions with balance related parties for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, are described below:   (b) The summary of transactions with the above mentioned parties is as follows: Relationship For the Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Significant  influence  entities Associates Joint  Ventures Other  related  parties Significant  influence  entities Associates Joint  Ventures Other  related  parties Purchase of assets  -    -    -    (3,329)  -    -    -    (2,475) Sale / Rendering of services  1,433  6  77  294  1,313  125  36  385  Purchase of goods / Receiving of services  (496)  (9)  (42,385)  (3,220)  (629)  (928)  (38,633)  (4,831) Reimbursement of energy expenses  -    -    (26,090)  (3)  -    -    (23,219)  (4) Loans  to related party  -    -    -    -    -    14  5  40  Loan repayment  -    -    -    -    -    (14)  -    -    Expenses incurred by the Group on behalf of related party  -    -    31  0  -    5  14  42  Expenses incurred by related party for the Group  -    -    (99)  (413)  -    -    (113)  (355) Security deposit paid  -    -    95  37  -    -    125  73  Refund of security deposit  -    -    -    -    -    -    (4)  (32) Interest income on loan  -    -    0  -    -    21  0  1  Claim received  -    -    -    -    -    72  Dividend paid  (3,255)  -    -    (362)  (5,199)  -    -    (590) Dividend received  -    -    9,510  -    -    -    -    -    (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 243 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements   (c)  The outstanding balances are as follows: Particulars Significant  influence entities Associates Joint ventures Other related  parties As of March 31, 2017 Trade Payables  (490)  (4)  (11,310)  (532) Trade Receivables  129  -    1  216  Other financial assets - Loans given  -    -    5  -    Security Deposit  -    -    3,903  1,050  As of March 31, 2016 Trade Payables  (534)  (613)  (8,733)  (718) Trade Receivables  233  -    24  383  Other financial assets - Loans given  -    -    5  40  Security Deposit  -    -    3,808  1,010  As of April 1, 2015 Trade Payables  (437)  (146)  (8,928)  (758) Trade Receivables  342  125  240  202  Other financial assets - Loans given  -    466  -    47  Security Deposit  -    -    3,685  974     (1)  Outstanding balances at period end are un-secured and settlement occurs in cash.
There have been no guarantees  provided or received for any related party receivables or payables.
(2) In addition to the above, ` 1,227 and ` 830 donation has been given to Bharti Foundation during the year ended  March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
KMP are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the  Group, directly or indirectly, including any director, whether executive or otherwise.
Remuneration to key management  personnel were as follows: Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Short-T erm employee benefits  305  274  Performance linked incentive ('PLI')#  168  153  Post-Employment benefits  26  24  Share-based payment  62  57   561  508     # Value of PLI considered above represents incentive at 100% performance level.
However, same will be paid on the basis of actual performance parameters  in next year.
Additional provision of ` 28 and ` 29 has been recorded in the books towards PLI for the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, PLI of `  150 (March 31, 2016: ` 143) pertaining to previous year has been paid.
In addition to above ` 313 thousand during the year ended March 31, 2017 and ` 322 thousand during the year ended  March 31, 2016 have been paid as equity dividend to key management personnel.
As the liabilities for the gratuity and compensated absences are provided on an actuarial basis, and calculated for the  Company as a whole rather than each of the individual employees, the said liabilities pertaining specifically to KMP are  not known and hence, not included in the above table.
37 Financial and Capital risk    1.
Financial Risk    The business activities of the Group expose it to a  variety of financial risks, namely market risks (that  is, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and price  risk), credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group’s risk  management strategies focus on the un-predictability  of these elements and seek to minimise the potential  adverse effects on its financial performance.
Further,  the Group uses certain derivative financial instruments  to mitigate some of these risk exposures (as discussed  below in this note).
The financial risk management for the Group is driven  by the Group’s senior management (‘GSM’), in close  co-ordination with the operating entities and internal /  external experts subject to necessary supervision.
The  Group does not undertake any speculative transactions  either through derivatives or otherwise.
The GSM  are accountable to the Board of Directors and Audit  Committee.
They ensure that the Group’s financial risk- taking activities are governed by appropriate financial  risk governance frame work, policies and procedures.
The BoD of the respective operating entities periodically  reviews the exposures to financial risks, and the  measures taken for risk mitigation and the results  thereof.
The Group policy requires for material items to be  established under effective hedge relationships  by ensuring that the critical terms of the hedging  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 244 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 instruments match with the terms of the hedged item  so as maintain the hedge ratio to be 1:1.
The company  uses prospective effectiveness assessment (dollar  offset / hypothetical derivative method) to ensure that  an economic relationship exists between the hedged  item and hedging instrument.
(i) Foreign currency risk    Foreign exchange risk arises on all recognised  monetary assets and liabilities, and any highly probable  forecasted transactions, which are denominated in  a currency other than the functional currency of the  transacting group entity.
The Group, through its parent  entity, several intermediary entities and subsidiaries;  operates across multiple geographies in the Africa  and Asia continent.
Accordingly, the Group is exposed  to translation risk on the net investment in foreign  subsidiaries.
The Group has foreign currency trade  payables, receivables and borrowings (internal as well  as external).
However, foreign exchange exposure  mainly arises from borrowings and trade payables     As per the Group’s hedging policy certain foreign currency liability, highly probable forecast transactions and material net  investment of the Group in foreign subsidiaries have been designated under cash flow hedge and net investment hedge  respectively.
The following table analyses the movement in the Cash flow hedge reserve / net investment hedging in  FCTR due to said hedges and details thereto.
a) Cash Flow hedge Particulars March 31, 2017  March 31, 2016 Currency exchange risk hedged Euro to USD CHF to USD Euro to USD CHF to USD Nominal amount of hedging instruments  Euro 870 Mn  CHF 350 Mn  Euro 720 Mn  CHF 300 Mn  Maturity date December 2018 March 2020 December 2018 March 2020 Weighted average forward price 1 Euro: 1.12 USD 1 CHF: 1.12 USD 1 Euro: 1.13 USD 1 CHF: 1.12 USD Carrying value of derivative instruments (assets)  131  -    2,687  500  Carrying value of derivative instruments (liabilities)  908  620  -    -    Change in fair value during the year Hedged Item  3,534  1,141  (2,675)  (523) Hedging Instrument  (3,534)  (1,141)  2,675  523  CFHR for continuing Hedge  214  (82)  (331)  (393) Hedging gain / (loss) recognised during the period  (3,534)  (1,141)  2,675  523  (Loss) / gain reclassifictaion during the period to P&L  4,079  1,453  (3,005)  (917)   b) Net investment hedge Particulars March 31, 2017  March 31, 2016 Currency exchange risk hedged Euro to USD USD to INR Euro to USD USD to INR Nominal amount of hedging instruments  Euro 400 Mn  USD 1578 Mn  Euro 733 Mn  USD 1816 Mn  Carrying value of hedging instruments (Borrowings)  27,738  102,308  55,337  120,333  Maturity date May 2021 February 2025 -  September 2026 May 2021 February 2025  -October 2025 Change in fair value during the year Hedged Item  (2,232)  12,562  3,707  3,401  Hedging Instrument  2,232  (12,562)  (3,707)  (3,401) FCTR (loss) / gain for continuing Hedge (net of tax  and NCI)  (878)  (12,596)  (3,707)  (2,945) Hedging gain/ (loss) recognised during the period  2,232  (12,562)  (3,707)  (3,401) Loss reclassifictaion during the period to P&L to   exceptional items  581  -    -    -    denominated in foreign currencies and certain net  investment in foreign currency.
Consequently, the  Group is mainly exposed to foreign exchange risks  related to USD / Euro vis-à-vis the functional currencies  and the translation risk related to USD to INR and USD  to XAF-XOF (pegged to Euro).
The foreign exchange risk management policy of the  Group requires it to manage the foreign exchange risk by  transacting as far as possible in the functional currency.
Moreover, the Group monitors the movements in  currencies in which the borrowings / capex vendors are  payable and manage any related foreign exchange risk,  which inter-alia include entering into foreign exchange  derivative contracts - as considered appropriate and  whenever necessary.
For further details as to foreign  currency borrowings, refer note 21.
Further, for the  details as to the fair value of various outstanding  derivative financial instruments designated in a hedge  relationship or otherwise refer Note 11.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 245 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements   Foreign currency sensitivity     The impact of foreign exchange sensitivity on profit for the year and other comprehensive income is given in the table  below: Particulars Change in currency  exchange rate Effect on profit   before tax Effect on   equity (OCI) For the year ended March 31, 2017 US Dollar +5%  (8,955)  (8,375) -5%  8,955  8,375  Euro +5%  (1,716)  (1,387) -5%  1,716  1,387  Others +5%  (26)  -    -5%  26  -    For the year ended March 31, 2016 US Dollar +5%  (9,437)  (9,421) -5%  9,437  9,421  Euro +5%  (1,449)  (2,737) -5%  1,449  2,737  CHF +5%  (174)  -    -5%  174  -    Others +5%  16  -    -5%  (16)  -       The sensitivity disclosed in the above table is mainly attributable to, in case of  to foreign exchange gains / (losses) on  translation of USD / Euro / CHF denominated borrowings, derivative financial instruments, trade and other payables, and  trade receivables.
The above sensitivity analysis is based on a reasonably possible change in the under-lying foreign currency against the  respective functional currency while assuming all other variables to be constant.
Based on the movements in the foreign exchange rates historically and the prevailing market conditions as at the  reporting date, the Group’s Management has concluded that the above mentioned rates used for sensitivity are  reasonable benchmarks.
(ii) Interest rate risk     As the Group does not have exposure to any floating-interest bearing assets, or any significant long-term fixed-interest  bearing assets, its interest income and related cash inflows are not affected by changes in market interest rates.
Consequently, the Group’s interest rate risk arises mainly from borrowings.
Borrowings    Borrowings with floating and fixed interest rates expose the Group to cash flow and fair value interest rate risk respectively.
However, the short-term borrowings of the Group do not have a significant fair value or cash flow interest rate risk due  to their short tenure.
Accordingly, the components of the debt portfolio are determined by the GSM in a manner which  enables the Group to achieve an optimum debt-mix basis its overall objectives and future market expectations.
The Group monitors the interest rate movement and manages the interest rate risk based on its risk management policies,  which inter-alia include entering into interest swaps contracts - as considered appropriate and whenever necessary.
The Group has designated the interest rate components (which is separately identifiable from other components) of  certain fixed interest rate bonds under the hedge relationship since historically it accounts for substantial portions of the  total fair value change of the bonds.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 246 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17   The following table analyses the financial impact of fair value hedge and details thereto.
Particulars March 31, 2017  March 31, 2016 Interest rate risk covered for currency USD Euro USD Euro Nominal amount of Hedging instruments  USD 2900 Mn  -    USD 2900 Mn  Euro 850 Mn  Carrying value of hedging instruments (derivative  assets)  1,568  -    11,502  1,808  Carrying value of hedging instruments (derivative  liabilities)  851  -    -    -    Maturity date March 2023   -  June 2025  -   March 2023   -  June 2025  December   2018 Carrying value of hedged item (borrowings)  188,065  -    192,140  64,130  Change in fair value during the period Hedged Item  9,768  -    (9,267)  (517) Hedging Instrument  (11,118)  -    8,462  64  Hedge ineffectiveness recognised in finance  income/cost during the year  (1,349)  -    (805)  (453) Cumulative change in fair value of hedged Item  476  -    (9,078)  (503) Unamortised potion of fair value hedge adjustment  -    (396)  -    -      Interest rate sensitivity of borrowings   The impact of the interest rate sensitivity on profit before tax is given in the table below: Interest rate sensitivity Increase / decrease in  basis points Effect on profit   before tax For the year ended March 31, 2017 INR - borrowings +100  (866) -100  866  US Dollar -borrowings +100  (2,629) -100  2,629  Other Currency -borrowings +100  (49) -100  49  For the year ended March 31, 2016 INR - borrowings +100  (224) -100  224  US Dollar -borrowings +100  (3,253) -100  3,253  Euro - borrowings +100  (688) -100  688  Nigerian Naira - borrowings +100  (65) -100  65  Other Currency -borrowings +100  (63) -100  63     The sensitivity disclosed in the above table is  attributable to floating-interest rate borrowings and the  interest swaps.
The above sensitivity analysis is based on a reasonably  possible change in the under-lying interest rate of the  Group’s borrowings in INR, USD, Euro and NGN (being  the significant currencies in which it has borrowed  funds), while assuming all other variables (in particular  foreign currency rates) to be constant.
Based on the movements in the interest rates  historically and the prevailing market conditions as  at the reporting date, the Group’s Management has  concluded that the above mentioned rates used for  sensitivity are reasonable benchmarks.
(iii) Price risk    The Group invests its surplus funds in various fixed  income products, including but not limited to debt  mutual funds, short term debt funds, corporate debt,  government securities and fixed deposits.
In order  to manage its price risk arising from investments, the  Group diversifies its portfolio in accordance with the  limits set by the risk management policies.
The Group  has exposure across debt securities, mutual fund and  money market instruments.
Debt investments are susceptible to market price risk,  mainly arising from changes in the interest rates or  market yields which may impact the return and value  of such investments.
However due to the very short  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 247 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements tenor of money market instruments and the underlying  portfolio in liquid schemes, these do not pose any  significant price risk.
On the duration investment  balance, an increase/decrease of 25 basis points in  market yields (parallel shift of the yield curves), will  result in decrease / increase in the marked to market  value of the investments by ` 808,  ` 720 and ` 965 as  on March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015  respectively.
(iv) Credit risk    Credit risk refers to the risk of default on its obligation  by the counter-party, the risk of deterioration of credit- worthiness of the counter-party as well as concentration  risks of financial assets, and thereby exposing the  Group to potential financial losses.
The Group is exposed to credit risk mainly with respect  to trade receivables, investment in bank deposits,  debt securities, mutual funds and derivative financial  instruments.
Trade receivables    The Trade receivables of the Group are typically non- interest bearing un-secured and derived from sales made  to a large number of independent customers.
As the  customer base is widely distributed both economically  and geographically, there is no concentration of credit  risk.
As there is no independent credit rating of the  customers available with the Group, the Management  reviews the credit-worthiness of its customers based  on their financial position, past experience and other  factors.
The credit risk related to the trade receivables  is managed / mitigated by each business unit, basis the  Group’s established policy and procedures,  by setting  appropriate payment terms and credit period, and by  setting and monitoring internal limits on exposure to  individual customers.
The credit period provided by the  Group to its customers generally ranges from 14-30  days except Airtel business segment wherein it ranges  from 7-90 days.
The Group uses a provision matrix to measure the  expected credit loss of trade receivables, which  comprise a very large numbers of small balances.
Refer Note 16 for details on the impairment of trade  receivables.
Based on the industry practices and the  business environment in which the entity operates,  management considers that the trade receivables are  credit impaired if the payments are more than 90 days  past due.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables as of the reporting date is as follows: Particulars Neither past  due nor  impaired Past due but not impaired T otalLess Than   30 days 30 to 60  days 60 to 90  days Above 90  days Trade Receivables as of March 31, 2017  19,551  11,653  6,612  5,966  6,056  49,838  Trade Receivables as of March 31, 2016  22,525  15,834  5,297  5,143  6,240  55,039  Trade Receivables as of April 1, 2015  24,280  12,498  6,075  5,896  3,212  51,961     The Group performs on-going credit evaluations of its  customers’ financial condition and monitors the credit- worthiness of its customers to which it grants credit  in its ordinary course of business.
The gross carrying  amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially  or in full) to the extent that there is no realistic prospect  of recovery.
This is generally the case when the Group  determines that the debtor does not have assets or  sources of income that could generate sufficient cash  flows to repay the amount due.
Where the financial  asset has been written-off, the Group continues to  engage in enforcement activity to attempt to recover  the receivable due.
Where recoveries are made, these  are recognised in profit and loss.
Financial instruments and cash deposits    The Group’s treasury, in accordance with the Board  approved policy, maintains its cash and cash  equivalents, deposits and investment in mutual funds  & debt securities, and enters into Derivative financial  instruments - with banks, financial and other institutions,  having good reputation and past track record, and high  / sovereign credit rating.
Similarly, counter-parties of  the Group’s other receivables carry either no or very  minimal credit risk.
Further, the Group reviews the  credit-worthiness of the counter-parties (on the basis  of its ratings, credit spreads and financial strength) of all  the above assets on an on-going basis, and if required,  takes necessary mitigation measures.
(v) Liquidity risk    Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able  to meet its financial obligations as they become due.
Accordingly, as a prudent liquidity risk management  measure, the Group closely monitors its liquidity position  and deploys a robust cash management system.
It  maintains adequate sources of financing including  bilateral loans, debt, and overdraft from both domestic  and international banks at an optimised cost.
It also  enjoys strong access to domestic and international  capital markets across debt and equity.
Moreover, the Group’s senior management regularly  monitors the rolling forecasts of the entities’ liquidity  reserve (comprising of the amount of available un-drawn  credit facilities and Cash and cash equivalents) and the  related requirements, to ensure they have sufficient  cash on an on-going basis to meet operational needs  while maintaining sufficient headroom at all times on  its available un-drawn committed credit facilities, so  that there is no breach of borrowing limits or relevant  covenants on any of its borrowings.
For details as to the  Borrowings, refer note 21.
Based on past performance and current expectations,  the Group believes that the Cash and cash equivalents,  cash generated from operations and available un- drawn credit facilities, will satisfy its working capital  needs, capital expenditure, investment requirements,  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 248 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations, through at least the next twelve  months.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted  payments:- Particulars As of March 31, 2017 Carrying  amount On Demand Less than  6 months 6 to 12  months 1 to 2  years > 2  years T otal Interest bearing borrowings*#  1,080,241  22,697  137,808  50,646  176,532  1,100,524  1,488,207  Other financial liabilities#  98,529  4,148  78,700  -    540  15,141  98,529  Trade payables  268,537  -    268,537  -    -    -    268,537  Financial liabilities  (excluding derivatives)  1,447,307  26,845  485,045  50,646  177,072  1,115,665  1,855,273  Derivative assets  6,792  -    1,010  1,050  1,743  2,989  6,792  Derivative liabilities  (5,061)  -    (1,992)  (343)  (1,092)  (1,634)  (5,061) Net derivatives  1,731  -    (982)  707  651  1,355  1,731  Particulars As of March 31, 2016 Carrying  amount On Demand Less than  6 months 6 to 12  months 1 to 2  years > 2  years T otal Interest bearing borrowings*#  1,011,125  19,452  72,998  54,938  118,106  1,141,668  1,407,162  Other financial liabilities#  140,665  4,492  120,148  52  562  16,288  141,542  Trade payables  255,806  -    255,806  -    -    -    255,806  Financial liabilities  (excluding derivatives)  1,407,596  23,944  448,952  54,990  118,668  1,157,956  1,804,510  Derivative assets  18,764  436  4,329  242  13,757  18,764  Derivative liabilities  (1,939)  -    (1,787)  (144)  (3)  (5)  (1,939) Net derivatives  16,825  -    (1,351)  4,185  239  13,752  16,825  Particulars As of April 1, 2015 Carrying  amount On Demand Less than   6 months 6 to 12   months 1 to 2   years > 2   years T otal Interest bearing borrowings*#  810,423  13,207  185,453  45,950  76,991  724,312  1,045,913  Other financial liabilities#  135,041  4,304  116,200  160  1,955  13,261  135,880  Trade payables  215,896  -    215,849  -    -    -    215,849  Financial liabilities  (excluding derivatives)  1,161,360  17,511  517,502  46,110  78,946  737,573  1,397,642  Derivative assets  8,510  -    318  889  109  7,194  8,510  Derivative liabilities  (792)  -    (545)  (83)  (153)  (11)  (792) Net derivatives  7,718  -    (227)  806  (44)  7,183  7,718     * Includes contractual interest payment based on interest rate prevailing at the end of the reporting period after adjustment for the impact of interest swaps,  over the tenor of the borrowings.
# Interest accrued but not due of ` 5,960, ` 6,599 and ` 6,802  as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, respectively, has been included  in interest bearing borrowings and excluded from trade and other payables.
2.
Capital Risk    The Group’s objective while managing capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern (so that it is  enabled to provide returns and create value for its shareholders, and benefits for other stakeholders), support business  stability and growth, ensure adherence to the covenants and restrictions imposed by lenders and / or relevant laws and  regulations, and maintain an optimal and efficient capital structure so as to reduce the cost of capital.
However, the key  objective of the Group’s capital management is to, ensure that it maintains a stable capital structure with the focus on  total Equity, uphold investor; creditor and customer confidence, and ensure future development of its business activities.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may issue new shares, declare dividends, return capital to  shareholders, etc.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions or its  business requirements.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 249 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Financial Liabilities FVTPL Derivatives - Currency swaps, forward     and option contracts Level 2  3,412  1,096  381  3,412  1,096  381  - Interest rate swaps Level 2  880  -    73  880  -    73  - Embedded derivatives Level 2  571  843  338  571  843  338  - Embedded derivatives Level 3  198  -    -    198  -    -    Amortised cost Borrowings - fixed rate Level 1  368,913  395,292  294,689  386,739  408,889  319,195  Borrowings - fixed rate Level 2  526,542  429,722  179,935  562,306  450,454  179,555  Borrowings - floating rate Level 2  178,826  179,511  328,998  178,826  179,511  328,998  Trade payables Level 2  268,537  255,806  215,896  268,537  255,806  215,896  Other financial liabilities Level 2  104,489  147,264  141,843  104,489  147,333  141,783   1,452,368  1,409,534  1,162,153  1,505,958  1,443,932  1,186,219     The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt.
Net debt is  calculated as loans and borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Particulars As of  March 31, 2017 As of  March 31, 2016 As of  April 1, 2015 Borrowings  1,074,281  1,004,526  803,621  Less: Cash and Cash Equivalents  12,817  37,087  11,721  Net Debt  1,061,464  967,439  791,900  Equity  674,563  667,693  630,590  T otal Capital  674,563  667,693  630,590  Capital and Net Debt  1,736,027  1,635,132  1,422,490  Gearing Ratio 61.1% 59.2% 55.7% 38 Fair Value of financial assets and liabilities The category wise details as to the carrying value, fair value and the level of fair value measurement hierarchy of the Group’s  financial instruments are as follows: Particulars Level Carrying Value as of Fair Value as of  March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,   2015 March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,   2015 Financial Assets FVTPL Derivatives  -  Currency swaps, forward and  option contracts Level 2  814  3,788  280  814  3,788  280  - Interest swaps Level 2  4,963  14,545  5,598  4,963  14,545  5,598  - Embedded derivatives Level 2  1,005  380  147  1,005  380  147  - Embedded derivatives Level 3  10  51  2,485  10  51  2,485  Investments Level 1  54,301  41,193  115,258  54,301  41,193  115,258  Investments Level 2  2,962  362  69  2,962  362  69  FVTOCI Investments Level 1  2,387  3,223  -    2,387  3,223  -    Investments Level 2  1,460  3  -    1,460  3  -    Amortised cost Security deposits Level 2  9,630  10,441  9,529  9,630  10,477  9,505  Trade receivables Level 2  49,838  55,039  51,961  49,838  55,039  51,961  Cash and cash equivalents Level 1  12,817  37,087  11,721  12,817  37,087  11,721  Bank deposits Level 1  3,360  13,900  8,823  3,360  13,900  8,823  Other financial assets Level 2  68,758  50,013  33,203  68,758  50,013  33,203   212,305  230,025  239,074  212,305  230,061  239,050  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17  The following methods / assumptions were used to estimate the fair values:    i.
The carrying value of bank deposits, trade receivables, trade payables, short-term borrowings, other current financial  assets and liabilities approximate their fair value mainly due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
ii.
Fair value of quoted mutual funds and non-convertible bonds is based on quoted market price at the reporting date.
iii.
The fair value of non-current financial assets, long term borrowings and other financial liabilities is estimated by  discounting future cash flows using current rates applicable to instruments with similar terms, currency, credit risk and  remaining maturities.
iv.
The fair values of derivatives are estimated by using pricing models, wherein the inputs to those models are based on  readily observable market parameters.
The valuation models used by the Group reflect the contractual terms of the  derivatives (including the period to maturity), and market-based parameters such as interest rates, foreign exchange  rates, volatility etc.
These models do not contain a high level of subjectivity as the valuation techniques used do not  require significant judgement and inputs thereto are readily observable.
During the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value  measurements, and no transfer into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
Following table describes the valuation techniques used and key inputs thereto for the level 2 financial assets / liabilities  as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015: Financial assets / liabilities Valuation technique Inputs used - Currency swaps, forward and option contracts  Discounted Cash Flow Forward currency exchange rates,   Interest rates.
- Interest swaps  Discounted Cash Flow Prevailing/forward interest rates in market,  Interest rates.
- Embedded derivatives  Discounted Cash Flow Forward currency exchange rates,  Interest rates.
- Investments  Discounted Cash Flow Prevailing interest rates in market,   Interest rates.
- Other financial assets  Discounted Cash Flow Prevailing interest rates in market,   Future payouts, Interest rates.
- Other borrowings- fixed rate  Discounted Cash Flow Prevailing interest rates in market,   Future payouts, Interest rates.
- Other financial liabilities  Discounted Cash Flow Prevailing interest rates in market,   Future payouts, Interest rates.
Level 3 financial instruments    The following table provides the details as to changes in value of financial instruments categorised within level 3 of the  fair value hierarchy: Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended  March 31, 2016 Opening balance  51  2,485  Gain recognised in consolidated statement of   profit and loss (including settlements) -Recognised in finance costs*  (215)  (352) -Recognised in exceptional items (refer note 33 (ii) c)  -    (2,096) Transferred on account of sale of subsidiary  (22) Exchange difference recognised in OCI  (2)  14  Closing balance  (188)  51     * Out of these gains / (losses), loss of ` 213 and gain of ` 23 year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 respectively relates to assets/liabilities held at the end  of respective periods.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 251 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements    Valuation process, techniques and inputs used: The Group has entered into certain contracts under which payouts  are linked to revenue of the period to which payout relates.
The portion of the payout are payable at predetermined  fixed foreign exchange rate and results in an embedded derivative.
The significant inputs to the valuation model of these  embedded derivatives are future revenue projections and foreign exchange forward rates over the contract period.
The  revenue projections, being based on the rolling ten year financial plan approved by management, constitute a significant  unobservable input to the valuation, thereby resulting in the embedded derivative being classified as Level 3 in the fair  value hierarchy.
The Group either engages external, independent and qualified valuers or internally values the embedded derivative  categorised within level 3.
Discounted cash flow model is used to value the embedded derivative wherein major inputs  are expected future payouts to vendors, forward foreign currency exchange rates and relevant interest rates.
The value of  embedded derivative is the present value of the differential of future payouts on the reporting date, over that determined  based on the forward rates prevailing at the inception of the contract.
Sensitivity to changes in unobservable inputs: The fair value of embedded derivative is directly proportional to the  expected future payouts to vendor (considered for the purpose of valuation of the embedded derivative).
If future payouts  to vendor were to increase / decrease by 5% with all the other variables held constant, the fair value of embedded  derivative would increase / decrease by 5%.
Expected future payouts to vendor ranging from USD 12 to USD 17, USD  13 to USD 18 and USD 31 to USD 46 per quarter as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 respectively.
39 Other Matters   (i)   In 1996, the Company had obtained the permission from DoT to operate its Punjab license through one of its wholly  owned subsidiary.
However DoT cancelled the permission to operate in April, 1996 and subsequently reinstated  in March, 1998.
Accordingly, for the period from April 1996 to March, 1998 (‘blackout period’) the license fee was  disputed and not paid by the Company.
Subsequently, basis the demand from DoT in 2001, the Company paid the disputed license fee of ` 4,856 for blackout  period under protest.
Consequently, the license was restored subject to arbitrator’s adjudication on the dispute.
The  arbitrator adjudicated the matter in favour of DoT , which was challenged by the Company before Hon’ble Delhi High  Court.
In 2012, Hon’ble Delhi High Court passed an order setting aside the arbitrator’s award, which was challenged  by DoT and is pending before its division bench.
Meanwhile, the Company had filed a writ petition for recovery of the  disputed license fee and interest thereto.
However, the single bench, despite taking the view that the Company is  entitled to refund, dismissed the writ petition on the ground that the case is still pending with the larger bench.
The  Company therefore has filed appeal against the said order with division bench and is currently pending.
(ii)  TRAI vide T elecom Interconnect Usages Charges Regulation (Eleventh Amendment) 2015 has reduced the IUC  charges for mobile termination charges to 14 paisa from 20 paisa and abolished the fixed-line termination charges.
The company has challenged the said Regulation before the Hon’ble Delhi High Court and the matter is currently  pending.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 252 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 40 Additional information as required under Schedule III of the Companies Act 2013.
S.No.
Name of the entity % of   shareholding Principal  place of  operation /  country of  incorporation Principal activities March 31, 2017 Net Assets, i.e., total  assets minus total  liabilities Share in   profit or loss Share in  other  comprehensive   income (OCI) Share in total   comprehensive   income (TCI) As % of  consolidated  net assets  Amount As % of  consolidated  profit or loss  Amount As %   of OCI  Amount As %   of TCI  Amount  Parent 1 Bharti Airtel Limited 100 India T elecommunication services 150.03  1,012,073 (261.21)  (99,256) 0.05  (25) 931.60  (99,281) Subsidiaries  - Indian 1 Airtel Payments Bank Limited (formerly known  as Airtel M Commerce Services Limited)  80.10  India Mobile commerce services  0.73  4,926 (6.43)  (2,443) 0  -   22.93  (2,443) 2 Bharti Airtel Services Limited  100  India Other (0.15)  (1,009) 0.02  8 0.02  (9) 0.01  (1) 3 Bharti Hexacom Limited  70  India T elecommunication services  9.91  66,828 17.37  6,601 0  (1) (61.93)  6,600  4 Bharti Infratel Limited *  61.68  India Infrastructure sharing  services  24.07  162,371 71.19  27,050 (0.19)  93 (254.70)  27,143  5 Bharti Infratel Services Limited #  -    India Infrastructure sharing services  0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -    6 Bharti T elemedia Limited  95  India Direct T o Home  services  (4.13)  (27,827) (3.46)  1,315 0  (1) (12.33)  1,314  7 Indo T eleports Limited (formerly known as  Bharti T eleports Limited)   95  India Uplinking channels for broadcasters  (0.07)  (449) (0.24)  (90) 0  -   0.84  (90) 8 Nxtra Data Limited  100  India T elecommunication services  (0.01)  (91) (0.20)  (75) 0  (1) 0.71  (76) 9 Smartx Services Limited  61.68  India T elecommunication  services  0  30 0  (0) 0  -   0  (0) 10 T elesonic Networks Limited  100  India T elecommunication services  0.05  348 0.64  243 0.02  (11) (2.18)  232  11 Wynk Limited  100  India T elecommunication  services  0.01  57 0.11  41 0  (1) (0.38)  40  12 Nettle Infrastructure Investments Limited  (formerly known as Nettle Developers  Limited), subsidiary w.e.f.
March 14, 2017.
100  India Investment Company 0.39  2,622 6.61  2,513 (0.22)  109 (24.60)  2,622  13 Augere Wireless Broadband India Private Limited (subsidiary w.e.f.
June 7, 2016,  subsequently merged with the Company w.e.f.
February 15, 2017)  -    India T elecommunication services  0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -    - Foreign 1 Africa T owers N. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company (0.06)  (392) (0.12)  (46) 0  -   0.43  (46) 2 Africa T owers Services Limited ##  100  Kenya Infrastructure sharing services  0  0 0  0 0  -   0  0  3 Airtel (Seychelles) Limited  100  Seychelles T elecommunication services  0.08  537 0.23  88 0  -   (0.82)  88  4 Airtel (SL) Limited (Sold on July 19, 2016)  -    Sierra Leone T elecommunication  services  0  -   (3.93)  (1,492) 0  -   14  (1,492) 5 Airtel Bangladesh Limited (merged with Robi  Axiata Limited w.e.f.
November 16, 2016)  -    Bangladesh T elecommunication services  0  -   (11.23)  (4,268) 0  -   40.05  (4,268) 6 Airtel Burkina Faso S.A. (Sold on June 22, 2016)  -    Burkina Faso T elecommunication services  0  -   1.81  689 0  -   (6.46)  689  7 Airtel Congo (RDC) S.A.  98.50  Democratic  Republic of  Congo  T elecommunication  services  (7.79)  (52,538) (33.27)  (12,642) 0  -   118.63  (12,642) (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 253 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements S.No.
Name of the entity % of   shareholding Principal  place of  operation /  country of  incorporation Principal activities March 31, 2017 Net Assets, i.e., total  assets minus total  liabilities Share in   profit or loss Share in  other  comprehensive   income (OCI) Share in total   comprehensive   income (TCI) As % of  consolidated  net assets  Amount As % of  consolidated  profit or loss  Amount As %   of OCI  Amount As %   of TCI  Amount  8 Airtel Congo S.A.  90  Congo  Brazzaville  T elecommunication services  (1.31)  (8,843) (5.19)  (1,970) 0  -   18.49  (1,970) 9 Airtel DTH Services (SL) Limited #  -    Sierra Leone Direct T o Home  services  0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -    10 Airtel DTH Services Nigeria Limited ##  100  Nigeria Direct T o Home  services  0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -    11 Airtel Gabon S.A.  90  Gabon T elecommunication services  (1.15)  (7,760) (7.61)  (2,892) 0  -   27.13  (2,892) 12 Airtel Ghana Limited ^ @  99.89  Ghana T elecommunication  services  (0.29)  (1,949) (9.01)  (3,424) 0  -   32.13  (3,424) 13 Airtel Madagascar S.A.  100  Madagascar T elecommunication services  (0.86)  (5,773) (4.45)  (1,689) 0  -   15.85  (1,689) 14 Airtel Malawi Limited  100  Malawi T elecommunication  services  0.09  598 1.61  611 0  -   (5.73)  611  15 Airtel Mobile Commerce   (Ghana) Limited @  99.89  Ghana Mobile commerce services  (0.04)  (289) 0.07  27 0  -   (0.25)  27  16 Airtel Mobile Commerce  (Kenya) Limited  100  Kenya Mobile commerce services  0  0 0  -   0  -   0  -    17 Airtel Mobile Commerce   (Seychelles) Limited  100  Seychelles Mobile commerce services  0  (28) (0.01)  (4) 0  -   0.03  (4) 18 Airtel Mobile Commerce (SL) Limited (Sold on July 19, 2016)  -    Sierra Leone Mobile commerce services  0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -    19 Airtel Mobile Commerce   (T anzania) Limited  100  T anzania Mobile commerce services  0  0 0  -   0  -   0  -    20 Airtel Mobile Commerce B. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company (0.01)  (36) (0.03)  (12) 0  -   0.12  (12) 21 Airtel Mobile Commerce Burkina Faso S.A.(Sold on June 22, 2016)  -    Burkina Faso Mobile commerce services  0  (0) 0.17  66 0  -   (0.62)  66  22 Airtel Mobile Commerce Holdings B. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company 0  1 0  (0) 0  -   0  (0) 23 Airtel Mobile Commerce Limited  100  Malawi Mobile commerce  services  (0.05)  (337) 0.01  3 0  -   (0.03)  3  24 Airtel Mobile Commerce Madagascar S.A.  100  Madagascar Mobile commerce services  (0.07)  (481) (0.23)  (87) 0  -   0.82  (87) 25 Airtel Mobile Commerce Rwanda Limited  100  Rwanda Mobile commerce  services  0  1 0  -   0  -   0  -    26 Airtel Mobile Commerce T chad S.a.r.l.
100  Chad Mobile commerce  services  0  0 0  -   0  -   0  -    27 Airtel Mobile Commerce  Uganda Limited  100  Uganda Mobile commerce services  0  0 0  -   0  -   0  -    28 Airtel Mobile Commerce   Zambia Limited  100  Zambia Mobile commerce services  (0.08)  (534) (0.11)  (43) 0  -   0.40  (43) 29 Airtel Money (RDC) S.A.  100  Democratic  Republic of Congo  Mobile commerce services  (0.25)  (1,658) (0.28)  (107) 0  -   1.01  (107) 30 Airtel Money Niger S.A.  90  Niger Mobile commerce  services  0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -    31 Airtel Money S.A. (Gabon)  100  Gabon Mobile commerce  services  (0.03)  (171) 0.45  172 0  -   (1.62)  172  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 254 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 S.No.
Name of the entity % of   shareholding Principal  place of  operation /  country of  incorporation Principal activities March 31, 2017 Net Assets, i.e., total  assets minus total  liabilities Share in   profit or loss Share in  other  comprehensive   income (OCI) Share in total   comprehensive   income (TCI) As % of  consolidated  net assets  Amount As % of  consolidated  profit or loss  Amount As %   of OCI  Amount As %   of TCI  Amount  32 Airtel Money Transfer Limited  100  Kenya Mobile commerce  services  0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -    33 Airtel Networks Kenya Limited ^  100  Kenya T elecommunication  services  (3.48)  (23,473) (24.59)  (9,344) 0  -   87.68  (9,344) 34 Airtel Networks Limited @@  83.25  Nigeria T elecommunication  services  (2.41)  (16,255) (69.08)  (26,250) 0  -   246.32  (26,250) 35 Airtel Networks Zambia Plc  96.36  Zambia T elecommunication services  0.17  1,159 (2.62)  (996) 0  -   9.35  (996) 36 Airtel Rwanda Limited  100  Rwanda T elecommunication  services  (1.74)  (11,756) (9.31)  (3,536) 0  -   33.18  (3,536) 37 Airtel T anzania Limited  60  T anzania T elecommunication services  (3.78)  (25,473) (10.30)  (3,913) 0  -   36.72  (3,913) 38 Airtel T chad S.A.  100  Chad T elecommunication  services  (0.87)  (5,836) (6.75)  (2,566) 0  -   24.08  (2,566) 39 Airtel T owers (Ghana) Limited #  -    Ghana Infrastructure sharing  services  0  -   0.03  13 0  -   (0.12)  13  40 Airtel T owers (SL) Company Limited #  -    Sierra Leone Infrastructure sharing services  0  -   0.02  7 0  -   (0.06)  7  41 Airtel Uganda Limited ^  100  Uganda T elecommunication  services  0  10 6.79  2,580 0  -   (24.21)  2,580  42 Bangladesh Infratel Networks Limited ##  100  Bangladesh Infrastructure sharing services  0  0 0  (0) 0  -   0  (0) 43 Bharti Airtel (France) SAS  100  France T elecommunication  services  0.03  170 0.21  82 0  -   (0.77)  82  44 Bharti Airtel (Hong kong) Limited  100  Hong Kong T elecommunication  services  (0.02)  (122) 0.17  66 0  -   (0.62)  66  45 Bharti Airtel (Japan) Kabushiki Kaisha  100  Japan T elecommunication services  0  5 0.03  12 0  (1) (0.11)  11  46 Bharti Airtel (UK) Limited  100  United  Kingdom  T elecommunication services  0.07  478 0.35  133 0  (1) (1.24)  132  47 Bharti Airtel (USA) Limited  100  United  States of America  T elecommunication services  0.07  452 0.63  238 0  -   (2.23)  238  48 Bharti Airtel Africa B. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company 13.97  94,264 50.96  19,364 0  -   (181.70)  19,364  49 Bharti Airtel Burkina Faso Holdings B. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company 6.71  45,286 99.27  37,719 0  -   (353.94)  37,719  50 Bharti Airtel Chad Holdings B. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company 0.07  447 0.25  96 0  -   (0.90)  96  51 Bharti Airtel Congo Holdings B. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company 0.92  6,199 0.68  259 0  -   (2.43)  259  52 Bharti Airtel Developers Forum Limited  96.36  Zambia Investment Company 0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -    53 Bharti Airtel DTH Holdings B. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company 0  1 0  (0) 0  -   0  (0) 54 Bharti Airtel Gabon Holdings B. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company 1.30  8,754 1.16  442 0  -   (4.15)  442  55 Bharti Airtel Ghana Holdings B. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company (1.07)  (7,230) (4.24)  (1,611) 0  -   15.12  (1,611) 56 Bharti Airtel Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd  (merged with Bharti International (Singapore)  Pte Ltd w.e.f.
July 15, 2016)  -    Singapore Investment Company 0  -   0.03  13 0  -   (0.12)  13  57 Bharti Airtel International  (Mauritius) Limited  100  Mauritius Investment Company 2.26  15,256 (545.07)  (207,117) 0  -   1943.48 (207,117) 58 Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) B. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company 46.87  316,155 14.63  5,561 0  -   (52.18)  5,561  59 Bharti Airtel Kenya B. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company (0.97)  (6,523) (3.71)  (1,409) 0  -   13.22  (1,409) 60 Bharti Airtel Kenya Holdings B. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company (0.38)  (2,562) (0.18)  (70) 0  -   0.66  (70) (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 255 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements S.No.
Name of the entity % of   shareholding Principal  place of  operation /  country of  incorporation Principal activities March 31, 2017 Net Assets, i.e., total  assets minus total  liabilities Share in   profit or loss Share in  other  comprehensive   income (OCI) Share in total   comprehensive   income (TCI) As % of  consolidated  net assets  Amount As % of  consolidated  profit or loss  Amount As %   of OCI  Amount As %   of TCI  Amount  61 Bharti Airtel Lanka (Private) Limited  100  Sri Lanka T elecommunication  services  (0.96)  (6,485) (6.96)  (2,645) 0  -   24.82  (2,645) 62 Bharti Infratel Lanka (Private) Limited ##  100  Sri Lanka Infrastructure sharing  services  0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -    63 Bharti Airtel Madagascar Holdings B. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company (0.17)  (1,156) (0.74)  (281) 0  -   3  (281) 64 Bharti Airtel Malawi Holdings B. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company 0.06  422 0.24  91 0  -   (0.85)  91  65 Bharti Airtel Mali Holdings B. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company 0.03  216 (0.04)  (17) 0  -   0.16  (17) 66 Bharti Airtel Niger Holdings B. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company 1.51  10,209 (0.18)  (69) 0  -   0.64  (69) 67 Bharti Airtel Nigeria B. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company (6.37)  (42,955) (29.06)  (11,042) 0  -   103.61  (11,042) 68 Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings B. V .
##  100  Netherlands Investment Company 0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -    69 Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings II B. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company (0.02)  (117) 0  (1) 0  -   0.01  (1) 70 Bharti Airtel RDC Holdings B. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company 0.56  3,753 2.38  906 0  -   (8.50)  906  71 Bharti Airtel Rwanda Holdings Limited  100  Mauritius Investment Company 0.03  188 0  (2) 0  -   0.02  (2) 72 Bharti Airtel Services B. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company (0.06)  (387) (0.14)  (53) 0  -   0.50  (53) 73 Bharti Airtel Sierra Leone Holdings B. V .
(Sold on July 19, 2016)  -    Netherlands Investment Company 0  -   0.09  35 0  -   (0.33)  35  74 Bharti Airtel T anzania B. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company (0.52)  (3,478) (5.50)  (2,089) 0  -   19.60  (2,089) 75 Bharti Airtel Uganda Holdings B. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company (0.88)  (5,906) (0.76)  (288) 0  -   2.70  (288) 76 Bharti Airtel Zambia Holdings B. V .
100  Netherlands Investment Company 4.31  29,090 1.76  668 0  -   (6.27)  668  77 Bharti International (Singapore) Pte.
Ltd  100 Singapore T elecommunication services  2.34  15,767 (333.69)  (126,797) 0  -   1189.80 (126,797) 78 Celtel (Mauritius) Holdings Limited  100 Mauritius Investment Company 0.38  2,530 1.26  479 0  -   (4.50)  479  79 Celtel Niger S.A.  90 Niger T elecommunication services  0.33  2,198 (0.57)  (216) 0  -   2.03  (216) 80 Channel Sea Management Company  (Mauritius) Limited  100 Mauritius Investment Company 0.01  34 (0.25)  (94) 0  -   0.88  (94) 81 Congo RDC T owers S.A.  100 Democratic Republic of  Congo  Infrastructure sharing  services  (0.04)  (260) 1.24  470 0  -   (4.41)  470  82 Congo T owers S.A. #  -   Congo Brazzavile  Infrastructure sharing services  0  0 0  -   0  -   0  -    83 Gabon T owers S.A. ##  90 Gabon  Infrastructure  sharing services  0  (3) 0  (1) 0  -   0.01  (1) 84 Indian Ocean T elecom Limited  100 Jersey Investment Company 0.14  948 0  (0) 0  -   0  (0) 85 Madagascar T owers S.A.  100 Madagascar Infrastructure sharing services  0.03  236 (0.23)  (87) 0  -   0.82  (87) 86 Malawi T owers Limited  100 Malawi Infrastructure sharing  services  (0.21)  (1,422) (0.15)  (59) 0  -   0.55  (59) 87 Mobile Commerce Congo S.A.  100 Congo  Brazzavile  Mobile commerce services  0  1 0  -   0  -   0  -    88 Montana International  100 Mauritius Investment Company 0  (12) 0  (2) 0  -   0.02  (2) 89 MSI-Celtel Nigeria Limited ##  100 Nigeria Investment Company 0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -    90 Network i2i Limited  100 Mauritius Submarine Cable System  11.32  76,379 6.36  2,419 0  -   (22.69)  2,419  91 Partnership Investment Sprl  100 Democratic Republic of  Congo  Investment Company 0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -    92 Société Malgache de T éléphone Cellulaire S.A.  100 Mauritius Investment Company 0.02  147 (0.01)  (2) 0  -   0.02  (2) (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 S.No.
Name of the entity % of   shareholding Principal  place of  operation /  country of  incorporation Principal activities March 31, 2017 Net Assets, i.e., total  assets minus total  liabilities Share in   profit or loss Share in  other  comprehensive   income (OCI) Share in total   comprehensive   income (TCI) As % of  consolidated  net assets  Amount As % of  consolidated  profit or loss  Amount As %   of OCI  Amount As %   of TCI  Amount  93 T anzania T owers Limited  60 T anzania Infrastructure sharing  services  0  (31) (0.01)  (2) 0  -   0.02  (2) 94 T chad T owers S.A. #  -   Chad Infrastructure sharing  services  0  -   0.21  80 0  -   (0.75)  80  95 T owers Support Nigeria Limited ## @@  83.25 Nigeria Infrastructure sharing  services  0  (1) 0  0 0  -   0  0  96 Warid T elecom Uganda Limited (merged with with Airtel Uganda Limited w.e.f.
July 31, 2016)  -   Uganda T elecommunication services  0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -    97 Zap Trust Company Nigeria Limited ##  100 Nigeria Mobile commerce  services  0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -    98 Airtel Money T anzania Limited (incorporated on June 10, 2016)  60 T anzania Mobile commerce services  0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -    Minority Interests in all subsidiaries (10.19)  (68,750) (11.62)  (4,416) (4.55)  2,213 20.67  (2,203) Associates (Investment  as per the equity  method)  - Indian 1 Seynse T echnologies Private Limited  (Associate w.e.f February 21, 2017)  22.54  India Financial Services 0.01  76 0  (1) 0  -   0.01  (1) - Foreign 1 T anzania T elecommunications Company Ltd (TTCL) (Sold on June 23, 2016)  -   T anzania T elecommunication services  0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -    2 Seychelles Cable Systems Company Limited  26 Seychelles Submarine cable  system  0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -    3 Robi Axiata Limited (Associate w.e.f.
November  16, 2016)  25 Bangladesh T elecommunication services  1.76  11,867 (0.18)  (1,233) 0  -   11.57  (1,233) Joint Ventures (Investment  as per the equity method)  - Indian 1 Indus T owers Limited  22.91 India Passive infrastructure  services  8.23  55,509 31.45  11,949 0  -   (112.13)  11,949  2 FireFly Networks Limited  50 India T elecommunication services  0  (0) 0  2 0  -   -0.02  2  - Foreign 3 Bridge Mobile Pte Limited  25.91 Singapore Provision of regional  mobile services  0.01  52 0.02  9 0  -   (0.09)  9  Inter Company Elimination / adjustments on consolidation  (933,729) 451,627 ** (51,019)  400,608  T otal 100  674,563 100  37,998 100 (48,655) 100  (10,657) # Dissolved during the year ended March 31, 2017.
## Under Liquidation.
^ The Group also holds 100% preference shareholding in these companies.
The preference shares does not carry any voting rights.
* Bharti Infratel Limited, in which the Group has 61.68% equity interest (71.76% as of March 31, 2016), owns 42% of Indus T owers Limited.
** It includes elimination of the internal restructuring impact amounting to ` 133,488, ` 207,062 and ` 86,696  as reflected in the standalone numbers of the Company, Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Limited and Bharti International (Singapore)   Pte.
Ltd. respectively.
@ During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group has increased its shareholding by 24.89% i.e.
from 75% in March 31, 2016 to 99.89% in March 31, 2017 {Refer note 5 (e)}.
@@ During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group has increased its shareholding by 4.2% i.e.
from 79.06% in March 31, 2016 to 83.25% in March 31, 2017 {(Refer note 5 (d)}.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 257 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements 40 Additional information as required under Schedule III of the Companies Act 2013.
S.No.
Name of the entity % of   shareholding Principal  place of  operation /  country of  incorporation   Principal   activities  March 31, 2016 Net Assets, i.e., total  assets minus total  liabilities Share in   profit or loss Share in  other  comprehensive  income (OCI) Share in total   comprehensive   income (TCI) As % of  consolidated  net assets  Amount  As % of  consolidated  profit or loss  Amount As % of  OCI  Amount As % of  TCI  Amount  Parent  1 Bharti Airtel Limited  100 India T elecommunication services  167.34  1,117,291 128.04  77,803 0.28  (34) 159.40  77,769  Subsidiaries   - Indian   1 Airtel Broadband Services Private Limited (formerly known as Wireless Business  Services Private Limited), merged with the  Company w.e.f.
April 9, 2015  -   India T elecommunication services  0    -   (0.01)  (6) 0    -   (0.01)  (6)  2 Airtel Payments Bank Limited (formerly known  as Airtel M Commerce Services Limited)   80.10 India Mobile commerce services  0.35  2,369 (0.57)  (346) 0    -   (0.71)  (346)  3 Bharti Airtel Services Limited  100 India Other (0.13)  (882) (0.10)  (60) 0.05  (6) (0.14)  (66)  4 Bharti Hexacom Limited  70 India T elecommunication services  9.37  62,545 16.93  10,289 0.01  (2) 21.08  10,287   5 Bharti Infratel Limited *  71.76 India Infrastructure sharing  services  28.35  189,296 21.84  13,274 0  4 27.22  13,278   6 Bharti Infratel Services Limited # 71.76 India Infrastructure sharing services  0    -   0    -   0  -   0    -     7 Bharti T elemedia Limited  95 India Direct T o Home  services  (4.71)  (31,428) (1.89)  (1,150) 0.02  (2) (2.36)  (1,152)  8 Indo T eleports Limited (formerly known as  Bharti T eleports Limited) subsidiary w.e.f.
August 27, 2015.
95 India Uplinking channels for broadcasters  (0.05)  (359) (0.13)  (78)  0    -   (0.16)  (78)  9 Nxtra Data Limited  100 India T elecommunication  services  0  (16) (0.20)  (124) 0.01  (1) (0.26)  (125)  10 Smartx Services Limited (subsidiary w.e.f.
September 21, 2015)  71.76 India T elecommunication services  0  30 0  0 0  -   0  0   11 T elesonic Networks Limited  100 India T elecommunication services  0.02  116 0.57  346 0.19  (23) 0.66  323   12 Wynk Limited  100 India T elecommunication  services  0  24 0.03  16 0    -   0.03  16  - Foreign   1 Africa T owers N. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company (0.05)  (355) (0.46)  (279) 0  -   (0.57)  (279)  2 Africa T owers Services Limited  100 Kenya Infrastructure sharing services  0  (0) 0.06  34 0  -   0.07  34   3 Airtel (Seychelles) Limited  100 Seychelles T elecommunication  services  0.07  468 0.01  4 0  -   0.01  4   4 Airtel (SL) Limited  100 Sierra Leone T elecommunication services  0.04  238 1.07  650 0  -   1.33  650   5 Airtel Bangladesh Limited  100 Bangladesh T elecommunication  services  (2.77)  (18,524) (11.50)  (6,987) (0.32)  39 (14.24)  (6,948)  6 Airtel Burkina Faso S.A.  100 Burkina Faso T elecommunication services  0.52  3,480 1.72  1,046 0  -   2.14  1,046   7 Airtel Congo (RDC) S.A. 98.50 Democratic  Republic of  Congo  T elecommunication  services  (6.18)  (41,237) (20.18)  (12,261) 0  -   (25.13)  (12,261)  8 Airtel Congo S.A.  90 Congo Brazzaville  T elecommunication services  (1.14)  (7,619) (2.01)  (1,219) 0  -   (2.50)  (1,219) (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 258 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 S.No.
Name of the entity % of   shareholding Principal  place of  operation /  country of  incorporation   Principal   activities  March 31, 2016 Net Assets, i.e., total  assets minus total  liabilities Share in   profit or loss Share in  other  comprehensive  income (OCI) Share in total   comprehensive   income (TCI) As % of  consolidated  net assets  Amount  As % of  consolidated  profit or loss  Amount As % of  OCI  Amount As % of  TCI  Amount   9 Airtel DTH Services (SL) Limited  100 Sierra Leone Direct T o Home services  0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -     10 Airtel DTH Services Congo (RDC) S.p.r.l.
##  -   Democratic  Republic of  Congo  Direct T o Home  services  0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -     11  Airtel DTH Services Nigeria Limited #  100 Nigeria Direct T o Home services  0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -     12 Airtel Gabon S.A.  90 Gabon T elecommunication services  (0.83)  (5,548) (7.63)  (4,639) 0  -   (9.51)  (4,639)  13 Airtel Ghana Limited ^  75 Ghana T elecommunication  services  (4.08)  (27,244) 1.79  1,089 0  -   2.23  1,089   14 Airtel Madagascar S.A.  100 Madagascar T elecommunication services  (0.64)  (4,282) (4.17)  (2,535) 0  -   (5.19)  (2,535)  15 Airtel Malawi Limited  100 Malawi T elecommunication  services  0  17 (1.15)  (698) 0  -   (1.43)  (698)  16 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Ghana) Limited   75 Ghana Mobile commerce  services  (0.07)  (451) (0.19)  (117) 0  -   (0.24)  (117)  17 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Kenya) Limited  100 Kenya Mobile commerce services  0  0  0    -   0  -   0  -     18 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Seychelles) Limited  100 Seychelles Mobile commerce  services  0  (25) (0.02)  (13) 0  -   (0.03)  (13)  19 Airtel Mobile Commerce (SL) Limited  100 Sierra Leone Mobile commerce  services  0  0 0    -   0  -   0  -     20 Airtel Mobile Commerce (T anzania) Limited  100 T anzania Mobile commerce services  0  0 0    -   0  -   0  -     21  Airtel Mobile Commerce B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company 0  (25) (0.01)  (8) 0  -   (0.02)  (8)  22 Airtel Mobile Commerce Burkina Faso S.A.  100 Burkina Faso Mobile commerce services  0.02  161 0.29  174 0  -   0.36  174   23 Airtel Mobile Commerce Holdings B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company 0  1 0  (0) 0  -   0  (0)  24 Airtel Mobile Commerce Limited  100 Malawi Mobile commerce  services  (0.06)  (373) (0.21)  (130) 0  -   (0.27)  (130)  25 Airtel Mobile Commerce   Madagascar S.A.   100 Madagascar Mobile commerce services  (0.06)  (408) (0.18)  (111) 0  -   (0.23)  (111)  26 Airtel Mobile Commerce  Rwanda Limited   100 Rwanda Mobile commerce services  0  1 0    -   0  -   0  -     27 Airtel Mobile Commerce T chad S.a.r.l.
100 Chad Mobile commerce  services  0  0 0    -   0  -   0  -     28 Airtel Mobile Commerce Uganda Limited  100 Uganda Mobile commerce services  0  0 0    -   0  -   0  -     29 Airtel Mobile Commerce Zambia Limited  100 Zambia Mobile commerce  services  (0.07)  (441) (0.21)  (130) 0  -   (0.27)  (130)  30 Airtel Money (RDC) S.A.  100 Democratic Republic of  Congo  Mobile commerce  services  (0.24)  (1,588) (0.78)  (477) 0  -   (0.98)  (477)  31 Airtel Money Niger S.A.  90 Niger Mobile commerce services  0    -   0    -   0  -   0  -     32 Airtel Money S.A. (Gabon)  100 Gabon Mobile commerce  services  (0.05)  (363) (0.07)  (41) 0  -   (0.08)  (41) (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 259 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements S.No.
Name of the entity % of   shareholding Principal  place of  operation /  country of  incorporation   Principal   activities  March 31, 2016 Net Assets, i.e., total  assets minus total  liabilities Share in   profit or loss Share in  other  comprehensive  income (OCI) Share in total   comprehensive   income (TCI) As % of  consolidated  net assets  Amount  As % of  consolidated  profit or loss  Amount As % of  OCI  Amount As % of  TCI  Amount   33 Airtel Money Transfer Limited (incorporated on July 20, 2015)   100 Kenya Mobile commerce services  0    -   0    -   0  -   0    -     34 Airtel Networks Kenya Limited ^  100 Kenya T elecommunication  services  (2.26)  (15,097) 7.15  4,345 0  -   8.91  4,345   35 Airtel Networks Limited   79.06 Nigeria T elecommunication  services  0.76  5,064 10.67  6,483 0  -   13.29  6,483   36 Airtel Networks Zambia Plc  96.36 Zambia T elecommunication services  0.37  2,456 3.44  2,091 0  -   4.29  2,091   37 Airtel Rwanda Limited  100 Rwanda T elecommunication  services  (1.43)  (9,575) (4.89)  (2,971) 0  -   (6.09)  (2,971)  38 Airtel T anzania Limited  60 T anzania T elecommunication  services  (3.40)  (22,696) (17.03)  (10,350) 0  -   (21.21)  (10,350)  39 Airtel T chad S.A.  100 Chad T elecommunication services  (0.56)  (3,744) (2.85)  (1,734) 0  -   (3.55)  (1,734)  40 Airtel T owers (Ghana) Limited  75 Ghana Infrastructure sharing  services  0  (15) 0.05  32 0  -   0.06  32   41 Airtel T owers (SL) Company Limited  100 Sierra Leone Infrastructure sharing  services  0  (16) 0.04  26 0  -   0.05  26   42 Airtel Uganda Limited ^  100 Uganda T elecommunication services  (0.38)  (2,568) 3.34  2,029 0  -   4.16  2,029   43  Bangladesh Infratel Networks Limited #  100 Bangladesh Infrastructure sharing services  0  (0) 0  0 0  -   0  0   44  Bharti Airtel (Canada) Limited ##  -   Canada T elecommunication  services  0  (0) 0.05  28 0  -   0.06  28   45 Bharti Airtel (France) SAS  100 France T elecommunication  services  0.02  104 0.07  45 0  -   0.09  45   46 Bharti Airtel (Hong Kong) Limited  100 Hong Kong T elecommunication services  (0.03)  (181) 0.23  138 0  -   0.28  138   47 Bharti Airtel (Japan) Kabushiki Kaisha  100 Japan T elecommunication  services  0  (6) (0.03)  (17) (0.01)  (1) (0.04)  (18)  48 Bharti Airtel (UK) Limited  100 United  Kingdom  T elecommunication services  0.08  530 (0.21)  (126) 0  -   (0.26)  (126)  49 Bharti Airtel (USA) Limited  100 United States of America  T elecommunication services  0.03  219 0.65  397 0  -   0.81  397   50 Bharti Airtel Africa B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company 11.57  77,253 4.95  3,006 0  -   6.16  3,006   51 Bharti Airtel Burkina Faso Holdings B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company 1.37  9,152 1.74  1,058 0  -   2.17  1,058   52 Bharti Airtel Chad Holdings B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company 0.05  361 0.07  43 0  -   0.09  43   53 Bharti Airtel Congo Holdings B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company 0.91  6,078 0.48  293 0  -   0.60  293   54 Bharti Airtel Developers Forum Limited  96.36 Zambia Investment Company 0    -   0    -   0  -   0    -     55 Bharti Airtel DTH Holdings B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company 0  1 0  (0) 0  -   0  (0)  56 Bharti Airtel Gabon Holdings B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company 1.27  8,509 0.40  245 0  -   0.50  245   57 Bharti Airtel Ghana Holdings B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company (0.87)  (5,801) (2.02)  (1,229) 0  -   (2.52)  (1,229)  58 Bharti Airtel Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd   100 Singapore Investment Company 0.98  6,531 (0.81)  (493) 0  -   (1.01)  (493)  59 Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Limited  100 Mauritius Investment Company 31.11  207,752 0  (2) 0  -   0  (2)  60 Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company 48.17  321,648 (9.29)  (5,643) 0  -   (11.57)  (5,643)  61 Bharti Airtel Kenya B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company (0.79)  (5,278) (1.83)  (1,109) 0  -   (2.27)  (1,109)  62 Bharti Airtel Kenya Holdings B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company (0.38)  (2,549) (0.17)  (104) 0  -   (0.21)  (104)  63 Bharti Airtel Lanka (Private) Limited  100 Sri Lanka T elecommunication services  (0.64)  (4,257) (4.52)  (2,746) 0  -   (5.63)  (2,746) (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 260 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 S.No.
Name of the entity % of   shareholding Principal  place of  operation /  country of  incorporation   Principal   activities  March 31, 2016 Net Assets, i.e., total  assets minus total  liabilities Share in   profit or loss Share in  other  comprehensive  income (OCI) Share in total   comprehensive   income (TCI) As % of  consolidated  net assets  Amount  As % of  consolidated  profit or loss  Amount As % of  OCI  Amount As % of  TCI  Amount   64 Bharti Infratel Lanka (Private) Limited #  100 Sri Lanka Infrastructure sharing services  0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -     65 Bharti Airtel Madagascar Holdings B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company (0.14)  (904) (0.32)  (194) 0  -   (0.40)  (194)  66 Bharti Airtel Malawi Holdings B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company 0.05  342 (0.04)  (22) 0  -   (0.04)  (22)  67 Bharti Airtel Mali Holdings B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company 0.04  237 0    -   0  -   0    -     68  Bharti Airtel Niger Holdings B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company 1.57  10,497 2.24  1,364 0  -   2.80  1,364   69  Bharti Airtel Nigeria B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company (4.95)  (33,021) (5.04)  (3,063) 0  -   (6.28)  (3,063)  70 Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings B. V .
#  100 Netherlands Investment Company 0    -   0    -   0  -   0    -     71 Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings II B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company (0.02)  (118) 0    -   0  -   0    -     72 Bharti Airtel RDC Holdings B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company 0.44  2,943 2.06  1,253 0  -   2.57  1,253   73 Bharti Airtel Rwanda Holdings Limited   100 Mauritius Investment Company 0.03  194 0  (3) 0  -   (0.01)  (3)  74 Bharti Airtel Services B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company (0.05)  (344) (0.09)  (58) 0  -   (0.12)  (58)  75 Bharti Airtel Sierra Leone Holdings B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company 0.03  199 0.22  134 0  -   0.27  134   76 Bharti Airtel T anzania B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company (0.22)  (1,498) 0.70  424 0  -   0.87  424   77 Bharti Airtel Uganda Holdings B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company (0.86)  (5,750) (0.83)  (506) 0  -   (1.04)  (506)  78 Bharti Airtel Zambia Holdings B. V .
100 Netherlands Investment Company 4.35  29,063 1.61  981 0  -   2.01  981   79  Bharti International (Singapore) Pte.
Ltd  100 Singapore T elecommunication services  12.66  84,513 0.74  450 0  -   0.92  450   80 Burkina Faso T owers S.A. ##  -   Burkina Faso Infrastructure sharing  services  0  0 0.06  38 0  -   0.08  38   81 Celtel (Mauritius) Holdings Limited  100 Mauritius Investment Company 0.33  2,195  0.55  336 0  -    0.69  336   82 Celtel Niger S.A.  90 Niger T elecommunication services  0.36  2,423 (0.72)  (440) 0  -   (0.90)  (440)  83 Channel Sea Management Company  (Mauritius) Limited   100 Mauritius Investment Company 0.01  38 0  (2) 0  -   0  (2)  84 Congo RDC T owers S.A.  100 Democratic  Republic of  Congo  Infrastructure sharing  services  (0.11)  (728) (0.26)  (156) 0  -   (0.32)  (156)  85 Congo T owers S.A.   90 Congo  Brazzavile  Infrastructure sharing services  0  (0) 0.07  44 0  -   0.09  44   86 Gabon T owers S.A. #  90 Gabon Infrastructure sharing  services  0  (2) 0.06  34 0  -   0.07  34   87 Indian Ocean T elecom Limited  100 Jersey Investment Company 0.15  968 0  (2) 0  -   0  (2)  88 Kenya T owers Limited  (Sold on September 23, 2015)   -   Kenya Infrastructure sharing services  0  0 (1.61)  (981) 0  -   (2.01)  (981)  89 Madagascar T owers S.A.  100 Madagascar Infrastructure sharing  services  0.05  324 (0.48)  (293) 0  -   (0.60)  (293)  90 Malawi T owers Limited  100 Malawi Infrastructure sharing services  (0.22)  (1,495) (2.73)  (1,659) 0  -   (3.40)  (1,659)  91 Mobile Commerce Congo S.A.  100 Congo  Brazzavile  Mobile commerce services  0  1  0   -   0  -   0  -     92 Montana International  100 Mauritius Investment Company 0  (11) 0  (1) 0  -   0  (1)  93 MSI-Celtel Nigeria Limited #  100 Nigeria Investment Company 0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -     94 Network i2i Limited  100 Mauritius Submarine Cable System  3.73  24,925 6.46  3,924 0  -   8.04  3,924   95 Niger T owers S.A. ##  -   Niger Infrastructure sharing  services  0  (0) 0.06  36 0  -   0.07  36   96 Partnership Investment Sprl  100 Democratic Republic of  Congo  Investment Company  0   -   0    -   0    -   0    -    (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 261 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements S.No.
Name of the entity % of   shareholding Principal  place of  operation /  country of  incorporation   Principal   activities  March 31, 2016 Net Assets, i.e., total  assets minus total  liabilities Share in   profit or loss Share in  other  comprehensive  income (OCI) Share in total   comprehensive   income (TCI) As % of  consolidated  net assets  Amount  As % of  consolidated  profit or loss  Amount As % of  OCI  Amount As % of  TCI  Amount   97 Société Malgache de T éléphone Cellulaire S.A.  100 Mauritius Investment Company  0.02  152 0  (2)  0  -    (0)  (2)  98 T anzania T owers Limited  60 T anzania Infrastructure sharing services  0  (30) 0.04  24 0  -   0.05  24   99 T chad T owers S.A.  100 Chad Infrastructure sharing  services  (0.01)  (83) 0.07  43 0  -   0.09  43   100 T owers Support Nigeria Limited #   79.06 Nigeria Infrastructure sharing  services  0  (1) 0.05  32 0  -   0.07  32   101 Uganda T owers Limited (Sold on June 1, 2015)   -   Uganda Infrastructure sharing services  0  (0) (0.46)  (282) 0  -   (0.58)  (282)  102 Warid T elecom Uganda Limited (in process of  amalgamation with Airtel Uganda Limited)   100 Uganda T elecommunication services  0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -     103 Zambian T owers Limited (Sold on August 31, 2015)   -   Zambia Infrastructure sharing services  0  (0) (4.36)  (2,647) 0  -   (5.43)  (2,647)  104 Zap Trust Company Nigeria Limited #  100 Nigeria Mobile commerce  services  0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -    Minority Interests in all subsidiaries  (8.23)  (54,981) (13.43)  (8,163) (3.10)  371 (15.97)  (7,792) Associates (Investment  as per the equity method)    - Foreign   1  T anzania T elecommunications Company Ltd  (TTCL)    35 T anzania T elecommunication services  0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -     2 Seychelles Cable Systems Company Limited  26 Seychelles Submarine cable system  0  -   0  -   0  -   0  -    Joint Ventures (Investment  as per the  equity method)    - Indian   1 Indus T owers Limited  30.14 India Passive infrastructure  services  8.41  56,180 18.22  11,069 0  -   22.69  11,069   2 FireFly Networks Limited  50 India T elecommunication  services  0  (2) 0  0 0  -   0  0   3 Forum 1 Aviation  Limited (Investment sold on  January 7, 2016)   -   India Aircraft chartering services  0  -   0.02  12 0  -   0.02  12   - Foreign   4 Bridge Mobile Pte Limited  25.91 Singapore Provision of regional mobile services  0.01  43 0.02  10 0  -   0.02  10  Inter Company Elimination / adjustments on consolidation  (1,257,320) (8,018)  (12,322)  (20,340) T otal 100  667,693 100  60,767 100  (11,977) 100  48,790  #  Under liquidation     ## Dissolved during the year ended March 31, 2016.
* Bharti Infratel Limited, in which the Group has 71.76%, owns 42% of Indus T owers Limited.
^ The Group also holds 100% preference shareholding in these companies which does not carry any voting rights.
(All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 262 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 41 Reconciliation from previous GAAP      The following reconciliations provide a quantification of the effect of differences arising from the transition from Previous  GAAP to Ind AS in accordance with Ind AS 101 whereas the notes explain the significant differences thereto.
I.
Balance sheet reconciliations as of April 1, 2015.
II  a.
Balance sheet reconciliations as of March 31, 2016.
II b. Reconciliations of statement of profit and loss for the year ended March 31, 2016   III.
Notes to the balance sheet and statement of profit and loss reconciliations    IV .
Explanation of material adjustments to statement of cash flows (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 263 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements I.
Balance sheet reconciliation as of April 1, 2015 Particulars Notes Regrouped IGAAP Ind AS  Adjustments Ind AS Assets Non-current assets   Property, plant and equipment 1 / 3 / 4  666,630  (122,694)  543,936   Capital work-in-progress 3  49,958  (1,256)  48,702   Goodwill 1  247,770  167,053  414,823   Other intangible assets 1  304,503  37,215  341,718   Intangible assets under development 1  124,598  (6,111)  118,487   Investment in joint ventures and associates 3  -    51,936  51,936  Financial Assets   - Investments 5  27,433  3,877  31,310   - Derivative instruments 6  -    7,303  7,303   - Security deposits 3 / 7  11,319  (1,790)  9,529   - Others 3  15,500  (7,469)  8,031   Deferred tax assets (net) 13  43,611  15,891  59,502   Other non-current assets 3 / 7  75,662  22  75,684   1,566,984  143,977  1,710,961  Current assets  Inventories  1,339  -    1,339  Financial Assets  - Investments 5  80,088  3,929  84,017  - Derivative instruments 6  718  489  1,207  - Trade receivables 3  54,494  (2,533)  51,961  - Cash and cash equivalents 3  12,011  (290)  11,721  - Bank deposits 3  8,838  (15)  8,823  - Others 3  26,949  (1,778)  25,171  Current tax assets 3  8,385  (2,664)  5,721  Other current assets 3  33,893  (1,697)  32,196  Assets-held-for-sale 2  28,168  4,450  32,618   254,883  (109)  254,774  T otal Assets  1,821,867  143,868  1,965,735  Equity and Liabilities  Equity  Share capital  19,987  -    19,987  Other Equity  377,783  232,820  610,603  Equity attributable to owners of the Parent  397,770  232,820  630,590  Non-controlling interests 14  68,906  (17,293)  51,613   466,676  215,527  682,203  Non-current liabilities  Financial liabilities  - Borrowings 3  607,220  (15,645)  591,575  - Derivative instruments  164  -    164  - Others 3  17,123  (2,586)  14,537  Deferred revenue 3 / 7  18,079  (162)  17,917  Provisions 3 / 4  17,178  (9,530)  7,648  Deferred tax liabilities (net) 3 / 13  25,568  (12,491)  13,077  Other non-current liabilities 7  836  630  1,466   686,168  (39,784)  646,384  Current liabilities  Financial liabilities  - Borrowings 3  88,148  (1,468)  86,680  - Current maturities of long-term borrowings 3  134,057  (8,691)  125,366  - Derivative instruments  628  -    628  - Trade Payables 3  221,408  (5,512)  215,896  - Others 3  130,126  (2,820)  127,306  Deferred revenue 3 / 7  49,914  160  50,074  Provisions  2,066  -    2,066  Current tax liabilities (net)  9,271  -    9,271  Other current liabilities 3 / 8  27,251  (11,353)  15,898  Liabilities-held-for-sale 4  6,154  (2,191)  3,963   669,023  (31,875)  637,148  T otal Liabilities  1,355,191  (71,659)  1,283,532  T otal Equity and Liabilities  1,821,867  143,868  1,965,735  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 264 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 II a.
Balance sheet reconciliation as of March 31, 2016 Particulars Notes Regrouped IGAAP Ind AS  Adjustments Ind AS Assets Non-current assets  Property, plant and equipment 1 / 3 / 4  724,675  (114,167)  610,508  Capital work-in-progress 3  48,521  (1,217)  47,304  Goodwill 1  231,371  197,010  428,381  Other intangible assets 1  656,417  27,622  684,039  Intangible assets under development  9,716  -    9,716  Investment in joint ventures and associates 3  -    60,990  60,990  Financial assets  - Investments 5  24,324  4,298  28,622  - Derivative instruments 6  69  13,930  13,999  - Security deposits 3 / 7  12,550  (2,109)  10,441  - Others 3  23,540  (6,038)  17,502  Deferred tax assets (net) 13  63,932  (17,194)  46,738  Other non-current assets 3 / 7  70,518  (78)  70,440   1,865,633  163,047  2,028,680  Current assets  Inventories  1,692  -    1,692  Financial assets  - Investments 3 / 5  14,853  1,306  16,159  - Derivative instruments 6  1,008  3,757  4,765  - Trade receivables 3  56,495  (1,456)  55,039  - Cash and cash equivalents 3  37,492  (405)  37,087  - Bank deposits 3  13,916  (16)  13,900  - Others 3  35,430  (2,919)  32,511  Current tax assets 3  14,076  (2,506)  11,570  Other current assets 3  54,468  (5,641)  48,827  Assets-held-for-sale 2  5,097  1,905  7,002   234,527  (5,975)  228,552  T otal Assets  2,100,160  157,072  2,257,232  Equity and Liabilities  Equity  Share capital  19,987  -    19,987  Other Equity  402,989  244,717  647,706  Equity attributable to owners of the Parent  422,976  244,717  667,693  Non-controlling interests 14  74,465  (19,484)  54,981   497,441  225,233  722,674  Non-current Liabilities  Financial liabilities  - Borrowings 3 / 10  893,820  (1,134)  892,686  - Derivative instruments  8  -    8  - Others 3  18,796  (2,712)  16,084  Deferred revenue 7  17,755  32  17,787  Provisions 3 / 4  18,470  (11,120)  7,350  Deferred tax liabilities (net) 3 / 13  46,028  (33,516)  12,512  Other non-current liabilities 7  836  691  1,527   995,713  (47,759)  947,954  Current liabilities  Financial liabilities  - Borrowings  57,238  -    57,238  - Current maturities of long-term borrowings 3  60,902  (6,300)  54,602  - Derivative instruments  1,931  -    1,931  - Trade Payables 3  259,828  (4,022)  255,806  - Others 3  134,760  (3,580)  131,180  Deferred revenue  51,336  -    51,336  Provisions 3  2,383  (51)  2,332  Current tax liabilities (net)  9,296  -    9,296  Other current liabilities 3 / 8  28,166  (6,322)  21,844  Liabilities-held-for-sale 4  1,166  (127)  1,039   607,006  (20,402)  586,604  T otal Liabilities  1,602,719  (68,161)  1,534,558  T otal Equity and Liabilities  2,100,160  157,072  2,257,232  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 265 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements II b. Reconciliation of Statement of profit and loss for the year ended March 31, 2016 Particulars Notes Regrouped IGAAP Ind AS  Adjustments Ind AS Income  Revenue from operations 3  1,009,373  (44,052)  965,321  Other income 3  903  (32)  871   1,010,276  (44,084)  966,192  Expenses  Network operating expenses 3  213,719  (12,152)  201,567  Access charges  109,423  -    109,423  License fee / spectrum charges (revenue share)  94,928  -    94,928  Employee benefits 3 / 12  51,003  (1,895)  49,108  Sales and marketing expenses 3  82,491  (81)  82,410  Other expenses 3 / 7  88,308  (265)  88,043   639,872  (14,393)  625,479  Profit from operating activities before   depreciation,  amortisation and exceptional  items   370,404  (29,691)  340,713  Share of results of joint ventures and associates 3  -    (10,666)  (10,666) Depreciation and amortisation 1 / 2 / 3 / 4  / 7  213,674  (39,176)  174,498  Finance costs 3 / 4 / 6 / 7 /  9 / 10  87,021  (1,560)  85,461  Finance income 3 / 5 / 6 / 7  (8,756)  (7,570)  (16,326) Non-operating expense  1,024  -    1,024  Profit before exceptional items and tax  77,441  29,281  106,722  Exceptional items 2 / 6 / 9  (29,236)  7,495  (21,741) Profit before tax  106,677  21,786  128,463  T ax expense  Current tax 3  50,908  (6,218)  44,690  Deferred tax 3 / 13  1,464  13,379  14,843  Profit for the year  54,305  14,625  68,930  Other comprehensive income ('OCI')  Items to be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss :  Net losses due to foreign currency translation  differences  11  -    (4,920)  (4,920) Losses on net investments hedge  9 / 11  -    (7,108)  (7,108) Losses on cash flow hedge  9 / 11  -    (724)  (724) Gains on fair value through OCI investments 11  -    9  9  Income tax credit 11  -    503  503   -    (12,240)  (12,240) Items not to be reclassified to profit or loss :  Re-measurement losses on defined benefit plans 12  -    (129)  (129) Share of joint ventures and associates 12  -    (4)  (4) Income tax credit 12  -    25  25   -    (108)  (108) Other comprehensive loss for the year  -    (12,348)  (12,348) T otal comprehensive gain for the year  54,305  2,277  56,582  Profit for the year attributable to :  54,305  14,625  68,930  Owners of the Parent  44,566  16,201  60,767  Non-controlling interests 14  9,739  (1,576)  8,163  Other comprehensive loss for the year  attributable to :  -    (12,348)  (12,348) Owners of the Parent  -    (11,977)  (11,977) Non-controlling interests  -    (371)  (371) T otal comprehensive gain for the year  attributable to :  54,305  2,277  56,582  Owners of the Parent  44,566  4,224  48,790  Non-controlling interests 14  9,739  (1,947)  7,792  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 266 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 III.
Notes to the balance sheet and statement of  profit and loss reconciliations    As the presentation requirements under IGAAP differ  from Ind AS, the IGAAP information has been regrouped  for ease and facilitation of reconciliation with Ind AS.
1.  Business combinations    Under previous GAAP , assets and liabilities acquired  in a business combination are recognised at the  acquiree’s carrying value.
Under Ind AS, as the Group  has opted to apply Ind AS 103 ‘Business Combination’  retrospectively, it has restated all business combinations  since inception of the Company.
Accordingly, assets  and liabilities acquired in a business combination are  recognised at fair value on the date of acquisition.
As  Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition  over the company’s interest in the net fair value of  the identifiable assets and liabilities of the entity, the  corresponding impact has been recognised in Goodwill.
Further, under previous GAAP , goodwill was amortised  on a straight line basis over 15 years; whereas under  Ind AS it is not subject to amortisation.
Any corresponding impact of the differential  depreciation, amortisation and currency translation on  such assets (including goodwill) and liabilities has been  recognised in equity.
2.
Assets held-for-sale (‘AHS’)    The Group has classified certain assets and associated  liabilities as held-for-sale.
Under previous GAAP , the  Group had continued to charge depreciation on such  PPE even after it is classified as AHS.
Under Ind AS,  once the PPE is classified as AHS it is not subject to  depreciation charge.
The consequential impact on  the gain or loss on sale of AHS has been recognised  accordingly.
3.
Joint venture accounting     Under previous GAAP , joint venture entities were  consolidated using the proportionate consolidation  method whereby Group’s share of each of the assets,  liabilities, income and expenses of a joint venture entity  is consolidated basis line-by-line consolidation.
Under Ind AS, these entities have been accounted for  using the equity method whereby the share of net assets  / results of joint venture and associates are shown as a  single line item.
For the application of equity method,  the initial investment, as at the date of transition, has  been measured as the aggregate of the Ind AS carrying  amounts of the assets and liabilities that the Group had  previously proportionately consolidated.
4.
Asset retirement obligations (‘ARO’)     Under previous GAAP , ARO was initially measured at  the expected cost to settle the obligation.
Under Ind  AS, the ARO is initially measured at the present value  of expected cost to settle the obligation.
The Group  accordingly has recognised the adjustment to the cost  of fixed assets and the consequent depreciation and  finance cost.
The corresponding impact on the date of  transition has been recognised in equity.
5.
Investments    Under previous GAAP , investments were measured  at lower of cost or fair value.
Under Ind AS, these  financial assets are classified as FVTPL / FVTOCI and  the changes in fair value are recognised in statement  of profit and loss / statement of other comprehensive  income.
On the transition date, these financial assets  have been measured at their fair value which is higher  than its cost as per previous GAAP , resulting in an  increase in carrying value of the investments with  corresponding increase being recognised in equity.
6.
Derivatives    Under previous GAAP , derivative contracts are  measured at fair value at each balance sheet date with  the changes over the previous carrying amount being  recognised in the statement of profit and loss, but  recognition of increase in the fair value is restricted only  to the extent it represents any subsequent reversal of  previously recognised losses.
Under Ind AS, the entire  changes the fair values of derivative contracts are  recognised in statement of profit and loss in the year of  change.
7.
Non-current financial assets / liabilities    Under previous GAAP , certain non-current financial  assets / liabilities which were measured at cost /  best estimate of the expenditure required to settle  the obligation, at the balance sheet date without  considering the effect discounting whereas these  are measured at the present value on the balance  sheet date under Ind AS.
Accordingly, the Group has  recognised the adjustment to the respective carrying  amount and the consequent impact on finance cost /  finance income due to the unwinding of the discounting  impact.
The corresponding impact on the date of  transition has been recognised in equity.
8.
Proposed dividend    Under previous GAAP , dividend on equity shares  recommended by the board of directors (‘proposed  dividend’) was recognised as a liability in the financial  statements in the period to which it relates.
Under  Ind AS, such dividend is recognised as a liability when  approved by the shareholders in the general meeting.
The Group accordingly, has de-recognised the proposed  dividend liability with the corresponding increase being  recognised in equity.
9.
Cash flow hedge (‘CFH’) / Net Investment  Hedge (‘NIH’)    Under Ind AS, the Group has designated certain  borrowings / derivatives under CFH in order to hedge  the foreign currency risk arising from highly probable  forecast transaction / recognised financial liability.
Further, the Group has designated certain borrowings  under NIH in order to hedge the net investment in  certain foreign subsidiaries on account of foreign  currency translation differences.
Any unrealised gain  / loss on the hedging instruments is recognised in  other comprehensive income within equity instead of  statement of profit and loss and reclassified from equity  to statement of profit and loss in the same period  during which hedged cash flow affects the profit and  loss / on disposal of the hedged net investment.
Under  previous GAAP , the said CFH and NIH accounting was  not followed .
10.
Fair value hedge (‘FVH’)    Under Ind AS, the Group has designated certain interest  swaps (IS) under FVH in order to hedge the fair value  gain / loss due to changes in the designated interest  (All amounts are in millions of Indian Rupees – ‘`’; unless stated otherwise) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 267 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements rate risk on certain borrowings.
Any changes in the  fair value of the borrowings that are attributable to the  hedged risk are recognised in the statement of profit  and loss.
However, under previous GAAP , the change in  the said hedged risk is not recognised by the Group.
11.
Statement of other comprehensive income    Under previous GAAP , there was no concept of other  comprehensive income and hence, previous GAAP  profit is reconciled to total comprehensive income as  per Ind-AS.
Under Ind AS, certain specified items net of  related tax impact are required to be presented in other  comprehensive income.
12.
Re-measurement differences    Under previous GAAP , the remeasurements of the  net defined benefit liability were recognised in the  statement of profit and loss.
Under Ind AS, the said  remeasurement differences net of the related tax  impact are recognised in other comprehensive income.
13.
Deferred T axes    Under previous GAAP , in the financial statements,  deferred taxes of the parent and its group companies  were consolidated on line-by-line basis.
Under Ind AS,  deferred taxes are computed for temporary differences  between the carrying amount in the consolidated  balance sheet and its tax base.
Accordingly, deferred  tax on account of undistributed profits of subsidiaries,  associates and joint arrangements, eliminations of  unrealised profits arising on intra group transfers has  been recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
Additionally, the Group also recognised the  consequential deferred tax implications on account of  various GAAP adjustments explained above.
14.
Non-controlling interests    Under previous GAAP , share of non-controlling  interests in the losses of any subsidiary was restricted  to the carrying amount of non-controlling interests  in respective subsidiary and any excess losses are  allocated to the owners of the Parent.
Under Ind AS,  share in any such excess losses in the respective  subsidiary is allocated to non-controlling interests.
On  transition date, the Group has allocated the share in  accumulated losses in respective subsidiaries with the  corresponding impact being recognised in equity.
Additionally, the Group also recognised the  consequential non-controlling implications on account  of various GAAP adjustments explained above.
IV .
Explanation of material adjustments to  Statement of Cash Flows    There were no material differences between the  statements of cash flows presented under Ind AS  and the Previous GAAP except due to difference in  accounting for joint ventures (Equity Vs.
Proportionate  consolidation) and the definition of Cash and cash  equivalents under these two GAAPs.
268 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures for the year ended March 31, 2017, pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act 2013.
Part A - Subsidiaries  (` Millions) S.  No.
Name of the Subsidiary  Note  Date on which subsidiary was acquired  Country of Registration Reporting Currency  Reporting Period Financial Year End Exchange  Rate as of  March 31,  2017  Share  Capital Reserves   T otal  Assets   T otal  Liabilities  Investments* T urnover  Profit/  (Loss)  Before  T axation  Provision  for   T axation   Profit/  (Loss)  After  T axation  Proposed  Dividend   Capital  Expenditure  during the  reporting  period #   Community  Contribution  ^  % of  shareholding 1 Airtel Payments Bank Limited  a, i April 1, 2010 India INR Apr '16 to Mar '17 March 31, 2017  1.000  9,944  (5,018)  8,811  3,885  -    264  (2,443)  -    (2,443)  -    19  -   80.10% 2 Bangladesh Infratel Networks Limited  e June 26, 2011 Bangladesh BDT Apr '16 to Mar '17 March 31, 2017  0.807  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 3 Bharti Airtel (France) SAS  b June 9, 2010 France EUR Apr '16 to Mar '17 March 31, 2017  69.344  1  160  924  763  -    756  91  30 61  -    149  -   100% 4 Bharti Airtel (Hongkong) Limited  b October 12, 2006 Hongkong HKD Apr '16 to Mar '17 March 31, 2017  8.348  41  (163)  410  532  -    529  78  13  65  -    13  -   100% 5 Bharti Airtel (Japan) Kabushiki Kaisha  b, d April 5, 2010 Japan JPY Apr '16 to Mar '17 March 31, 2017  0.582  0  0  0  0  -    0  0  0  0  -    -    -   100% 6 Bharti Airtel Services Limited  b March 26, 2001 India INR Apr '16 to Mar '17 March 31, 2017  1.000  1  (1,010)  4,122  5,131  -    5,587  10  2  8  -    306  -   100% 7 Bharti Airtel (UK) Limited  b August 29, 2006 United Kingdom GBP Apr '16 to Mar '17 March 31, 2017  81.208  27  451  2,701  2,223  -    18,471  146  26 120  -    46  -   100% 8 Bharti Airtel (USA) Limited  b September 12, 2006 United States of America USD Apr '16 to Mar '17 March 31, 2017  64.850  0  453  1,400  947  -    1,685  330  93  237  -    54  -   100% 9 Bharti International (Singapore) Pte Ltd  b March 18, 2010 Singapore USD Apr '16 to Mar '17 March 31, 2017  64.850  127,347  (112,697)  34,857  20,207  -    5,507  (123,030)  384  (123,414)  -    386  -   100% 10 Bharti Airtel International (Mauritius) Limited  b April 6, 2010 Mauritius INR Apr '16 to Mar '17 March 31, 2017  1.000  222,342  (207,086)  15,257  1  -    2  (207,117)  -    (207,117)  -    -    -   100% 11 Bharti Airtel Lanka (Private) Limited  b March 29, 2007 Sri Lanka LKR Apr '16 to Mar '17 March 31, 2017  0.426  13,531  (20,016)  6,448  12,933  -    3,838  (2,463)  20  (2,483)  -    1,613  -   100% 12 Bharti Hexacom Limited  b May 18, 2004 India INR Apr '16 to Mar '17 March 31, 2017  1.000  2,500  64,328  96,141  29,313  -    51,255  9,795  3,194  6,601  818  52,598  100 70% 13 Indo T eleports Limited  b, h March 4, 2009 India INR Apr '16 to Mar '17 March 31, 2017  1.000  230  (679)  422  871  -    317  (90)  -    (90)  -    18  -   95% 14 Bharti Infratel Lanka (Private) Limited  e March 4, 2008 Sri Lanka LKR Apr '16 to Mar '17 March 31, 2017  0.426  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 15 Bharti Infratel Limited  a November 30, 2006 India INR Apr '16 to Mar '17 March 31, 2017  1.000  18,496  143,875  212,844  50,473  60,419  604,878  33,357  6,307  27,050  8,905  9,897  274 61.68% 16 Smatrx Services Limited  a September 21, 2015 India INR Apr '16 to Mar '17 March 31, 2017  1.000  30  0  31  1  -    -    0  0  (0)  -    -    -   61.68% 17 Bharti T elemedia Limited  b June 5, 2007 India INR Apr '16 to Mar '17 March 31, 2017  1.000  5,102  (32,929)  23,222  51,049  -    34,306  1,315  -    1,315  -    9,361  -   95% 18 Network i2i Limited  b September 28, 2007 Mauritius USD Apr '16 to Mar '17 March 31, 2017  64.850  53,010  23,425  90,191  13,756  -    4,554  3,111  110  3,001  -    1,392  -   100% 19 T elesonic Networks Limited  b February 5, 2013 India INR Apr '16 to Mar '17 March 31, 2017  1.000  892  (544)  3,545  3,197  -    7,380  374  132  242  -    67  -   100% 20 Nxtra Data Limited  b July 2, 2013 India INR Apr '16 to Mar '17 March 31, 2017  1.000  51  (142)  4,231  4,322  4  2,801  (115)  (40)  (75)  -    961  -   100% 21 Wynk Limited  b January 13, 2015 India INR Apr '16 to Mar '17 March 31, 2017  1.000  1  56  764  707  -    1,285  62  21  41  -    110  -   100% 22 Nettle Infrastructure Investments Limited  (formerly known as Nettle Developers Limited)  b March 14, 2017 India INR Apr '16 to Mar '17 March 31, 2017 1.000  1  2,621  70,762  68,140  -    -    2,513  -    2,513  -    -    -   100% 23 Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) B. V .
c March 19, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  153,010 160,456  444,457 130,992  2,910  2,869  7,244  939  6,305  -    -    -   100% 24 Bharti Airtel Africa B. V .
c June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  36  92,884  11,872  (81,048)  -    -    18,651  1  18,650  -    -    -   100% 25 Bharti Airtel Burkina Faso Holdings B. V .
b, d June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  1  45,297  45,411  113  -    -    36,388  -    36,388  -    -    -   100% 26 Bharti Airtel Chad Holdings B. V .
b, d June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  1  933  12,743  11,809  -    -    611  -    611  -    -    -   100% 27 Airtel T chad S.A. b June 8, 2010 Chad XAF Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  613.448  2,939 (7,798)  15,920 20,779  -    8,666  (1,811)  345  (2,156)  -    656  14 100% 28 Bharti Airtel Gabon Holdings B. V .
b, d June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  1  8,670  8,754  83  -    -    418  -    418  -    -    -   100% 29 Airtel Gabon S.A. a June 8, 2010 Gabon XAF Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  613.448  634  (9,173)  10,443  18,982  -    9,173 (3,014)  93  (3,107)  -    1,319  11 90% 30 Bharti Airtel Congo Holdings B. V .
b, d June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  1  6,339  11,987  5,647  -    -    439  -    439  -    -    -   100% 31 Airtel Congo S.A. a June 8, 2010 Congo Brazzavile XAF Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  613.448  550  (8,347)  12,385  20,182  -    11,023  (1,499)  123  (1,622)  -    1,364  2 90% 32 Bharti Airtel RDC Holdings B. V .
b, d June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  1  5,357  57,851  52,493  -    -    2,573  -    2,573  -    -    -   100% 33 Airtel Congo (RDC) S.A. c June 8, 2010 Democratic Republic of Congo CDF Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  1.000  23  (50,471)  30,065  80,513  -    16,195  (12,282)  225  (12,507)  -    4,010  28 98.50% 34 Bharti Airtel Mali Holdings B. V .
b, d June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  1  215  644  428  -    -    (16)  -    (16)  -    -    -   100% 35 Bharti Airtel Kenya Holdings B. V .
b, d June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  1  (2,563)  67,235  69,797  -    -    (68)  -    (68)  -    -    -   100% 36 Bharti Airtel Kenya B. V .
b, d June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  2  (6,217)  61,019  67,234  -    -    (1,006)  -    (1,006)  -    -    -   100% 37 Airtel Networks Kenya Limited a, f June 8, 2010 Kenya KES Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  103.075  15,878  (34,452)  20,866  39,440  -    10,645  (5,084)  -    (5,084)  -    1,944  3 100% 38 Bharti Airtel Malawi Holdings B. V .
b, d June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  1  423  5,951  5,527  -    -    122  -    122  -    -    -   100% 39 Airtel Malawi Limited a June 8, 2010 Malawi MWK Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  724.586  0  442  12,149  11,707  -    6,768  26  62  (36)  -    773  9 100% 40 Bharti Airtel Niger Holdings B. V .
b, d June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  1  10,282  10,329  46  -    -    54  -    54  -    -    -   100% 41 Celtel Niger S.A. a June 8, 2010 Niger XOF Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  613.448  159  4,558  23,056  18,339  -    11,188  4,913  900  4,013  -    3,136  43 90% 42 Airtel Networks Zambia Plc a, g June 8, 2010 Zambia ZMW Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  9.672  7  3,236  16,925  13,682  -    14,198  2,708  1,170  1,538  -    1,903  9 96.36% 43 Bharti Airtel Uganda Holdings B. V .
b, d June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  1  (5,941)  11,171  17,111  -    -    (278)  -    (278)  -    -    -   100% 44 Airtel Uganda Limited ^^ a, f June 8, 2010 Uganda UGS Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  3,615.877  226  (307)  18,750  18,831  -    18,532  1,783  (1,094)  2,877  -    2,869  8 100% 269 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures for the year ended March 31, 2017, pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act 2013.
Part A - Subsidiaries  (` Millions) S.  No.
Name of the Subsidiary  Note  Date on which subsidiary was acquired  Country of Registration Reporting Currency  Reporting Period Financial Year End Exchange  Rate as of  March 31,  2017  Share  Capital Reserves   T otal  Assets   T otal  Liabilities  Investments* T urnover  Profit/  (Loss)  Before  T axation  Provision  for   T axation   Profit/  (Loss)  After  T axation  Proposed  Dividend   Capital  Expenditure  during the  reporting  period #   Community  Contribution  ^  % of  shareholding 45 Bharti Airtel T anzania B. V .
b, d June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  2  (3,223)  32,585  35,806  -    -    1,172  -    1,172  -    -    -   100% 46 Airtel T anzania Limited a June 8, 2010 T anzania TZS Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  2,234.542  1,190  (24,646)  19,187  42,643  -    15,134  (3,583)  42  (3,625)  -    3,310  18 60% 47 Bharti Airtel Madagascar Holdings B. V .
b, d June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  1  (1,156)  14,206  15,361  -    -    (269)  -    (269)  -    -    -   100% 48 Channel Sea Management Company (Mauritius) Limited b, d June 8, 2010 Mauritius USD Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  1.000  1  34  1  (34)  -    -    (3)  -    (3)  -    -    -   100% 49 Bharti Airtel Rwanda Holdings Limited b, d June 8, 2010 Mauritius USD Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  1.000  3  186  142  (47)  -    -    (2)  0  (2)  -    -    -   100% 50 Montana International b, d June 8, 2010 Mauritius USD Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  1.000  0  (12)  3  15  -    -    (1)  -    (1)  -    -    -   100% 51 Airtel Madagascar S.A. c June 8, 2010 Madagascar MGA Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  3,215.780  60  (5,367)  6,192  11,499  -    3,847  (1,673)  300  (1,973)  -    436  2 100% 52 Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings B. V .
c, e June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 53 MSI-Celtel Nigeria Limited c, e June 8, 2010 Nigeria NGN Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  305.974  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 54 Bharti Airtel Nigeria Holdings II B. V .
b, d June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  1  (118)  139,646  139,763  -    -    (1)  -    (1)  -    -    -   100% 55 Bharti Airtel Nigeria B. V .
b, d June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  1  (43,968)  95,865  139,832  -    -    (10,328)  -    (10,328)  -    -    -   100% 56 Bharti Airtel Ghana Holdings B. V .
b, d June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  1  (7,288)  44,452  51,739  -    -    (1,552)  -    (1,552)  -    -    -   100% 57 Airtel Ghana Limited a, f June 8, 2010 Ghana GHS Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  4.326  27,167  (29,105)  10,509  12,447  -    8,340  (3,810)  -    (3,810)  -    2,013  8 99.89% 58 Bharti Airtel Services B. V .
b, d June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  1  320  655  334  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 59 Airtel Networks Limited a June 8, 2010 Nigeria NGN Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  305.974  43  (17,762)  66,198  83,917  -    59,519  (19,674)  943  (20,618)  -    8,956  39 83.25% 60 Bharti Airtel Zambia Holdings B. V .
b, d June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  1  29,006  29,094  86  -     -    647  -    647  -    -    -   100% 61 Airtel Mobile Commerce Limited a June 8, 2010 Malawi MWK Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  724.586  0  (0)  -    -    -    -    (0)  -    (0)  -    -    -   100% 62 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Kenya) Limited a June 8, 2010 Kenya KES Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  103.075  0  -    655  655  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 63 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Ghana) Limited c June 8, 2010 Ghana GHS Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  4.326  75  (403)  776  1,104  -    73  (34)  -    (34)  -    -    -   99.89% 64 Celtel (Mauritius) Holdings Limited b, d June 8, 2010 Mauritius USD Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  1.000  1  2,528  301  (2,228)  -    0  434  64  370  -    -    -   100% 65 Airtel Mobile Commerce Zambia Limited a June 8, 2010 Zambia ZMW Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  9.672  13  (543)  244  774  -    94  (72)  1  (73)  -    -    -   100% 66 Airtel Mobile Commerce T chad S.a.r.l.
a June 8, 2010 Chad XAF Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  613.448  0  0  58  58  -    1  1  (0)  1  -    -    -   100% 67 Airtel Mobile Commerce B. V .
b, d June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  2  (37)  256  291  -    -    (12)  -    (12)  -    -    -   100% 68 Airtel Money S.A. (Gabon) a October 26, 2010 Gabon XAF Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  613.448  1  (303)  1,485  1,787  -    713  127  58  69  -    10  -   100% 69 Malawi T owers Limited a December 15, 2010 Malawi MWK Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  724.586  1  (1,527)  4,279  5,805  -    1,248  (275)  139  (414)  -    181  -   100% 70 Airtel Money Niger S.A. a June 8, 2010 Niger XOF Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  613.448  138  (95)  1,160  1,117  -    88  (94)  1  (95)  -    5  -   90% 71 Société Malgache de T éléphone Cellulaire  S.A. b, d June 8, 2010 Mauritius USD Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  1.000  3  144  162  15  -    -    (2)  -    (2)  -    -    -   100% 72 Airtel Mobile Commerce Holdings B. V .
b, d June 8, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  2  (0)  2  0  -    -    0  -    0  -    -    -   100% 73 Indian Ocean T elecom Limited b, d August 27, 2010 Jersey USD Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  1.000  162  786  955  7  -    -    (0)  -    (0)  -    -    -   100% 74 Airtel (Seychelles) Limited a August 27, 2010 Seychelles SCR Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  13.612  5  307  2,121  1,809  199  1,395  77  52  25  -    253  1 100% 75 Airtel Mobile Commerce (T anzania) Limited a November 11, 2010 T anzania TZS Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  2,234.542  0  -    3,164  3,164  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 76 Airtel Mobile Commerce Uganda Limited a October 7, 2010 Uganda UGS Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  3,615.877  0  -    2,618  2,618  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 77 Africa T owers N. V .
b, d October 5, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  4  (396)  2,352  2,744  -    -    (44)  -    (44)  -    -    -   100% 78 Bharti Airtel DTH Holdings B. V .
b, d September 28, 2010 Netherlands USD Apr'16 to Mar'17 March 31, 2017  1.000  2  (7)  1  6  -    -    (0)  -    (0)  -    -    -   100% 79 Airtel DTH Services Nigeria Limited c, e January 27, 2011 Nigeria NGN Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  305.974  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 80 Madagascar T owers S.A. b March 15, 2011 Madagascar MGA Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  3,215.780  0  394  3,820  3,426  -    1,302  51  81  (30)  -    132  -   100% 81 Mobile Commerce Congo S.A. a June 8, 2010 Congo Brazzavile XAF Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  613.448  1  -    102  101  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 82 T anzania T owers Limited a March 15, 2011 T anzania TZS Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  2,234.542  0  (30)  -    30  -    -    (1)  -    (1)  -    -    -   60% 83 T owers Support Nigeria Limited c, e March 7, 2011 Nigeria NGN Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  305.974  2  (3)  (0)  1  -    -    25  0  25  -    -    -   83.25% 84 Airtel Money (RDC) S.A. a June 8, 2010 Democratic Republic of Congo CDF Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  1,200.000  123  (1,696)  1,578  3,151  -    453  (348)  5  (353)  -    -    -   100% 85 Congo RDC T owers S.A. c April 5, 2011 Democratic Republic of Congo CDF Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  1.000  7  (118)  971  1,082  -    2,587  835  113  722  -    182  -   100% 86 Gabon T owers S.A. a, e May 17, 2011 Gabon XAF Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  613.448  1  (5)  1  5  -    -    (1)  0  (1)  -    -    -   90% 87 Airtel Mobile Commerce Madagascar S.A. b April 5, 2011 Madagascar MGA Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  3,215.780  0  (542)  892  1,434  -    283  (159)  (9)  (150)  -    79  -   100% 88 Airtel Rwanda Limited a September 2, 2011 Rwanda RWF Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  821.629  -    (11,067)  4,978  16,045  -    1,460  (2,992)  -    (2,992)  -    365  4 100% 270 Bharti Airtel Limited Annual Report 2016–17 Salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures for the year ended March 31, 2017, pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act 2013.
Part A - Subsidiaries  (` Millions) S.  No.
Name of the Subsidiary  Note  Date on which subsidiary was acquired  Country of Registration Reporting Currency  Reporting Period Financial Year End Exchange  Rate as of  March 31,  2017  Share  Capital Reserves   T otal  Assets   T otal  Liabilities  Investments* T urnover  Profit/  (Loss)  Before  T axation  Provision  for   T axation   Profit/  (Loss)  After  T axation  Proposed  Dividend   Capital  Expenditure  during the  reporting  period #   Community  Contribution  ^  % of  shareholding 89 Africa T owers Services Limited c, e September 8, 2011 Kenya KES Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  103.075  0  1  9  8  -    -    44  12  32  -    -    -   100% 90 Airtel Mobile Commerce Rwanda Limited a February 22, 2013 Rwanda RWF Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  821.629  1  -    113  112  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100% 91 Airtel Mobile Commerce (Seychelles) Limited b August 9, 2013 Seychelles SCR Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016  13.612  5  (31)  11  37  -    0  (5)  -    (5)  -    -    -   100% 92 Airtel Money T anzania Limited b June 10, 2016 T anzania TZS Jan'16 to Dec'16 December 31, 2016 2,234.542  0  (0)  0  0  -    -    (0)  -    (0)  -    -    -   60% * Investments exclude investments in subsidiaries.
# Voluntary disclosure.
^ Financial information has been extracted from the submission considered for the purpose of consolidated audited Ind AS financial statements.
^^ During the year, Warid T elecom Uganda Limited has been merged with Airtel Uganda Limited.
Notes:     a) It is basis audited standalone financial statements.
b) It is basis unaudited standalone financial statements.
c) It is basis financial information considered for the purpose of consolidated audited Ind AS financial statements.
d)   The financial statements for these entities are not required to be prepared as per the local laws of the countries where they are incorporated     e)   Subsidiaries are under liquidation.
f)  Share capital includes preference share capital.
g)  Proposed dividend includes dividend distribution tax.
h)  Indo T eleports Limited (formerly known as Bharti T eleports Limited) became subsidiary of Bharti Airtel Limited w.e.f.
August 27, 2015   Subsidiaries yet to commence operations     1 Partnership investment Sprl    2 Bharti Airtel Developers Forum Limited    3 Zap Trust Company Nigeria Limited    4 Airtel Money Transfer Limited       Subsidiaries have been liquidated / sold during the year     1 Airtel (SL) Limited    2 Airtel Burkina Faso S.A.    3 Airtel Mobile Commerce (SL) Limited    4 Airtel Mobile Commerce Burkina Faso S.A.    5 Bharti Airtel Sierra Leone Holdings B. V .
6 Airtel DTH Services (SL) Limited    7 Airtel T owers (Ghana) Limited    8 Airtel T owers (SL) Company Limited    9 Congo T owers S.A.    10 T chad T owers S.A.    11 Airtel Bangladesh Limited     12 Bharti Airtel Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd (merged with Bharti International (Singapore) Pte Ltd w.e.f.
July 15, 2016)       13 Bharti Infratel Services Limited    Others     1 The figures which are appearing as ‘0’ are result of rounding off.
2 Augere Wireless Broadband India Private Limited became subsidiary of the Company w.e.f.
June 7, 2016.
Further, on February 15, 2017 it was merged with the Company.
271 Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Statement Pursuant to Section 129 of the Companies Act, 2013 relating to subsidiary companies for the year ended March 31, 2016 Part B - Associates and Joint Ventures  (` Millions) S.  No.
Name of the Associate / Joint Venture Date on which  Associate / Joint  Venture was  acquired Latest Audited  Balance Sheet  Date Share of Associates / Joint Ventures  held by the company as of   March 31, 2017 Description  of how there  is significant  influence Net Worth  attributable  to  shareholders  as per latest  audited  Balance  Sheet Profit/Loss for the year ended  March 31, 2017 Number of  shares Amount of  Investment in  Associate /  Joint Venture Extent of  holding  % Considered in  consolidation Not  Considered in  consolidation 1 Bridge Mobile Pte Limited November 3,  2004 March 31, 2017  800,000  34 10% % of share capital  514  9  -    2 Indus T owers Limited* December 7,  2007 March 31, 2017  500,504  60,419 22.91% % of share capital  132,165  11,949  -    3 FireFly Networks Limited February 4, 2014 March 31, 2017  1,000,000  10 50% % of share capital  (1)  -    2  4 Robi Axiata Limited November 16,  2016 December 31,  2016 1,178,535,001 24,847 25% % of share capital 56,041 (1,233)  -    5 Seynse T echnologies Private Limited February 21,  2017 March 31, 2017  6,824  249 22.54% % of share capital  321  (1)  -    6 Seychelles Cable Systems Company Limited**June 8, 2010 March 31, 2017  260  199 26% % of share capital (197)  -    (46) * Profits/losses considered for consolidation is based on direct shareholding of Bharti Infratel Limited as against effective shareholding of the Company.
** It is basis financial information considered for the purpose of consolidated audited Ind AS financial statements.Notes:       Amount of investment in joint venture/associate is based on the carrying value of investments in the standalone financial statements of venturer/investor.
Associate that is no more held as of March 31, 2017:- 1.
T anzania T elecommunications Company Limited For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Bharti Airtel Limited Sunil Bharti Mittal Gopal Vittal Nilanjan Roy Chairman DIN: 00042491 Managing Director & CEO (India & South Asia)DIN: 02291778 Global Chief Financial Officer Notes Circle Offices Haryana, Punjab,  Himachal and J&K Plot No.
21, Rajiv Gandhi  Chandigarh T echnology Park,  Chandigarh - 160101 Karnataka 55, Divyasree T owers,  Bannerghatta Main Road,  Bengaluru - 560029,  Karnataka  Kerala & T amil Nadu Oceanic T ower,   101, Santhome High Road,  Santhome, Chennai - 600028,  T amil Nadu   Maharashtra & Goa Vega Centre, A - Building,   2nd Floor, Shankarsheth Road,  Next to Income tax office  Swargate, Pune - 411037,  Maharashtra Madhya Pradesh &  Chhattisgarh 3rd & 4th Floor, Scheme No.
54,  Metro T ower, AB Road,   Indore - 452010,  Madhya Pradesh  Andhra Pradesh Splendid T owers,  Opp.
Begumpet Police Station,  Begumpet,   Hyderabad- 500016,  T elangana  Assam & North East States Bharti House, Six Mile,  Khanapara, G.S.
Road,  Guwahati - 781022,  Assam Bihar & Jharkhand Airtel Campus, Plot No-18,  Patliputra Industrial Area,  Patna - 800013,   Bihar Delhi NCR Plot No.
16, NH-8   Udyog Vihar, Phase-IV ,  Gurgaon - 122015,  Haryana  Gujarat 2nd & 4th Floor, Zodiac Square,  S G Road, Opp.
Gurudwara,  Ahmedabad - 380054,  Gujarat  Mumbai 6th & 7th Floor,  Interface Building No.
7,  Mindspace, Malad Link Road,  Malad (W), Mumbai - 400064,  Maharashtra Uttar Pradesh &  Uttaranchal TCG - 7/7 Vibhuti Khand,  Gomti Nagar,   Lucknow - 226010,  Uttar Pradesh West Bengal & Odisha Infinity Building,  Salt Lake Electronics Complex,  Block GP , Sector V ,  Kolkata - 700091,  West Bengal Rajasthan K-21, Sunny House, Malviya Marg, C-Scheme, Jaipur - 302001, Rajasthan Registered & Corporate Office Bharti Airtel Limited  Bharti Crescent, 1, Nelson Mandela Road,  Vasant Kunj, Phase II, New Delhi - 110 070, India.
CIN No.
: L74899DL1995PLC070609  T elephone No.
: +91 11 46666100  Fax No.
: +91 11 46666137  Email: compliance.officer@bharti.in Website: www.airtel.com