Be Transformed                    Annual Report                             2017-18 Wipro Limited  Doddakannelli, Sarjapur Road, Bengaluru - 560035, India CIN: L32102KA1945PLC020800 | Email: info@wipro.com wipro.com  Certain statements in this annual report concerning our future growth prospects are forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks,  and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in such forward-looking statements.
The risks and uncertainties  relating to these statements include, but are not limited to, risks and uncertainties regarding fluctuations in our earnings, revenue and profits, our  ability to generate and manage growth, intense competition in IT services, our ability to maintain our cost advantage, wage increases in India, our  ability to attract and retain highly skilled professionals, time and cost overruns on fixed-price, fixed time-frame contracts, client concentration,  restrictions on immigration, our ability to manage our international operations, reduced demand for technology in our key focus areas, disruptions in  telecommunication networks, our ability to successfully complete and integrate potential acquisitions, liability for damages on our service contracts,  the success of the companies in which we make strategic investments, withdrawal of fiscal governmental incentives, political instability, war, legal  restrictions on raising capital or acquiring companies outside India, unauthorized use of our intellectual property, and general economic conditions  affecting our business and industry.
Additional risks that could affect our future operating results are more fully described in our filings with the United  States Securities and Exchange Commission.
These filings are available at www.sec.gov.
We may, from time to time, make additional written and oral  forward-looking statements, including statements contained in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and our reports to  shareholders.
We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made from time to time by us or on our behalf.
Index Overview of the report     01 About Wipro     02 Be Transformed 03 Key performance highlights   04                 Sustainability highlights   06                 Chairman’s letter to the stakeholders    08 CEO’s letter to the stakeholders  10 Board of Directors    12  Management discussion and analysis 14 Industry Overview   14 Business Overview   14 Business Strategy    15 Business Model    19 Good Governance and Management Practices  23 Capitals and Value Creation   25 Financial Capital   26 Human Capital   33 Intellectual Capital   39 Social and Relationship Capital  40 Natural Capital   47 Board’s Report              56 Corporate Governance Report   101 Financial Statements  Standalone Financial Statements  under Ind AS  120 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS      183  Consolidated Financial Statements  under IFRS  254 Business Responsibility Report  309 Glossary   319 Board of Directors Azim H Premji – Chairman Abidali Z Neemuchwala Rishad Premji Narayanan Vaghul Dr. Ashok S Ganguly William Arthur Owens M K Sharma Ireena Vittal Dr. Patrick J Ennis Patrick Dupuis  Chief Financial Officer Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal Statutory Auditors Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Auditors- IFRS Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Company Secretary M Sanaulla Khan Depository for American Depository Shares J.P .
Morgan Chase Bank N.A.
Registrar and Share Transfer Agents Karvy Computershare Pvt.
Ltd.
Registered & Corporate Office Wipro Limited Doddakannelli, Sarjapur Road Bengaluru – 560 035, India Ph: +91 (80) 28440011 Fax: +91 (80) 28440054 Website: wipro.com      Corporate information 1 Annual Report 2017-18     Overview of the report Welcome to our third Integrated Report This is our third annual report aligned to the principles of  International Integrated Reporting Framework (referred to  as <IR> framework) developed by the International Integrated  Reporting Council (IIRC).
The 2017-18 annual report is aligned to GRI * Standards  required by Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of Global  Reporting Initiative (GRI) and Business Responsibility Report  (BRR) requirements.
The Natural Capital section, of this  report, includes the recommendations set out by the Task  Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and CDSB  (Climate Disclosures Standards Board) framework.
The report complies with financial and statutory data  requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 (including the  Rules made thereunder and Accounting Standards), the  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations  and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and the  Secretarial Standards.
The topics covered in the report were identified through  an internal materiality determination exercise, external  benchmarking with peers and sustainability raters as  well as frameworks like the Sustainability Accounting  Standard Board (SASB).
At Wipro, stakeholder engagement  is an ongoing process.
Identifying and understanding  stakeholders, their priorities and engaging with them is  key to materiality determination.
The report incorporates  financial and non-financial information – governance,  environmental and social – in a manner that can help  stakeholders understands how a company creates and  sustains value over the long term.
*Link to GRI Index and additional graph sheet:  http:/ /wiprosustainabilityreport.com/17-18/AR-supportings Wipro Limited 2     Be Transformed    About Wipro Spirit of Wipro Be passionate about clients’ success Treat each person with respect Be global and responsible Unyielding integrity in everything we do Wipro Limited (NYSE: WIT, BSE: 507685, NSE: WIPRO) is  a leading global information technology, consulting and  business process services company.
We harness the power  of cognitive computing, hyper-automation, robotics, cloud,  analytics and emerging technologies to help our clients  adapt to the digital world and make them successful.
A  company recognized globally for its comprehensive portfolio  of services, strong commitment to sustainability and good  corporate citizenship, we have over 160,000 dedicated  employees serving clients across six continents.
Together,  we discover ideas and connect the dots to build a better and  a bold new future.
We began our business as a vegetable oil manufacturer  in 1945 at Amalner, a small town in Western India and  thereafter, forayed into soaps and other consumer care  products.
During the early 1980s, we entered the Indian IT  industry by manufacturing and selling mini computers.
In the  1990s, we leveraged our hardware R&D design and software  development expertise and began offering software  services to global clients.
In 2013, we demerged the non-IT  Diversified Businesses.
With a track record of over 25 years  in IT Services, we are, today, focused entirely on the global  Information Technology business.
Wipro is listed on National  Stock Exchange and Bombay Stock Exchange in India and  New York Stock Exchange in the U.S.A. For more information, please visit wipro.com Values The Spirit of Wipro is the core of Wipro.
These are our Values.
It is about who we are.
It is our character.
It is reflected  consistently in all our behavior.
The Spirit is deeply rooted in  the unchanging essence of Wipro.
It also embraces what we  must aspire to be.
It is the indivisible synthesis of the four  values.
The Spirit is a beacon.
It is what gives us direction  and a clear sense of purpose.
It energizes us and is the  touchstone for all that we do.
Be passionate about clients’ success.
We succeed when  we make our clients successful.
We collaborate to sharpen  our insights and amplify this success.
We execute with  excellence.
Always.
We treat every human being with respect.
We nurture  an open environment where people are encouraged to  learn, share and grow.
We embrace diversity of thought, of  cultures, and of people.
We will be global in our thinking and our actions.
We are  responsible citizens of the world.
We are energized by the  deep connectedness between people, ideas, communities  and the environment.
Integrity is our core and is the basis of everything.
It is  about following the law, but it’s more.
It is about delivering  on our commitments.
It is about honesty and fairness in  action.
It is about being ethical beyond any doubt, in the  toughest of circumstances.
3 Annual Report 2017-18     Be Transformed Transformation leading the way In today’s world, when rapid change is the order of the day  in all spheres of life, technology is not just an outcome of a  strategic planning exercise, it is the new strategy!
Or at least,  a big part of it.
For the foreseeable future, no other choices  will matter to the future of a company, as much as the new  technologies it adopts and the pace at which it accelerates  its transformation using these technologies.
For any  industry today, the future business models and value chains  are much less predictable than they used to be, but they are  certainly inventible, through constant experimentation, fail- fast mindsets and being open to innovative ideas, wherever  they come from.
Reinvention is not just about serving your existing customers  through digital channels, experiences and transactions, it is  also about serving entirely new customers in entirely new  markets.
As incumbents in every market – from publishing  to advertising to automobiles to banking have found out,  there are few barriers to entry in any market.
If anything,  “outsiders” who move fast, and disrupt convention have a  better chance of success, because it’s easier to run when  you are not carrying any baggage.
And the baggage doesn’t  have to be outdated infrastructure or processes, it can be  cultural baggage too, which comes in the shape of outmoded  ways of thinking and working.
It is hard to imagine any business or brand that can afford  to be complacent about customer loyalty, and the leaders  in every industry are taking charge of their own destinies  by experimenting furiously with new business models that  leverage data, experience, platforms and ecosystems.
More  than anything else, leaders are setting solid foundations by  modernizing their technology landscape and reinventing  culture, mindset and talent strategies.
We have made it our obsession to help our clients’  businesses adapt and modernize to be future ready, because  no disruption announces itself ahead of time.
We are  empowering our clients to lower the cost of experimentation  and failure, so they can pivot like a start-up and scale like an  enterprise.
We are helping them not just with the adoption  of technologies like cloud, AI or blockchain, but also  working with them to adopt new ways of working, in the IT  organization and beyond.
Our own transformation journey has been a rich and rewarding  experience and a deep source of learning to succeed in  the brave new world.
We began by transforming ourselves  along four dimensions – reskilling, reorientation or new  ways of working, culture, and processes and systems, with  digitization as our central guiding principle.
Today, Wipro’s  employees are fast learning to be digital in their mindset,  in every aspect of the way we work.
Our deep investments  in Wipro HOLMES TM Artificial Intelligence Platform (Wipro  HOLMES), our acquisition of the crowdsourcing platform  Topcoder, and our expanding innovation ecosystem of start- up investments are beginning to make a transformative  impact on our engagements.
Our Digital revenue continues  to grow, and accounts for more than a fourth of our revenue  now.
Our teams are lean and agile, bringing a collaborative  and experimentation mindset to their way of working –  heralding the new work culture that is inspiring even our  client organizations to evolve faster.
We have reoriented  our service with a renewed, sharper focus on client themes.
The new ecosystem transcends traditional silos, and fosters  collaboration, experimentation and innovation.
We continue delivering productivity through automation by  deploying Wipro HOLMES in driving business transformation  in our clients and it’s gratifying to see the impact.
While the fundamental economics of industries are changing,  customer focus remains the nucleus of any strategy.
There  can be no better guarantee of our own success than making  our customers successful in what they do.
We are inspired by  the vision of our customers and excited to partner with them,  as they undergo their transformational journeys, to create  enduring success in these dynamic times.
Wipro Limited 4  1,248 Active customers 98.6% Revenue  from existing customers 24,000 tons of CO2 eq.
GHG emissions reduced YoY 187 million liters of freshwater  consumption reduced YoY  Biodiversity  Completed in 2 campuses  2 more planned  35%  Women employees  442  Persons with disabilities 163,827 Total employees 110+  Nationalities  72.2%  Gross utilization 65%  Onsite personnel - locals     Key performance highlights     Human     Capital `3,041 million  R&D expenses  404 Patents filed  in FY 2018 380 Patents granted  till date 4 Investments  in startups in FY  2018 2000+ Patents filed till date    Intellectual    Capital    Social and    Relationship    Capital  `1,866 million  CSR spend 150+  Community partners  486 bps á in  Net Promoter Score YoY     Natural     Capital Community Water Programs  3 projects across 2 cities Supporting 2 forums on urban sustainability  5 Annual Report 2017-18 Financial Highlights @ Revenue is aggregate revenue for the purpose of segment reporting including the impact of exchange rate fluctuations * Profit for the year ended March 31, 2018 is after considering the insolvency of two customers and impairment loss totalling to `5,255 million ** EPS adjusted for the years prior to the bonus issue (Bonus issue in the proportion of 1:1 was approved by the shareholders in June 2017) # Number of share holders represent holders of equity shares (does not include holders of ADRs) ## Market price of shares is based on closing price in NSE as on March 31 of respective years and has been adjusted for bonus issue in 2017 Financial performance 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Revenue@ 437,628 473,182 516,307 554,179 546,359 Profit before Depreciation, Amortization, Interest  and Tax 100,460 108,246 111,825 116,986 105,418 Depreciation and Amortization 11,106 12,823 14,965 23,107 21,124 Profit before Interest and Tax* 89,354 95,423 96,860 93,879 84,294 Profit before Tax* 101,005 111,683 114,933 110,356 102,474 Tax 22,600 24,624 25,366 25,213 22,390 Profit after Tax -  attributable to equity holders* 77,967 86,528 89,075 84,895 80,081 Per share data Earnings Per Share- Basic (`)** 15.88 17.63 18.13 17.48 16.86 Earnings Per Share- Diluted (`)** 15.83 17.57 18.09 17.43 16.83 Financial position Share Capital 4,932 4,937 4,941 4,861 9,048 Net Worth 344,886 409,628 467,384 522,695 485,346 Gross cash (A) 187,258 251,048 303,293 344,740 294,019 Total Debt (B) 51,592 78,913 125,221 142,412 138,259 Net Cash (A-B) 135,666 172,135 178,072 202,328 155,760 Property, Plant and Equipment (C) 51,449 54,206 64,952 69,794 64,443 Intangible Assets (D) 1,936 7,931 15,841 15,922 18,113 Property, Plant and Equipment and  Intangible Assets (C+D) 53,385 62,137 80,793 85,716 82,556 Goodwill 63,422 68,078 101,991 125,796 117,584 Net Current Assets 218,534 272,463 284,264 309,355 292,649 Capital Employed 396,478 488,538 592,605 665,107 623,605 Shareholding related Number of Shareholders# 210,471 213,588 227,369 241,154 269,694 Market Price Per Share (`)## 271.60 314.43 282.13 257.85 281.15  (Figures in ` million except otherwise stated)     Financial     Capital Wipro Limited 6     Sustainability highlights A Sustainable, Empowering Workplace 90,000+ employees trained in digital skills as of FY 2018  52,000+ employees are using TopGear, a social  learning and crowdsourcing platform to learn  emerging technologies 136,000+ employees, contractors and service  providers trained in Health & Safety Recognitions Association for Talent Development (ATD) – Best of  Best Award for FY 2017 Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM)  India HR Excellence Awards 2017- Excellence in  Diversity and Inclusion - Winner Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM)  India HR Excellence Awards 2017 - Excellence in HR  Analytics - Winner United Nations Global Compact Network India (UN GCN)  – Women at Workplace Awards 2018 – 2nd  Runner Up Focus pillars of inclusion - Gender, Persons with  Disabilities, Nationalities, LGBT, Underprivileged  Communities and Suppliers 73.6% overall engagement score in the Employee  Perception Survey (EPS 2017) – an increase of 12.5  percentage points compared to EPS 2015 Inclusion & Diversity and Health & Safety – Highest  rated engagement drivers in EPS 2017 100,000+ employees on collaborative social platforms  like Yammer and Microsoft Teams  8 Wipro locations equipped with Day Care Centres Energy & Emissions Ecological Sustainability Over 14% reduction in global people based emissions  intensity to 1.2 tons per person per annum 33% (92 million units) of our total India Energy Consumption  comes from Renewable Energy (RE).
Our RE target for next  year is 95 million units.
70% increase in energy saving due to server virtualization  from last year 5.5% reduction in air travel footprint (in terms of both  distance and emissions) compared to 2016-17 and nearly  24% reduction since 2015-16 Engagement GHG Intensity for office  energy consumption Kg CO 2  eq per sq.
meter per annum Energy Intensity KwH per sq.
meter per annum 185 120 180 110 175 100 170 90 2016-17 2016-172017-18 2017-18 181 111 174 101 11.5% reduction in water consumption  to 991 liters per employee  41% of water recycled in 2017-18 compared to  38% in 2016-17 Participative urban water programs  in Bengaluru & Pune 13 sustainability seeding fellows on boarded  till date Completed third campus biodiversity  retrofit project - Wetland Park  in Bengaluru Campus Biodiversity & Water  7 Annual Report 2017-18 Recognitions Beyond the Boundary  Education & Community care  Member of Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), World  for the eighth time in a row  Member of Vigeo Eiris Emerging Market Sustainability Index  (comprises of the 70 most advanced companies in the  Emerging Market Region) Named as 2018 World’s Most Ethical Company  for the 7th successive year by the Ethisphere Institute National Intellectual Property (IP) Award 2018 in the category  “Top Public Limited Company/Private Limited Company  for Patents & Commercialization in India” and the World  Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) Enterprise Trophy Recogonised among India’s most innovative companies by  CII Industrial Innovation Awards 2017 Wipro’s Next Generation Customer Experience (NGCE)  platform won the “Best Innovation Practices for Science and  Technology Service Industry in China” award Runner-up in the category “Excellence in procurement -  sustainability” at the CPO Forum India 2017 awards Customer Stewardship Ecovadis-CSR rating of Gold Sustainability assessment led by customers  Verego-“Best in Class” across all the 5 areas (Leadership,  Ethics, People, Community and Environment) and  designated Wipro as a “CSR Thought Leader” Sustainability award in the software category at the  Quest Forum’s service providers and suppliers summit Engagement with Suppliers  4x increase in procurement of EPEAT certified  hardware products  Gender diversity for suppliers staff at our  facilities is 25% Wipro Science Education  Fellowship Program in U.S.A Commitment to train over 200 teachers in schools serving  disadvantaged communities across 30 districts, fostering leadership  and teaching excellence in STEM education Anchored by University of Massachusetts Added 3 new sites & partnered with 3 new universities School Education Sustainability Education Partnered with 100+ organizations  in areas of systemic reforms Participation from 1,254 schools  across 29 states and 43 districts Supporting 17 new organizations  through seeding fellowships &  15 through grants Faculty led research and  doctoral fellowships on  sustainability with IIM-B Over 100 participants attended  the 17th Partner’s Forum  on school education MOU’s with IIM-A, ICT Mumbai  and CEPT Ahmedabad to develop  sustainability pedagogy tools 6 sustainability quizzes conducted  with 940 participants from 470  teams Nearly 68,000 children from underprivileged  communities benefit from our 22 education  projects in eight states Education for Children with Disability program supports  the educational and rehabilitative needs of 2,600  underprivileged children with disabilities, through  14 projects in six states Over 40,000 people are getting access to primary  healthcare through 4 projects Project in urban solid waste management  in Bengaluru provides social, nutritional and  health security to nearly 8,000 workers in  the informal sector Community Wipro Limited 8 Stakeholder Value Our capital allocation philosophy has remained unchanged  as we continue to keep long term value enhancement for our  investors at the center of our pursuits through regular return  of capital.
I had mentioned in my last letter that the Board was  considering a proposal to buyback equity shares of the  company.
In July 2017, we announced a buyback amounting  to `110,000 million.
We also declared an interim dividend  amounting to `5,420 million in January, 2018.
The value creation of an enterprise extends beyond financial  capital.
As more and more educated people become part  of the organized workforce across the world, issues like  sustainability and climate change have become everybody’s  business.
For us at Wipro, creating value across social, natural,  intellectual and human capital is central to our existence.
Till last year, we have trained more than 90,000 of our  employees in Digital technologies, thereby enhancing the  intellectual and human capital of society.
Our work in school  education, community care and ecology, helps enhance the  social and natural capital across various spheres of life.
Last  year, we reduced our office space emissions by 20% and  now use renewable energy for more than a third of our total  energy requirements.
We also saved nearly 187 million liters  of freshwater last year, to make our small contribution to the  community’s natural capital.
In the current dynamic environment, we are often trapped  by false choices.
Through my years in Wipro, I have learnt  that not getting trapped by these choices is at the heart of  enduring success.
Let me share three such examples: • Old and new: Do we have to shed what is old to become  new?
This choice is often also thought of as choosing  between the past and the future.
It is far more effective  if we are both, old and new.
We must retain the strengths  and learnings of the past, as we embrace the future by  developing new capacities and innovative approaches.
Chairman’s letter     to the stakeholders Dear Stakeholders, The calendar year 2017 saw most of the large global  economies do better than in the last few years, while  developments in technology continued picking pace.
Organizations are becoming nimbler by the day and are  embracing these developments, not just to keep their  businesses relevant but also to transform their customer  experience.
Partnering with our clients in this transformative  journey enabled our IT Services Revenue to grow 4.6% in  fiscal 2018.
In my earlier letters, I have talked about the way Digital is  being embraced by enterprises, consumers and IT services  firms.
While the pace of adoption is unprecedented, it is  on expected lines, with ‘customer experience’ becoming  a central theme for all organizations.
Digital emphasizes  upon ‘how’ technology reaches the end customer rather  than ‘which’ technology.
Both, enterprise mindsets and  business models are undergoing a paradigm shift where  the key scarce resource is no longer financial capital, but  intellectual capital.
One’s own ability to adapt to the new  and agile way of conducting business has become the key  differentiator.
We at Wipro are seeing our early investments in disruptive  technologies increasingly result in successful outcomes  with clients and markets, which are early adopters of such  new age technologies.
This journey has only just started  and we are continually calibrating and aligning ourselves to  make our clients successful and be at the forefront of what  our industry can offer.
Spirit of Wipro In this journey, the Spirit of Wipro continues to guide us  as we walk with our clients to partner with them on their  transformational journeys.
It keeps us alert, aware of and  aligned to our core values, and enables us to deal with a  multitude of situations in a uniform Wipro-like manner,  while we ensure the success of our clients, employees and  other stakeholders in a social and responsible manner.
9 Annual Report 2017-18 • Business and Society: Sustained long term success  in business will happen only if the business  contributes positively to society.
This contribution  is at many levels.
At the core is the basic matter  that our business activity must create value for  society.
It is about acting responsibly towards the  environment and contributing to our communities.
• Means and ends: Do we choose ends over means, pursue  success however it comes?
This is the classic false  choice.
Means and ends are exactly equally important.
We must achieve our ends without ever compromising  on the means.
As a company, our pursuit to make an impact in all walks  of life continues unabated, and I want to thank you all - our  clients, our employees, our partners and our stakeholders,  for continuing to repose your trust in us.
This is our driving  force and makes us want to do our best in these exciting  times.
Very Sincerely, Azim Premji Wipro Limited 10     CEO’s letter     to the stakeholders Dear Stakeholders, Ability to learn and change has arguably become the  most important differentiator in today’s business as each  organization treads through its own journey to be transformed.
Keeping this very principle in mind, we embarked upon our  own journey transforming the way we operated and the way  we invested into the future.
We focused heavily on our client  servicing, reinvented our delivery and made investments in  new age technologies and partnerships.
This has helped us  create a solid organizational foundation as a partner of the  future for our clients.
We are encouraged by the initial outcomes of our efforts.
In  this fiscal year, we grew 14.1% in BFSI, which has been an  early adopter of new technologies like Digital, a reflection  of our decision to make early and sound investments in  building our digital capabilities.
Our Digital business grew  27.3% year on year.
Our acquisitions like Designit, Appirio  and Cooper are shaping up well and consistently proving to  be key differentiators for us in the marketplace.
However, we have also taken some challenges in our  stride during the last fiscal year which created a bump in  our momentum of increasing revenue growth.
Two of our  clients declared bankruptcy which reduced our operating  margins by 236 bps and 109  bps in Q3 and Q4 respectively.
Also, the legislative challenges around the Affordable  Healthcare Act in the United States have had an impact  on our Health Plan Services business which has continued  to see a steep decline, offsetting 1.0% of our full year  growth.
While this loss of momentum is disappointing, I  am happy with the foundational improvements that we  have seen during the year.
I am happy with the strength in  our client mining, leadership in Digital and progress in our   AI/automation journey.
We continue to relentlessly focus on our strategy which is  about helping our clients navigate to a Digital future (‘Enable  the future’) while driving hyper-efficiencies in their ’Run’  operations (‘Modernize the core’) through a comprehensive  and integrated portfolio of services.
I am sharing with you an update on how we have been  executing our strategy across the key strategic themes that  we have outlined.
Digital & Consulting Digital continues to scale new heights and is invariably at  the forefront of our client relationships; whether we are  helping our clients determine and solve their problems  or we are bringing aspects like Artificial Intelligence and  Machine Learning to execute our projects better.
Our Digital  value chain, which includes our consulting arm, as well as  our connected customer experience practice, enables us to  bring our differentiated value proposition, including advisory,  design and technology, to drive digital transformation  delivering immense business value to our clients.
As a result,  our Digital eco-system grew from 22.1% of revenue in Q4  last year to 26.7% of revenue in Q4 this year.
In FY 2018, our  Consulting business grew 26.0% and constituted 6.3% of  our revenue.
Integrated Solutions & Client Mining We are taking proactive ideas to our clients combining  their context and our investments, to enable our clients to  transform.
This is done through the SMART program, and  all our key clients continue to repose their trust in us, with  growth in our client metrics like our Net Promoter Scores  (NPS), which improved 486 basis points in FY 2018 over FY  2017.
Our top ten clients grew 8.8% for the year and we  added 5 clients in the >50 million bucket.
We exited the year  with 2 clients having a revenue run rate over $250 million in  the fourth quarter.
Process & IT estate Modernization  This strategy is about demystifying the complex processes  and technology landscape of our clients.
We are driving this  through consolidation, elimination, hyper-automation and  cloudification of the client landscape, leverage distributed  agile ways of working and microservices, and cloud based  architecture to deliver simplification, speed and productivity  benefits.
Our Wipro HOLMES platform, not only helps  us improve our delivery productivity, but also leverages  Robotic Process Automation (RPA) partnerships and  cognitive capabilities for us to dramatically improve the user  experience for our clients and their customers.
In FY 2018,  Wipro HOLMES has generated 8,000 people-equivalent  productivity across 300+ clients.
11 Annual Report 2017-18 In last financial year, we rebranded ourselves to emphasize  that we at Wipro continue to enable our clients and ourselves  to be transformed during this period of immense change,  aided by our vision which is “to earn our clients’ trust and  maximize value of their businesses by providing solutions  that integrate deep industry insights, leading technologies  and best in class execution”.
We also restated our values,  to incorporate the additional aspects required by this  transformation.
I take this opportunity to express my gratitude and  appreciation to our clients who present to us the opportunity  of dealing with the exciting challenges of today’s business,  our employees and partners who enable us to execute and  meet our commitments, and our shareholders for their  unflinching support for us to pursue our goals in a steadfast  manner.
Very Sincerely, Abidali Z Neemuchwala Non-Linearity We continue to invest and scale intellectual property via   platforms, products, frameworks and solutions, enabled by  innovative commercial constructs and delivered in a ‘as- a-service’ model, thus truly variabilizing their costs in a  risk reward model (e.g.
transaction based, outcome based  pricing).
In FY 2018, the number of patents we held (and  applied for) crossed 2,000.
Wipro for Business is focused on  solving use cases in areas such as compliance, onboarding,  customer service, supply chain and anomaly detection, with  a strong focus on building industry-specific solutions.
Open Innovation The Open Innovation ecosystem comprises of M&A, Ventures,  Partner Ecosystem, our Horizon program, Topcoder, Expert  Networks & Academia.
This year, we invested in 2 leading  edge companies i.e.
InfoSERVER - which provides us a  platform to deliver a full suite of solutions for our clients in  Brazil; and Cooper – which helps us further strengthen our  strategic design capabilities and expand them to the west  coast of U.S.A.  Further, we have been recognized as a ‘Leader’ in 137 analyst  reports, a 4-fold increase over the past 3 years.
20 of these  recognitions are in the Digital space.
Localization We continued to make sustained progress in localization  in all our key markets.
In the US, more than 55% of our  workforce is now local, due to our unrelenting focus on  local hiring through campuses and laterally, continued  investments in acquiring capabilities, constant expansion  of our delivery centers and an unwavering focus on our  sustainability initiatives, especially in education.
We also  surpassed localization levels of 75% in APAC, and in Latin  America, almost all our staff was local as we ended FY 2018.
Employees Skill development of our workforce with a key focus on  building skills to be ready to cater to the fast-emerging  Digital technologies has been at the forefront of our people  strategy.
We have trained over 90,000 employees on Digital  skills.
Wipro Limited 12 M K Sharma - Independent Director Azim H Premji - Executive Chairman Narayanan Vaghul - Independent Director Rishad Premji - Chief Strategy Officer & Member of the Board Ireena Vittal - Independent Director     Board of Directors *Names listed, from left to right M K Sharma  Azim H Premji -  Narayanan Vaghul -  Rishad Premji -  Ireena Vittal -  13 Annual Report 2017-18 Dr.  Ashok S Ganguly - Independent Director Abidali Z Neemuchwala - CEO & Member of the Board Patrick Dupuis - Independent Director Dr. Patrick J Ennis - Independent Director William Arthur Owens - Independent Director Wipro Limited 14     Management discussion and analysis Industry Overview IT Services Fast-evolving technology landscapes, dynamic economic  environments and the emergence of digital business has  created a need for enterprises to look for a partner to  advise, design and execute their technology transformation  and support programs.
Large multinational enterprises are  engaging global IT Services companies who can deliver high  quality service on a global scale and at competitive costs.
Over the past two decades, with the emergence of the  internet and inexpensive connectivity, the global delivery  model of service delivery has risen to become the preferred  model in sourcing of IT services, business process services  and research and development services.
In this period,  service providers have gained technological expertise,  domain competency and delivery capability by either  developing organically or by acquiring companies with these  competencies.
Large multinational enterprises are engaging  global IT Services companies to deliver high quality service  on a global scale and at competitive costs.
We believe the IT  Services industry has significant growth potential.
Global IT service providers offer a range of end to end  software development, digital services, IT business  solutions, research and development services, technology  infrastructure services, business process services,  consulting and related support functions.
According to the  Strategic Review 2018 of NASSCOM (the NASSCOM Report)  in FY 2018, IT export revenue, from India was estimated to  grow by 7.8% to $126 billion.
In the last few years, enterprises around the world are  embracing the reality that digital transforms every aspect  of business.
Experiences, consumers, entire industries,  business models and ways of working are all rapidly and  fundamentally changing.
Recognition of these trends,  combined with the realization that enterprises may not be  able keep up with this pace of change, has a profound impact  on our clients.
This requires new business models, new ways  of working and integrated capability across strategy, design  and technology.
IT Products The key components of the hardware industry are servers,  desktops, notebooks and tablet computers, storage devices,  peripherals, printers and networking equipment.
According  to the NASSCOM Report, the hardware segment of the  IT-Business Process Management exports from India is  estimated to be $15 billion in fiscal year 2018.
Emergence  of cloud computing technologies is negatively affecting  demand for IT products such as servers.
Business Overview We are one of the leading providers of IT services globally.
We combine the business knowledge and industry expertise  of our domain specialists and the technical knowledge  and implementation skills of our delivery team leveraging  our products, platforms, partnerships and solutions in our  development centers located around the world.
We develop and integrate innovative solutions that enable  our clients to leverage IT to achieve their business objectives  at competitive costs.
We use our quality processes and global  talent pool to deliver ‘time to development’ advantages, cost  savings and productivity improvements.
Our IT Services business provides a range of IT and IT-enabled  services which include digital strategy advisory, customer- centric design, technology consulting, IT consulting, custom  application design, development, re-engineering and  maintenance, systems integration, package implementation,  global infrastructure services, analytics services, business  process services, research and development and hardware  and software design to leading enterprises worldwide.
The vision for our business is “To earn our clients’ trust  and maximize the value of their businesses by providing  solutions that integrate our deep industry insights, our  15 Annual Report 2017-18 leading technology and best-in-class execution” .
We seek  to emphasize our core values of being passionate about our  clients’ success, treating each person with respect, being  global and responsible, and maintaining unyielding integrity  in everything we do.
The markets we serve are undergoing rapid changes due  to the pace of developments in technology, innovation in  business models and changes in the sourcing strategies of  clients.
Pressures on cost-competitiveness, an uncertain  economic environment and immigration restrictions are  causing clients to develop newer business models.
On the  technology front, digital business has changed the nature  of demand for IT services.
Development of advanced  technologies such as cloud based offerings, big data  analytics, mobile applications and the emergence of social  media is making technology an integral part of the business  model of our clients.
In addition to the Chief Information  Officer, newer stakeholders such as Chief Marketing Officer,  Chief Digital Officer and Chief Risk Officer play a key role  in shaping the technology roadmap of our clients.
These  trends on newer business models, emerging technologies  and sourcing patterns provide us with significant growth  opportunities.
Our IT Products segment provides a range of third-party IT  products, which allows us to offer comprehensive IT system  integration services.
These products include computing,  platforms and storage, networking solutions, enterprise  information security, and software products, including  databases and operating systems.
We have a diverse range  of clients, primarily in the India and Middle East markets  from small and medium enterprises to large enterprises  in all major industries.
We continue to focus on being a  systems integrator of choice, where we provide IT products  as a complement to our IT services offerings rather than sell  standalone IT products.
Business Strategy Our customers today are undergoing an unprecedented  change and transformation in their businesses led by forces  such as Digital, Consumerization of technology, Industry  platform disruptions, and competition from new age  companies across industries.
We at Wipro believe that there  are a few key industry trends, which over the next 5-10 years,  will fundamentally transform the way technology is bought  and consumed by enterprises.
These are ‘as-a-service’ ,  ’Intelligent automation’ , ‘Digital’ such as Design and user  experience, Digital ways of working and shared economy,  ‘Cyber-security and Cyber-defense’ .
In today’s market context, our vision and our strategy  is about helping our clients navigate to a Digital future  while driving hyper-efficiencies in their ’Run’ operations  through a comprehensive and integrated portfolio of  services.
We deliver this through industry wrapped process,  and technology solutions and services through an open  innovation led approach.
Modernize the core – the “Run  Strategy” Our “Run” strategy is about “Modernizing the clients’ core”  operations and technology landscape.
It includes the  following strategies: a.
Business Solutions brings together domain and  technology solutions across applications, infrastructure,  business process services and analytics to deliver  business value to our clients in an ‘as-a-service’ model.
The Integrated Services and Solutions Group (ISSG)  focuses on building integrated offerings across  four key business themes: Customer Experience,  Business Acceleration, Simplified and Sustained IT  and Connected Ecosystem.
An example is Insights- as-a-Service, which accelerates Time-to-Insights  using the Data Discovery Platform (DDP) powered  by advanced visualizations, models, accelerators  and algorithms and is offered as Pay-Per-Use.
b.
Process & IT Simplification is about demystifying  the complex processes and technology landscape  of our clients.
We deliver this through consolidation,  elimination, automation and cloudification to  deliver agility and productivity benefits.
An example  of one of our approaches is the Framework for  Application Services Transformation which covers:  • New age application development;  • App rationalization, optimization and modernization;  • Cloud application services;  • Newer methodologies such as AgileBase and  DevOps; and  • Next generation quality assurance, application  support and trust management.
Enable the future – the “Change  Strategy” Our “Change” strategy is about “Enabling our clients’ digital  future” .
It includes the following strategies: a.
‘Digital’ is about enabling transformation for our  clients as they become a digital enterprise.
It begins  with an advisory and design approach followed by  engineering and build initiatives, all of which are  deployed in a native cloud environment and delivered  in an AgileBase delivery model (DevOps).
We co-create  and co-innovate with clients by leveraging our Digital  Wipro Limited 16 pods across the globe and new ways of working.
We have adopted a four ‘m’ model: method, model,  machine and mindset: • Our method applies a five-step design and build  methodology through our Designit® and Buildit®  platforms; • Our ‘team of teams’ model allows us to create multi- disciplinary, collaborative digital teams to scale  across client projects; • A custom-built engineering machine, which we  call the ‘Digital Rig’ , creates the environment for  rapid prototyping, testing and launching at extreme  velocity; and • A specific mindset, which focuses on attracting and  retaining the right people and surrounding them with  a digital culture, ensures we have the right talent to  support our customers.
Our acquisition of Cooper, an award-winning design  and business strategy consultancy, strengthens Wipro’s  design and innovation capabilities.
Cooper, as a part of  Digital, expands our reach in North America and adds  significant capabilities in professional education.
We  are seeing significant synergy across our integrated  digital and design capabilities.
Through March 31, 2018, we have trained over 90,000  professionals in digital technologies.
We are expanding  our innovation labs, or digital pods, to offer enhanced  transformation services to global customers.
Currently  we have 18 Digital Pods spread across the globe and  are continuing to expand, introducing two new pods  this year in Edinburgh, Scotland and Mountain View,  California.
Our approach of creating a consulting ecosystem has  seen success.
It continues to focus on delivering growth  and improving quality for our clients, thereby delivering  impact to us through growing business relationships  and creating integrated deals.
b.
Big Bets: A key element of executing the Wipro Strategy  is the approach to prioritization on high potential growth  areas.
Towards this, we have focused on ‘Big Bets’ at a  company level where we are making disproportionate  allocation of investments to drive differentiated focus  and growth.
Examples of these include Cloud, Cyber and  Digital.
Four core strategies   Underlying the ‘Run’ and ‘Change’ strategies, are four key  strategies which apply equally to the ‘Modernize the core’  and ‘Enable the future’ strategy.
These are: a. Non-Linearity is about driving differentiated offerings  leveraging IP , platforms, solutions and innovative  commercial constructs to realize the ‘as-a-service’ need  of our clients, thus allowing them to have a variable cost  structure in a risk reward model (e.g., transaction-based  and outcome-based pricing).
We have invested significantly to drive non-linearity  through investments in IP in the form of platforms  acquired through acquisition of Gallagher Financial  Systems Inc., Opus Capital Markets Consultants,  LLC, HPS and ProMAX Systems, Inc. and organically  developed platforms, frameworks and solutions such as  Wipro HOLMES.
As part of this effort, we have increased our patent  filings significantly in the past few years and have  developed a business model that emphasizes upon  our patent portfolio and growth in our inventor base  within the organization.
Industry analysts and rating  organizations recognize the quality of our intellectual  property (IP) and we intend to continue developing  high quality inventions.
Many of our patents are in  emerging technology areas and serve as a foundation  for many of our new technology platforms, including  AI, IoT, connected devices, and autonomous vehicles.
b.
Open Innovation is about leveraging the  innovation ecosystem through following vehicles:  • Wipro Ventures: The strategic investment arm of  Wipro, is a $100 million fund that invests in early to  mid-stage cutting edge startups.
As of March 31,  2018, we have invested in and partnered with 11  startups in the following areas – AI (Avaamo, Inc.,  Vicarious FPC, Inc.), Business Commerce (Tradeshift,  Inc.), Cybersecurity (Demisto, Inc., IntSights  Cyber Intelligence Ltd., Vectra Networks, Inc.),  Data Management (Imanis Data, Inc.), Industrial  IoT (Altizon Systems Private Ltd.), Fraud & Risk  Mitigation (Emailage Corp.) and Testing Automation  (HeadSpin, Inc., Tricentis GmbH).
In addition to direct  investments in emerging startups, Wipro Ventures  has invested in two enterprise-focused venture  funds: TLV Partners and Work-Bench Ventures.
•  Partner Ecosystem: We have established a dedicated  unit to drive and deepen our partner ecosystem to  drive creation of new markets and solutions, expand  in key verticals and geographies, drive innovation in  our offerings and drive go-to-market outcomes.
We  17 Annual Report 2017-18 have sub-divided the partner ecosystem into the  following categories: • Strategic Partners: Multiple product lines with  significant business volume and potential • Growth Partners: Single practice alliances • Niche Partners: Niche products with  differentiated solutions • Academia Partners: Collaborating with academic  institutions and associations in the United  States, Europe, Israel and India in the fields of  computer and electrical engineering to promote  innovative technology research and capability  • Horizon Program: The goal of the horizon program  is to drive organic incubation in emerging areas  covering products, platforms, solutions and  capabilities.
In order to achieve this objective, we  are investing in key areas such as AI, AR/VR, IoT,  cloud computing, Software-Defined Everything,  autonomous vehicles, cybersecurity, digital  experience, digital marketing and commerce, and  Industry 4.0.
During the year ended March 31, 2018,  we funded 19 projects as part of this program.
• Crowdsourcing – Topcoder: A community of more  than one million developers, designers and data  scientists with offerings focused around analytics,  Connected Customer Experience (CCX), quality  assurance, enterprise transformation, community  experts, self-service and hybrid expert networks.
• M&A: Acquisitions are key enablers for us and  drive our capability to build industry domain, focus  on key strategic areas, strengthen our presence  in emerging technology areas, including Digital,  and increase market footprint in newer markets.
We focus on opportunities where we can further  develop our domain expertise, specific skill sets and  our global delivery model to maximize service and  product enhancements and higher margins.
We also  evaluate business units to determine if divestments  would maximize our focus on key priorities.
Acquisitions consummated during the year ended  March 31, 2018 include InfoSERVER and Cooper.
InfoSERVER is a Brazilian IT Services company that  predominantly caters to the Banking, Financial  Services and Insurance market in Brazil.
Over the  last 21 years, InfoSERVER has been recognized for  its excellence in delivery and specialized knowledge  of local banking domain and processes.
InfoSERVER  is headquartered in São Paulo, Brazil.
With this  acquisition, Wipro and InfoSERVER will be able to  deliver a full suite of integrated IT services across  Digital, consulting, and business process services  to four of the top five banks in Brazil.
Cooper is  an award-winning design and business strategy  consultancy.
Cooper will further strengthen design  and innovation capabilities and expand reach  in North America besides adding capabilities in  professional design education.
Increasingly, global  enterprise clients recognize that design is a critical  part of any digital or business transformation.
By  adding Cooper’s skills and expertise, Wipro will  be better positioned to support its clients’ digital  programs.
We have also made minority investments in Denim  Group, Ltd., a leading independent application  security firm, serving as a trusted advisor to  customers on matters of application risk and  security and Harte Hanks, Inc., a U.S.A based global  marketing services company specializing in omni- channel marketing solutions including consulting,  strategic assessment, data, analytics, digital, social,  mobile, print, direct mail and contact center.
Also,  during the year ended March 31, 2018, we have  increased our ownership in Drivestream Inc. from  19% to 43.7%.
Further, we have entered into an agreement with  Ensono Holdings, LLC (Ensono), a company engaged  in providing complete mainframe and Hybrid IT  services to mid to large enterprises across industries,  to acquire 10.2% stake in the entity.
Ensono has a  right to repurchase up to an aggregate of 5.5% of the  above units if Wipro is not able to achieve certain joint  business milestones agreed between the parties.
c.  Localization: We are focused on acting local and  thinking global.
The core components of this  strategy are local hiring, campus hiring, setting up  local delivery centers, establishing digital pods and  making strategic investments through acquisitions.
We are driving localization initiatives in our key  geographies such as the United States, United  Kingdom, Continental Europe, Canada, Latin America,  Africa, Asia Pacific and the Middle East.
We believe  that commitment to these geographies is important  in growing our business.
We expect an increase in the  percentage of our global workforce comprised of local  employees and consultants, and diversity is a key  strategic priority as part of our globalization efforts.
d. Hyper-Automation:  is about driving efficiency in  business process and technology operations through  deployment of robotics and cognitive automation,  through Wipro HOLMES.
Wipro HOLMES helps  enterprises hyper-automate processes and offload  specific cognitive tasks to the artificial intelligence  (AI) platform to gain agility, enhanced user experience  and cost efficiencies.
Wipro HOLMES helps businesses  adopt a hybrid mode of operation (i.e., pairing automation  and human effort), which is achieved through a  combination of virtual agents, predictive systems,  Wipro Limited 18 cognitive process automation, visual computing  applications, knowledge virtualization and AI reasoning.
We also offer automation advisory services to help  clients in their journey of AI/Automation through  designing Automation roadmap and setting up Centers  of Excellence for automation initiatives.
In addition to the  Wipro HOLMES platform, we are building a collaboration  ecosystem for automation, working with partners such  as Robotics Process Automation providers, startups,  and established partners.
Over 3,000 employees have  been trained and certified on AI/ML.
Commitment to Sustainability a.
Driving differentiation and leadership through our people     We believe that our employees are the backbone of  our organization and a key differentiator in the global  market for IT services.
We are committed to recruiting  and training highly skilled employees, service providers  and leaders.
Our aim is to build a best in class global,  diverse leadership team, hire locally and provide our  employees with attractive opportunities for learning,  career enhancement and growth.
We continue to  design and implement processes and programs to  foster people development, leadership development  and skill enhancements among our global team.
It is  our aim to be a global company that not only serves  clients but also empowers our employees worldwide  to increase their expertise beyond their industry peers.
b.
Acting Responsibly   At Wipro, we think it is critical for businesses to engage  with the multiple social and ecological challenges that  face us.
We have classified eight sustainability mega  forces that have an implication on our business.
Such  engagement must be deep, meaningful and formed  on the bedrock of long term commitment; and that is  the only way by which real change can happen on the  ground.
This is also reflective of the fact that such an  approach serves both, enlightened business interest  and social good.
c. Environmental Sustainability   As part of Wipro’s deep commitment to ecological  sustainability, we have been involved with  multiple environment related programs, both  within our business ecosystem as well as in the  civic and social sectors outside.
The four pillars  of our ecological sustainability program are:  • Carbon Mitigation and Energy Efficiency  • Responsible Water  • Waste and Pollution Management and  • Biodiversity d. Community Initiative  At Wipro, we think that it is crucial to engage with  proximate communities wherever we have significant  presence.
This is a reaffirmation of our belief that  at its core, social responsibility and sustainability  must transcend boundaries whether organizational  or national.
Wipro runs the following community  programs in the various geographies we operate in.
• Wipro Cares • Wipro Applying Thought in Schools • Wipro earthian • Wipro Science Education Fellowships • Wipro South Africa Initiatives 19 Annual Report 2017-18 Business model - creating value across Capitals IT Services Offerings We are a leading provider of IT services to enterprises  across the globe.
We provide a range of services which  include digital strategy advisory, customer-centric design,  technology consulting, IT consulting, custom application  design, development, re-engineering and maintenance,  systems integration, package implementation, global  infrastructure services, business process services, cloud,  mobility and analytics services, research and development  and hardware and software design.
We offer these services  globally leveraging our products, platforms and solutions  through a team of over 160,000 employees using our global  delivery model.
Effective April 1, 2018, we are realigning our  service lines to achieve better synergies with our customers:  Business Application Services is now Modern Application  Services; Global Infrastructure Services is now Cloud  Infrastructure Services; Analytics service line is now Data,  Analytics and AI.
Our key service offerings are outlined below:   a.
Digital: At Wipro Digital, the digital unit of Wipro,  we continue to focus on the insights, interactions,  integrations and innovations that make brands and  businesses relevant to their customers.
The common  characteristic of digitally successful organizations  today is their focus on enterprise transformation  and agility.
Outside-in innovation to “do digital” and  create new websites, new apps and omni-channel  experiences is not enough.
To gain the full benefits of  these digital initiatives, our customers now recognize  they must enable inside-out enterprise renovation.
Changing legacy systems, processes, tools, mindsets  and even traditional ways of working are necessary  for our customers to “be digital” , not just do digital.
In the last year, we have grown Wipro Digital to support  our customers in their drive to be digital.
We acquired  award-winning design firm Cooper to expand and  enhance our capabilities, particularly in the areas of  user experience, user interface and professional design  education.
We opened additional digital pods in the last  year, bringing our total number of pods to 18.
Lastly,  we integrated our long-standing Connected Customer  Experience practice into Wipro Digital, ensuring a  seamless, end-to-end offering and capability for our  clients, bringing an even stronger market-leading  partner to our customers across the “think-it, design-it,  build-it and run-it” continuum of digital initiatives.
b.
Modern Application Services (MAS): Wipro has been  a strategic partner in transforming the application  landscape of its clients by offering integrated business  solutions that span across enterprise applications and  digital transformation to security and testing.
We have  re-aligned our Applications service line into a new service  line called Modern Application Services (MAS) which  will comprise of 4 units: the Enterprise Applications and    C A P I T A L Financial Intellectual Manufactured Human Social & Relationship Natural CAPITAL C A P I T A L Financial Intellectual Manufactured Human Social & Relationship Natural CAPITAL I N P U T S HOLE DK EA RT SS T U P T U O Run Strategy Modernize the core Change Strategy Enable the future Strategic Planing Business Units Aligned with industry segments Service Lines Delivering deep expertise Geographies Corporate Our Vision Wipro Limited 20 Modernization (EAM) unit, the Application Engineering  & DevOps (AED) unit, the Enterprise Architecture unit  and the Appirio Cloud Services unit.
These units will  leverage themes such as AI/Cognitive, IoT, Blockchain  and Open Source to enable ‘Smart Applications’ .
• The EAM unit will include SAP , Oracle, and IT  Modernization along with Mainframe, application  management and Transition practices.
Technology focus areas will include Micro  Focus, ServiceNOW, Infor and Coupa Software.
• The AED unit brings together our expertise in  quality engineering and testing, Microsoft business,  enterprise business integration, DevOps and cloud  technologies.
We use these to develop new ways of  working and solution delivery along with ‘as-a-service’  models blending methods, models, machinery  and mindset across various technology platforms  including CA, Tricentis, Software AG and TIBCO.
• The Enterprise Architecture unit helps organizations  simplify, modernize and accelerate their journey to  the cloud including application migration to public  clouds such as Amazon Web Services, Microsoft  Azure, Google Cloud Computing, IBM and Pivotal.
This team covers business design and architecture  services across applications, infrastructure, data  and process and enables making ‘Applications  Smarter’ as part of the digital transformation journey.
• The Appirio Cloud Services unit results from the  acquisition we made in 2016, continues to focus on  integrating traditional SaaS technology providers  such as Salesforce, Workday, Google and newer  providers such as Apttus and FinancialForce with  our capabilities in customer experience with worker  experience.
MAS focuses on driving application transformation  with contextual solutions for our customers  from front office to back office by combining  consulting, design and development, continuous  testing and integration, automation and  operational excellence across all industries  c. Cloud and Infrastructure Services (CIS) (formerly  referred to as Global Infrastructure Services): CIS is  an end-to-end cloud and IT infrastructure services  provider that helps global clients accelerate their  digital journey.
Our offerings include Cloud, end-user  computing, Software Defined Everything (SDx), DevOps,  data center, networking and IoT, all of which spans  across our consulting, system integration, testing  and managed services.
We have a presence in over  45 countries with over 700 clients and 21 delivery  centers.
Our investments in IP , a comprehensive partner  ecosystem and our skills in emerging technologies like  software-defined everything, opensource, DevOps and  IoT, ensure that we are a one-stop shop for all cloud and  IT infrastructure needs.
Recently, we announced that we  are divesting our hosted data center services business  and developing a strategic partnership with Ensono, a  hybrid IT services and governance services provider.
Wipro’s hosted data center services business, along with  925 employees and 8 data centers, will move to Ensono.
Wipro will continue to serve our hosted datacenter  customers through a partnership with Ensono.
d. Product Engineering Services Group (PES): PES  facilitates breakthrough product and engineering  services transformations across all major industry  verticals, influencing the way enterprises do business  today.
With a focus on Digital Transformation,  PES’s specialized team of skilled professionals,  combined with in-house innovation labs deliver  end-to-end Engineering R&D services from the  design board to the shop floor and out to the market.
Over the years, PES has revolutionized product  engineering at numerous global corporations  by building innovative customer experiences,  personalizing products for new markets, integrating  next-generation technologies, facilitating faster time  to market and ensuring global product compliance.
In our bid to make the world a more connected and  smarter place, we are making significant developments  in new-age technology paradigms such as the IoT, Cloud  platforms, 3D Printing, Virtualization, Smart devices  and Artificial Intelligence.
With the increased focus  on Smart Manufacturing capabilities, we are further  strengthening our Engineering services business.
e. Data, Analytics and AI: Data Analytics and AI allows  us to consult and support our customers to derive  meaningful insights by leveraging our AI, machine  learning, advanced analytics, big data and information  management platforms and capabilities.
We follow the  “AI First” strategy to acquire & assimilate data, drive  accurate decisions and deliver measurable business  outcomes that help our customers transform their  businesses.
Our AI-infused end-to-end offerings  include:  • Cloud & Data Platform (CDP) practice, which is  focused on delivering online or connected services  in areas of Internet Scale Application, Data  Platforms, Cognitive platforms and HPC solutions.
We build complete solutions for various industrial  applications, either via on-premise or cloud-based  platforms.
• Big Data Analytics practice, which offers insight  delivery in real time or near real time through  analytical platforms and solutions and leveraging  our home grown team of decision scientists.
21 Annual Report 2017-18 • Information Management practice, which is  dedicated to enabling the digital transformation  journeys of its clients through a trusted data  foundation.
• Business Intelligence (BI) practice is focused on  helping businesses unleash the value from their  data and provide timely, contextual and relevant  actionable insights rendered through rich and  interactive visualizations  • Database & Data warehouse practice, which  focuses on end-to-end solutions to automate  the entire data warehouse migration as well  as data offloading from on premise to cloud  across analytical platforms with scalability and  performance optimizations on the target platform.
f. Business Process Services (BPS): Wipro BPS is a leader  in providing next generation technology-led business  process services to global enterprises.
Our mission  is to connect the dots that drive superior customer  experience, high levels of efficiencies, uncompromising  quality and productivity to maximize returns for our  clients.
We combine our core business knowledge  with emerging technologies like robotics process  automation, cognitive technologies and analytics to  offer powerful business intelligence, allowing business  leaders to respond quickly to evolving market needs.
Our non-intrusive industry and technology agnostic  differentiators are: • Enterprise Operations Transformation (EOT)  Framework: Comprised of a suite of comprehensive  solutions, EOT addresses the central business  essentials of achieving process efficiencies with  a focus on enhanced customer experience, cost  optimization, reduced cycle times and accuracy.
• Wipro HOLMES for Business: An Artificial Intelligence  platform that focusses on hyper-automating  business and IT processes to reach highest level of  autonomous maturity.
• Base)))™: As a Business Operations platform,  Base)))™ leverages latest technologies to manage  today’s complex business operations by streamlining  their existing operations.
• Customer Experience Transformation: Our  analytics-powered customer service platform to  deliver superior experience through cutting-edge  technology.
• Robotics Process Automation (RPA): RPA helps  achieve next generation business goals and  transformative impact through rapid deployment  and limited capital expenditure.
• BPaaS: Our delivery solution that allows  standardized, yet highly configurable processes for  quick deployment and use.
We continue to invest in  building a larger BPaaS portfolio across industries  and service lines.
IT Services Industry Verticals For the year ended March 31, 2018, our IT Services business  was organized into six industry verticals.
Effective April 1,  2018, in order to provide strategic focus, we are realigning  our Manufacturing and Technology (MNT) industry vertical  into two separate verticals: the Manufacturing industry  vertical and the Technology industry vertical.
The Healthcare  and Lifesciences industry vertical is being renamed the  Health Business Unit.
The revised industry verticals are as follows:  a.
Banking, Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI)  b.
Health Business Unit (Health BU) c. Consumer Business Unit (CBU)  d. Energy, Natural Resources and Utilities (ENU)  e. Manufacturing (MFG) f. Technology (TECH) g. Communications (COMM)  a.
Banking, Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI): The  BFSI business unit serves over 100 clients globally  across Retail Banking, Investment Banking, Capital  Markets, Wealth Management and Insurance.
We have  been instrumental in delivering success to our clients by  aligning with their business priorities; we have done this  by leveraging state-of-the-art technology and process  transformation solutions, service design innovation,  domain expertise, IP and integrated offerings, end- to-end consulting services, adoption of new ways of  working, and an ongoing focus on delivery excellence.
We  also harness the power of cognitive computing, hyper- automation, robotics, cloud, analytics, and emerging  technologies, to help our clients adapt to the digital world.
b.
Health Business Unit (Health BU): Our mission is to  help organizations to solve real world health problems  to improve people’s lives.
Our health BU is dedicated  to helping health and life sciences companies rethink,  reshape and restructure their business to increase  competitiveness in the industry.
We help companies  realize value in their core businesses by connecting  organizations, communities and individuals to maximize  insights, innovation and integration and to transform  how healthcare services are provided in the future.
c. Consumer Business Unit (CBU): CBU offers a full array of  innovative solutions and services to cater to the entire  value chain, where the consumer is at the core, through  a blend of domain knowledge, technology expertise and  delivery excellence.
We offer an integrated environment  Wipro Limited 22 that allows organizations to model, optimize, forecast,  budget, execute, manage and measure product and  customer performance across the globe.
We provide  strong consumer-centric insight and project execution  skills across retail, consumer goods, media, travel  and public sector.
Our domain specialists work with  customers to maximize value through technology  investments.
Wipro’s CBU encompasses Retail,  Consumer Packaged Goods, New Age, Media, Education,  Hospitality, Travel, Transportation and Public Sector  Industries.
d. Energy, Natural Resources and Utilities (ENU): Our  ENU industry vertical has been collaborating with and  serving businesses across the globe for over 17 years.
Our deep domain and technology expertise has helped  the business become a trusted partner to over 75  leaders in the Oil and Gas, Mining, Water, Natural Gas,  Electricity, Airports, Ports, Engineering and Construction  industries across the globe.
Wipro’s ENU vertical has  been recognized by analysts as a major player in the  Energy and Utilities sector.
We provide consulting,  engineering, technology and business process services  expertise to the Utilities industry across Generation  and Renewables, Transmission and Distribution, Retail,  Smart Grid, Energy Trading and Risk Management and  Health, Safety, Security and Environment.
Our deep  domain expertise in the Energy sector has helped  us play a pivotal role in business transformation of  major oil and gas companies across their value chain.
Strategic acquisitions have further strengthened  our capabilities and presence in the Energy sector.
e. Manufacturing (MFG): Wipro’s Manufacturing business  unit caters to manufacturing companies across the  industry segments of aerospace & defense, automotive,  industrial and process manufacturing.
By coupling our  digital and extensive domain expertise, we help our  customers transform their business processes across  product design, supply chain, and aftermarket/services  to achieve their digital transformation objectives.
We  have leveraged our network of partners and academia  to develop IP , platforms and industry focused solutions.
Our after-market solutions and services, are helping  manufacturing customers capture additional market  share by adopting new business models.
Our ongoing  investments in emerging technologies like autonomous  systems and robotics, Industry 4.0, aftermarket,  industrial IoT, augmented reality and virtual are helping  customers create new business solutions and create  new revenue models.
f. Technology (TECH): Companies across the high-tech  value chain; from the silicon providers to software  companies, are serviced by Wipro’s Technology business  unit.
Our extensive customer portfolio includes marquee  companies in Semiconductors, Compute and Storage,  Networking, Peripherals, Electronics, Platforms and  Software products.
Our solutions to this sector are  built around Wipro’s deep domain expertise and we  cater to customer requirements across product design,  validation and testing, enterprise operations, marketing  and customer support.
We also are actively partnering  with our customers to help them leverage digital  technologies to stay ahead of the shifting expectations  in the industry.
Wipro’s solutions built around cloud,  blockchain, artificial intelligence, IOT, crowd sourcing  and design thinking are driving new revenue streams  and efficiencies in our customer organizations.
We  have leveraged our network of partners and academia  to develop IP , platforms and domain/industry-focused  solutions.
We are investing in emerging technologies,  which includes next-generation platform engineering  (based on open source, containers and micro services),  autonomous systems, machine learning, deep  learning, industrial IoT, augmented/virtual/mixed  reality, software defined infrastructure, 5G and LiFi.
g. Communications (COMM): Wipro has been enabling  the digital transformation journey of Communications  Service Providers (CSPs) across the globe as they  transform to become Digital Service Providers.
Our digital  business solutions are tailored around the customer  context of CSPs, with capabilities in technologies  such as AI, IoT, blockchain and cybersecurity, in order  to focus on new ways of working.
Our investments in  new-age startups through Wipro Ventures, along with a  comprehensive partner ecosystem, are enabling CSPs  globally to create services that enable new revenue  opportunities, build business agility and reduce  their time to market in a B2B environment.
Our focus  on continuous improvement, alignment to industry  standards, investments in technology solutions of  tomorrow, especially as we gear up for the 5G revolution,  are delivering proven business value to global CSP  customers.
IT Products  In order to offer comprehensive IT system integration  solutions, we use a combination of hardware products  (including servers, computing, storage, networking and  security), related software products (including databases and  operating systems) and integration services.
We maintain a  presence in the hardware market by providing suitable third- party brands as a part of our solutions in large integrated  deals.
Our range of third-party IT Products is comprised  of Enterprise Platforms, Networking Solutions, Software  Products, Data Storage, Contact Center Infrastructure,  Enterprise Security, IT Optimization Technologies, Video  Solutions and End-User Computing solutions.
23 Annual Report 2017-18 Good Governance and  Management Practices Corporate Governance  At Wipro, Corporate Governance is more than just adherence  to the statutory and regulatory requirements.
It is equally  about focusing on voluntary practices that underlie the  highest levels of transparency & propriety.
Our Corporate Governance philosophy is put into practice at  Wipro through the following four functional layers, namely, I Governance by Shareholders II Governance by Board of Directors III Governance by Sub-Committee of  Board of Directors Audit/Risk and Compliance  Committee Board Governance, Nomination and  Compensation Committee with the  additional responsibility of CSR Strategy Committee Administrative, Shareholders and  Investors Grievance Committee  (Stakeholders Relationship  Committee) IV Governance by  Management  Process Risk Management Code of Conduct Compliance Framework The Ombuds process Wipro has an organization wide Code of Business Conduct  which reflects general principles to guide employees in  making ethical decisions.
The Code outlines fundamental  ethical considerations as well as specific considerations  that need to be maintained for professional conduct.
More  details are provided in the Corporate Governance report.
Risk Management Risk Management at Wipro is an enterprise wide function  backed by a qualified team of specialists with deep industry  experience who develop frameworks and methodologies for  assessing and mitigating risks.
Risk Management Framework The risk landscape in the current business environment is  changing dynamically with the dimensions of Cyber security,  Information Security and Business Continuity, Data Privacy  and Large Deal Execution figuring prominently in the risk  charts of most organizations.
To effectively mitigate these  risks, we have employed a risk management framework,  which helps proactively identify, prioritize and mitigate risks.
The framework is based on principles laid out in the four  globally recognized standards as below • Orange Book by UK Government Treasury • COSO; Enterprise Risk Management—Integrating  with Strategy and Performance (2017) by Tread way  Commission • AS/NZS ISO 31000:2009 Risk Management – Principles  and Guidelines by AUS/NZ Standards Board • ISO - ISO 31000:2018, Risk management – Guidelines Risk Management Standard ERM  Framework People, Process, T echnology   Oversight Tone @ The Top Risk Categories  Governance  Strategic  Operational Compliance Reporting Identification  Analysis  Evaluate MonitoringTreatmentRisk Ownership Business  Units  & Functions Risk Management T eam Audit Committee of the Board Develop & deploy Policy/Framework Continuous Improvement Framework Management Governance Risk Management Framework Wipro Limited 24 Major Risks Mitigation Plan Information Security and Cyber Security  breaches that could result in systemic  failures, loss, disclosure of confidential  information.
Effective security controls implemented to detect, prevent and remediate  threats.
Program to continuously monitor the effectiveness of the controls  have been implemented.
Focus is on sustaining controls and continuous  improvement of efficacy of the solutions with adoption of new technologies.
Intellectual Property violating or misusing  our clients’ intellectual property rights or  for breaches of third-party intellectual  property rights or confidential information  in connection with services to our clients.
Elaborate program exists and is enhanced on an ongoing basis, to assess  and mitigate the risks on account of intellectual property, both Customer and  Wipro owned.
The program is crucial and assists in identifying, monitoring,  governing and creating awareness across the organization.
Data Privacy regulations (such as General  Data Protection Regulation in Europe)  relating to personal information dealt with  both by and on behalf of Wipro increases  the risk of non-compliance.
The Data Privacy program has been augmented keeping into consideration  privacy regulatory requirements, with specific emphasis to revalidate  all existing frameworks, policies and processes that can be leveraged by  respective support function and delivery teams, covering all applicable  geographies and areas of operations.
Regulatory Compliances covering  various federal, state, local and foreign  laws relating to various aspects of the  business operations are complex and non- compliances can result in substantial fines,  sanctions etc.
A program on statutory compliance is in place with the objective to track all  applicable regulations, obligation arising out of the same and corresponding  action items that requires to be adhered to ensure compliance along with  necessary workflows enabled.
The program is monitored and regularly  reviewed to ensure compliance.
Functional and Operational risks arising  out of various operational processes Appropriate risk and control matrices have been designed for all critical  business processes and both design and effectiveness is tested under the  SOX & Internal Financial Control Programs and theme based assessments.
Service Delivery risks relating to complex  programs providing end-to-end business  solutions for our clients.
Risk Management framework has been deployed for large value deals to  assess solution fitness, credit risks, financial risks, technology risks among  other risk factors.
Additionally contract compliance programs are in place  with regular reviews, early warning systems as well as customer satisfaction  surveys to assess the effectiveness of the service delivery and early detection  of any risks arising from the service delivery.
Work place environment, Safety and Security Strong Control measures have been put in place to ensure employee health  and safety.
Awareness is created about various issues and are communicated  on regular basis to employees.
Wipro maintains Zero Tolerance for violators  of code of business conduct.
Also employees are provided with an online web  portal to log in concerns relating to various subjects including environment  and safety in the work place.
Business Continuity risks arising out of  global disruptions like natural disasters,  IT outages, Cyber, pandemic, terror and  unrest, power disruptions etc.
which  will challenge or impact the availability  of People and process, Technology and  Infrastructure.
Effective implementation of Business Continuity Management System  (BCMS) and framework aligned to ISO 22301 across global locations,  accounts and service functions.
The framework will ensure a robust BCM  planning to manage any crisis which could disrupt People and process,  Technology and Facility level disruption effectively and efficiently.
Geo political risk arising out of entering  into contracts in a new country.
An assessment of doing business in a new country is done in order to analyze  the feasibility of doing business based on the country’s economic stability,  corruption index, investment opportunities, ease of doing business and  physical safety.
Risk of Protectionism policies impacting  the business Appropriate measures are being taken to provide uninterrupted high quality  services to the clients at all geographies.
Additionally, localization efforts are  being prioritized.
More than 55% of U.S.A and more than 75% of our APAC  workforce is local.
In Latin America almost all our employees are local.
25 Annual Report 2017-18 Grievance Redressal Wipro is committed to the highest standards of openness,  probity and accountability.
Having a robust whistle-blower  policy that allows employees and other stakeholder to  raise concern in confidence is an essential condition for a  transparent and ethical company.
This ensures a robust  mechanism is in place, which allows employees, non- employees, partners, customers, suppliers and other  members of public to voice concern in a responsible and  effective manner.
Under Ombuds Policy adopted by each of our businesses,  all complaints are addressed to Ombuds and investigative  findings are reviewed and approved by Chief Ombudsperson  who reports into Compliance Committee.
Dedicated email  address (ombuds.person@wipro.com) are created to  facilitate receipt of complains and for ease of reporting.
The company has a 24x7 hotline where the concern can  be communicated through telephone call.
All employees  and stakeholders can register their concern either through  web-based portal or at www.wiproombuds.com.
The toll  free numbers provides global languages options.
Following  an investigation, a decision is made by the appropriate  authority on the action to be taken basis the findings of the  investigation.
In case the complainant is non-responsive  for more than 15 days, the concern may be closed without  further action.
1,526 complaints were received via the Ombudsprocess  and 1,532 complaints were closed (including some from  previous year) in FY 2018.
All cases were investigated  and actions taken as deemed appropriate.
Based on self- disclosure data, 20.5% of these were reported anonymously.
The top categories of complaints were people processes at  42% and workplace concerns and harassment at 23%.
The  majority of cases (71%) were resolved through engagement  of human resources or mediation, or closed since they were  unsubstantiated.
Wipro has a policy and framework for employees to report  sexual harassment cases at workplace and our process  ensures complete anonymity and confidentiality of  information.
Adequate workshops and awareness programs  against sexual harassment are conducted across the  organization.
A total of 101 complaints of sexual harassment  were raised in the calendar year 2017, of which 92 cases  were disposed and appropriate actions were taken in all  cases within the statutory timelines.
This includes all cases  reported in the system, even if unsubstantiated.
In some  cases, a clear action has been taken (warning or separation)  and the rest of the cases have been resolved through  counseling or other specific actions.
Capitals and Value Creation In this section we cover Wipro’s approach to value creation  across the five capitals namely financial, intellectual,  human, social and relationship and natural.
a.
Financial Capital is broadly understood as the pool of  funds available to an organization.
Financial capital also  serves as a medium of exchange that can obtain value  through conversion into other forms of capital.
b.
Intellectual Capital is broadly organizational,  knowledge-based intangibles, including intellectual  property, such as patents, copyrights, software, rights  and licences and ‘organizational capital’ such as tacit  knowledge, systems, procedures and protocols.
c. Human Capital is broadly people’s competencies,  capabilities and experience, being continuously  innovative and contribute to the organizations shared  goals and values .
d. Social and Relationship Capital is broadly the institutions  and the relationships within and between communities,  groups of stakeholders and other networks, and the  ability to share information to enhance individual and  collective well-being such as customers, investors and  suppliers.
e. Natural Capital is broadly all renewable and  nonrenewable environmental resources and processes  that provide goods or services that support the past,  current or future prosperity of an organization.
It  includes air, water, land, minerals, forests, biodiversity  and eco-system health.
Manufactured Capital is broadly seen as human-created,  production-oriented equipment and tools.
For the IT services  business, these are the fixed assets like buildings, IT hardware  and telecommunication equipment.
The deployment of the  capital is adequately represented in financial capital and  through impacts to natural capital.
Hence this report does  not cover manufactured capital separately.
Wipro Limited 26 Financial Capital Consolidated results for the year 2017-18  (Figures in ` million except otherwise stated) Consolidated results FY 2017 FY 2018 Year on Year Change Revenue 1 554,179 546,359 (1.4)% Cost of revenue (391,544) (385,575) (1.5)% Gross profit 162,635 160,784 (1.1)% Selling and marketing expenses (40,817) (42,349) 3.8% General and administrative expenses (32,021) (34,141) 6.6% Other Operating Income 4082 - (100.0)% Operating Income 93,879 84,294 (10.2)% Finance Expenses      (5,942)          (5,830) (1.9)% Finance and Other Income    22,419        23,999 7.0% Income Taxes    25,213        22,390 (11.2)% Profit attributable to equity holders 84,895 80,081 (5.7)% As a Percentage of Revenue Gross Margin 2 29.1% 29.4% 30bps Selling and marketing expenses 7.4% 7.8% 38bps General and administrative expenses 5.8% 6.2% 47bps Operating Margin 2 16.8% 15.4% (139)bps Earnings per share-Basic (`) 17.48 16.86 (3.5)% Earnings per share-Diluted (`) 17.43 16.83 (3.4)% 1.
For segment reporting, we have included the impact of exchange rate fluctuations in revenue.
Excluding the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, revenue,  as reported in our statements of income, is `550,402 million and `544,871 million for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
Further, finance  income on deferred consideration earned under multi-year payment terms in certain total outsourcing contracts is included in the revenue of the respective  segment and is eliminated under reconciling items.
2.
Gross margin and operating margin as a percentage of revenue for year ended March 31, 2017 have been calculated by including Other Operating Income  with Revenue.
3.
Earnings per share for the year ended March 31, 2017, have been proportionately adjusted for the bonus issue in the ratio of 1:1 as approved by the  shareholders on June 03, 2017.
Revenue: Our consolidated revenue, in INR terms, declined  by 1.4%, primarily due to decreased revenue in the  Communications and Healthcare and Lifesciences verticals.
Revenue from the Communications vertical has declined  due to the loss of a client, which declared bankruptcy, and  due to ramp downs in a few large projects.
Revenue from  the Healthcare and Lifesciences verticals has declined  due to uncertainties around regulatory changes relating  to the Affordable Care Act, and appreciation of the Indian  Rupee against currencies other than US Dollar.
Banking,  Financial Services and Insurance verticals registered  growth in revenue.
In the IT products segment, revenue  declined by 30.6%, primarily due to our focus on being a  system integrator of choice where we provide IT products  as a complement to our IT services offerings rather than sell  standalone IT products.
Selling and Marketing expenses: Increased by 3.8%  in  absolute terms, primarily on account of increases in employee  compensation, marketing and brand building charges, offset  by the decrease in amortization and impairment charges for  intangible assets recognized through business combinations  in the year ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the year  ended March 31, 2017.
General and Administrative expenses: Increased by 6.6% in  absolute terms, primarily due to impairment of receivables  and deferred contract cost arising on account of insolvency  of two of our customers.
Other operating income: During the year ended March 31,  2017, we had concluded the sale of our EcoEnergy division  for a consideration of `4,670 million.
The net gain from the  sale, amounting to `4,082 million, had been recorded as  ‘other operating income’ .
27 Annual Report 2017-18 Finance expenses: Our finance expenses decreased from  `5,942 million for the year ended March 31, 2017 to `5,830  million for the year ended March 31, 2018.
This decrease  is primarily due to a decrease of `888 million in exchange  loss on foreign currency borrowings and related derivative  instruments, which was partially offset by an increase in  interest expense by `776 million primarily on account of  increase in long term borrowings during the year ended  March 31, 2018.
Finance and Other income: Our finance and other income  increased from `22,419 million for the year ended March  31, 2017 to `23,999 million for the year ended March 31,  2018.
The increase is arising from increase in gains from  investments by `1,542 million during the year ended March  31, 2018 as compared to the year ended March 31, 2017, due  to increase in the average investment held during the year.
Income taxes: Our income taxes decreased by `2,823 million  from `25,213 million for the year ended March 31, 2017 to  `22,390 million for the year ended March 31, 2018.
Our effective tax rate decreased from 22.8% for the year  ended March 31, 2017 to 21.8% for the year ended March 31,  2018, primarily on account of the re-statement of deferred  tax items pursuant to “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, ” which was  signed into law on December 22, 2017.
As a result of the  operational structure of the Company, it is possible that the  application of the recently enacted US tax reform legislation  may not have a material and adverse impact on our operating  results, cash flows and financial condition.
We are still  evaluating the impact of this legislation on our business.
Segment results: As a result of the above factors, our  operating margin decreased by 139 bps to 15.4%.
Adjusted  for the impact arising out of insolvency of two of our  customers, the operating income and operating margin for  FY 2018 was `88,906 and 16.3% respectively, a decrease of  5.3% in absolute terms, as compared to FY 2017.
Profit: Profit attributable to non-controlling interest has  decreased from `248 million for the year ended March 31,  2017 to `3 million for the year ended March 31, 2018.
Significant changes in ratios: Our interest coverage ratio has  reduced by 30.4% due to increased borrowings to fund the  acquisitions made in the second half of FY 2017 and in the  year ended March 31, 2018.
However, it is important to note  that our Earnings before Interest and Tax covers Interest  Expense approximately 24 times during the year.
The other  financial ratios, such as debtors turnover ratio, current ratio,  debt equity ratio, operating margin and net profit margin,  have not varied more than 25% as compared to the previous  financial year.
Performance highlights – IT Services  (Figures in ` million except otherwise stated) IT Services FY 2017 FY 2018 Year on Year Change Revenue1 528,440 528,410 0.0% Gross Profit 162,054 159,558 (1.5)% Selling and Marketing expenses (40,345) (42,253) 4.7% General and administrative expenses (29,726) (33,692) 13.3% Other Operating Income 4,082 - (100.0)% Operating Income2 96,065 83,613 (13.0)% As a Percentage of Revenue Gross Margin3 30.4% 30.2% (23)bps Selling and marketing expenses 7.6% 8.0% 37bps General and administrative expenses 5.6% 6.4% 75bps Operating Margin3 18.0% 15.8% (222)bps 1.
For the purpose of segment reporting, we have included the impact of exchange rate fluctuations amounting to `3,736 million and `1,498 million for the  years ended March 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively in revenue.
Further, finance income on deferred consideration earned under multi-year payment terms in  certain total outsourcing contracts is included in the revenue of the respective segment and is eliminated under reconciling items.
2.
Includes Other Operating Income, which is being included to present the effect from the sale of the EcoEnergy division in the year ended March 31, 2017.
3.
Gross margin and segment results as a percentage of revenue have been calculated by including Other Operating Income with Segment Revenue.
For the  year ended March 31, 2018, excluding the impact of insolvency of two customers and the impairment loss in one of our acquisitions, IT Services Margin for  the year was 16.8%.
Wipro Limited 28 Client mining - IT Services Customer Size  Distribution for IT  Services Number of clients at year ended   March 31, 2017 2018 > $1M 602 631 > $3M 354 369 > $5M 268 277 > $10M 163 171 > $20M 91 95 > $50M 34 39 > $75M 18 20 > $100M 9 8 Revenue: The IT services segment revenue, in INR terms,  remained flat at `528,410 million.
Revenue from the  Communications vertical declined due to the loss of a  client, which declared bankruptcy, and due to ramp downs  in a few large projects.
Revenue from the Healthcare and  Lifesciences verticals declined due to uncertainties around  regulatory changes relating to the Affordable Care Act, and  appreciation of the Indian Rupee against currencies other  than US Dollar.
Banking, Financial Services and Insurance  verticals registered growth in revenue.
On a gross basis, we added 223 new customers during the  year ended March 31, 2018, including customers added  because of acquisitions.
General and Administrative Expenses: In absolute terms,  general and administrative expenses increased by `3,966  million, primarily due to impairment of receivables and  deferred contract cost arising on account of insolvency of  two of our customers.
Segment Results: Operating margin from our IT Services  segment decreased by 222 bps, from 18.0% to 15.8%.
Further, in absolute terms, the segment results of our IT  Services segment decreased by 13.0%.
Adjusted for the  impact arising out of insolvency of two of our customers,  the operating income and operating margin for FY 2018  was `88,225 and 16.7% respectively, a decrease of 8.2% in  absolute terms, as compared to FY 2017.
Performance against guidance: Historically, we have  followed a practice of providing constant currency revenue  guidance for our largest business segment, namely, IT  Services in dollar terms.
The guidance is provided at the  release of every quarterly earnings when revenue outlook  for the succeeding quarter is shared.
The following table  presents the performance of IT Services Revenue against  outlook previously communicated for the four quarters of  2017-18.
Our revenue performance in all the quarters of  financial year 2017-18 has been within the guidance range.
(Figures in $ million) Guided Outlook versus Actuals Quarter ending Guidance Achievement  in guided  currency Reported  currency  revenue 31st Mar 2018 2,033-2,073 2,035.4 2,062.0 31st Dec 2017 2,014-2,054 2,031.2 2,013.0 30th Sep 2017 1,962-2,001 1,976.9 2,013.5 30th Jun 2017 1,915-1,955 1,959.6 1,971.7 Performance Highlights - IT Products Our IT Products segment accounted for 6%, 5% and 3% of our  revenue for the years ended March 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018,  respectively and (1.0%), (1.8%) and 0.4% of our operating  income for each of the years ended March 31, 2016, 2017  and 2018, respectively.
(Figures in ` million except otherwise stated) IT Products FY 2017 FY 2018 Revenue 1 25,922 17,998 Gross Profit 957 1,483 Selling and Marketing expenses (621) (248) General and administrative  expenses (2,016) (873) Operating Income (1,680) 362 As a Percentage of Revenue: Gross Margin 3.7% 8.2% Selling and Marketing expenses 2.4% 1.4% General and administrative  expenses 7.8% 4.8% Operating Margin (6.5)% 2.0% 1.
For the purpose of segment reporting, we have included the impact of  exchange rate fluctuations amounting to `81 million and `(12) million  for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively in revenue.
Further, finance income on deferred consideration earned under multi- year payment terms in certain total outsourcing contracts is included  in the revenue of the respective segment and is eliminated under  reconciling items.
Revenue: Our revenue from the IT Products segment  decreased by 30.6%.
The decline was primarily due to our  focus on being a system integrator of choice where we  provide IT products as a complement to our IT services  offerings rather than sell standalone IT products.
29 Annual Report 2017-18 Profitability: Our gross profit as a percentage of our IT  Products segment revenue increased by 455 bps primarily  on account of selling high margin products and reduction in  loss provisions.
Selling and Marketing Expenses: Selling and marketing  expenses as a percentage of revenue from our IT Products  segment decreased from 2.4% for the year ended March 31,  2017 to 1.4% for the year ended March 31, 2018 due to an  optimization of head count.
Segment Results: In absolute terms, segment results of our  IT Products segment recorded a profit of `362 million for the  year ended March 31, 2018 as compared to a loss of `1,680  million for the year ended March 31, 2017.  Business unit wise performance  (Figures in $ million except otherwise stated) Business unit Revenue FY 2017 Revenue FY 2018 Growth YoY% in  reported currency Growth YoY% in  constant currency Margins  FY 2017 Margins  FY 2018 BFSI 1,977 2,256 14.1% 12.0% 18.3% 16.6% CBU 1,216 1,277 5.0% 3.8% 17.4% 15.6% COMM 567 514 (9.3)% (11.7)% 15.9% 9.4% ENU 1,006 1,043 3.6% 1.6% 20.9% 11.8% HLS 1,206 1,137 (5.8)% (6.5)% 11.5% 13.0% MNT 1,733 1,833 5.8% 4.1% 19.7% 18.1% Total 7,705 8,060 4.6% 2.9% 18.0% 15.8% Geography wise performance (Figures in $ million except otherwise stated) Geo Revenue FY 2017 Revenue FY 2018 Growth YoY% in  reported currency Growth YoY% in  constant currency Americas 4,213 4,307 2.2% 2.0% Europe 1,877 2,061 9.8% 5.4% APAC and OEM* 833 891 7.1% 4.7% India and Middle East 782 801 2.4% 0.2% Total 7,705 8,060 4.6% 2.9% *Asia-Pacific and Other Emerging Markets Resource Allocation Strategy Cash generated from operations is our primary source of  liquidity.
We believe that our cash and cash equivalents along  with cash generated from operations will be sufficient to  meet our working capital requirements as well as repayment  obligations with respect to debt and borrowings.
Our choices  of sources of funding will be driven with the objective of  maintaining an optimal capital structure.
We maintain a debt/borrowing level that we have established  through consideration of a number of factors including  cash flow expectations, cash required for operations and  investment plans.
We continually monitor our funding  requirements, and strategies are executed to maintain  sufficient flexibility to access global funding sources,  as needed.
Please refer to Note 12 of our Notes to the  Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on  our borrowings.
The Company’s cash flow from its operating, investing  and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated  Statement of Cash Flows, is summarized in the table below:  (Figures in ` million except otherwise stated) Net cash provided  by/ (used in) :FY 2017 FY 2018 YOY  changes  Operating activities 92,773 84,233 (8,540) Investing activities (116,283) 35,578 151,861 Financing activities (22,752) (129,978) (107,226) Net change in cash  and cash equivalents(46,262) (10,167) 36,095 Effect of exchange  rate changes(1,412) 375 1,787 Cash and cash  equivalent at the end  of the period 50,718 40,926 (9,792) Wipro Limited 30 As of March 31, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalent and  short-term investments of `294,019 million.
Cash and cash  equivalent and short-term investments, net of debt, was  `155,760 million.
In addition, we have unutilized credit lines of `53,483 million.
To utilize these lines of credit, we require the consent of the  lender and compliance with certain financial covenants.
We  have historically financed our working capital and capital  expenditures through our operating cash flows and through  bank debt, as required.
Cash Generated from Operating Activities: Cash generated  by operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2018  decreased by `8,540 million while net profit for the year  decreased by `5,059 million during the same period.
The  decrease in cash generated by operating activities is  primarily due to increased working capital requirements.
Cash Generated from Investing Activities: Cash generated  from investing activities for the year ended March 31,  2018 was `35,578 million.
The cash generated from sale of  investments (net of purchases) amounted to `47,973 million.
Cash utilized for the payment for business acquisitions  amounted to `6,652.
We purchased property, plant and  equipment amounted to `21,870 million which was primarily  driven by the growth strategy of the Company.
Cash Generated from Financing Activities: Cash used in  financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2018 was  `129,978 million as against `22,752 million for the year  ended March 31, 2017.
This is primarily due to a decrease in  net proceeds of loans and borrowings amounting to `24,102  million.
Payment toward the dividend including dividend  distribution tax and buy back of shares for the year ended  March 31, 2018 amounted to `115,732 million.
Dividends  paid in the year ended March 31, 2018 represents interim  (and final) dividend declared for the year ended March 31,  2018 amounting to `1 per share.
As of March 31, 2018, we had contractual commitments  of `13,091 million related to capital expenditures on  construction or expansion of software development  facilities, `21,010 million related to non-cancelable  operating lease obligations and `28,201 million related to  other purchase obligations.
Plans to construct or expand  our software development facilities are determined by our  business requirements.
Shareholder Returns  We continue to enhance shareholders value through bonus,  dividends and share repurchases.
There is no change in our  philosophy on shareholder return and we will continue to  provide regular, stable and consistent returns.
Dividend: The cash dividend paid per equity share during the  year ended March 31, 2018 was interim dividend of `1.
The  Board recommended the adoption of the interim dividend of  `1 per equity share as the final dividend for the year ended  March 31, 2018.
Bonus: On April 25, 2017, our Board approved the issue of  stock dividend, commonly known as issue of bonus shares  in India, subject to shareholder approval.
June 14, 2017 was  fixed as the record date for this purpose.
The Companies Act,  2013 permits a company to distribute an amount transferred  from the free reserves or other permitted reserves, including  share premium account, to its shareholders in the form  of bonus shares, which are similar to a stock dividend.
The bonus issue in the proportion of 1:1 i.e.1 (One) bonus  equity share of `2 each for every 1 (one) fully paid-up equity  share held (including ADS holders) was approved by the  shareholders of the Company through resolution dated  June 03, 2017 through postal ballot/ e-voting.
Consequently,  2,433,074,327 shares have been issued and `4,866 million  (representing par value of `2 per share) has been transferred  from retained earnings to share capital.
Buyback: During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Company  has concluded the buyback of 343.75 million equity shares  at a price of `320 per equity share, as approved by the Board  of Directors on July 20, 2017 and by shareholdersthrough  resolution dated August 28, 2017 through postal ballot/  e-voting.
This has resulted in a total cash outflow of `110,000  million.
Consequent to such buy back, share capital has  reduced by `687 million.
31 Annual Report 2017-18 Assessment of Key Risks a.
Global economic crisis: We derive approximately 53%  of our IT Services revenue from the Americas (including  the United States) and 26% of our IT Services revenue  from Europe.
If the economy in the Americas or Europe  continues to be volatile or conditions in the global  financial market deteriorate, pricing for our services may  become less attractive and our clients located in these  geographies may reduce or postpone their technology  spending significantly.
Reduction in spending on IT  services may lower the demand for our services and  negatively affect our revenue and profitability.
Our  clients are concentrated in certain key industries.
Any  significant decrease in the growth of any one of these  industries, or widespread changes in any such industry,  may reduce or alter the demand for our services and  adversely affect our revenue and profitability.
b.
Taxation risks: Our profits for the period earned from  providing services at client premises outside India are  subject to tax in the country where we perform the work.
Most of our taxes paid in countries other than India can  be applied as a credit against our Indian tax liability to  the extent that the same income is subject to taxation in  India.
Currently, we benefit from certain tax incentives  under Indian tax laws.
These tax incentives include a  tax holiday from payment of Indian corporate income  taxes for our businesses operating from specially  designated Special Economic Zones (SEZs).
Changes  to these incentives and other exemptions we receive  due to government policies can impact our financial  performance.
c. Wage pressure: Our wage costs in emerging markets  have historically been significantly lower than wage  costs in the developed markets for comparably  skilled professionals, and this has been one of our  competitive advantages.
However, wage increases in  emerging markets may prevent us from sustaining this  competitive advantage and may negatively affect our  profit margins.
We may need to increase the levels of our  employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to  retain talent.
Unless we are able to continue to increase  the efficiency and productivity of our employees over  the long term, wage increases may reduce our profit  margins.
Inability to provide adequate wage increase  may result in attrition and impact competitiveness.
d. General market risk: Market risk is the risk of loss of  future earnings, to fair values or to future cash flows  that may result from a change in the price of a financial  instrument.
The value of a financial instrument may  change as a result of changes in the interest rates,  foreign currency exchange rates and other market  changes that affect market risk sensitive instruments.
Market risk is attributable to all market risk sensitive  financial instruments including investments, foreign  currency receivables, payables and loans and  borrowings.
Our exposure to market risk is a function  of investment and borrowing activities and revenue  generating activities in foreign currency.
The objective of  market risk management is to avoid excessive exposure  of our earnings and equity to losses.
Components of Market Risks • Foreign currency risk: A significant portion of our  revenue is in US Dollars, United Kingdom Pound  Sterling, Euros, Australian Dollars and Canadian  Dollars while a large portion of our costs are in  Indian Rupees.
The exchange rates between the  Indian Rupee and these currencies have fluctuated  significantly in recent years and may continue to  fluctuate in the future.
Appreciation of the Indian  Rupee against these currencies can adversely affect  our results of operations.
Consequently, the Company  is exposed to foreign exchange risk through receiving  payment for sales and services in foreign currencies,  and making purchases from overseas suppliers in  various foreign currencies.
The exchange rate risk  primarily arises from foreign exchange revenue,  receivables, cash balances, forecasted cash flows,  payables and foreign currency loans and borrowings.
As of March 31, 2018, a `1 increase/decrease in the  spot exchange rate of the Indian Rupee with the US  Dollar would result in approximately `1,500 million  decrease/increase in the fair value of our foreign  currency dollar denominated derivative instruments.
• Interest rate risk: Interest rate risk primarily arises  from floating rate borrowing, including various  revolving and other lines of credit.
The Company’s  investments are primarily in short-term investments,  which do not expose it to significant interest rate  risk.
The Company manages its net exposure to  interest rate risk relating to borrowings by entering  into interest rate swap agreements, which allows it  to exchange periodic payments based on a notional  amount and agreed upon fixed and floating interest  rates.
Certain borrowings are also transacted at  fixed interest rates.
If interest rates were to increase  by 100 bps from March 31, 2018, additional net  annual interest expense on floating rate borrowing  would amount to approximately `1,186 million.
• Credit risk: Credit risk arises from the possibility that  customers may not be able to settle their obligations  as agreed.
To manage this, the Company periodically  assesses the financial reliability of customers,  taking into account the financial condition, current  economic trends, analysis of historical bad debts and  ageing of accounts receivable.
Individual risk limits  are set accordingly.
No single customer accounted  Wipro Limited 32 for more than 10% of the accounts receivable as of  March 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively and revenue  for the year ended March 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018,  respectively.
There is no significant concentration of  credit risk.
• Counterparty risk: Counterparty risk encompasses  issuer risk on marketable securities, settlement  risk on derivative and money market contracts and  credit risk on cash and time deposits.
Issuer risk  is minimized by buying securities in India which  are at least AA rated by Indian rating agencies.
Settlement and credit risk is reduced by the policy  of entering into transactions with counterparties  that are usually banks or financial institutions  with acceptable credit ratings.
Exposure to these  risks are closely monitored and maintained within  predetermined parameters.
There are limits on credit  exposure to any financial institution.
The limits are  regularly assessed and determined based upon  credit analysis including financial statements and  capital adequacy ratio reviews.
Our counterparties  are primarily banks and financial institutions and  the Company considers the risk of non-performance  by the counterparty as non-material.
• Liquidity risk: Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that  we will not be able to settle or meet our obligations on  time or at a reasonable price.
Management monitors  the Company’s net liquidity position through rolling  forecasts on the basis of expected cash flows.
As of  March 31, 2017, our cash and cash equivalents are  held with major banks and financial institutions.
Our Gross cash and cash equivalent and short-term  investments of `294,019 million.
Cash and cash  equivalent and short-term investments, net of debt,  was `155,760 million.
Risk Management Procedures We manage market risk through a corporate treasury  department, which evaluates and exercises independent  control over the entire process of market risk management.
Our corporate treasury department recommends risk  management objectives and policies, which are approved  by senior management and Audit Committee.
The activities  of this department include management of cash resources,  implementing hedging strategies for foreign currency  exposures, borrowing strategies, and ensuring compliance  with market risk limits and policies.
Foreign Exchange Risk Management Policy  and Results We evaluate our forex rate exposure arising from operations  and enter into foreign currency derivative instruments to  mitigate such exposure.
We have a consistent hedging policy,  designed to minimize the impact of volatility in foreign  exchange fluctuations on earnings, assets and liabilities.
We evaluate exchange rate exposure arising from transactions  and positions and enter into foreign currency derivative  instruments to mitigate such exposure.
We follow established  risk management policies, including the use of derivatives  like foreign exchange forward / option / future contracts to  hedge forecasted cash flows denominated in foreign currency.
As per the policy, the total hedges shall be 50% to 100% of the  next four quarters of inflows in addition to select long term  contracts which are beyond one year in tenor.
We have designated certain derivative instruments as cash  flow hedges to mitigate the impact of foreign exchange  exposure on Profit and Loss account and forecasted highly  probable cash flows.
We have also designated foreign  currency borrowings as hedges against respective net  investments in foreign operations.
Our Hedge Book as on March 31, 2018 stood at $2.4 billion.
Internal control systems and their adequacy We have presence across multiple countries, and a large  number of employees, suppliers and other partners  collaborate to provide solutions to our customer needs.
Robust internal controls and scalable processes are  imperative to manage the global scale of operations.
Management has laid down internal financial controls to  be followed by the Company.
We have adopted policies and  procedures for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of  the business, including adherence to the Company’s policies,  the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection  of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the  accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable  financial disclosures.
33 Annual Report 2017-18 Human Capital Human Capital Value Chain – Working  Ethically and Upholding Human Rights Our human capital interventions are driven by the dynamic  business landscape we operate in.
Today, innovations  like artificial intelligence, automation and analytics are  disrupting traditional business models, and opening up newer  opportunities and revenue streams for us.
Since millennials  form a majority of our 163,827 strong employee-base, we are  dealing with newer challenges, expectations and employer- employee relationships at the workplace.
Competitive  labour markets, diverse teams, evolving employee needs and  aspirations, coupled with the tectonic shifts in the technology  landscape are shaping the way we attract, develop and retain  top talent.
Our human capital value chain consists of people strategies  which are based on current and future business requirements.
Our policies, processes and systems flow from these strategies  which encompass the lifecycle of our employees.
Finally, the  outcomes of these people interventions are reflected through  our people result indicators, which directly or indirectly  contribute to the intellectual, social, natural and financial  capital of Wipro.
Throughout this value chain, our strategies,  processes and policies reflect an unflinching commitment to  the Spirit of Wipro, our values as well as globally-recognized  principles of business responsibility and human rights.
Human Rights & Values at Wipro a.
Our Company-wide Code of Business Conduct (COBC),  Spirit of Wipro Values and Human Rights Policy express  our commitment to do business ethically and embrace  practices that support environment, human rights, and  labour laws around the world.
Our entire workforce is  covered and trained on the COBC guidelines.
b.
Our COBC and Human Rights Policy are aligned to  globally accepted standards and frameworks like the  U.N.
Global Compact, U.N. Universal Declaration of  Human Rights and International Labour Organization’s  Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at  Work (ILO Declaration).
Wipro is also one of the founding  members of CII’s Business for Human Rights Initiative.
c. Our commitment to human rights covers employees,  suppliers, clients, communities and countries across  geographies where we do business.
d. We have established committees / processes like the  Ombuds process, Prevention of Sexual Harassment  Committee, Audit/Risk & Compliance committees and  an Inclusion & Diversity Council to review progress  and formulate strategies to address material issues  pertaining to compliance, safety and a harassment-free  workplace.
We constantly keep our employees informed  about these processes through trainings, mailers and  internal social media platforms.
Building  Capability Careers Reimagined Digitization, Analytics, AI Culture Transformation People Strategy People Processes People Results Business Results Hiring & Onboarding Perfomance & Talent Managment Learning & Development Employee Well-being Employee Engagement  and Communication Inclusion Engagement Productivity &  Retention Social Capital Intellectual  Captial Natural Capital Spirit of Wipro - Values and Ethics Human Rights and Compliance Competitive Markets  Crowd Sourcing  Disruptive Technology Automation  Inorganic Growth Demand for Skilled Labour Seamless Employee Experience  Optimal Resource Utilization Empowerment  Globalization  Collaboration  & Co-creation  Diversity Business Outlook Financial Capital Wipro Limited 34 People Strategy  Our people strategies are geared to create learning  opportunities, build careers, and foster an empowering and  inclusive culture where our employees find meaning in what  they do while they create value for Wipro.
Culture Transformation We aim to build an inclusive and empowering work  environment focussed on enhancing employee experiences.
Our people processes, policies and practices help to build  a nimble organization which is both performance-oriented  and digitally savvy.
Careers Reimagined  Our focus is to hire the right individuals, assimilate them  quickly, assess their performance, facilitate learning,  develop leadership and create an internal pipeline of  talent to build a future-ready organization.
Building Capability Anticipating future skill requirements and developing them  is vital to Wipro’s long term sustainability.
We continue to  invest in skill enhancement across levels, with a focus on  upskilling and building Design Thinking capability to drive  innovation.
Digitization, Analytics and AI  We are proactively adopting digital trends.
We are  using digitization and talent analytics to drive business  outcomes and ensure employee delight.
People Processes: Key Highlights FY 2018 Hiring and Onboarding  We are an equal opportunity employer and focus on  meritocracy at all stages of the hiring and deployment  process, including role-mapping and remuneration.
Localization continues to be a strategic focus for our talent  agenda and we have made considerable progress in this  area in our key markets.
We have a robust process to source  and select the best talent, both for entry-level roles as well  as lateral hires through our website, channel partners, job  fairs, campus placements, and internal job postings.
Our  comprehensive onboarding program helps assimilate new  talent seamlessly within the organization.
In FY 2018, we moved towards digitizing our campus hiring  process by using interview bots thus bringing in higher  rigour and quality to our selection.
Our recruitment process  has become more inclusive with diversity-focused sourcing  and engaging with veterans in the U.S.A.
Global 100 Program  continues to be a key focus and has successfully brought in  diverse talent across the globe who are engaged in impactful  work and are groomed into potential leaders of the future.
Performance and Talent Management Our performance management system is designed to  achieve holistic development for all our employees through  performance differentiation, transparency, and effective  evaluation.
Our quarterly review process introduced in  2016-17, continues to be a strong platform to encourage  feedforward discussions that are candid, constructive and  meaningful.
An Agile Performance Management system is in  place for specific job requirements of certain roles.
We also  have an annual 360-degree feedback process for employees  in middle and senior management roles where they are  evaluated on their leadership competencies.
Appropriate  development plans and interventions are then charted out  based on discussions between managers and employees.
Additionally, each Unit also has a formal Talent Review and  Planning process to identify, train and develop key resources.
Executive coaching is provided to top leadership to facilitate  their all-round development.
Talent Marketplace, an online platform has enabled internal  role fulfilment for senior roles.
The objective of the initiative  is to connect the right talent to available opportunities  within the organization.
In FY18, internal redeployment was  at 68% for senior/strategic roles.
Learning and Development  We have a comprehensive Learning and Development  program which caters to the behavioural, technical and  leadership needs of our workforce.
Our curriculum includes  classroom courses, on-the-job-trainings, blended learning,  social learning, mentoring and gamified modules to suit  the diverse needs of the participants.
We continuously  align our learning and development investments with the  business imperatives as well as the evolving expectations of  our employees.
We believe, that these programs help build  capabilities in new and emerging technologies, which in turn  enables our employees to deliver value to our clients, leading  to better Customer Satisfaction Scores (CSAT).
35 Annual Report 2017-18 52,000+ employees are using TopGear, a social learning and crowdsourcing  platform.
Learning on emerging technologies is enabled through 80+ cloud  based development environments, 1,000+ Learning assignments and 435 real  life projects.
We have created 250+ learning videos which are accessible on mobile.
We have  enabled learning through social learning platforms, revamped our Learning  Management System and put special emphasis on hands-on trainings and  assessments.
We provide equal learning opportunities to all our employees,  where they can nominate themselves for any technical or behavioral course of  their choice and get trained.
Our core focus is to keep pace with the disruptive speed at which Wipro is growing  in the Digital space and how we can make our employees future-ready from a  capability standpoint.
We have trained over 90,000 employees in digital skills  as of FY 2018.
We are enabling the delivery leadership through a program called  ADAPT where 100% of our Delivery Managers and a high number of Delivery  Heads are being trained on such skills.
Equal Opportunity  to Learn, Anytime,  Anywhere Digital  Upskilling We have scaled our programs which impart key behavioral competencies required  to service clients effectively such as ADROIT, EMPOWER, Design Thinking  and WinMore: Account Mining for Growth.
8,000+ Delivery Leaders, Program  Managers, Project Managers, Architects and Presales leaders participated in  these programs.
We have sustained interventions like OneVoice, LeadNxt and Leading Global  Teams to manage the softer aspects like customer focus, leadership development  and inclusion respectively.
To encourage faster internal deployment to sales  roles,   we are successfully training employees from delivery/presales teams  through the PRiSM program.
Building Sales  and Delivery  Capability *All training numbers quoted are coverage as on year ended March 31, 2018.
Employee Well-being Our employee wellness programs encompass the three  areas of employee well-being, namely physical, emotional  and financial well-being.
Physical well-being a.
Safety Standards: We have implemented strict safety  standards at all our facilities and operations, based  on global best practices and regulatory requirements.
We have well-defined policies and standard operating  procedures to ensure the safety of women employees  inside and outside the campus.
These include Safety  Awareness Programs, Global 24x7 Security Command  Centre, cab pick-up/ drop facility with escort, mobile  apps to confirm “Safe Reach” , among others.
b. Sensitization: Periodic employee connect programs  are conducted to raise awareness among employees on  safe workplace standards and practices.
Sessions on  employee health and wellness are regularly held across  Wipro locations.
c. Health: We have 27 Occupational Health Centers and 7  Ergonomic Centers across Wipro India locations which  help in awareness on ergonomic-related illnesses and  upper respiratory infections among our workforce.
d. Risk Assessment: We have established a robust and  an integrated Risk Assessment process for Initial  Environmental Review and Hazard Identification.
We  conduct periodic as well as annual assessments of our  campuses/offices.
Employees, stakeholders and service  providers are part of the risk assessment process.
Locations with more than 2,000 employees have safety  committees which meet quarterly and participate  in risk assessments, safety inspections, incident  investigations and hygiene audits.
Other locations  report work place hazards in the Heath Safety and  Environment (HSE) portal which get addressed in city- wise committee meetings.
Wipro Limited 36 Coverage of Training  Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series  (OHSAS) certification coverage = 90% of the employees  covered across 22 locations in India.
136,000+ employees, contractors and service providers  attended trainings on Health & Safety.
Cafeteria – FSSAI coverage Food Safety Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) license  is mandatory for vendors operating within Wipro-owned  locations in India.
Regular inspections and audits are  performed by both internal and external teams to ensure  compliance.
Participation in committees 2,800+ permanent and contract employees participated in  committees on safety, food, transport, etc.
across India, to  represent the interests of the workforce.
Emotional well-being Mitr is our employee counselling and support forum in  India.
It enables employees to reach out to counsellors 24x7  in-person and/or on phone to seek assistance for issues  pertaining to personal or professional life.
In geographies  outside India, we have employee counselling services  provided as a part of Employee Assistance Programs.
Financial well-being We continually strive to provide our full-time and part-time  employees with compensation packages commensurate  with their skills and experience.
Our benefits program takes  an integrated approach and provides a range of options  for better financial and social security, including efficient  tax-management options, life and accidental insurance,  medical packages and assistance in managing financial  issues.
We started providing long term incentives by  granting restricted stock units (RSU’s) in 2004 towards long  term retention of key talent.
We continue to drive a high- performance culture through our variable pay programs.
Our  management compensation is now more closely aligned with  organizational objectives and commitments, and rewards  higher performance, significantly.
Employee Engagement and Communication To facilitate open channels of feedback and communication  within the organization, on our values, rights, policies and  processes, apart from sending regular updates via org-wide  mailers, we have instituted town halls, Yammer blogs, Wipro  Meets’ sessions with the CEO and senior leadership teams  as well as group and individual connect sessions with the  human resources teams.
Wipro OnAir – Global Podcast Series Within a year of its launch, the podcast has received over  280,000 hits.
The Wipro OnAir group on Yammer is one of  the most engaged groups with 27,000 members.
Yammer – Internal Social Network Since its launch in 2014, we have had over 103,500 users,  who shared over 2.5 million messages, and formed 10,000  groups.
It is currently the largest social engagement tool  at Wipro.
Microsoft Teams – Collaboration Platform Since its launch in 2017, we have had over 36,000 users  using Microsoft Teams with 60,000+ team conversations  across mobile/desktop/browser channels.
Human Rights Due Diligence & Assessment Structured interventions like our grievance redressal  process of Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) and  Ombuds, Employee Perception Survey (EPS), Contract  Employee Engagement, governance reviews with Health  Committees, Audit Risk & Compliance Board and Inclusion &  Diversity Council, help us to proactively identify and mitigate  risks on human rights and any other organization processes.
Our due diligence & assessment process has identified the  following impacted groups/issues –i) benefits extended to  contract workforce ii) unconscious bias at workplace.
The  key engagement platforms and actions taken are:  a.
Employee Perception Survey: EPS is the formal  mechanism to capture employee feedback.
This is done  through (1) Biennial Employee Perception Survey (EPS),  and (2) a shorter dipstick survey (EPS Pulse) which is  held between two EPS cycles.
Our in-house built EPS  analytics tool provides breakdown of the results at  various levels e.g.
geography, business unit, gender,  career levels, age, nationality, tenure and enables us to  formulate action plans.
EPS 2017 results have already  been analyzed and action areas based on employee  feedback have been finalized for the coming year.
Based on employee feedback, we have simplified several  of our systems and processes, introduced policies that  allow greater flexibility, at work, launched initiatives to  promote greater collaboration, among others.
b.
Contract Employee Engagement: Our focus on  responsible people practices extends across our people  value chain, and covers our contract employees as well.
A dedicated team performs the complete employee  lifecycle management for contract employees deployed  on IT delivery projects.
Audits are conducted on the  empaneled partner to ensure that they comply with the  human rights, statutory and labour compliance.
• Through client-site visits and open house meetings,  we connect with contract employees to understand  37 Annual Report 2017-18 their needs and concerns.
Meet Matters is one such  forum for partner employees to interact with their  employer.
• We have introduced several initiatives, including  a chatbot and a new claims system for our partner  employees that enable a more simplified and  smoother experience at work.
Through an online  learning system, they can also develop various skills  and competencies.
Our people supply chain includes temporary workers  who are in soft service functions such as Housekeeping,  Security, etc.
We protect the interest of such workers  by ensuring that the contract agency complies with the  Supplier Code of Conduct.
We safeguard Human Rights  by ensuring that the salaries of all workers comply  with the relevant minimum wages legislations and by  providing them with appropriate working conditions.
c. Inclusion and Diversity: Our strategic focus today is to  become more “Inclusive” than merely representing our  “Diversity” through numbers.
We have a two-pronged  approach towards achieving our goals (1) we constantly  build Inclusion as a Way of Life within our culture.
Our  culture is rooted in the principles of respect, fairness  and equality.
(2) We focus on policies and processes that  create and reinforce Inclusion.
The entire organization, beginning with our leadership,  is aligned with our I&D vision.
Our CEO is the Executive  Sponsor of the I&D Council.
Further, I&D is a key agenda  item for our Board Reviews.
Our focus areas include Gender, Persons with  Disabilities, nationalities, underprivileged communities,  suppliers, and more recently, LGBT community.
Across the spectrum, we focus on building plurality of  ideas and on the elimination of unconscious bias.
We are deeply committed to promoting inclusivity and  diversity at the workplace.
The Board and I&D council  regularly monitor key indicators in this area.
Though we have  made significant progress, we recognise that a lot more  needs to be done.
For example, even as the gender pay ratio  is close to 1 at junior levels, the gap widens by 5-10% at  middle and senior levels.
This points to the need to increase  the representation of women at senior positions.
We will  continue to encourage and support more women to assume  high impact leadership roles in the organization.
An exclusive mentoring program launched for young mothers who are returning to  work from their maternity break.
WoW Nxt Career Advancement Program launched to enable women in junior  management to take on middle management roles.
1,000+ women covered through focused women enablement programs including  mentoring at various levels.
Inclusion & Diversity Speaker Series: 40+ Speakers.
Key Gender  Inclusion  Programs 300+ employees sensitized on disability-related issues such, including the Rights  of Persons with Disabilities Act (RPWDA), and how to hire and include PWD at the  workplace.
Sensitization sessions also included speaker sessions from disability  advocate organizations.
100+ online applications and modules have been made accessible to employees  with sensory disabilities.
60 engineers and training content developers coached on Web Content  Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards.
Accessibility  Initiatives for  Persons with  Disability Apart from focussed training programs, we have initiated conversations through  leaders on our internal social media platform, which encourage a deeper  understanding and awareness of inclusive behaviors, cultures and unconscious bias.
Sensitization on  Unconscious Bias *All numbers quoted are for the year ended March 31, 2018.
Wipro Limited 38 Freedom of Association We respect the right of employees to free association without  fear of reprisal, discrimination, intimidation or harassment.
Our employees are represented by formal employee  representative groups in certain geographies including  Australia, Austria, Brazil, Czech Republic, Finland, France,  Germany, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Romania and  Sweden which constitute about 2% of our workforce.
The  HR function meets these groups periodically to inform and  consult on any change that can impact their terms and  conditions / work environment.
In some of these countries,  Collective Bargaining agreements are required by law.
We  pro-actively engage with Works Councils and Unions when  it comes to issues like client employee transfers, complying  to local regulations.
People Results Leaders who significantly influence human capital strategies  of the organization are measured on the performance of  key indicators in this area.
The indicators provide insights  into the effectiveness of human capital strategies and are  reviewed regularly both at organizational and individual  business unit levels.
The key indicators are: • Attrition- low to mid double digits with focus on  retention of Top Talent • Employee Satisfaction (ESAT) Score - Show  measurable progress on engagement levels (Top Box  scores) over 2 years Productivity & Retention Gross Utilization has gone up to 72.2% Net Utilization has gone up to 82.5% (excluding Trainees) Voluntary attrition - 16.6%* * IT Services excluding BPS Engagement 73.6% overall engagement score (up 12.5 percentage points  from EPS 2015 and at levels similar to Pulse 2016) 72.6% employee participation in EPS 2017 (3.5% percentage  points increase from EPS 2015 and 1.1% percentage points  from Pulse 2016) Inclusion & Diversity and Health & Safety –highest rated  drivers of engagement in EPS 2017 Inclusion 35% Overall Gender Diversity (2% higher YoY) 16% women in management (in junior, middle and senior  management) positions 110+ nationalities 65% of the onsite personnel are locals  442 employees with disabilities, employed (with 8 different  types of disabilities) and ~70% are in business roles  Relationship to other Capitals Intellectual  Capital 404 patents filled in year No.
of patents granted (till date) 380 No.
of people trained in Digital  > 90,000 R&D workforce:  10,000 Financial Capital Revenue share of IP/Digital business reached 26.7%  Revenue Increase from  Last Year - 4.6% Natural Capital 42,000+ employees registered for car pooling in India Urban biodiversity projects in 2 key  campuses with  28,000  employees  participating  8 Environment Day programs  conducted in our campuses Human  Capital Social Capital Customer NPS Improvement   486 basis point increase No.
of Wipro Care Volunteers  12,000 and contributing  32,600 hours No.
of employee contributions on social causes is  more than 28,000 39 Annual Report 2017-18 Intellectual Capital  Wipro’s Research and Development initiatives continue  to focus on strengthening and extending our portfolio of  IT services across multiple new and emerging technology  areas as well as in the intersection of these technologies.
We are investing extensively in developing solutions and  services in a host of advanced technology areas (e.g.
ADAS  - Autonomous Driver Assistance Systems/ autonomous  vehicles, commercial wearables, machine vision, human  machine interfaces, smart assistants, natural language  processing and understanding, augmented & virtual reality,  blockchain tech, among others).
We continue to invest  in working on new ways of software development and  deployment for edge-based IoT and always-on architectures.
We actively co-innovate with customers on emerging themes  like Digital and enabling new customer experiences.
We are  also investing in building our patent portfolio.
Our Open  Innovation programs leverage the innovation ecosystem by  working closely with partner/startups ecosystem, academia  and expert networks to jointly provide latest innovations to  our customers.
We also work on our organization’s innovation  culture by running several initiatives to support and fund  great ideas.
TopGear is our social learning and crowdsourcing platform  (through TopCoder implementation at Wipro) powered by  global employee crowd.
TopGear enables businesses to  start a project with virtually no lead time and be able to  deliver technology solutions at speed.
This ensures ‘just  in time’ access to experts, optimize speed and reduce the  cost of delivery of projects.
At TopGear, business teams can  crowdsource their projects in real-time to crowd at three  levels – Public, Organization wide and account specific  crowd.
We have invested in advanced technologies to strengthen  existing capabilities and enhance our platforms for rich  customer experience.
For example, we developed the  Wipro IMAGINE solution which has near-human ability of  having intuitive multi-modal interactions thereby providing  personalized experiences accurately and efficiently across  different senses – voice, vision, haptics, smell and taste.
It will  transform Customer Experience through upcoming channels  of interaction such as Augmented Reality, Virtual Reality  and Mixed Reality experiences provided on head mounted  devices.
There have been successful implementations in use  cases such as customer service, field support, training &  certification, digital workspace and solutions for differently- abled.
These investments have resulted in many solution  enhancements and new capabilities, which are unique and  differentiated in the market.
For over a decade, Wipro has been investing in building IP  capabilities across the entire spectrum of AI and Automation  spanning, RPA (Robotic Process Automation) to Cognitive  and Deep Learning, leveraging our expertise in Data, Domain  and IP and outcome-based services.
These investments in  the form of the Wipro HOLMES AI platform and ecosystem  have resulted in a wide portfolio of Automation use cases  across industry verticals and technology processes.
Our offerings to clients are based on three pillars: AI &  Automation Consulting (business outcomes), Applied AI  (platform, use cases, data as IP) and Automation Ecosystem  (strategic partnerships with leading Foundational AI, RPA  players, Independent Software Vendors as well as startups).
Our vision is to become the trusted Intelligent Automation  partner for our clients in their digital transformation journey,  driving Efficiency, Economics and Experience.
In FY 2018,  Wipro HOLMES has generated 8,000 people-equivalent  productivity for over 320 clients.
Our strategy, solutions and  AI deployments across IT and business processes have also  been recognized by leading industry forums, technology  analysts and our strategic partners.
Our work on new technologies has led to a number of unique  and original inventions from our tech teams, which has led  to a number of new patents.
We have filed 404 patents in  FY 2018, in various key new tech areas that we have been  working on, and our patent portfolio of filed and granted  patents now exceed 2,000.
We have also adapted and  matured our IP protection and management processes to  reflect the new realities of the patent regimes at various  patent offices around the world.
We have been reasonably  successful in driving proactive and higher quality inventions  from our inventors.
Our efforts in these areas have  won substantial recognition from various national and  international government agencies.
Our Open Innovation programs have seen significant  success this year.
We have been successful in identifying  innovative startups that usefully differentiate our solutions  by integrating with them.
This has helped Wipro go to  market with more innovative solutions to our customers’  requirements.
We continue to be part of various industry and  startup forums including the NASSCOM Industry Partner  Program (NIPP) which connect promising startups with us.
We also have an active program to partner with accelerators  and other investors and influencers in the startup  ecosystem.
We are working with a variety of open innovation  intermediaries to leverage expert networks across the world  to complement our specialists on niche projects and solve  complex customer problems involving Artificial Intelligence  and Cognitive Systems, among others.
Our joint research collaboration with Tel Aviv University  (TAU) kicked off last year.
This is a two-year program where  Wipro and TAU jointly work on core and applied research  in image and text analytics using deep learning & sparse  representation models and techniques.
In addition, we  have also entered into research collaborations with IISc on  technologies for autonomous vehicles.
Technovation centre continues to drive Technology led  innovation to visualize the ‘art of the possible’ in emerging  Wipro Limited 40 business environments for our Customers globally.
Technovation Centre brings together an Innovation  ecosystem, a set of best practices, IP’s and R&D activities to  enable our Clients to strategize their Horizon 2 and Horizon  3 initiatives successfully.
It is a centre where our Customers  engage with technical research teams and innovation  experts to work collaboratively and create their future.
We  also launched the state of the art experience centre, the  Silicon Valley Innovation Centre in Mountain View, catering  to the requirements of the ecosystems in the Americas.
We are actively building solutions in collaborative robotics,  drones and autonomous vehicles.
We have also developed  use cases in areas such as Retail Shopper Robot and  Autonomous Vehicle.
Wipro’s Computer Vision Platform  provides actionable insights to improve compliance, quality  and productivity using image and video analytics.
One of the  components have been employed by one of our customers to  monitor operator distraction.
We are also leading a research  in collaboration with agricultural universities, startups and  research institutions for early detection of pest infestation in  crops.
The platform has also been used & deployed in areas  such as hazardous material sorting, inventory & inspection  on shop floor and surround view for commercial & industrial  vehicles.
Highlights for the year Research and development expenses for  the years ended March 31, 2016, 2017 and  2018 were `2,561, `3,338 and `3,041 million  respectively.
In the year ended March 31, 2018, Wipro filed  404 patents and currently has approximately  1,623 patent applications pending registration  in various jurisdictions across the world.
Wipro won the “Asia IP Elite” award from the  Intellectual Asset Management publication for  the fifth consecutive year for best IP Practices.
Social & Relationship Capital Organizations earn and maintain their societal license  to operate by adopting a boundary-less perspective with  respect to their stakeholders.
Social value and capital is  created when a business co-creates positive outcomes  with its customers, business partners, vendors, employees,  investors, communities and civil society.
To this we also add  another key stakeholder into the frame – future generations,  a perspective that helps to also bring in voices from the  unrepresented, but are core to create a sustainable society.
Customers Wipro believes in creating value for the customer over and  above the contracted terms.
Our approach is based on  our vision of delivering value to our customer businesses  based on a solid relationship of trust, collaboration and  competence.
We ensure this by providing solutions that  integrate deep industry insights, leading technologies and  best in class delivery processes.
Engagement is critical to meet and understand the  expectations of customers.
The key to customer retention  is building deep relationships.
IT industry, a major driver  of efficiency and productivity improvements for most  businesses, is undergoing tremendous change in the face  of disruptive technologies.
The Business Strategy section  outlines the drivers and how it informs our business model,  offerings and customer engagement approach.
From a sustainability perspective, the most material issues  for our customers include Data privacy, IT Security and  compliance on sustainability related aspects.
The World  Economic Forum Global Risks Report 2018 lists large-scale  IT security issues and data fraud/thefts among the top 10  in terms of likelihood and impact.
Sustainability Accounting  Standard Board (SASB) standard for software and IT services  also lists these as being material to the sector.
IT Security: Wipro’s IT infrastructure is certified under  the ISO 27001 standard which provides assurance in  the areas of information security, physical security and  business continuity.
We benchmark our processes to meet  the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and  SOX IT compliance requirements.
We closely monitor IT  infrastructure availability incidents based on severity,  outage duration and users impacted.
Most of the incidents  are related to telecommunications and network links.
We have maintained SLA with vendors on IT and telecom  infrastructure availability close to 99.99% in the reporting  year.
Data Privacy: Being a B2B business, Wipro does not collect,  store or monetize information pertaining to our customers’  attributes or actions, including but not limited to, records of  communications, content of communications, demographic  data, behavioral data, location data, or any other personally  identifiable information.
Therefore, our company does not  receive requests for customer information from government  or law enforcement agencies.
Wipro does not store any  customer proprietary data in its systems and networks.
In  rare circumstances where, as part of project requirement,  it is needed to view customer data, it is accessed remotely  - with the data being stored and hosted on the customer’s  systems.
This helps in meeting data privacy compliance  requirements from a contractual & operational perspective  since it is Wipro’s customers that are in control of their own  data, even while outsourcing project work to Wipro.
Wipro  41 Annual Report 2017-18 signs Master Services Agreements with its customers that  have clauses covering confidentiality of the customer’s  information.
Wherever applicable, Wipro also executes  Business Associate Agreements with its customers who  are governed by sectoral privacy regulations such as  HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability  Act) of 1996.
As a matter of due process, a customer is  notified in the event of any breach of data privacy as per  notification procedure agreed in the contract.
In Wipro’s BPS  (Business Process Services) business, technical help-desk  and process outsourcing in areas like human resources,  finance accounting, procurement and retail are provided.
Like in IT services, all customer data is stored in customer  systems and there are multiple process layers before  the data is presented to the customer support executive,  with appropriate controls and auditing mechanisms.
In  the reporting year, there were no substantiated incidents  concerning breaches of customer privacy and / or loss of  customer data.
Sustainability: Apart from technology driven value creation,  our global customers also expect transparency and  compliance on different sustainability aspects within our  operations and in our extended value chain – Human Rights,  Labour Practices and Diversity being key dimensions among  them.
Many customers require acceptance and alignment  with their supplier code of conduct.
We have close to 200  of our customers who are part of independent raters like  Ecovadis , Verego and industry led consortiums like the  JAC (Joint Audit Consortium), Pharmaceutical Supply Chain  Initiative (PSCI) and Quest Forum (Focusing on Quality  and Sustainability in ICT community).
We also respond to  CDP supply chain with information on our GHG emissions  attributable to the work we do for specific customers and  as a corollary , on collaboration opportunities with those  customers on GHG mitigation.
Suppliers  Managing and mitigating the environmental and social  impacts of one’s supply chain are interlinked to effective  economic outcomes over the long term – they can help  businesses avoid disruptions, meet evolving customer  requirements, foster innovation and protect the company’s  reputation and brand value.
It can also help further the  business imperatives of efficiency, cost effectiveness and  resilience in the supply chain.
The supplier ecosystem of  Wipro can be broadly categorized into two heads - contract  employees involved in core delivery of IT Services and  Solutions (refer the Human Capital section); and ‘product  or services supply chain’ or ‘secondary supply chain’ which  comprises suppliers who provide products, business  support services and facility management services for our  operations.
Our Code of Business Conduct (COBC) and the Spirit of Wipro  values provide the ethical guidelines and expectations for  conducting business and for directing Wipro’s relationship  with its suppliers.
The code is applicable to all suppliers,  agents, service providers, channel partners, dealers and  distributors.
In addition to the COBC, the Supplier Code of  Conduct (SCOC) of Wipro further strengthens and augments  the COBC with respect to environmental and social aspects  (including key aspects of human rights) of business  practices and sets clear expectations from our supply  chain.
All decisions related to procurement are governed  by our procurement policy which addresses social and  environmental aspects like green procurement, supplier  diversity, equal opportunity in sourcing and accessibility of  goods and services for people with disabilities.
Our Supply Chain engagement has been a journey where  sustainability has increasingly become central.
Our  engagement approach is multi-pronged with the focus on  improving the capabilities of suppliers in managing their  sustainability performance.
Manpower service providers  in civil, operations and support services is a category  identified as being significant in terms of social impacts.
Similarly, suppliers who provide utility products and services  (electricity, water, waste management) and ICT equipment  have large environmental footprints and are therefore  material to our strategy to reduce our environmental impact.
A significant feature of our engagement is how we align  our community or CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility)  programs with supplier engagement wherever it is possible.
This can address some of the fundamental issues at hand  – our bridge program in education for children of migrant  laborers for our new infrastructure projects, urban water  programs in cities where we operate and access to social  benefits for city municipal solid waste workers are some  examples.
ENGAGE Inform Communicate intent  and requirements to  our suppliers Understand Context and current  compliance of our  suppliers and developing  policies,  processes,  audits and assessment  of suppliers Collaborate Educate our suppliers  on environmental,  social and governance  best practices to be  incorporated in their   business Assess   Audits and  assessments of  suppliers Wipro Limited 42 Supplier Diversity: Wipro is an Equal Opportunity employer  and strongly advocates the same through its supply chain by  encouraging supplier diversity.
Qualified enterprises owned  by persons with disability, women or member of minority  communities are proactively identified and engaged with.
We are restructuring our vendor empanelment process to  help strengthen our supplier diversity process.
Summary of supplier sustainability engagements: a.
During the reporting year we have conducted social  audit of 128 manpower services providers spread  across 7 states and 1 union territory.
Employee Benefits  provided and Women’s Safety at workplace were  identified as key issues for workers in supply chain.
We  are actively engaging with our suppliers to ensure they  take corrective actions.
b.
Supplier Diversity Program for facilities management  services at our campuses – A sensitization program  was conducted and expectations have been conveyed  formally through our contracting process.
The gender  diversity ratio for supplier staff deployed at our facilities  is 25.6% .
c.  Green initiatives in ICT Hardware • Green Procurement – For desktops, laptops and  display equipment our guidelines are in accordance  with the EPEAT standard from Green Electronics  Council.
In 2017-18, we purchased more than 44,000  EPEAT Gold and over 8,000 EPEAT Silver category  products across desktops, laptops, displays,  imaging equipment and mobiles.
Our purchase of  EPEAT registered IT products translates to savings  of approximately 15,655 MWH electricity and a  reduction of 2,560 metric tons of greenhouse gas  emissions in the upstream supply chain • Asset re-utilization beyond end of life at around  15% - Achieved through proactive maintenance and  upgrades  • Managed Print Services (MPS): This outcome-based  model, where Wipro’s printing services are managed  through an independent third party helps generate  higher operational efficiency through better  controls and analytics as well as reduced resource  consumption (paper, toner) and planned asset  refresh.
Consumables and printer issues are tracked  remotely managed by MPS vendor.
We have also  reduced unwanted printouts by a provision to scan  and send documents to respective user mailboxes.
• Awarded runner-up in the category “Excellence in  procurement - sustainability” at the CPO Forum  India 2017 awards.
Investors Our endeavour is to, not merely, report true and fair financial  results in a timely manner but also communicate the  business outlook, risks and opportunities transparently to  the investor community.
Increasingly, discerning investors  are interested in the longer term strategy of the organization  and issues which are material to the industry.
We deploy  multiple channels of communications to keep investors  informed about various development and events.
Wipro’s senior management leaders along with our dedicated  Investor Relations team participate in various forums like  investor conferences and investor road shows, in addition  to hosting investors and equity analysts who visit our  campus.
Our quarterly results, regulatory filings, transcripts  of our earnings call, media presentations and schedule of  investor interactions are available at http:/ /www.wipro.com/  investors/  We participate in different investor led disclosures like Dow  Jones Sustainability Index, Vigeo, FTSE Russell ESG, MSCI  ESG and Carbon Disclosure Project.
Wipro was selected as a  member of the global Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI)  - 2017 for the eighth year in succession.
Wipro is included  in both the DJSI World and Emerging Markets Indices.
The  Euronext Vigeo Emerging Market Sustainability Index also  includes Wipro among the 70 most advanced companies in  the Emerging Market Region.
Highlights of the year  The following table details the different types of engagement  exercises undertaken by the company in 2017-18:  Particulars Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 FY Investors meetings & Calls 25 32 28 37 122 Conference 2 4 5 2 13 Road Show Conducted 2 2 2 1 7 Earning Conference calls 1 1 1 1 4 Communities and Civil Society At Wipro, we think it is critical for business to engage with  the social and ecological challenges that face humanity in a  deep and meaningful manner with long-term commitment;  for that is the only way by which real change can happen  on the ground.
We engage with communities on issues that  matter to them most.
Wipro’s social initiatives center on the  following dimensions.
The programs on ecology are covered  in the ‘Natural Capital’ section.
43 Annual Report 2017-18 Education Engaging in deep and meaningful systemic work in the  area of school and college education • School Education in India - WAITS • School Education outside India - USSEF • Sustainability Education - Wipro earthian • Engineering Education - WASE, WiSTA Community Care Engaging with the proximate communities in areas of  primary health-care, education, ecology and disaster  rehabilitation • Primary Health care • Education for underprivileged • Children with disability • Environment • Disaster Rehabilitation Ecology Addressing environmental issues like energy, water, solid,  waste and biodiversity • Energy & Carbon  • Water  • Waste  • Biodiversity Key programs in Education  Our work in education covers a range of initiatives in school  and higher education from systemic reforms to sustainability  education.
Apart from India, we have significant programs in  U.S.A as well.
The common vision that ties this together is  our belief that education is a key enabler of change towards  a better society.
Systemic reforms in School Education: Over the past 17 years, we have worked to contribute to  systemic reform in school education in India, through Wipro  Applying Thought in Schools (WATIS).
The strategy for this has  been to support the development and strengthening of good  organizations working in this space.
We have partnered with  over 101 organizations in different areas of systemic reform.
The impact of this wide network of education organizations  has been in the areas of curriculum, text books, teacher  capacity, and school leadership.
Over the last 17 years, our  work has spanned 163 projects with a collective reach of  close to 20,000 schools across 29 states.
During 2017-18, we  continued to build momentum of identifying and supporting  new and young start-ups in school education through a  structured program of seeding fellowships.
29 Fellows from  17 organizations were added during the year taking the total  number of ‘Fellows’ to 60.
The second element of our strategy  is to support organizations working in other developmental  areas like livelihoods or healthcare to expand their locus  of work to school education.
15 such organizations were  identified for partnering during the year.
In addition, we  continue to identify and partner with good early to mid-stage  organizations who are already working in education.
Our  hope is that this three-pronged strategy will eventually help  build a bulwark of strong organizations across the country  which are deeply committed to change in school education.
As part of network building and advocacy of such issues, our  17th national forum was organized – a unique platform that  brings together the best minds in education in the country to  deliberate and exchange thoughts and ideas on some of the  most important issues in education.
Our target, set in 2015 is to support 100 new organizations by FY  2020.
As of March 2018, we are supporting 56 new organizations.
Key Highlights of the Year Thirty-two new organizations have been supported this  year; of these, 17 organizations (31 fellows) were supported  through seeding fellowships and 15 through organization  grants.
Continued support to 7 older partnerships, 4 of  which concluded this year.
17th Partner’s Forum on organizational sharing was held  in May 2017.
The 3-day forum was a well-attended affair  with over 100 participants from various organizations.
Wipro Science Education Fellowship Program in U.S.A The Wipro Science Education Fellowship (SEF) is a significant  initiative we started in U.S.A in 2013 with a focus on  improving STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math)  learning in schools serving disadvantaged communities.
Our  Number of organizations with respect to thematic area Social  Science Science  and Maths Co- curricular School  Transformation Primary  Education 8 7 4 31 6 Wipro Limited 44 work centers around helping teachers become better STEM  educators and change leaders for STEM in their school  districts.
Anchored by the COSMIC center in the University  of Massachusetts, the program has been widely accepted in  U.S.A as an important initiative in this space.
In 2017-18, we  expanded our presence significantly, adding three new sites  at Tampa, Florida, Jefferson City, Missouri and Mountain  View, Santa Clara.
We established three new partnerships  for these sites with the University of Southern California,  University of Missouri and Stanford University respectively.
With this, the Wipro-SEF program is active in seven locations  in the U.S, including the existing sites at Boston, New York,  New Jersey and Dallas.
This initiative is aligned with the US federal government’s  priority on improving science and math education in their  school system.
We are satisfied with the outcomes of this  program till now ; Going forward, we will start implementing  our modified strategy in line with the roadmap we have laid  out till 2022.
Wipro’s commitment of about USD 9 million since 2013 is  one of the largest such commitments made by a company  outside U.S.A to the cause of improving science and math  education out there.
Sustainability Education Wipro earthian, our flagship program that brings together  two of our key concerns, Education and Sustainability, into  a nation-wide initiative for schools and colleges continued  to expand and progress on multiple fronts in its eighth year.
In the schools segment, Wipro earthian is now present in  more than 30 states and union territories across India.In  the past couple years, we have consciously established and  expanded our outreach to the North-East in India, which is  normally underserved on many counts.
While our strategy  for schools is centered on broad awareness building through  large scale outreach, our engagement with colleges is more  selective and aligned with the particular characteristics of  different disciplines and institutes.
Wipro earthian covers two phases – the Wipro earthian  awards program and the Continuous Engagement Program  (CEP).
The award program for schools engage students under  two thematic areas - Water and Biodiversity.
Participating  schools form teams and engage in an 3 to 4 month activity  in their school and communities.
The CEP provides unique  learning experiences for schools and colleges – through  experiential workshops, internships, in-school learning  material and co-creation of faculty led pedagogy material,  which further accelerates sustainability learning at an  institutional level.
Key Highlights of the Year School submission from across the country reached a new  high of 1,254, primarily driven by extensive outreach and  participation from North East states.
Overall submissions  came in from 29 states and 43 districts covered by the program.
Continued partnership with School of Sustainability, Xavier  University, Bhubaneswar and MOU’s with leading institutes  to develop sustainability pedagogy tools for faculty across  various disciplines/subjects   - CEPT, Ahmedabad(Urban  Planning), IIM Ahmedabad (Sustainability Business Case  study development) and ICT, Mumbai (Chemical Engineering).
2 doctoral fellowships on sustainability and faculty-led  research program on the theme of ‘Business and Human Rights’  and ‘Sustainability Risk Assessment’ with IIM-Bengaluru.
13 students from 4 colleges completed their internships with  diverse sustainability non-profit and consultancy organizations  - TRUCOST, BIOME, CSTEP , ATREE, WRI, CDP , Hasiru Dala.
6 sustainability quizzes at BITS Goa, IIM-B, IIM Kozhikode, NIT  Trichy, GIM Goa and IIT Kharagpur with participation from 470  teams and 940 participants.
Technology Education People with the right skills and competencies form the bedrock  of IT services organizations.
The challenge for the Indian IT  industry has always been to respond fast enough to the ever  rapidly changing dynamics of the industry.
The present times  are no different, in fact even more so with the challenge of a  bewilderingly fast changing landscape of technology which is  often summarized as Industry 4.0.
We have always owned this  as our primary responsibility.
In 1995, we started a program  for science graduates that would enable them to study for a  post-graduate degree in engineering and technology.
Called  the Wipro Academy of Software Excellence (WASE) program,  it helps Science graduates to study for a Masters degree in  Software Engineering (M.Tech).
Run in partnership with the  Birla Institute of Technology & Science (BITS), Pilani, India,  this unique program blends rigorous academic exposure with  practical professional learning at the workplace, We run a  similar program called WISTA in collaboration with Vellore  Institute of Technology (VIT) for science graduates without a   45 Annual Report 2017-18 mathematics background.
Since its inception in 1995, Wipro  has supported and enabled more than 28,000 students to  graduate from the WASE and WISTA programs with an MS  degree in Software Engineering.
During 2017-18, the total  number of new entrants into the two programs was 3,274  while the aggregate strength across four years was 13,636.
Working with communities everywhere A primary tenet of our CSR strategy is that we must engage  with communities proximate to wherever we have significant  operational presence in the world.
We choose to work with  underprivileged communities in particular.
Our work is  channeled through Wipro Cares, a unique trust that is based  on the operating model of employee contributions matched  by Wipro Ltd. Our work spans primary health-care, education,  ecology and disaster rehabilitation.
Of these, we have  already spoken about our work on community education in  an earlier section above.
We articulate our progress on the  other dimensions Our work is channeled through Wipro Cares, a unique trust  that is based on operating model of employee contribution  matched by Wipro Ltd.
The work spans following areas:  a.
Education: Education is so critical that it is necessary  to focus on multiple points of leverage.
While systemic  reforms will continue to be an important area for us,  we also have a large program that is designed for more  direct impact on underprivileged children.
Run through  Wipro Cares, the employee-supported trust of Wipro, the  program reached out to nearly 70000 children across  eight states .
The projects address a gamut of critical  issues faced by disadvantaged communities when it  comes to school education – starting from enrolment in  schools to nutrition for children, counseling services for  parents, remedial education, just to name a few.
These  children are from some of the most vulnerable groups  in our society – urban slums, HIV-affected families,  migrant labor families, street children.
b.
Education for Children with Disability: We continue to  strengthen our program which supports the educational  and rehabilitative needs of children with disabilities  from underprivileged backgrounds through 14 projects  across six states that works with around 2,600 children.
Going beyond just schooling,  our approach tries to  integrate enabling factors like availability of nutrition,  community support, specially trained teachers,  assistive technology, access to healthcare etc.
Our work  in this space covers multiple categories of disability and  focuses on early intervention and inclusive education.
c.  Primary Health Care: Access to primary health care is a  key determinant of an individual’s future trajectory in life,  including the ability to engage in productive livelihoods  and responsible citizenship, Wipro Cares works with  partners who provide good quality primary health  care services to underserved communities covering  more than 40,000 people belonging to extremely  disadvantaged communities in Nagaland, Karnataka  and Maharashtra.
Our work in these states is in remote,  inaccessible villages where health care access has been  weak or non-existent till now.
Our operating approach is  driven by the primary goals of building the capacity of  the local community in managing their health needs, of  augmenting government infrastructure and in training  health workers to address the unique needs of the  communities d. Disaster Rehabilitation: Natural disasters like  earthquakes, floods and cyclonic storms are an  unfortunate fact of life, especially in a climatically and  geologically diverse country like India.
Whenever these  happen, the disadvantaged sections get affected the  most as the already fragile basis of their livelihoods  gets further disrupted.
Starting with the Gujarat  earthquake in 2001, we have responded to several  natural calamities wherein Wipro’s employees have  also risen to the occasion and played a sterling role.
By  design, we focus on the more difficult challenge of long  term rehabilitation of the affected communities.
During 2017-18, ‘Unnati’ the rehabilitation project  that we had initiated in Uttarakhand in the aftermath  of the floods there in 2013 has progressed to an  advanced stage with the farmers’ cooperative obtaining  all the regulatory and compliance requirements to  manufacture and sell value added products from farm  produces.
Back in 2013 when we started, our broad  goal was to strengthen local livelihoods of communities  in 22 villages in the Uttarkashi district.
While we think  there is a long way to go in this regard, our assessment  is that the program is at a stage now where the basic  institutional scaffolding is in place and it can be built up  effectively, going forward.
In 2016-17, we started a rehabilitation project in  Cuddalore district for those affected by the Tamil Nadu  floods of 2015.
This project is focused on promoting  sustainable livelihoods among the most vulnerable  women from the fishing community and providing  them with capital support, skill training in value added  products, marketing skills and linkage to markets.
Last  year, it enabled the women to set up 12 Micro-Enterprise  groups, and facilitated their participation in the formal  markets.
Women are the bulwark of any community and  such efforts will enable the fisher community to respond  to any future disaster in more effective ways e. Community Ecology: Support environmental projects  that have direct benefit for underprivileged communities  including but not limited to agroforestry, groundwater  rejuvenation, waste management, lake restoration and  so on.
Wipro Limited 46 The power of engaged employees Employees are integral to many of our social programs in  many ways.
Providing them a platform to engage develops  a sense of citizenship and larger responsibility towards  society.
From our experience, employees also see this as a  workplace differentiator, The Wipro Cares trust is built on a  model of employee contribution that is matched by Wipro.
More than 25,000 Wipro employees are currently engaged  with Wipro Cares either through volunteering or by way  of monetary contributions or both.
During 2017-18, more  than 11500 employees from nearly 40 chapters in India  and overseas collectively spent around 32500 hours in  voluntary engagement on a wide range of community and  environmental initiatives Involved and engaged employees  add great value to our programs.
One of our prime goals for  the next two years is going to be to further increase the scale  and scope of employee engagement.
International Chapters The first major partnership for Wipro Cares North America  began in 2015 with First Book, a 501(c)(3) non-profit  organization based in Washington, DC that provides free  books to children in need.
Since then, Wipro Cares chapters  in North America and First Book have been working together  to donate more than 234,000 books in communities  throughout the U.S.A and Canada.
Employees also regularly  Project in urban solid waste management in  Bengaluru provides social, nutritional and health  security to nearly 8,000 workers in the informal  sector of waste and provides a comprehensive  skills upgradation program for about 100 such  workers Promoting sustainable livelihood among the most  vulnerable women from the fishing community in  Cuddalore, Tamil Nadu by providing skill training  in value added products, marketing skills and  linkage to markets The livelihoods project in Uttarkashi post the  Uttarakhand floods of 2013 has helped around  1,000 families to stay back in their villages and  continue farming.
A farmer’s co-operative called  Unnati is setup to guide farmers on farming  inputs and in selling their farm products.
Nearly 68,000 children from underprivileged  communities benefit from our 22 education  projects in eight states Through 4 projects, an aggregate of over 40,000  people are getting access to primary health care Education for Children with Disability program  now supports the educational and rehabilitative  needs of 2,200 underprivileged children with  disabilities through 14 projects in six states Highlights of the year donate to First Book, with a 1:1 matching by Wipro.
More  than 100 Wipro employees have also committed their time to  the Million Women Mentors program, an initiative designed  to engage more women in STEM careers in U.S.A.
In the year, U.S.A was hit by two devastating hurricanes –  Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma.
Wipro employees  rallied around to volunteer and contribute money towards  the relief initiatives.
Wipro matched the contributions and  further donated $250,000 to the Rebuild Texas Fund.
In South Africa, we have been active participants in a number  of programs aligned with the ‘Broad Based Black Economic  Empowerment (BBBEE) Act’ that aims to distribute wealth  across a spectrum of previously disadvantaged South  African society.
Our work covers computer literacy for youth,  skills and entrepreneurship development and working with  underprivileged schools.
47 Annual Report 2017-18 Natural Capital Managing economic development in a manner that does not  compromise ecological integrity of our planet has posed  one of the biggest challenges to humanity ever since the  industrial revolution started.
It will be even more so in the  coming decades of this century.
It is no surprise therefore  that 7 of the 17 U.N.
Sustainable Development Goals directly  reflect these concerns while the remaining 10 goals have  indirect intersects with ecology and environment in some  way or the other.
While the climate change challenge is most  talked about and debated, the problems of water scarcity,  biodiversity loss and the pollution and depletion of our  natural commons are equally critical.
The increasing centrality of issues like climate change and  water stress in the last few years has led organizations to  look beyond their boundaries.
While internal business drivers  like resource efficiency, waste management and pollution  mitigation have been the primary levers of any corporate  environmental program, organizations have come to realize  that in order to make a real impact at a larger, systemic level,  one can no longer ignore the externalized costs of ecological  damage.
Natural capital thus refers broadly to the notion  that nature provides immense value that is critical to human  existence and therefore, any action that depletes natural  capital is self-defeating for our society.
Our approach embraces the continuum of  a. initiatives ‘within the organization’ that focus on  reducing the energy, water, waste and biodiversity  footprint of our business operations; and  b. engaging through partners on key external programs in  community ecology.
Ecological Sustainability Governance Sustainability governance at Wipro is informed by our  strategic choice to work across both dimensions –  business responsibility and social responsibility.
Business  responsibility is about the organization fulfilling its  essential duties and obligations, and running its business  with integrity and ensuring that the ecological footprint of  its operations is minimized.
The second dimension of social  responsibility is about looking beyond the boundaries of  organization and contributing towards development of  the larger community.
The responsibility is spread across  hierarchies and functions seeing themselves as key  stakeholders in its success; for ecological issues the Global  Operations team, the People Function, Community programs  team, the Risk office and employee chapters play a major  role in several of the programs.
However, the oversight of  sustainability programs rest at the corporate level with our  Chairman, Board of Directors and Group Executive Council.
The goals and objectives are jointly set with inputs from  across functions.
The quarterly reviews are attended by the  Chairman, Chief Strategy officer, CFO and Chief HR officer.
We  benchmark our performance with our global peers through  extensive disclosures as well as a system of rigorous audits  - both internal and external.
We have started the process of  incorporating key sustainability risks like climate change  into our ERM framework.
All key organizational stakeholders have vested  responsibilities related to planning, execution,  evangelization, review, as well as advocacy of the  sustainability agenda of the company.
Given below is the  responsibility matrix for our environment programs (energy,  water, waste and biodiversity).
Other sustainability programs  have similar matrix pertinent to their operations.
Management Approach  The implications of environmental and climate change  risks to the business as well planet necessitates the  identification and prioritization of material issues .
At Wipro,  we have identified Energy efficiency and Green House  Gases (GHG) mitigation, Water efficiency and Responsible  Water management, Pollution and Waste management, and  Campus Biodiversity as material issues and have developed  programs around them.
The Ecological Sustainability Policy, available at   wipro.com/documents/Ecological_Sustainability_Policy.
pdf form the structural framework for our programs  and management systems.
We have been following the  guidelines of the ISO 14001 framework for more than a  decade now as one of the cornerstones of our Environmental  Management System (EMS).
18 of our campus sites in India  and 2 in Australia are certified to ISO 14001:2004 standard.
We have been responding to CDP Climate Change Investor  and Supply Chain for the last 10 years.
In addition we have  applied the Natural Capital Protocol guidelines to publish  our annual Environmental Profit and Loss account.
We  are also members of LfN (Leaders for Nature) consortium  anchored by IUCN in India and CII’s India Business and  Biodiversity initiative (IBBI).
Partnership is key to achieve  our goals across the value chain.
We work with Renewable  energy suppliers, energy efficient hardware manufacturers  and service providers and other partners to reduce our  employee commute and business travel footprint.
We were  one of the early adopters of Green Building Design with 18  of our current buildings certified to the international LEED  standard (Silver, Gold, and Platinum) As part of the program, a well-defined strategy with metrics  and targets are in place and regular monitoring and feedback  adds to the rigor.
Wipro Limited 48 Planning & Review Execution Internal Evangelizing External Advocacy Board of Directors Group Executive Council Business Leadership Facilities Management Group  Infrastructure Creation Group  Sustainability Office  Employee Chapters Human Resources Finance Corporate affairs, Brand &  Communication  Risk Office Scope of Reporting  India: 62 locations (includes 3 data centres) representing  78% of our workforce.
34 of these locations are owned  (includes 3 data centres) and the balance 28 are leased.
Overseas: 191 office locations; 7 client data centers.
Most  locations are leased; and used as marketing/liaison offices.
Primary data of resources and environmental impacts from  new infrastructure being built by our civil and construction  partners is presently not included in our reporting as  systems are being developed.
However this is covered in our  natural capital valuation.
Aspect Aspect Boundary Energy India (offices and DC’s) –100% coverage - Actuals Overseas offices – 100% coverage - Estimated Overseas DC’s – 100% coverage - Actuals Water India - 98% coverage - Actuals (Estimated for  the balance leased spaces) Overseas - Not reported Environmental Risks The Enterprise Risk Management and Sustainability  functions at Wipro oversee environmental and climate  change related risk identification and mitigation.
Impacts of  extreme weather events, Urban water stress, air pollution,  waste management and impacts on employee health and  well being are material issues that we are engaged with.
The  risk assessment is conducted as part of the annual strategic  planning exercise, - in which all senior leaders participate -  a multi-year (3 to 5 year) planning view is incorporated and  priorities are categorized as short, medium and long term.
Climate change related impacts: Risk assessment and  prioritization is undertaken at both company level and  asset level.
A well-defined Business Continuity Policy  prescribes principles to plan for Climatic disruptions  which could disrupt business objectives.
The Corporate  Business Continuity Team (CBCMT) governs and guides the  standard risk assessment methodology at every location to  identify risks which could potentially impact continuity of  business, financial parameters like revenue & profitability,  reputational and legal parameters.
This group collaborates  with various support groups in the organization to assess  risks for human resources, facilities & IT infrastructure  with identified impacts, probability/likelihood & controls in  place.
A severity matrix of Low, Medium & High impacts are  defined where the controls are implemented and a defined  crisis management group is responsible to respond, recover,  resume, return & restore from these situations.
Risk assessment also includes how climate change poses  risk to human health and thereby impacts the business.
The human health aspect of climate risks is material to the  company given the fact that employees are at the core of a  knowledge-based organization like Wipro.
49 Annual Report 2017-18 A list of climate change risks material to Wipro is detailed  below.
Risks Financial Impact Time  Horizon Fuel/energy  taxes and  regulations.
Increase in operational  costs on account of  increase in electricity and  diesel costs.
Medium Renewable  energy  regulations For obligated business  entities for purchase  of non-solar or solar  Renewable Energy  Certificates by regulatory  authorities.
Medium Due to changes  in precipitation  extremes and  droughts.
Revenue impact due  to employee absence  caused by disruption in  city infrastructure and  tropical diseases.
Short Due to changes  in temperature  extremes Impact due to (a)  increased employee  absence from work and  (b) increased electricity  costs resulting from  higher cooling demand.
Medium Tropical cyclones  (hurricanes and  typhoons) This could be due to cost  of repair of damages to  buildings and equipment Long In addition to the above mentioned risks with direct impacts,  there are certain other material risks like changes to resource  quality or availability particularly in the organization’s  natural capital dependencies and variation in agricultural  yield and growing seasons.
These risks will impact the  economy at large or specifically the supply chain of Wipro  and can have an effect on the organization indirectly.
Reputation risk and the risks driven by changes in regulation  are applicable organization-wide whereas risks driven by  changes in physical climate parameters are specific to  certain geographies where the company has operations.
While all these risks have a direct impact on the organization,  magnitude of impact (how serious will it be, if it does  happen), urgency (how soon it will happen) and probability of  occurrence (how likely is it that the risk will happen) varies  from one risk to another.
The impacts of these risks may  range from increased operational or capital cost, reduction  or disruption of service delivery, reduced stock prices to  inability to do business.
Energy efficiency & GHG mitigation Science based target setting – Recalibration of climate  goals: We have used the science based target setting  framework from WRI (World Resource Institute) that  tries to align with the 2015 Paris agreement which aims  to limit global warming to below 2 degrees celsius from  pre-industrial levels.
We have undertaken a recalibration  of our greenhouse gas emission targets to account for  two organizational accounting changes – the first due to  divestment of our overseas customer data center business  to Ensono and the second based on requirements of GHG  protocol standard of accounting all leased/rented office  spaces emissions under Scope 3.
Considering 2017 as the  base year, we have set medium term targets till 2022 and  2030 and longer term targets till 2040 and 2050.
The following goals have been set for the period 2017-18 to  2021-22: a.
Absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions – Absolute  emissions reduction of 23,700 tonnes.
b.
Energy Intensity in terms of EPI (Energy Performance  Index) - Cumulative reduction of 7.8% in EPI over 5 years c. GHG Emission Intensity (Scope 1 and Scope 2) on Floor  Area (FAR) basis - Cumulative reduction of 16 % in GHG  intensity from 117 Kg CO2 eq./ Sq.
Mt.
(kgpsm) to 98  kgpsm of CO2 –eq d. Renewable Energy (RE)- Increase renewable energy  procurement by 55% to a target of 120 million units in  2021-22 Energy and Emissions targets 275,000 280,000 181 177 174 100 150 200 50 0% 265,000 260,000 255,000 250,000 245,000 169 167 120 80 85 95 115 Energy  Equivalent  - India (MwH) RE (million units)  - For adoption  & Communication EPI India (KwH  per sq.
meter PA) 2017 2019 2020 2021 2022 170 110 Wipro Limited 50 Performance against goals Absolute Emissions: The absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions  (India) for 2017-18 have decreased by 13.3% from 1,86,669  to 1,61,858 tonnes - a reduction of over 24,000 tonnes.
This  is primarily due to significant drop in Scope 1 emissions by  37% due to shift from diesel generated power at one of our  large locations (Chennai), energy efficiency improvement of  nearly 3.7% as well as improvement in renewable energy  procurement by nearly 20% .
The dashboard below provides a summary of our Global and  India GHG emissions, including data centres.
In accordance  with the GHG protocol, from 2016-17, we have reclassified  leased offices as part of Scope-3.
The figures are net  emissions for all years, after considering zero emissions for  renewable energy procured.
2015-16 2017-182016-17 GHG Scope 1 and 2 (Tons of CO 2  Equiv.)
300,000 250,000 200,000 150,000 100,000 Global India 263,733 227,146 213,752 186,669 161,858 205,831 Scope 3 summary: Scope 3 Emissions Category Current Reporting, Coverage within IT business Tons of CO2 eq.
Purchased goods and services Based on purchase ledger for 2016-17 and application of  econometric input-output model for different categories and  business activities: 62,952 Fuel- and energy-related  activities (not included in scope  1 or scope 2) Well To Tank (WTT) and Transmission and Distribution (T&D) losses  globally 101,886 Upstream transportation and  distribution Not Reported, as not material Waste generated in operations For India operations (85% coverage 746 Employee commuting For India operations, which represents nearly 85% of footprint 78,429 Business travel Global.
Includes air, bus, train, local conveyance and hotel stays 134,939 Upstream leased assets (Leased  office space) Leased offices spaces in India (14708 tons) and overseas (12624  tons CO2  eq) 27, 332 Total 406,284 Emissions Intensity: Our India office space emissions  intensity (Scope 1 and Scope 2) is at 101 Kg CO2  eq.
per Sq.
Mt.
per annum, a decrease of nearly 13.5 % from last year.
Concomitantly the global people based emissions intensity  is down by more than 14% to 1.2 tons per person per annum.
Energy Consumption: The overall energy consumption  from Scope 1 and 2 boundaries (operational and financial  control) is 1344.3 million Mjoules, compared to 1440.4  million Mjoules in the previous year, a reduction of 6.7%.
The  total energy consumption, electricity and back-up diesel  generated, for office spaces in India is 262 million units  (including leased spaces globally this is 307 million units).
Data centers in India and overseas (U.S.A and Germany)  contribute to another 87 million units.
For India operations,  about 99 million units constituted renewable energy  procured through PPAs (Power Purchase agreements) with  private producers.
Of this 92 million units is with green  attributes (zero emissions).
Energy Intensity: EPI for office spaces, measured in terms of  energy per unit area has decreased by around 3.75% to 174  KwH units per sq.
meter per annum.
The absolute energy has  reduced to the same degree as we have not seen any change  in area for the reporting year.
Scope 3 Emissions: A summary of our Scope 3 emissions  (other indirect sources) is provided below.
Out of the  15 categories of scope 3 reporting as per the new GHG  corporate value chain standard, we are currently reporting  on all of the 8 categories applicable to us Downstream Scope  3 emissions: We have moved some facilities to a sub-leased  model towards the end of the reporting year.
This will be  applicable from the next year.
51 Annual Report 2017-18 The graph below shows the comparison for Business Travel,  employee commute and Waste for last three years.
Total Emissions: The overall emissions across all scopes is  6,12,115 tonnes.
Within this, the main contributors to our  GHG emissions are: Electricity – Purchased and Generated  (33.5%), upstream fuel and energy emissions (16.5%),  Business Travel (22%) and Employee Commute (12.8%).
Leased office spaces contribute to 4.45% of emissions.
GHG Mitigation Measures Our five year GHG mitigation plan consists of three key  elements – Energy Efficiency (Reduce), Renewable Energy  (RE) Purchase (Replace) and Travel Substitution (Reduce  and Replace); of this, RE procurement will contribute the  maximum, 80% share to GHG emission mitigation strategy  for Scope 1 and 2.
Energy Efficiency: These measures include new retrofit  technologies to improve Chiller and Air Handling Units  (AHUs), integrated design and monitoring platforms.
The  Global Energy command centre, inaugurated in early  2008, applies Internet-of-things technology to monitor  efficiencies of subsystems and devices at real time.
Since 2007, we have been working on a server rationalization  and virtualization program, through which we have  decommissioned old physical servers and replaced the  processing capacity with virtualization technology on fewer  numbers of servers.
As of March 2018, we have 4,780 virtual servers (2,920  in March 2017) running on 353 physical servers which  contributes to an energy savings of approximately 20 million  units in the reporting year.
The savings showed an increase of  70% over the previous year.
Addition of 3000 Virtual Desktop  Infrastructure (VDI) thin clients in the reporting year has  helped in energy savings of around 0.36 million units.
GHG Scope 3 (Tons of CO2 Equiv.)
Global 300,000 275,000 250,000 225,000 200,000 2015-16 2017-182016-17 279,701 245,975 214,114 RE procurement: For the reporting period of 2017- 18, RE  purchase contributed to approximately 92 million units or  33% of our total India energy consumption.
Our target for  next year is 95 million units.
Rooftop Solar and Captive RE: The pilot rooftop Solar PV  installations at 5 of our campuses followed by extensive use  of solar water heaters in our guest blocks and cafeterias  have resulted in equivalent savings of 1.52 million units of  grid electricity in the reporting year.
Business Travel: The IT services outsourcing model requires  frequent travel across the delivery life cycle to customer  locations, mainly overseas, and contributes to around 1/5th  of our overall emissions footprint.
This includes travel by  air, bus, train, local conveyance and hotel stays.
Policies on  usage of different modes of travel based on distance and  time taken, need and budget-based travel and increasing  focus on processes which enable remote working and  collaboration are some of the cost and process optimization  measures implemented over past few years.
We have seen  an air travel footprint reduction of around 5.5% compared to  2016-17 and nearly 24% since 2015-16.
Employee Commute: Employees have various choices for  intra-city commuting.
In addition to company arranged  transport (36%), employees utilize public transport (~51%),  with owned cars and two wheelers accounting for the  balance.
Over the past few years, we have taken steps to facilitate  a shift towards improved access to public transport for  employees (buses, commuter trains) and carpooling.
Our  car pooling initiative launched through a third-party mobile  app based partners in July’16 in Bengaluru has now scaled  and expanded to other locations in India - Hyderabad, Pune,  NCR, Chennai and Kolkata.
With this, we now have 42,700  registered users across locations, cumulatively saving 916  tons of CO2 since inception.
IT infrastructure enablers like anytime direct connectivity  access to office intranet applications, secure personal  device connectivity through the BYOD initiative (Bring Your  Own Devices) are other key steps in enabling more flexible  work place options.
Collaborative advocacy on energy and climate change: As a  member of the Indo-US joint research program – the Solar  Energy Research Institute for India and the United States  (SERIIUS) we are supporting a long term program that does  a comparative analysis of decentralized micro-grids in rural  Karnataka in India vis-à-vis the regular, mainstream option  of bringing grid power to remote villages.
The first phase of  this study has been successfully completed with the draft  report being launched in late 2017.
Wipro Limited 52 Water efficiency and responsible use Urban water in India is a story of paradoxes and extremities.
Water related risks in cities range from supply shortages,  equitable availability to all sections of the population to  urban flooding driven by extreme weather events.
This is  symptomatic of a failure in urban planning and governance  of a critical resource as water.
At Wipro, we view water from  the inter-related lens of efficiency, conservation, coupled  with our role as a responsible citizen in engaging outside our  operational boundaries; our articulated goals are therefore  predicated on these three dimensions.
Water Efficiency    a.
Improve water efficiency (fresh water use per employee)  by 5% year on year b.
Reduce absolute water consumption in existing  campuses by 20% between FY 2016 and FY 2021 Water Responsibility  To ensure responsible water management in proximate  communities, especially in locations that are prone to water  scarcity.
We are also collaborating on building capacity and  advocacy platforms at the city level for integrated urban  water management.
Freshwater recycling and efficiency The per employee water consumption for the reporting  year is 991 litres per month as compared to 1,119 litres in  2016-17, an improvement of around 11.5% with an absolute  reduction of around 187 million litres of freshwater.
Our  total freshwater consumption is 1,514 million litres and  we recycle 1,045 million litres of water in 27 of our major  locations (1,050 million litres in 2016-17) using Sewage  Treatment Plants (STPs) and ultra filtration units.
Recycled water represents 41% of the total water (previous  year at 38%).
The amount of recycled water as a percentage  of freshwater extracted is around 69%, up from 61.7% in  2016-1.
This improvement in efficiency is due to the adoption  of ultra-filtration and RO projects for STP treated water at  three our large locations.
In the next year (2018-19) we will  be commissioning three more locations.
Ultra filtration unit at one of our locations Fresh water use - India Offices 1,500,000 1.4 1.2 1.0 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 1,250,000 1,000,000 750,000 500,000 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Fresh Water (KL) People Intensity (KL per month) 1.3 1.0 1.1 Sourcing of Water: Water input is from four sources –  private water (mainly ground water sourced from tanker  water suppliers), municipal water supply, in-situ ground  water and harvested rain water – with the first two  sources accounting for nearly 85% of the sourced water.
Water purchased from private sources can be traced to  have been primarily extracted from ground water.
Not  surprisingly, ground water contributes to nearly 58% of our  total freshwater consumption across cities in India – an  overexploited resource which has also been largely left out  of effective governance mechanisms.
The water supplied by  the municipal bodies is sourced primarily from river or lake  systems.
53 Annual Report 2017-18 Freshwater sources Community Water Programs Recognizing that water is a common resource and that  internal operational efficiency is inadequate when it comes  to water risks, Wipro has been partnering with experts  organizations, citizen groups and government bodies to  address issues affecting the communities in the proximity  of our locations.
Participatory Ground Water Management Program In the last three years, the program has attempted to explore  the issues of ground water in a 35 sq.
Km area around our  corporate head-quarters in Bengaluru – an area that is  completely dependent on ground water for its needs and  which is largely unregulated.
This is representative of many  rapidly developing urban and peri-urban cities in India; in  Bengaluru itself around 40% of its water needs is met by  ground water.
Our approach was to use a science based  approach to understand the hydrogeology of the area and  engage communities through various platforms (citizen  science, advocacy, facilitation of interventions).
The program  involved extensive borewell monitoring, and detailed studies  in selected clusters.
The idea was to evolve a decentralized  model of ground water management.
Phase 1 of the three  year participative ground water management program in  the Sarjapur-Bellandur area has been completed.
Acting  on insights from the detailed aquifer map of the area, we  have facilitated pilots in selected residential layouts that  focus on a strategic shift from deep aquifer extraction to  tapping shallow aquifers in combination with a sustainable  cycle of rainwater harvesting.
As part of citizen advocacy,  we have developed a set of around 20+ guides, case studies  and primers related to urban water management.
A web  portal http:/ /bengaluru.urbanwaters.in/ has evolved into a  comprehensive repository and ready reference for matters  related to urban water in Bengaluru.
The program has  established the feasibility of shallow aquifer as a source  of water in consonance with a planned recharge cycle and  its linkages with how we treat surface water systems like  rivers, lakes, wetlands and wells as part of a connected  hydrogeological system.
A new open well in the community   For the next phases of the program we are looking at two  distinct tracks – (i) Replicating this program in another  part of Bengaluru – around Devanahalli and Bengaluru  Airport - an area in rapid transition and different land uses  – agriculture, industrial, residential and commercial.
(ii)  Creating institutional capacity at the city – through advocacy,  education and service provisioning.
We are also considering  creating an urban water network and a fellowship program  centered around urban water.
We also have started a similar  program in the western part of the city of Pune.
Karnataka State Water Network (KSWN) Launched in 2014, the Karnataka State Water Network  (KSWN) convened by Wipro in partnership with the CII- Karnataka, serves as a multi-stakeholder platform to  address water challenges in identified geographical clusters  of Bengaluru.
The network has conducted 10 curated  programs and four annual conferences till date.
This forum  has served a useful space in getting industry, government  and citizens together to effect some key interventions –  rejuvenation of lakes in industrial areas and initial work  on setting up a common industry effluent treatment plant  among others.
Bengaluru Sustainability Forum This forum set up in early 2018 and supported by Wipro,  brings together civil society, academia, research institutions  and government with the broad goals of fostering curated  interactions between different stakeholders on issues of  urban sustainability.
This will be complemented by broad  public outreach and specific research-based analysis and  dissemination of Bengaluru’s sustainability issues.
During  the first year, the forum will focus on the three themes of  urban water, biodiversity and air pollution.
45% Private Water Municipal  Water Ground  Water Rain Water Harvested 40% 13% 2%  Wipro Limited 54 Urban Biodiversity Our urban biodiversity program addresses the twin aims of  creating biodiversity in our urban campuses while also using  it as a platform for wider education and advocacy.
We have  set the following goals: • To convert five of our existing campuses to  biodiversity zones • All new campuses to incorporate biodiversity  principles into their design  Our first flagship project in biodiversity was the unique  Butterfly Park and wetland biodiversity zone that uses  recycled water at the Electronic City campus in Bengaluru.
Our second project in Pune focused on trebling the number of  native species and includes five thematic gardens – aesthetic  and palm garden, spring garden, Ficus garden, spice and  fruit garden.
This is a unique project in a corporate campus  setting with a dense year-round flowering of more than 240  species of native plants serving multiple ecological purposes.
These are long term multi-year projects and similar programs  will commence at two of our other campuses.
In all these  programs we work closely with expert partners in biodiversity,  conservation, ecological design and communications.
A work  environment which integrates biodiverse and natural design  principles has multiple intangible benefits for employees  and visitors – it builds a larger sense of connectedness  and emphasizes values of sensitivity and our place in the  world around us.
To strengthen these connects, we regularly  conduct photography, walks and plantation activities for  employees and their children.
One such initiative is the  “Nurture Your Patch” program, an urban farming project at  few of our campuses.
Selected employee teams underwent  a training session on urban farming from an experienced  landscape architect.
They were provided with gardening  equipment, seeds, compost, water points and other know  how.
The teams are free to grow any variety of shrubs or small  plants.
In addition, our operations team in two locations  harvests produce regularly and donate to orphanages and  special schools in proximate areas.
Collaborative advocacy on biodiversity: Our participation  in advocacy on biodiversity issues is through two national  levels forums – the CII-India Business for Biodiversity  Pollution and waste management Pollution of air and water poses one of the most serious  threats to community health and welfare.
Managing these  ‘commons’ in an urban context again requires business  organizations to look beyond its own boundaries and to  adopt an integrated approach.
Our waste management strategy includes (i) Regular  monitoring of air, water and noise levels to operate well  within regulatory norms.
(ii) Reducing materials impact and  recycling (iii) arranging for safe disposal or treatment.
To  operationalize our strategy, we segregate and monitor waste  processing across 15 broad categories and more than 35 sub  categories.
Total waste generated was 6,652 tons.
Summary of our  performance on solid waste management (SWM) Organic Waste: Our goal is to maintain or better our current in- house recycling rate of 80%.
Inorganic Waste: Close to 100%  of the waste is recycled through approved partners.
65%  of the total mixed solid waste and scrap (7% of total waste  generated) is currently recycled and the rest sent to landfills.
Our target is to improve this to 80% by 2021.
Biomedical and  hazardous waste is incinerated as per approved methods.
All our E-waste is currently recycled by approved vendors.
Construction and Demolition (C&D) debris, which amounts  to 24% of total waste is currently sent to approved landfills.
C&D debris has shown an increase over the last 2 reporting  years due to higher number of renovations in older campuses.
Others: We monitor diesel generator stack emissions (NO X ,  SO X  and SPM), indoor air quality (CO, CO 2 , VOC’s, RSPM),  treated water quality and ambient noise levels across 25 key  locations every month.
These meet the specified regulatory  norms.
Collaborative Engagements We started working with partners for certain categories  of waste where the recycler ecosystem has not matured  – thermocol, styrofoam, used oil.
The revised operating  procedures and recycler requirements for electronic end-of- life products enable better materials recovery, traceability  and disclosure of downstream recycler practices.
We will  continue to work with our partners and vendors in driving  better practices and behaviours keeping in mind both human  and ecological impacts of any changes.
We continue to work with Electronic City Industrial Township  Authority (ELCITA) in Bengaluru on SWM issues.
We continue  to be part of the sub-committee on ‘Waste’ in the CII National  Environment Committee.
We are associated with “Reimagine  Waste” hackathon for the past two years, being conducted  in association with Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru,  Waste Ventures and other partners.
55 Annual Report 2017-18 company’s profile.
We have been active and enthusiastic early  adopters of natural capital valuation and it aligns very well  with our larger emphasis on Integrated Reporting, This is the  third year of the valuation exercise for us.
Total environmental cost relating to Wipro’s operations and  supply chain was equal to `11,476 million for 2016-17.
GHG  emissions (46%), water consumption (25%) and air pollution  (19%) contributed the most.
The operational footprint  (including business travel and employee commute) accounted  for 51% of Wipro’s total environmental cost, a 13% decrease  from previous year.
The above figures are net of our positive valuation, attributable  to our environmental initiatives.
Between 2015-16 and 2016- 17, our environmental initiatives like emissions reduction  activities, renewable energy procurement and water recycling,  reduced our overall environmental costs by `1,153 million  (`1,086 million in 2015-16) – around 10% of the total 2016- 17 environmental costs.
Valuation for 2017-18 is unlikely to  be significantly different and will be completed in July 2018.
Initiative (IBBI) and the Leaders for Nature program from  the India chapter of International Union of Conservation  Networks (IUCN).
We chair CII-IBBI’s southern chapter on  biodiversity for business.
We have been supporting the  “World Sparrow Day” and the “Wipro-Nature Forever Society  Sparrow Awards” for the past five years.
Wipro’s Natural Capital Valuation  Program  Valuation of natural capital externalities of a company serves  multiple objectives : (i) For the company, it provides a useful  anchoring reference of how large its externalities are when  compared to the financial capital and value it has created  for its shareholders.
It also serves as a common lexicon  for strategic conversations on natural capital within and  outside the company (ii) For investors, it is an indicator of  the company’s risk profile when weighed against current and  future environmental regulations (iii) For interested citizen  groups, it helps provide a more nuanced understanding of the  This disclosure is in conformance with the CDSB Framework.
Due care has been taken to apply the guiding principles and comply with the reporting requirements  laid out by CDSB Framework.
While preparing the report, the recommendations set out by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures were also  considered.
The report also aligns with the requirements of NVG Guidelines issued by MCA.
Natural Capital – Relation to other Capitals 4x Increase in business with suppliers  meeting environment criteria like EPEAT 3 community water projects in two cities Participation of 1200 schools across the  country in Wipro earthian 200 customers assessing Wipro annually on  Sustainability performance 6% reduction in cost from Air  Travel- contributes 86% of  total travel emissions Reduction in energy cost by  7% and fresh water import  cost by 19% Human Capital Financial Capital 42,000 employees register for car  pooling in india 8 environmental day prohrams  conducted across campuses Urban biodiversity projects  in 2 key campses with 28,000  employees Natural Capital Social and  Relationship Capital Wipro Limited 56    Board’s Report On behalf of the Board of Directors (the “ Board”), it gives  me great pleasure to present the 72 nd Board’s Report of your  Company, along with the Balance Sheet, Statement of Profit  and Loss and Statement of Cash Flow for the financial year  ended March 31, 2018.
I.
Financial Performance The standalone and consolidated financial statements for  the financial year ended March 31, 2018, forming part of  this Annual Report, have been prepared in accordance with  the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) as notified by the  Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
On a consolidated basis, our sales declined to `  5,44,871  million for the current year as against ` 5,50,402 million in  the previous year, recording a decline of 1%.
Our net profits  declined to `80,031 million for the current year as against  `85,179 million in the previous year, recording a decline of  6.04%.
On a standalone basis, our sales declined to `  4,47,100  million for the current year as against `  4,56,396 million  in the previous year, recording a decline of 2.04%.
Our net  profits declined to ` 77,228 million in the current year as  against `81,617 million in the previous year, recording a  decline of 5.38%.
Key highlights of financial performance of your Company for  the financial year 2017-18 are provided below: (` in millions) Standalone Consolidated 2017-18 2016-17 2017-18 2016-17 Sales and Other  Income 4,71,896 4,86,937 5,70,358 5,80,710 Profit before Tax 1,00,343 1,06,871 1,02,422 1,10,393 Provision for Tax 23,115  25,254 22,391 25,214 Net profit for the  year* 77,228 81,617 80,031 85,179 Other comprehensive  (loss)/income for the  year (7,300)  5,154 (3,127) 2,184 Total comprehensive  income for the year* 69,928  86,771 76,094  87,363 Total comprehensive  income for the period  attributable to: Minority Interest  -    -   19  (179) Equity holders 69,928  86,771 76,885  87,184  (` in millions) Standalone Consolidated 2017-18 2016-17 2017-18 2016-17 Appropriations Dividend 4,525 7,291 4,499 7,249 Corporate tax on   dividend distribution 921  1,485 921 1,485 EPS - Basic 16.26 16.80 16.85 17.49 - Diluted 16.23 16.75 16.82 17.43 *   profit for the standalone results is after considering a loss of `49 million  (2017: Profit of `210 million) relating to changes in fair value of forward  contracts designated as hedges of net investment in non-integral foreign  operations, translation of foreign currency borrowings and changes in fair  value of related cross currency swaps together designated as hedges of net  investment in non-integral foreign operations.
In the consolidated financial  statements, these are considered as hedges of net investment in non-integral  foreign operations.
Dividend Pursuant to regulation 43A of Securities and Exchange Board  of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”), the Board has  approved and adopted a Dividend Distribution Policy.
The  policy details various considerations based on which the  Board may recommend or declare dividend, current dividend  track record, usage of retained earnings for corporate  actions, etc.
The policy is available on the Company’s website  at https:/ /www.wipro.com/corporate-governance.
Pursuant to the approval of the Board of Directors on January  19, 2018, your Company paid an interim dividend of `1/- per  equity share of face value of `2/- each, to shareholders who  were on the register of members as on February 1, 2018,  being the record date fixed for this purpose.
The Board did  not recommend a final dividend and therefore total dividend  for the year ended March 31, 2018 will be `1/- per equity  share of face value of `2/- each.
Issue of Bonus Equity Shares The Board of Directors at their meeting held on April 25,  2017, recommended issue of bonus equity shares, in the  proportion of 1:1, i.e.
1 (One) bonus equity share of `2/- each  for every 1 (one) fully paid-up equity share held (including  ADS holders) as of June 14, 2017, the record date fixed for  this purpose.
This was approved by the members of the  Company through resolution dated June 3, 2017 passed  through postal ballot/e-voting, subsequent to which the  bonus shares were allotted to the shareholders.
57 Annual Report 2017-18 Buyback of Equity Shares Pursuant to the approval of the Board on July 20, 2017  and approval of shareholders through special resolution  dated August 28, 2017 passed through postal ballot/e- voting, your Company completed buyback of 34,37,50,000  equity shares of the Company for an aggregate amount of  `110,00,00,00,000/-, being 7.06% of the total paid up equity  share capital, at `320 per equity share, in December 2017.
The buyback was made from all existing shareholders of the  Company as on September 15, 2017, being the record date  for the purpose, on a proportionate basis under the tender  offer route in accordance with the provisions contained in  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy Back of  Securities) Regulations, 1998 and the Companies Act, 2013  and rules made thereunder.
Transfer to Reserves Appropriations to general reserve for the financial year  ended March 31, 2018 as per standalone and consolidated  financial statements are as under:  (` In millions) Standalone Consolidated Net profit for the year 77,228 80,031 Balance of Reserve at the  beginning of the year  4,62,195 5,11,841 Transfer to General  Reserve  - - Balance of Reserve at the  end of the year  4,13,578 4,70,215 Subsidiary Companies In accordance with Section 129(3) of the Companies  Act, 2013, a statement containing salient features of the  financial statements of the subsidiary companies in Form  AOC-1 is provided from pages 250 to 253 of this Annual  Report.
The statement also provides details of performance  and financial position of each of the subsidiaries.
In accordance with fourth proviso to Section 136(1) of  the Companies Act, 2013, the Annual Report of your  Company, containing inter alia the audited standalone and  consolidated financial statements, has been placed on  the website of the Company at wipro.com.
Further, audited  financial statements together with related information and  other reports of each of the subsidiary companies have also  been placed on the website of the Company at wipro.com.
During the financial year 2017-18, your Company invested  an aggregate of `4,558 million in its direct subsidiaries.
Apart from this, your Company funded its subsidiaries,  from time to time, as per the fund requirements, through  loans, guarantees and other means to meet working capital  requirements.
During the year 2017-18, Wipro Australia Pty Limited  and Wipro Technologies Norway AS were de-registered,  Saaspoint Inc and Wipro Holdings (Mauritius) Limited were  liquidated and Wipro Retail UK Limited has been put into  liquidation.
Further, HPH Holdings Corp. merged with and  into Healthplan Services, Inc and KI Management Company,  LLC merged with and into Appirio Inc. During the year 2017-18, your Company set up new  subsidiaries namely Women’s Business Park Technologies  Limited in Saudi Arabia and Wipro IT Services Bangladesh  Limited in Bangladesh to meet its business requirements.
Share Capital Pursuant to the approval of shareholders through postal  ballot/e-voting in June 2017, the authorized share capital  of your Company increased from `6,10,00,00,000/- (Rupees  Six Hundred and Ten Crores) to `11,26,50,00,000/- (Rupees  One Thousand One Hundred and Twenty Six Crores and  Fifty Lakhs) by creation of additional 2,58,25,00,000 (Two  Hundred and Fifty Eight Crores and Twenty Five Lakhs)  equity shares of `2/- (Rupees Two each).
During the year 2017-18, the Company allotted 35,59,599  equity shares and transferred 43,51,775 equity shares  of `2/- each from Wipro Equity Reward Trust, pursuant to  exercise of stock options by eligible employees and allotted  2,43,30,74,327 equity shares of `2/- each as Bonus Equity  Shares on June 15, 2017.
Also, the Company extinguished  34,37,50,000 equity shares consequent to buyback in  December 2017.
Consequently, the paid-up equity share  capital of the Company as at March 31, 2018 stood at  `9,04,75,68,982 consisting of 4,52,37,84,491 equity shares  of `2/- each.
During the year under review, the Company has not issued  shares with differential voting rights and sweat equity  shares.
Transfer to Investor Education and Protection Fund  Authority   a.
During the year 2017-18, unclaimed Dividend for  financial year 2009-10 and 2010-11 of `63,97,560/-  and `39,70,354/- respectively, were transferred to the  Investor Education and Protection Fund (“IEPF”), as  required under the Investor Education and Protection  Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund)  Rules, 2016 (“IEPF Authority”).
b.
During the year 2017-18, 1.21 Million equity shares in  respect of which dividend has not been claimed for the  final dividend declared in financial year 2009-10 and  interim dividend declared in financial year 2010-11  were transferred to the IEPF Authority pursuant to the  provisions of Section 124(6) of the Companies Act, 2013  and the rules thereunder.
Wipro Limited 58 Particulars of Loans, Advances, Guarantees and Investments   Pursuant to Section 186 of Companies Act, 2013 and  Schedule V of the Listing Regulations, disclosure on  particulars relating to loans, advances, guarantees and  investments are provided as part of the financial statements.
Deposits   Your Company has not accepted any deposits from public  and as such, no amount on account of principal or interest  on public deposits was outstanding as on the date of the  balance sheet.
II.
Business   Your Company is a leading global information technology  (“IT”), consulting and business process services company.
Your Company harnesses the power of Cognitive Computing,  Hyper-Automation, Robotics, Cloud, Analytics and Emerging  Technologies to help its clients adapt to the digital world  and make them successful.
Your Company is recognized globally for its comprehensive  portfolio of services, strong commitment to sustainability  and good corporate citizenship and your Company has over  160,000 dedicated employees serving clients across six  continents.
Together, your Company discovers ideas and  connects the dots to build a better and a bold new future.
Your Company develops and integrates innovative solutions  that enable its clients to leverage IT to achieve their business  objectives at competitive costs.
Your Company uses its  quality processes and global talent pool to deliver “time to  development” advantages, cost savings and productivity  improvements.
Your Company’s IT Services business provides a range of  IT and IT-Enabled Services which include Digital Strategy  Advisory, Customer-Centric Design, Technology Consulting,  IT Consulting, Custom Application Design, Development,  Re-engineering and maintenance, Systems Integration,  Package Implementation, Global Infrastructure Services,  Analytics Services, Business Process Services, Research  and Development and Hardware and Software design to  leading enterprises worldwide.
Your Company offers these  services globally by leveraging its Products, Platforms,  Partnerships and Solutions including state of the art  automation technologies such as its proprietary cognitive  intelligence tool, Wipro HOLMESTM  Artificial Intelligence  Platform (‘Wipro HOLMES’).
Wipro is recognized globally  for its comprehensive portfolio of services, and a strong  commitment to sustainability and corporate citizenship.
The vision for your Company’s business is “To earn our  clients’ trust and maximize the value of their businesses by  providing solutions that integrate its deep industry insights,  its leading technology and best-in-class execution” .
Your  Company seeks to emphasize its core values of being  passionate about its client’s success, treating each person  with respect, being global and responsible, and maintaining  unyielding integrity in everything it does.
On the technology front, Digital business has changed  the nature of demand for IT services.
Development of  advanced technologies such as Cloud based offerings, Big  Data Analytics, Mobile Applications and the emergence of  Social Media is making technology an integral part of the  business model of your Company’s clients.
In addition to the  Chief Information Officer, newer stakeholders such as Chief  Marketing Officer, Chief Digital Officer and Chief Risk Officer  play a key role in shaping the technology roadmap of its  clients.
These trends on newer business models, emerging  technologies and sourcing patterns provide Wipro with  significant growth opportunities.
Your Company’s IT Products segment provides a range of third- party IT products, which allows it to offer comprehensive  IT system integration services.
These products include  computing, platforms and storage, networking solutions,  enterprise information security and software products,  including databases and operating systems.
Your Company  has a diverse range of clients, primarily in the India and  Middle East markets from small and medium enterprises  to large enterprises in all major industries.
Your Company  continues to focus on being a system integrator of choice  where it provides IT products as a complement to its IT  services offerings rather than sell standalone IT products.
In May 2017, to keep your Company’s brand contemporary,  your Company unveiled its new brand identity, including a  new company logo.
Outlook    According to the Strategic Review 2018 of NASSCOM in  FY’18, IT export revenue, from India grew by 7.8%, to an  estimated $126 billion.
In FY’19, NASSCOM expects revenue  from IT exports to grow by 7% to 9%.
Acquisitions, Investments and Divestments   Acquisitions are a key enabler for driving your Company’s  capability to build industry domain, focus on key strategic  areas, strengthen its presence in emerging technology areas  including Digital, and increase market footprint in newer  markets.
Your Company focuses on opportunities where  it can further develop its domain expertise, specific skill  sets and its global delivery model to maximize service and  product enhancements and higher margins.
Acquisitions consummated during the year ended March  31, 2018 included Infoserver S.A. and Cooper Software,  Inc. Infoserver S. A. is a Brazilian IT Services company that  predominantly caters to the Banking, Financial Services  59 Annual Report 2017-18 and Insurance markets in Brazil.
With this acquisition, your  Company and Infoserver S. A. will be able to deliver a full  suite of integrated IT services across Digital, Consulting, and  Business Process Services to four of the top five banks in  Brazil.
Cooper Software, Inc., is an award winning design and  business strategy consultancy.
Cooper Software, Inc., will  further strengthen design and innovation capabilities and  expand reach in North America besides adding capabilities in  professional design education.
By adding Cooper Software’s  skills and expertise, your Company will be better positioned  to support its clients’ digital programs.
Your Company also made minority investments in Denim  Group, Ltd., a leading independent application security  firm, serving as a trusted advisor to customers on matters  of application risk and security and Harte Hanks, Inc., a US  based global digital marketing services company specializing  in omni-channel marketing solutions including consulting,  strategic assessment, data, analytics, digital, social, mobile,  print, direct mail and contact center.
Also, during the year  ended March 31, 2018, your Company has increased its  ownership in Drivestream Inc. from 19% to 43.7%.
Further, your Company has signed a definitive agreement to  divest its data center services business to Ensono Holdings,  LLC (“Ensono”), a leading hybrid IT services provider.
This  divestment will help us focus on accelerating investments in  the digital space.
At the same time, your Company remains  committed to serving its hosted data center customers and  the market through its business partnership with Ensono.
The sale is expected to close during the quarter ending June  30, 2018.
Further, we have entered into an agreement with  Ensono to acquire 10.2% stake in the entity.
Ensono has a  right to repurchase up to an aggregate of 5.5% of the above  units if Wipro is not able to achieve certain joint business  milestones agreed between the parties.
Additionally, after March 31, 2018, your Company has  reduced its equity holding in Wipro Airport IT Services  Limited (WAISL), which was a joint venture between Wipro  Limited and Delhi International Airport Limited, from 74%  to 11%, by selling its stake to Antariksh Softtech Private  Limited on April 5, 2018.
Even after this divestment, WAISL  will continue to outsource IT services of the airport to Wipro  Limited as per the existing arrangement.
Merger of Wholly Owned Subsidiaries   At its meeting held on April 25, 2018, the Board considered  and approved a scheme of amalgamation pursuant to  Sections 230 to 232 read with Section 234 and other relevant  provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, providing for the  merger of its wholly owned subsidiaries, Wipro Technologies  Austria GmbH, Wipro Information Technology Austria  GmbH, NewLogic Technologies SARL and Appirio India  Cloud Solutions Private Limited with Wipro Limited.
The  scheme of amalgamation is subject to necessary statutory  and regulatory approvals under applicable laws, including  approval of the National Company Law Tribunal in India.
The  scheme of amalgamation will, inter alia, enable optimisation  of legal entity structure through rationalization of number  of subsidiaries, integration of business operations leading  to operational synergies, provide your Company seamless  access to the assets of the subsidiaries and also result  in reduction of the multiplicity of legal and regulatory  compliances.
Management Discussion and Analysis Report   In terms of regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations and  SEBI circular no.
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2017/10 dated  February 6, 2017, your Company has adopted salient features  of Integrated Reporting prescribed by the International  Integrated Reporting Council (‘IIRC’) as part of its Management  Discussion and Analysis report (“MD&A Report”).
The  MD&A Report, capturing your Company’s performance,  industry trends and other material changes with respect to  your Companies and its subsidiaries, wherever applicable,  are presented from pages 14 to 55 of this Annual Report.
The MD&A Report provides a consolidated perspective of  economic, social and environmental aspects material to your  Company’s strategy and its ability to create and sustain value  to your Company’s  key stakeholders and includes aspects  of reporting as required by regulation 34 of the Listing  Regulations on Business Responsibility Report.
Statutory  section of Business Responsibility Report is provided from  pages 309 to 315 to this Annual Report.
Key Awards and Recognitions   Your Company is one of the most admired and recognized  companies in the IT industry.
Your Company won several  awards and accolades, out of which key recognitions are  given below: 1.
Wipro was recognized as one of India’s most innovative  companies by Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) at  the Industrial Innovation Awards 2017.
2.
Wipro’s Open Banking API Platform won the 2017 API  Awards at API World under the ‘Travel APIs’ category.
3.
Wipro won the ‘Best Blockchain Application of the Year’  award at the Global Logistics Excellence Awards 2018.
4.
Wipro is amongst the top 6 firms in the Constellation  Research shortlist on “Synchronous Ledger Tech  (Blockchain) Companies to Watch For” .
5.
Wipro has been recognized as Platform Partner of  the Year 2017 by BMC Software and won the highest  number of accreditations for Security Operations at the  BMC Outsourcers Tech Summit (BOTS).
6.
Wipro was ranked #2 in the list of ‘Top 20 Service  Outsourcing MNCs in China 2017’ in a study by Devott,  a leader in research and advisory of China’s outsourcing  and technology markets.
7.
Wipro was recognized as the leading AI Partner for 2017  Wipro Limited 60 by Intel Corporation at the Intel AI and HPC Ecosystem  Summit 2018 for driving transformational outcomes for  clients.
8.
Wipro has been recognized as a market leader in Digital  Workplace Services by Information Services Group (ISG),  a leading global technology research and advisory firm.
9.
Wipro has been named an IDC Health Insights  HealthTech Rankings Enterprise 25 Company.
The  rankings categorize and evaluate global providers  of information technology to healthcare payers and  providers.
10.
Wipro has been recognized in the “Leadership” category  for corporate governance practices on the basis of the  Indian Corporate Governance Scorecard, which is a  framework developed jointly by International Finance  Corporation, a member of the World Bank group, BSE  Limited and Institutional Investor Advisory Services  based on globally accepted G20/OECD principles.
11.
Wipro was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability  Index (DJSI) – World and Emerging Markets for the  eighth time in succession.
12.
Wipro was recognized as the 2018 World’s Most Ethical  Company® for the seventh successive year by the  Ethisphere Institute, the global leader in defining and  advancing the standards of ethical business practices.
III.
Governance and Ethics Corporate Governance Your Company believes in adopting best practices of  corporate governance.
Corporate governance principles are  enshrined in the Spirit of Wipro, which form the core values  of Wipro.
These guiding principles are also articulated  through the Company’s code of business conduct, Corporate  Governance guidelines, charter of various sub-committees  and disclosure policy.
As per regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations, a separate  section on corporate governance practices followed by your  Company, together with a certificate from V. Sreedharan &  Associates, Practising Company Secretaries, on compliance  with corporate governance norms under the Listing  Regulations, is provided at page 101 to this Annual Report.
Board of Directors Board’s Composition and Independence Your Company’s Board consists of global leaders and  visionaries who provide strategic direction and guidance to  the organization.
As on March 31, 2018, the Board comprised  three Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive  Independent Directors.
Definition of ‘Independence’ of Directors is derived from  regulation 16 of the Listing Regulations, NYSE Listed  Company Manual and Section 149(6) of the Companies Act,  2013.
The Company has received necessary declarations  from the Independent Directors stating that they meet the  prescribed criteria for independence.
Based on the confirmations/disclosures received from  the Directors under Section 149(7) of the Companies Act  2013 and on evaluation of the relationships disclosed,  the following Non-Executive Directors are considered as  Independent Directors: a.  Mr. N Vaghul b.  Dr. Ashok S Ganguly c.  Mr. M K Sharma d.  Ms. Ireena Vittal e.  Mr. William Arthur Owens f.  Dr. Patrick J Ennis g.  Mr. Patrick Dupuis Number of Meetings of the Board The Board met five times during the financial year 2017-18  on April 24-25, 2017, June 2, 2017, July 19-20, 2017, October  16-17, 2017 and January 18-19, 2018.
The maximum interval  between any two meetings did not exceed 120 days.
Directors and Key Managerial Personnel At the 71st  Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on July 19,  2017, Mr Azim H Premji was re-appointed as Executive  Chairman and Managing Director of the Company to hold  office with effect from July 31, 2017 to July 30, 2019.
Further,  Mr. William Arthur Owens was re-appointed as Independent  Director for a second term with effect from August 1, 2017,  to July 31, 2022.
At the 68 th  AGM held on July 23, 2014, Ms. Ireena Vittal was  appointed as an Independent Director to hold office up to  September 30, 2018.
Pursuant to the recommendation of Board Governance,  Nomination and Compensation Committee and based  on the report of performance evaluation, the Board at its  meeting held on April 25, 2018 decided to place the proposal  for re-appointment of Ms. Ireena Vittal as an Independent  Director for a further term of 5 years from October 1, 2018  to September 30, 2023, for approval of the members at the  72nd  AGM.
The Company has received requisite notice under  Section 160 of the Companies Act, 2013 from a member,  along with the requisite deposit, signifying his intention to  propose re-appointment of Ms. Ireena Vittal as mentioned  above.
Accordingly, necessary resolutions are being placed  for approval of the members at the 72nd  AGM of the Company.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 152 of the Companies  Act, 2013 and the Articles of Association of the Company, Mr.  Rishad A Premji will retire by rotation at the 72nd  AGM and  being eligible, has offered himself for re-appointment.
61 Annual Report 2017-18 Committees of the Board The Company’s Board has the following committees: 1.
Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee, which also acts  as the Risk Management Committee 2.
Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee, which also acts as CSR Committee 3.
Strategy Committee 4.
Administrative and Shareholders/Investors Grievance  Committee (Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee) Details of terms of reference of the Committees, Committee  membership and attendance at meetings of the Committees  are provided in the Corporate Governance report from pages  106 to 109 of this Annual Report.
Board Evaluation In line with the Corporate Governance Guidelines of the  Company, Annual Performance Evaluation was conducted for  all Board Members as well as the working of the Board and its  Committees.
This evaluation was led by the Chairman of the  Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee  with specific focus on the performance and effective  functioning of the Board.
The Board evaluation framework has  been designed in compliance with the requirements under  the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations, and in  consonance with Guidance Note on Board Evaluation issued  by SEBI in January 2017.
The Board evaluation was conducted  through questionnaire having qualitative parameters and  feedback based on ratings.
Evaluation of the Board was based on criteria such as  composition and role of the Board, Board communication  and relationships, functioning of Board Committees, review  of performance and compensation to Executive Directors,  succession planning, strategic planning, etc.
Evaluation of Directors was based on criteria such as  participation and contribution in Board and Committee  meetings, representation of shareholder interest and  enhancing shareholder value, experience and expertise  to provide feedback and guidance to top management on  business strategy, governance and risk, understanding of  the organization’s strategy, risk and environment, etc.
Evaluation of Committees was based on criteria such as  adequate independence of each Committee, frequency of  meetings and time allocated for discussions at meetings,  functioning of Board Committees and effectiveness of its  advice/recommendation to the Board, etc.
The outcome of the Board evaluation for financial year 2017- 18 was discussed by the Board Governance, Nomination and  Compensation Committee and the Board at their meeting  held in April 2018.
The Board has received improved ratings  on its overall effectiveness, including higher rating on Board  communication, relationships and Board Committees.
The  Board has also noted areas requiring more focus in the  future.
Policy on Director’s Appointment and Remuneration The Board Governance, Nomination & Compensation  Committee has framed a policy for selection and appointment  of Directors including determining qualifications and  independence of a Director, Key Managerial Personnel,  Senior Management Personnel and their remuneration as  part of its charter and other matters provided under Section  178(3) of the Companies Act, 2013.
The policy covering  these requirements is provided in the Corporate Governance  report at page 104 to this Annual Report.
We affirm that the  remuneration paid to Directors is as per the remuneration  policy of the Company.
Vigil Mechanism Your Company has adopted an Ombuds process as a channel  for receiving and redressing complaints from employees and  Directors, as per the provisions of Section 177(9) and (10)  of the Companies Act, 2013 and regulation 22 of the Listing  Regulations.
Under this policy, your Company encourages its employees  to report any reporting of fraudulent financial or other  information to the stakeholders, and any conduct that  results in violation of the Company’s code of business  conduct, to the management (on an anonymous basis, if  employees so desire).
Further, your Company has prohibited  discrimination, retaliation or harassment of any kind against  any employees who, based on the employee’s reasonable  belief that such conduct or practice have occurred or are  occurring, reports that information or participates in the  investigation.
Mechanism followed under Ombuds process is appropriately  communicated within the Company across all levels and has  been displayed on the Company’s intranet and website at  https:/ /www.wipro.com/corporate-governance/#WiprosOmb udsProcess.
The Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee periodically  reviews the functioning of this mechanism.
No personnel  of the Company were denied access to the Audit, Risk &  Compliance Committee.
Information Required under Sexual Harassment of Women  at Work place (Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal) Act,  2013 Your Company has a policy and framework for employees  to report sexual harassment cases at workplace and its  process ensures complete anonymity and confidentiality of  information.
Adequate workshops and awareness programs  against sexual harassment are conducted across the  Wipro Limited 62 organization.
A total of 101 complaints of sexual harassment  were raised in the calendar year 2017, of which 92 cases  were disposed and appropriate actions were taken in all  cases within the statutory timelines.
Related Party Transactions Your Company has historically adopted the practice of  undertaking related party transactions only in the ordinary  and normal course of business and at arm’s length as part  of its philosophy of adhering to highest ethical standards,  transparency and accountability.
In line with the provisions  of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations, the  Board has approved a policy on related party transactions.
An abridged policy on related party transactions has been  placed on the Company’s website https:/ /www.wipro.com/ corporate-governance.
All Related Party Transactions are placed on a quarterly  basis before the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee and  before the Board for approval.
Prior omnibus approval of  the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee and the Board is  obtained for the transactions which are of a foreseeable and  repetitive nature.
The particulars of contracts or arrangements with related  parties referred to in Section 188(1) and applicable rules  of the Companies Act, 2013 in Form AOC-2 is provided as  Annexure I to this Report.
Risk Management Given the diversified scale of operations, your Company  has put in place an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)  framework and adopted an enterprise risk management  policy based on globally recognized standards.
The ERM  framework is administered by the Audit, Risk and Compliance  Committee.
The objective of the ERM framework is to enable  and support achievement of business objectives through  risk-intelligent assessment while also placing significant  focus on constantly identifying and mitigating risks within  the business.The ERM Framework covers various categories  of risks including, inter alia, information security and cyber  security risks, effectiveness of the controls that have  been implemented to prevent such risks and continuous  improvement of the systems and processes to mitigate such  risks.
Further details on the Company’s risk management  framework is provided in the MD&A Report.
Compliance Management Framework Your Company has a robust and effective framework for  monitoring compliances with applicable laws.
The Board has  approved a Global Statutory Compliance Policy providing  guidance on broad categories of applicable laws and process  for monitoring compliance.
In furtherance to this, your  Company has instituted an online compliance management  system within the organization to monitor compliances  real-time and provide update to senior management and  Board on a periodic basis.
The Audit, Risk and Compliance  Committee and the Board periodically monitors status  of compliances with applicable laws based on quarterly  certification provided by senior management.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement Your Directors hereby confirm that: a.  in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable  accounting standards have been followed along with  proper explanation relating to material departures; b.  the Directors have selected such accounting policies  and applied them consistently and made judgments  and estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as  to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the  Company at the end of the financial year and of the  profit and loss of the Company for that period; c.  the Directors have taken proper and sufficient care for  the maintenance of adequate accounting records in  accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act,  2013 for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for  preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities; d.  the Directors have prepared the annual accounts on a  going concern basis; and e.  the Directors, have laid down internal financial  controls to be followed by the Company and that such  internal financial controls are adequate and operating  effectively; f.  as required under Section 134(5)(f) of the Companies  Act, 2013, and according to the information and  explanations presented to us, based on the review done  by the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee and as  recommended by it, we, the Board, hereby, state that  adequate systems and processes, commensurate with  the size of the Company and the nature of its business,  have been put in place by the Company, to ensure  compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws as  per the Company’s Global Statutory Compliance Policy  and that such systems and processes are operating  effectively.
Wipro Employee Stock Option Plans (WESOP)/Restricted  Stock Unit Plans In order to motivate, incentivize and reward employees,  your Company has instituted various employee stock  options plans/restricted stock unit plans from time to time.
The Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee administers these plans.
The stock option plans  are in compliance with Securities and Exchange Board of  India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014  63 Annual Report 2017-18 (“Employee Benefits Regulations”) and there have been no  material changes to these plans during the financial year.
Disclosures on various plans, details of options granted,  shares allotted upon exercise, etc.
as required under the  Employee Benefits Regulations read with Securities and  Exchange Board of India circular no.
CIR/CFD/POLICY  CELL/2/2015 dated June 16, 2015 are available on the  Company’s website at https:/ /www.wipro.com/annual- reports.
No employee was issued stock options during the  year equal to or exceeding 1% of the issued capital of the  Company at the time of grant.
Wipro Equity Reward Trust (WERT) is an ESOP Trust set up by  your Company.
Pursuant to approval by the shareholders at  their meeting held in July 2014, the Company is authorized  to transfer shares from the WERT to employees on exercise  of vested Indian RSUs.
Particulars of Employees Information required pursuant to Section 197(12) of the  Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies  (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel)  Rules, 2014 is provided as Annexure II to this report.
A statement containing, inter alia, the names of top ten  employees in terms of remuneration drawn and every  employee employed throughout the financial year and in  receipt of remuneration of  `102 lakhs or more, and  employees  employed for part of the year and in receipt of `8.50 lakhs  or more per month, pursuant to Rule 5(2) the Companies  (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel)  Rules, 2014 is provided as Annexure III to this report.
IV.
Internal Financial Controls  and Audit Internal Financial Controls and their Adequacy The Board of your Company has laid down internal financial  controls to be followed by the Company and that such  internal financial controls are adequate and operating  effectively.
Your Company has adopted policies and  procedures for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of  its business, including adherence to the Company’s policies,  the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection  of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the  accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable  financial disclosures.
Statutory Auditors The term of BSR & Co. LLP , (Registration No.101248W/  W-100022) Chartered Accountants, Bengaluru, ended with  the conclusion of audit for the financial year 2016-17.
After conducting a detailed evaluation and based on the  recommendation of Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee,  the Board approved the proposal for appointment of Deloitte  Haskins & Sells LLP , Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
117366W/W-100018) as statutory auditors of the Company  for a term of 5 years from the financial year 2017-18 onwards  on such terms and conditions and remuneration as may be  decided by the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.
The  said appointment was approved by the members of the  Company at the 71st AGM held on July 19, 2017.
Vide notification dated May 7, 2018 issued by Ministry of  Corporate Affairs, the requirement of seeking ratification of  appointment of statutory auditors by members at each AGM  has been done away with.
Accordingly, no such item has  been considered in notice of the 72nd AGM.
Auditors’ Report There are no qualifications, reservations or adverse remarks  made by Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP , Statutory Auditors, in  their report for the financial year ended March 31, 2018.
Pursuant to provisions of Section 143(12) of the Companies  Act, 2013, the Statutory Auditors have not reported  any incident of fraud to the Audit, Risk and Compliance  Committee during the year under review.
Secretarial Audit Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the  Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Appointment  and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014,  the Company has appointed Mr. V Sreedharan, Partner,  V Sreedharan & Associates, a firm of Company Secretaries  in Practice, to conduct Secretarial Audit of the Company.
The  Report of the Secretarial Audit in Form MR-3 for the financial  year ended March 31, 2018 is enclosed as Annexure IV to this  Report.
There are no qualifications, reservations or adverse  remarks made by the Secretarial Auditor in his report.
V.    Social Responsibility and  Sustainability Corporate Social Responsibility Your Company is at the forefront of Corporate Social  Responsibility (CSR) and sustainability initiatives and  practices.
Your Company believes in making lasting impact  towards creating a just, equitable, humane and sustainable  society.
Your Company has been involved with social  initiatives for more than decade and a half and engages  in various activities in the field of education, primary  Wipro Limited 64 healthcare and communities, ecology and environment, etc.
Your Company has won several awards and accolades for its  CSR and sustainability efforts.
As per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, companies  having net worth of `500 crore or more, or turnover of  `1,000 crore or more or net profit of `5 crore or more during  the immediately preceding financial year are required  to constitute a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)  committee of the Board comprising three or more directors,  at least one of whom should be an independent director  and such company shall spend at least 2% of the average  net profits of the company’s three immediately preceding  financial years towards CSR activities.
Accordingly, your  Company has spent `1,866 million towards CSR activities  during the financial year 2017-18.
The contents of the CSR  policy and CSR Report for the year 2017-18 is attached as  Annexure V to this Report.
Contents of the CSR policy is  also available on the Company’s website at https:/ /www.
wipro.com/corporate-governance.
The terms of reference of  CSR committee, framed in accordance with Section 135 of  the Companies Act, 2013, forms part of Board Governance,  Nomination and Compensation Committee.
The Committee  consists of three independent directors, Dr. Ashok S Ganguly,  Mr. N Vaghul and Mr. William Arthur Owens, as its members.
Dr. Ashok S Ganguly is the Chairman of the Committee.
Particulars Regarding Conservation of Energy and Research  and Development and Technology Absorption Details of steps taken by your Company to conserve  energy through its “Sustainability” initiatives, Research  and Development and Technology Absorption have been  disclosed as part of the MD&A Report.
VI.
Other Disclosures Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgoings During the year 2017-18, your Company’s foreign  exchange earnings were `3,91,807 million and foreign  exchange outgoings were `2,07,831 million as against   `4,04,000 million of foreign exchange earnings and `2,12,910  million of foreign exchange outgoings for the financial year  2016-17.
Extract of Annual Return Pursuant to Section 92(3) and Section 134(3)(a) of the  Companies Act, 2013, extract of the Annual Return as on  March 31, 2018 in form MGT-9 is enclosed as Annexure VI to  this report.
Material Changes and Commitments Affecting the Financial  Position of the Company There have been no material changes and commitments,  affecting the financial position of the Company which  occurred between the end of the financial year to which the  financial statements relate and the date of this report.
Details of Significant and Material Orders Passed by the  regulators/Courts/Tribunals Impacting the Going Concern  Status and the Company’s Operations in Future There are no significant and material orders passed by the  Regulators/Courts/Tribunals which would impact the going  concern status of the Company and its future operations.
Acknowledgements and Appreciation Your Directors take this opportunity to thank the customers,  shareholders, suppliers, bankers, business partners/ associates, financial institutions and Central and State  Governments for their consistent support and encouragement  to the Company.
I am sure you will join our Directors in  conveying our sincere appreciation to all employees of the  Company and its subsidiaries and associates for their hard  work and commitment.
Their dedication and competence  has ensured that the Company continues to be a significant  and leading player in the IT Services industry.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors, Bengaluru     Azim H Premji June 8, 2018    Executive Chairman 65 Annual Report 2017-18 Annexure I Particulars of contracts/arrangements made with related parties Form No.
AOC-2 [Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 8(2) of the  Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 as on March 31, 2018] This Form pertains to the disclosure of particulars of contracts/arrangements entered into by the Company with related parties referred to in Sub- section (1) of Section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arm’s length transactions under third proviso thereto.
Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basisThere were no contracts or arrangements or transactions entered into during the year ended March 31, 2018, which were not at arm’s length basis.Details of material contracts or arrangements or transactions at arm’s length basisThere were no material contracts or arrangements or transactions entered into during the year ended March 31, 2018 crossing the materiality threshold  of 10% of the annual consolidated turnover of the Company.
The details of contracts or arrangements or transactions at arm’s length basis for the year ended March 31, 2018 are as follows: Name of Related Party Nature of Relationship Duration of Contract Salient terms *  Amount (` Mn)  Sales of Goods and Services       Wipro, LLC Subsidiary 01-04-05 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                      25,260  Wipro Gallagher Solutions, Inc. Subsidiary 01-04-16- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                         1,316  Opus Capital Markets Consultants LLC Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               46  Wipro Technologies SA DE C V Subsidiary 01-01-12 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                         1,068  Wipro Technologies SA Subsidiary 01-04-09 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                                 3  Wipro Poland SP.
z.O.O Subsidiary 01-04-10 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               17  Wipro Information Technology Netherlands BV Subsidiary 01-06-08- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            909  Wipro Portugal SA Subsidiary 01-04-07 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               47  Wipro do Brasil Technologia LTDA Subsidiary 01-04-05 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               63  Wipro Technologies GmbH Subsidiary 01-03-11- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                         1,753  Wipro Technologies Limited, Russia Subsidiary 01-05-08 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               43  Wipro Technology Chile SPA Subsidiary 01-01-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               25  Wipro Outsourcing Services (Ireland) Limited Subsidiary 12-11-12 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               22  Wipro Information Technology Kazakhstan LLP Subsidiary 15-05-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               64  Wipro (Thailand) Co Limited Subsidiary 01-11-10- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               64  PT.
WT Indonesia Subsidiary 01-11-12 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            182  Wipro IT Services Poland SP.
z.O.O.
Subsidiary 01-04-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            301  Wipro Technologies South Africa (Proprietory) Limited Subsidiary 01-04-12 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                         1,654  Wipro Technologies Nigeria Limited Subsidiary 01-04-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               21  Wipro Information Technology Austria GmbH Subsidiary 01-09-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            398  Wipro Technologies Austria GmbH Subsidiary 01-12-10 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               54  Wipro Shanghai Limited Subsidiary 27-04-04 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                                 2  Wipro Technologies Australia Pty Ltd Subsidiary 01-08-12 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            427  Wipro Promax Analytics Solutions LLC Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               13  Wipro Chengdu Limited Subsidiary 01-04-09 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               (1) Wipro Networks Pte Limited Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                         1,518  Wipro Technologies SDN BHD Subsidiary 01-04-13- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               26  Wipro Technologies Peru SAC Subsidiary 01-10-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                                 7  Wipro Solutions Canada Limited Subsidiary 16-08-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                         2,039  Wipro UK Limited Subsidiary 01-04-10 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               (6) Wipro Data Centre and Cloud Services, Inc. Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                         1,694  Wipro Limited 66 Name of Related Party Nature of Relationship Duration of Contract Salient terms *  Amount (` Mn)  Healthplan Services, Inc. Subsidiary 01-06-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            597  Cellent GmbH Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               67  Cellent Mittelstandsberatung GmbH Subsidiary 01-04-17 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                                 2  Appirio, Inc. Subsidiary 01-01-17- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            228  Wipro Holdings UK Limited Subsidiary 01-04-10 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                         2,086  Wipro Arabia Co. Limited Subsidiary 23-12-06 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            350  Wipro Doha LLC Subsidiary 01-04-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            538  Wipro Gulf LLC Subsidiary 01-04-17 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            117  Wipro Bahrain Limited WLL Subsidiary 01-01-15 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               85  Wipro Airport IT Services Limited Subsidiary 30-12-09 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            474  Wipro IT Services Bangladesh Limited Subsidiary 31-03-18- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            168  Wipro Enterprises Private Limited Entity controlled by Promoters 01-04-14 - Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                         16.27  Arcelor Mittal Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                               55  Asian Paints Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                               28  Azim Premji Foundation for Development (Sec 8 Company) Entity controlled by Promoters Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                           0.48  LNM Institute of Information Technology Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                           0.07  ICICI Bank Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                               29  Indian School of Business Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                                 9  Infinity Retail Private Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                                 1  Piramal Enterprises Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                                 5  Titan Company Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                                 4  Wipro GE Healthcare Private Limited Joint venture with Wipro Enterprises  Private Limited and General Electric Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                               92  Yangtze Holding Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                               22  Tata Global Beverages Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                                 5  Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                                 4  Cipla Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                                 3  Purchase of Services         Wipro LLC Subsidiary 01-04-05 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                         1,831  Infocrossing, Inc. Subsidiary 01-04-08 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               26  Wipro Technologies SA DE C V Subsidiary 01-01-12 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            965  Wipro BPO Philippines Ltd. Inc. Subsidiary 31-03-11 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                         1,668  Wipro Technologies SA Subsidiary 01-04-09 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            101  Wipro Poland S P .
z. O .
O .
Subsidiary 01-04-10 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            291  Wipro Portugal S A Subsidiary 01-04-07 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                         1,198  Wipro do Brasil Technologia LTDA  Subsidiary 01-04-05 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                         2,542  Wipro Technologies GmbH Subsidiary 01-03-11 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                         1,724  Wipro Technologies Limited, Russia Subsidiary 01-05-08 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                                 2  Wipro Technology Chile S P A Subsidiary 01-01-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               67  Wipro Outsourcing Services (Ireland) Limited Subsidiary 12-11-12 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            163  Wipro Technologies SRL Subsidiary 01-01-10 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                         1,622  Wipro (Thailand) Co. Limited Subsidiary 01-11-10- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               31  PT.
WT Indonesia Subsidiary 01-11-12 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               29  Wipro IT Services Poland S P .
zO .
O .
Subsidiary 01-04-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            791  Wipro Information Technology Austria Gmbh Subsidiary 01-09-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                                 4  Wipro Technologies Austria GmbH Subsidiary 01-12-10 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               19  Wipro Shanghai Limited Subsidiary 27-04-04 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            158  Wipro Technologies Australia Pty Ltd Subsidiary 01-08-12 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            136  Wipro Chengdu Limited Subsidiary 01-04-09 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            343  67 Annual Report 2017-18 Name of Related Party Nature of Relationship Duration of Contract Salient terms *  Amount (` Mn)  Wipro Networks Pte Limited Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            332  Wipro Technologies Peru SAC Subsidiary 01-01-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               10  Wipro Solutions Canada Limited Subsidiary 16-08-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               26  Wipro Technologies W.T.
Sociedad Anonima Subsidiary 01-01-18 -Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                                 4  Wipro Data Centre and Cloud Services, Inc. Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                         2,844  Designit A/S Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               58  Designit Denmark A/S Subsidiary 01-03-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            491  Designit Munich GmbH Subsidiary 31-03-16 -Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                                 6  Designit Tokyo Ltd. Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               11  Designit Oslo A/S Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               15  Denextep Spain Digital, S.L Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               27  Designit Sweden AB Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               17  Designit T.L.V Ltd. Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               45  Wipro (Dalian) Limited Subsidiary 30-12-15 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            304  Cellent GmbH Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                      441.14  Appirio, Inc. Subsidiary 01-01-17- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            825  Appirio Ltd. Subsidiary 01-01-18- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                                 3  Appirio Ltd. Subsidiary 01-01-17- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               38  Appirio India Cloud Solutions Private Limited Subsidiary 01-01-17- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               23  Cooper Software, Inc. Subsidiary 23-10-17- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                                 4  Wipro Japan KK Subsidiary 01-04-12- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               14  Wipro Enterprises Private Limited Entity controlled by Promoters 01-04-14 - Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                            294  Arcelor Mittal Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                               87  Asian Paints Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                               18  Atria Convergence Technologies Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                                 1  AEA Investors Asia Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                                 2  Blue Star Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                                 2  CenturyLink Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                                 3  ICICI Bank Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                               18  The Indian Hotels Company Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                                 2  Indian School of Business Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                                 5  Infinity Retail Private Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                           0.35  LNM Institute of Information Technology Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                           0.18  Mahindra World City Developers Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                               15  Piramal Enterprises Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                           0.01  Pratham Education Foundation Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                                 2  Titan Company Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                                 1  United Spirits Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                                 3  Wipro GE Healthcare Private Limited Joint venture with Wipro Enterprises  Private Limited and General Electric Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                                 8  Roots Corporation Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                               25  Tata Global Beverages Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                                 1  Wipro Enterprises Private Limited Entity controlled by Promoters Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                                 5  Compass Plc Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                                 1  Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                           0.47  Cipla Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines                           0.14  Commission Paid         Wipro Technologies GmbH Subsidiary 01-03-11 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            624  Wipro Travel Services Limited Subsidiary 01-02-03 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               65  Wipro Japan KK Subsidiary 26-03-01-Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                            457  Wipro Limited 68 Name of Related Party Nature of Relationship Duration of Contract Salient terms *  Amount (` Mn)  Wipro Technologies Australia Pty Ltd Subsidiary Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                           0.29  Wipro Holdings UK Limited Subsidiary Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                           0.39  Rent Paid         Hasham Traders Entity controlled by Promoters Ongoing As per Agreement                                 7  Yasmeen H Premji Relative of Director Ongoing As per Agreement                                 6  Wipro Networks Pte Limited Subsidiary Ongoing As per Agreement                               42  Wipro Holdings (UK) Limited Subsidiary Ongoing As per Agreement                               31  Wipro LLC Subsidiary Ongoing As per Agreement                               49  Corporate Guarantee Commission Received         Wipro LLC Subsidiary 01-04-14- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               38  Infocrossing Inc. Subsidiary 01-04-14- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               15  Wipro Technologies GmbH Subsidiary 16-06-17- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                                 6  Wipro Solutions Canada Limited Subsidiary 01-07-15- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                                 5  Wipro Technologies SRL Subsidiary 01-04-14- Opening As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                                 1  Wipro IT Services Poland SP  z. O .
O .
Subsidiary 01-12-15- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                             0.4  Wipro Technologies South Africa (Proprietory) Limited Subsidiary 01-01-15- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                                 5  Wipro Technologies Australia Pty Ltd. Subsidiary 01-08-12 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                             6.4  Wipro Solutions Canada Limited Subsidiary 01-09-15- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               38  Wipro Data Centre and Cloud Services, Inc. Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                                 3  Wipro Arabia Co. Limited Subsidiary 01-04-14- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               17  Wipro Gulf LLC Subsidiary 01-04-14- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines                               45  Rental Income         Wipro Insurance Solution LLC Subsidiary 01-03-17- Ongoing As per Agreement                                 6  Wipro Travel Services Limited Subsidiary 21-12-15 - Ongoing As per Agreement                                 3  Designit Denmark A/S Subsidiary 01-03-16 - Ongoing As per Agreement                               56  Wipro Gallaghar Solutions Inc- Branch Subsidiary 01-01-16 - Ongoing As per Agreement                                 2  Wipro LLC Subsidiary Ongoing As per Agreement                            206  Wipro Enterprises Private Limited Entity controlled by Promoters 01-04-14 - Ongoing As per Agreement                               40  Azim Premji Foundation Entity controlled by Promoters Ongoing As per Agreement                                 1  Management Service fees         Azim Premji Foundation Entity controlled by Promoters Ongoing Management Service fees                                 1  Wipro Enterprises Private Limited Entity controlled by Promoters 01-04-14 - Ongoing Management Service fees                               55  Restricted Stock Unit (RSU) Compensation Cost Allocation         Wipro Enterprises Private Limited Entity controlled by Promoters 01-04-14 - Ongoing As per Allocation                               23  Wipro Limited Subsidiaries Subsidiary Ongoing As per Allocation                               88  Other Costs         Wipro Enterprises Private Limited Entity controlled by Promoters 01-04-14 - Ongoing On Actual Cost Basis                               31  Azim Premji Foundation Entity controlled by Promoters Ongoing On Actual Cost Basis                                 1  * Appropriate approvals have been taken from the Audit Committee and Board of Directors of the Company from time to time for the related party transactions as mentioned above.
Azim H Premji N Vaghul M Sanaulla Khan Executive Chairman & Managing Director Director Company Secretary Abidali Z Neemuchwala Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director Bengaluru June 8, 2018 69 Annual Report 2017-18 Annexure II Statement of Disclosure of Remuneration under Section 197 of Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 5(1) of Companies  (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014.
Remuneration paid to Whole-time Directors Name of Directors Designation % increase/ decrease  of remuneration in  2018 as compared to  2017* Ratio of  remuneration to  MRE* Ratio of  remuneration to MRE  and WTD* Azim H Premji Executive Chairman  and Managing  Director 10.13 16.11 16.11                    Abidali z  Neemuchwala Chief Executive Officer  and Executive Director 34.53 337.59 337.59 Rishad A Premji Executive Director and  Chief Strategy Officer 250.59 109.07 109.07 Remuneration paid to Other Directors Name of Directors Designation % increase/decrease  of remuneration in  2018 as compared to  2017* Ratio of  remuneration to  MRE* Ratio of  remuneration to MRE  and WTD* N Vaghul Independent Director 21.21 14.81 14.81 Dr. Ashok S Ganguly Independent Director 18.18 12.04 12.04 M K Sharma Independent Director 20.37 12.04 12.04 Ireena Vittal Independent Director 18.87 11.67 11.67 William A Owens Independent Director 3.45 38.89 38.89 Dr. Patrick J Ennis Independent Director 3.75 30.74 30.74 Patrick Dupuis Independent Director 3.75 30.74 30.74 Remuneration paid to other Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) Name of KMPs Designation % increase/ decrease  of remuneration in  2018 as compared to  2017* Ratio of  remuneration to  MRE* Ratio of  remuneration to MRE and WTD* Jatin Pravinchandra  Dalal Chief Financial  Officer 2.42 86.11 86.11  M Sanaulla Khan Company Secretary 2.54 22.41 22.41  MRE - Median Remuneration of employees, WTD - Whole Time Director * Rounded off to two decimals 1.
The median Remuneration of employees (MRE) excluding Whole-time Directors was ` 5,40,000 and ` 5,23,000  (USD 8,100)  in fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 respectively.
The increase in MRE excluding the Whole-time Director  in fiscal 2018 as compared to fiscal 2017 is 3.25%.
2.
The median Remuneration of employees (MRE) including Whole-time Directors was ` 5,40,000 and ` 5,23,000  (USD 8,100)  in fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 respectively.
The increase in MRE including the Whole-time Director in  fiscal 2018 as compared to fiscal 2017 is 3.25%.
3.
The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Company as of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 was  1,32,906 and 1,37,688 respectively.
Wipro Limited 70 4.
The aggregate remuneration of employees excluding WTD has remained constant over the previous fiscal.
The  aggregate increase in salary for WTDs and other KMPs was 41% in fiscal 2018 over fiscal 2017, on account of the  following:  a)        Computation of remuneration to Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director, and Chief Financial Officer is  on an accrual basis and it includes the amortization of Restricted Stock Units (RSU), granted to them, which  will vest over a period of time.
This also includes RSUs that will vest based on performance parameters of the  Company.
b)        Computation of remuneration of Executive Director and Chief Strategy Officer includes cash bonus (part of  his variable pay) on an accrual basis, which is payable over a period of time.
5.
The Company affirms that the remuneration is paid as per the remuneration policy of the Company.
Variable Pay Compensation The variable pay of top executives including the Chief Executive Officer and Executive Directors is based on clearly laid  out criteria and measures, which are linked to the desired performance and business objectives of the organisation.
The criteria for variable pay, which is paid out annually, includes both financial and non-financial parameters like  revenue,  profit achievement, customer satisfaction and other strategic goals as decided by the Board from time to  time.
Apart from the variable pay component, long term (typically greater than one year) incentives granted to the Chief  Executive Officer and Executive Director includes both time-based and performance-based stock units (PSUs).
The vesting of PSUs is based on performance parameters of the Company over a two-year period and is linked  to pre-defined financial goals.
Time-based stock units typically vest over a four-year period.
The vesting pattern  and schedule for both these types of stock units are as determined by the Board Governance, Nomination and  Compensation Committee.
71 Annual Report 2017-18 Sl.
No.
Name of the  Employee Date of  Joining (dd-mm-yyyy) Gross  Remuneration  (`) Educational  Qualification Age Experience  (yrs) Last Employment Designation 1 Abidali z  Neemuchwala*# 1-Apr-15 18,23,44,918 BE, Electronics and  Communication, Masters in Industrial Management 50 26 Tata Consultancy  Services Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director 2 Saurabh Govil 11-May-09 6,59,45,953 B.Sc, PGDM - PM & IR 50 29 GE India President & Chief Human Resources Officer 3 Rishad A Premji 20-Jul-07 5,88,93,836 B.A, MBA 41 19 Bain & Company Executive Director and Chief Strategy Officer  4 Bhanumurthy B M 3-Sep-92 5,60,24,668 B Tech, PGDM 54 31 CMC Limited President and Chief Operating Officer 5 Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal* 1-Jul-02 4,65,47,369 BE, CA, PGDBA and CMA (UK) 43 19 GE India Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 6 Ramesh Nagarajan 25-Jan-91 4,53,61,583 ME 52 29 First Employment Senior Vice President & Head - Integrated Services 7 Rajan Kohli 15-May-95 4,48,89,703 BE (E&C),PGDM (Marketing and Finance) 46 23 First Employment Senior Vice President & Global Head - Wipro Digital 8 Anand Padmanabhan 2-May-94 4,12,05,572 BE 52 28 Almoayed Data  Group President - Business Development and Strategic Sales 9 Prasanna Gamma  Kali** 2-Dec-99 3,98,90,914 B Tech, PGD 58 35 Microland Limited President & Head - MIT 10 Kiran K Desai 21-Sep-98 3,19,74,028 BE, PG Diploma 52 31 Unicorp Industries Senior Vice President - GIS Annexure III Information as per Rule 5(2) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014.
A)  Top 10 employees in terms of salary drawn during the year Notes: 1.
Remuneration comprises of salary, allowances, commission, performance based payments, perquisite and Company’s contribution to provident fund and super- annuation as per the definition contained in Section 2(78) of the Companies Act, 2013 paid during the year.
It also includes perquisites value of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) exercised, if any, by employees.
2.
The nature of employment is contractual in all the above cases.
3.
None of the employees employed throughout the financial year or part thereof, were in receipt of remuneration in that year, which in the aggregate, or as the case may be at a rate which, in the aggregate, is in excess of that drawn by the Managing Director or Whole-Time Director or Manager and holds by himself or along with his spouse and dependent children, not less than two percent of the equity shares of the Company.
4.
In terms of proviso to Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, particulars of employees posted and working in a country outside India, not being Directors or their relatives, have not been included in the above statement.
5.
Mr. Rishad A Premji, who is in the employment of the Company, is the son of Mr. Azim H Premji, Executive Chairman of the Company.
Computation of remuneration of Executive Director and Chief Strategy Officer includes cash bonus (part of his variable pay) on an accrual basis, which is payable over a period of time.
*    Computation of remuneration to Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director, and Chief Financial Officer is on an accrual basis and it includes  the amortization of Restricted Stock Units (“RSUs”) granted to them, which vest over a period of time.
This also include RSUs that will vest based on performance parameters of the Company.
#   Figures mentioned in ` are equivalent to amounts paid in US$ **   Mr. Prasanna Gamma Kali retired from the services of the Company effective August 31, 2017.
Remuneration disclosed above is for the period from April 1, 2017 to August 31, 2017.
Wipro Limited 72 Name of the  Employee Date of  Joining Gross  Remuneration  (in `) Educational  Qualification Age Experience  (yrs) Last Employment Designation Ajay Bhaskar 8-Jul-02  1,66,40,062 BE, MBA 45 23 Hindustan Lever  Limited Vice President Amit Bajoria 30-Oct-00  1,92,63,400 CA 40 17 First Employment Vice President Angan Arun Guha 3-Jan-94  1,80,99,397 BE 49 26 Decibells Electronic Senior Vice President - Banking, Americas Anil K Jain 10-Apr-89  3,00,85,181 BE, MBA 54 28 ORG Systems Senior Vice President & Business Head-Global Communication Anil Raibagi 16-Oct-02  1,28,57,113 B. Com, MBA 47 26 IBM Senior Vice President and Head - M & A Anuj Bhalla 15-May-96  2,41,97,468 BE, MBA 47 22 First Employment Senior Vice President & Global Delivery Head, GIS Anurag Seth 3-May-90  1,99,54,570 BE, PGDBM - Information Management 51 28 First Employment Vice President & Head-Talent  Transformation Aravind V S 22-Apr-02  1,42,77,611 PGDBM 38 16 First Employment Vice President Arjun Ramaraju 8-Nov-94  2,55,64,630 BE 45 23 First Employment Vice President Arunkumar M 3-Feb-97  1,13,45,104 BE, M.S.
43 21 IISc.
General Manager Ashok Philipose 16-Apr-96  1,20,78,282 BE 47 24 Pentafour Software General Manager Ayaskant Sarangi 3-Dec-12  3,02,08,470 PGDBM 43 20 GE India Senior Vice President - Human Resources Balasubramanian K 17-Apr-02  1,62,79,464 B.Com, C A 38 16 First Employment Vice President Bhavani Padmanabhan 9-May-16  1,14,38,143 MBL 49 25 SABMiller India Limited Deputy General Counsel Chandra Shekar S N 6-Nov-95  1,89,80,003 BE 45 22 Indian Industrial Machines Vice President Devender Malhotra 23-Aug-02  1,84,88,976 BE, PGD 46 23 Satyam GE Software Vice President and Chief Quality Officer Dipak Kumar Bohra 14-Jun-02  3,05,62,663 B.Com, CA, ICWAI 45 21 Aditya Birla Group Senior Vice President, Global Controller, Finance Dr. Srinivasa Raghava Vegi 26-Jul-02  1,70,10,705 BTech, MTech, PHD 54 26 Systech Solutions, Inc. Vice President Gaurav Chadha 15-May-96  1,64,12,678 BE, PG Diploma 44 22 First Employment Vice President, Insurance Global Head Gopikrishnan Gouri Ramachandran 27-Aug-12  1,15,48,459 PGDBM 46 22 Infosys Limited Vice President Hari Kishan Burle 15-Mar-94  1,72,46,652 B.Tech, M.Tech 46 24 First Employment Vice President Hari Menon 27-Jun-94  1,59,21,242 B.Sc., MCA 48 25 Sonata Software Vice President & Global head Hariprasad Hegde 22-Apr-02  2,80,47,788 B.Tech, B.Sc, PG Diploma 56 34 Satyam Computer Services Limited Senior Vice President Harsh Bhatia 7-Nov-02  2,21,84,447 B.Sc  52 30 Daksh Vice President - Operations Hoshedar Contractor 12-Aug-02  1,34,43,508 B.Com 57 33 K LM /N W Airlines Vice President - Operations Jayanta Dey 13-Oct-88  1,42,20,967 BE, MBA 52 30 First Employment Vice President K B  Unni 5-May-14  1,20,19,830 MBA 53 30 GE Capital Vice President Kesava Moorthy G 25-Oct-99  2,02,48,813 BE 55 29 Eaglestar Intl.
U K Vice President Keyur Maniar 12-Mar-07  2,29,67,845 BE, MBA 48 24 Capital One Financial Senior Vice President B) Employees drawing salary of ` 102 lakhs or above per annum and posted in India 73 Annual Report 2017-18 Name of the  Employee Date of  Joining Gross  Remuneration  (in `) Educational  Qualification Age Experience  (yrs) Last Employment Designation Krishnakumar N 5-Sep-94  1,25,40,877 B.Sc, M.Sc   (Computer Science) 50 26 DRDO Vice President- Global Head Service  Transformation Kumudha Sridharan 31-May-95  2,89,43,080 BE 54 31 ITI Limited Senior Vice President L Narasimha Murthy 28-Mar-12  1,26,06,179 MS 44 23 Ascendum  Solutions Vice President Milind Halapeth 15-Jan-07  1,74,73,702 BE, MBA 45 24 Publicis Groupe Vice President Mohit B Lal 16-Mar-99  1,33,79,869 B.Sc., MCA 48 24 MXSS Delhi Vice President & Vertical Delivery Head Murali Parthasarathy 1-Aug-12  1,02,21,450 BE 49 27 Allgreen Ecotech Solutions Private Limited Vice President Muralidharan S 23-Apr-15  1,31,36,616 B.Sc.
(Engineering)  Mechanical 58 31 Schneider Electrics  I T Business India  Private Limited Vice President Nagarjuna Sadineni 14-Dec-07  1,50,61,647 MBA 48 29 Wep Peripherals Vice President Global Delivery Enablement Nanda Kishore N 1-Aug-94  1,92,70,789 BE, PG Diploma 46 24 Hypermedia Info Systems Vice President Nandini Matiyani 1-Oct-13  1,42,88,866 BE 45 23 Onmobile Global Limited Vice President Narayanan S 1-Dec-95  1,22,01,786 BE 46 24 Deutsche Software Vice President Nithya Ramkumar 4-Jul-91  1,76,92,896 B.Tech 47 27 First Employment Vice President Prasad Gantasai 1-Feb-06  1,81,92,542 B.A, MSW 44 23 Isoft India Vice President & Head-HR,BFSI Prasad V Bhatt 2-Mar-89  2,04,77,300 BE, M.Tech 53 30 ORG Systems Vice President Prasenjit Lahiri 5-Jan-95  1,33,90,991 BE 48 25 TVS Electronics Vice President Priti Kataria 1-Jun-98  1,44,66,245 MBA 44 20 First Employment Vice President & Global HR Head- Mfg & Tech Rahul Shah 2-Nov-15  1,14,45,216 B.Tech, PGDM 47 22 Infosys Digital Vice President Raja Ukil 15-Jul-02  2,90,25,521 BE 49 22 Price Waterhouse Coopers Senior Vice President & Chief Information Officer Rama Vyas Varma 17-Sep-94  1,56,69,517 B.Sc., MCA 49 26 Melstar Info Tech Vice President Ramachandran P 16-Dec-96  1,12,81,179 BE 42 21 First Employment General Manager Ravi Purohit 15-May-96  1,55,34,022 B.Tech, PGDM 46 24 TCS Vice President and Global Head - Oracle Rohit Adlakha 30-May-95  2,66,87,186 BE 44 22 First Employment Vice President and Global Head Wipro HOLMES Samir Gadgil 9-Oct-04  2,19,81,394 BE, MPM 42 19 Cedar Consulting Vice President Sanaulla Khan Mohammed 12-May-15  1,20,98,603 M.Com, FCS 47 24 ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited Vice President & Company Secretary Sandhya Sriram 15-Apr-15  1,14,25,057 B.Com, CA 37 17 Hindustan Unilever Limited Vice President Sanjay Singh D 6-Jun-94  1,20,80,014 BE 49 27 CMC Limited Vice President Wipro Limited 74 Name of the  Employee Date of  Joining Gross  Remuneration  (in `) Educational  Qualification Age Experience  (yrs) Last Employment Designation Sanjeev R 7-Sep-98  1,34,92,331 BE 45 22 CMC Limited General Manager & Vertical Delivery Head Sanjesh K Gupta 4-Dec-84  1,28,84,712 Diploma, AMIE   (Elec.&  Communication) 54 33 Televista  Electronics –  Computer Division Vice President Sanjiv K R 16-Nov-88  3,11,38,209 MMS 54 30 DCM Data Products Chief Technology Officer Santhosh G Nair 30-Apr-90  1,02,53,100 B.Tech, PGDM 51 28 First Employment Vice President & Global Head -BFSI Domain & Consulting Satyaki Banerjee 3-Apr-03  1,82,03,356 B.A, LLB 46 15 Practising Lawyer Deputy General Counsel Sharada Nandakumar 8-Nov-10  1,61,57,379 B.Sc 52 30 Amdocs Vice President Sheetal Sharad Mehta 16-Sep-94  1,63,02,970 BE 45 24 First Employment Vice President Siby Abraham 16-Feb-87  1,06,94,615 BTech, MTech 54 31 First Employment Vice President-Semiconductors, Global Delivery Enablement Sreenath A Venkappiah 29-Nov-02  1,51,94,240 BE 54 30 Kshema  Technologies Senior Vice President & India Business Unit Head Srinivasan G 14-Apr-99  1,83,85,143 BE 48 27 Indchem Electronics Vice President Subrahmanyam P 8-Nov-83  2,32,41,690 B.Sc, M Sc, M Phil 57 33 First Employment Chief Global Delivery Enablement Subramanian L 3-Aug-92  1,54,75,258 B.Sc, ME 50 25 First Employment Senior Vice President Sunil Varkey 14-Feb-13  1,43,40,039 MBA 49 22 Idea Cellular Fellow, Wipro Sunita Cherian 4-Nov-96  2,61,81,847 B Tech, PGDBA 44 21 First Employment Senior Vice President - Human Resources Suresh B 22-May-89  2,13,30,078 BE, ME 54 31 AF Ferguson & Co. Vice President - Application Support & Maintenance Suresh Kolati 15-Jun-16  1,42,57,910 BE 48 21 Strategic Business Unit P&L Vice President Vasudevan A 31-Mar-86  3,14,43,054 BE, MTech 56 32 First Employment Vice President Venkat Sriramagiri 10-Apr-08  1,31,72,098 BTech, ME 47 26 Polaris Software Technology Vice President Vijay Kumar K 28-Feb-00  1,11,17,106 BTech, MTech, M.S.
46 24 Cadence Design Systems DMTS - Distinguished member Vijayasimha Alilughatta 28-Feb-14  1,70,17,528 BE 44 22 Infosys Limited Senior Vice President Vinod Kumar T V 13-Jan-88  1,98,31,124 BSc, MSc 57 32 Usha  Microprocessors Vice President & SDH - Manufacturing & Hi Tech Viswanathan Ramaswamy 6-Feb-14  1,36,58,706 M.Tech 51 31 Vodafone India Limited Vice President 75 Annual Report 2017-18 Notes: 1.
The above table contents details of employees in alphabetical order and does not include the details of remuneration drawn by the top 10 employees as their details  are provided in item 3(A) of Annexure III to this Board’s Report.
2.
Remuneration comprises salary, allowances, commission, performance based payments, perquisite and Company’s contribution to provident fund and super-annuation as per the definition contained in Section 2(78) of the Companies Act, 2013 paid during the year.
It also includes perquisites value of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) exercised, if any, by employees.
3.
The nature of employment is contractual in all the above cases.
4.
None of the employees employed throughout the financial year or part thereof, were in receipt of remuneration in that year, which in the aggregate, or as the case may be at a rate which, in the aggregate, is in excess of that drawn by the Managing Director or Whole-Time Director or Manager and holds by himself or along with his spouse and dependent children, not less than two percent of the equity shares of the Company.
5.
In terms of the proviso to Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, particulars of employees posted and working in a country outside India, not being Directors or their relatives, have not been included in the above statement.
C)  Employed for Part of the Year with an average salary of ` 8.5 lakhs or above per month and posted in India Name of the Employee Date of  Joining Gross  Remuneration  (in `) Educational Qualification Age Experience  (yrs) Last Employment Designation Aneela Kumar Taseen 1-Feb-18  24,69,280 BE, Electronics  and  Communication  Engineering 50 27 Ericsson Delivery Head Deepak Acharya 1-Feb-18  1,37,25,070 BSc, LLB, FCS, AMIMA  Law, International Comparative Law  50 22 Procter & Gamble  Singapore Senior Vice President & General Counsel Lalit Mongia 19-Feb-18  12,51,076 Business Management  Science 42 19 Airtel General Manager Manish Bhisham Bhatia 5-Mar-18  8,39,554 BE-Electronics 43 20 Capgemini General Manager Milan Rao 3-Oct-17  1,83,61,440 B Tech CS&E,  MBA-Finance & Marketing 47 25 Wipro GE President - MIT Nambiar Sanjay Ramchandran 17-Nov-17  39,49,171 BE 43 22 Infosys Limited Vice President Natarajan Coimbatore Srinivasan 22-Jan-15  85,67,881 BE 51 28 IBM India Private  Limited Vice President Vipin Kamra 1-Feb-18  16,96,628 BE - Computer Science,  MBA 48 26 Ericsson General Manager Vishwas Santurkar 6-Nov-91  1,82,82,644 BE, Mechanical 55 33 Unicad Technologies Vice President & Head - Talent Transformation Wipro Limited 76 Annexure IV Form No.
MR-3 SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT [Pursuant to Sub-Section (1) of Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the  Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014] F OR  THE  FINANCIAL  YEAR  ENDED  M ARCH  31, 2018 To, The Members, Wipro Limited, Doddakannelli, Sarjapur Road, Bengaluru - 560035  We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance  of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence  to good corporate practices by Wipro Limited (the  “Company”).
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner  that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the  corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing  our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books,  papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and  other records maintained by the Company and also the  information provided by the Company, its officers, agents  and authorized representatives during the conduct of  secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion,  the Company has, during the audit period covering the  financial year ended on March 31, 2018 (the audit period)  complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder  and also that the Company has proper Board-processes  and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the  manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:  We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms  and returns filed and other records maintained by the  Company for the financial year ended on March 31, 2018  according to the provisions of:  i.
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made  thereunder; ii.
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956  (‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder; iii.
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and  Bye-laws framed thereunder; iv.
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the  rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent  of Foreign Direct Investment and Overseas Direct  Investment.
There was no External Commercial  Borrowing by the Company during the period under  review; v.   The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed  under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act,  1992 (‘SEBI Act’):-  a.
The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)  Regulations, 2011;  b.
The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;  c.   The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2009;  d.   The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations,  2014;  e.   The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue  and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008  (Not Applicable to the Company during the Audit  Period);  f.   The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents)  Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act  and dealing with client;   g.   The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009  (Not Applicable to the Company during the Audit  Period);  h.   The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 1998;  and  i.
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing  Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015. vi.
Other laws applicable specifically to the Company  namely:  a.
Information Technology Act, 2000 and the rules  made thereunder  b.
Special Economic z ones Act, 2005 and the rules  made thereunder  c.   Software Technology Parks of India rules and  regulations  d.  The Copyright Act, 1957  e.  The Patents Act, 1970  f.  The Trade Marks Act, 1999 77 Annual Report 2017-18 We have also examined compliance with the applicable  clauses of the following: i.  Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of  Company Secretaries of India on Meetings of the  Board of Directors and General Meetings.
ii.
Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with  BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India  Limited.
We have not examined compliance by the Company with  applicable financial laws, like direct and indirect tax laws,  since the same have been subject to review by statutory  financial auditor, tax auditor and other designated  professionals.
During the period under review, the Company has complied  with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations,  Guidelines, etc.
mentioned above.
We further report that: The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted  with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive  Directors and Independent Directors.
The changes in  the composition of the Board of Directors that took  place during the period under review were carried out in  compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the  Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda  were sent at least seven days in advance, and a system  exists for seeking and obtaining further information and  clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and  for meaningful participation at the meeting.
As per the minutes of the meetings duly recorded and  signed by the Chairman, the decisions of the Board were  unanimous and no dissenting views have been recorded.
We further report that based on the review of the  compliance reports/certificates which were taken on  record by the Board of Directors, there are adequate  systems and processes in the Company commensurate  with the size and operations of the Company to monitor  and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules,  regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period, except  for buy back of 34,37,50,000 (Thirty Four Crores Thirty  Seven Lakhs and Fifty Thousand) Equity Shares of face  value of ` 2/- each at `  320/- per share aggregating to  ` 1,10,00,00,00,000/- (Rupees Eleven Thousand Crores  only), there was no event/action having a major bearing on  the Company's affairs in pursuance of the above referred  laws, rules, regulations, guidelines etc.
For V. SREEDHARAN & ASSOCIATES  Company Secretaries  (V. Sreedharan) Partner Bengaluru  FCS: 2347; CP No: 833 Date: April 16, 2018 Wipro Limited 78 Annexure V Corporate Social Responsibility Report for the year 2017-18 We present below the context and broad underpinnings of  Wipro’s social and environmental initiatives.
Our journey  began seventeen years back in 2001.
Since then, the core  principles, values and strategic direction of our social  initiatives have remained the same even as we have added  new domains, and increased the scale of our programs and  partnerships.
Every year has been an evolution in thought  and action in our collaborative journey.
We start this report  by reiterating the core principles, values and strategic  drivers underlying all our social initiatives: •	 	The	values	encapsulated	in	the	“Spirit	of	Wipro”	are;	 Be Passionate about clients’ success’ , ‘Treat each  person with respect’ , ‘Be Global and Responsible’  and ‘Unyielding integrity in everything we do’ .
These  values guide all our actions andare foundational  tenets of any social change for the better.
•	 	To	conduct	our	business 	on	the	basis	of	sound	 ethical principles and widely accepted principles  of good corporate governance.
While this starts  with compliance in letter and spirit with laws and  regulations of the countries we operate in, it goes  well beyond that.
•	 	To	continually	evolve	and	progress	in	our	journey	of	 making Wipro more sustainable as defined by the  triple bottom-line framework.
The primary areas of  focus are to: (i) reduce our ecological footprint on  energy, water and waste, (ii) foster a more diverse,  empowered fair and safe workplace, (iii) continually  enhance employees’ individual development that  aligns with larger organizational goals and (iv) to  actively engage with our supplier ecosystem in making  them more responsible in their work practices.
This  goes in tandem with our policy of procurement of  more sustainable products and of encouraging the  expansion of women and minority based enterprises.
•	 	To	engage	on	systemic	and	long-term 	issues	of	 importance in our chosen domains od Education and  Ecology.
•	 	To	work 	with 	communities 	proximate 	to	our	 operational centers in India and overseas.
As a global  organization, we would like to emphasize that the  imperative of working on societal issues is a central  plank of our approach not just in India but everywhere  in the world we operate in.
You will find a detailed summary of our sustainability and  social initiatives for financial year 2017-18 as part of the  ‘Management Discussion and Analysis’ (MD&A) Report,  that is articulated on the principle of integrated reporting,  under “Communities and Social Initiatives” and “Natural  Capital” from page 42.
The impact of our CSR programs on  the communities we operate in are largely articulated as  part of the MD&A report.
Further, the key outcomes and  impact of various CSR programs are also disclosed to our  stakeholders annually as part of our Sustainability report  based on GRI principles which can be accessed at http:/ / www.wiprosustainabilityreport.com.
These and various  other details are available at our primary website www.
wipro.com and at www.wipro,org, our website focusing  exclusively on our social initiatives.
An important step we took during the year was to create  a separate entity, Wipro Foundation, which will serve  to channelize and consolidate all our social initiatives.
Wipro Foundation has a separate board of trustees drawn  from Wipro’s senior leadership while its governance and  controllership norms continue to draw from Wipro’s robust  and time-tested templates.
A related point on governance  we would like to emphasize here is that the individual  social programs of Wipro also have their own governance  committees which evaluate all funding proposals and  subject it to rigorous scrutiny.
All of this is complemented  by a system of regular quarterly reporting and reviews.
An organization’s progress on social initiatives can only  be as good as the partners it collaborates with.
Over the  years, we have taken care to invest in good partners who  not only know their domains well but are committed to  making a difference on the ground and whose values align  with ours, We have more than 150 active partners across  domains and geographies.
Together with our employees,  they are the bedrock of our social initiatives.
We firmly  believe that a company’s social initiatives can be effective  only when it is not driven by compliance but by its values,  beliefs and the complete commitment of its leadership.
We will continue to raise the standards of good governance  and management of our social programs.
79 Annual Report 2017-18 Summary of CSR spend for 2017-18 1.
A brief outline of the Company’s CSR policy, including overview of the projects or programs proposed to be undertaken is available at www.wipro.com.
Details are provided as part of Board’s Report from page 63 to 64.
2.
The Composition of the CSR Committee:The terms of reference of the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) broadly comprises and forms part of  Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee and these terms of reference are in accordance with Section 135 of the Companies  Act, 2013.
The Committee comprises of Dr. Ashok S Ganguly, Mr. N Vaghul and Mr. William Arthur Owens, Independent Directors.
3.
Average Net Profit of the Company for the last three financial years: ` 91,647 million 4.
Prescribed CSR Expenditure (two percent of the amount as in the point 3 above): 2% of the average PBT for the last three preceding financial years  amounts to ` 1,833 million.
Against this, our CSR spending for 2017-18 was ` 1,866 million 5.
Details of the CSR Spent during the financial year:  a)  Total amount to be spent for the financial year: ` 1,833 Million  b)  Amount unspent: Not Applicable  c)  Manner in which the amount is spent during the financial year is detailed below: 6.
The following table provides a summary of the domain wise expenditure on CSR for 2017-18 along with the geographies.
The list of partners with  whom we collaborate is available right after the table.
7.
In the column ‘Cumulative expenditure till reporting period’ , we have chosen to take 2014-15 as the base year.
It is however not to be interpreted  that this is the first year of our CSR programs.
Many of our programs go back more than 10 years and some more than 15 years.
Given the practical  challenges in reporting the cumulative expenditure from inception, we have chosen to start with the 2014-15 as the base year.
8.
All our programs are executed and implemented through our partners.
The figures under the last column therefore are entirely through our partners.
(` in Million) Sl.
No CSR project or activities  identified Sector in which  the project is  covered Projects or Programs 1) Local area  or 2) specify the state and district  where the project or programs are  under taken Amount   Outlay   (Budget)  project or   Program   Wise Amount  spent   on the   projects  or   Programs  Cumulative  expenditure  upto   Previous  reporting   period   Cumulative  expenditure  upto   reporting   period   Amount   spent:direct  or through   implementing  agency   1 Providing preventive and  curative health services with  specific focus on malnutrition  and infant mortality rate.
Community  Healthcare Tuensang (Nagaland), Mumbai   (Maharashtra), Mysore (Karnataka)  9.00 9.09  18.40 27.49 9.09 2 Education for Underprivileged  in proximate communities Education for  Underprivileged Pune (Maharashtra), Bengaluru  (Karnataka), Hyderabad (Telangana),  Kolkata (West Bengal), New Delhi,  Dimapur (Nagaland), Tawang   (Arunachal Pradesh)  15.00 15.09  78.98 94.07 15.09 Systemic reform initiatives  in school education in India,  in the areas of ecology,   social science, languages  and affective education,   material development,   public advocacy, assessment  reform, teacher capacity  building, strengthening  the school system through  community and systemic  engagement Education:  Systemic  Reforms Andaman and Nicobar Islands,   Bongaigaon, Guwahati, Kokrajhar,  Majuli (Assam), Gopalganj, Saharsa  (Bihar), Dantewada, Sukma   (Chhattisgarh), Delhi, Ahmedabad  (Gujarat), Ambala, Samalkha (Haryana),  Palampur (Himachal Pradesh),   Ranchi (Jharkhand), Bengaluru,   Koppal (Karnataka), Kerala, Bhopal,  Chhindwara, Dewas, Indore, Khandwa,  Seoni (Madhya Pradesh), Akola, Jalgaon,  Kolhapur, Mumbai (Maharashtra),   Ukhrul (Manipur), Meghalaya, Kiphire  (Nagaland), Bhubaneswhar, Rayagada,  Sambalpur, Sundergarh (Odisha),   Ajmer, Jhunjhunu, Udaipur (Rajasthan),  Chennai, Coimbatore (Tamil Nadu),  Aligarh, Banda, Faizabad, Lucknow,  Sitapur (Uttar Pradesh), Rudraprayag,  Tehri Garhwal (Uttarakhand),   Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri, Kolkata, South  24 Parganas (West Bengal)  73.00  72.53  228.92  301.45  72.53   Initiatives in Education of  children with Disability Education for  Children with  Disability Delhi (Delhi), Hyderabad (Telangana),  Jaipur (Rajasthan), Mumbai, Pune  (Maharashtra), Chennai (Tamil Nadu),  Hubli-Dharwad and Koppal (Karnataka)  24.00 24.38  66.63 91.01 24.38 Initiatives in sustainability  education in schools and  colleges across India Sustainability  Education 45 districts in 21 states of India  30.00  29.79  73.40  103.19  29.79  Program of higher education  in engineering and technology  linked to skills development  for the IT industry Higher  Education for  skills building Bengaluru (Karnataka) 990.00 1,208.00 2,852.13 4,060.13  1,208.00  Wipro Limited 80 (` in Million) Sl.
No CSR project or activities  identified Sector in which  the project is  covered Projects or Programs 1) Local area  or 2) specify the state and district  where the project or programs are  under taken Amount   Outlay   (Budget)  project or   Program   Wise Amount  spent   on the   projects  or   Programs  Cumulative  expenditure  upto   Previous  reporting   period   Cumulative  expenditure  upto   reporting   period   Amount   spent:direct  or through   implementing  agency   Initiatives in improving  education in engineering  colleges in India Engineering  Education All parts of India 0.50 0.10 16.56 16.66  0.10  3 Ensuring environmental  sustainability, ecological  balance, Agroforestry Water Bengaluru (Karnataka), Pune   (Maharashtra)  3.00 3.74  18.61 22.35 3.74 Biodiversity Bengaluru (Karnataka), Pune   (Maharashtra)  2.50 2.86 23.65 26.51 2.86 Energy Bengaluru (Karnataka), Pune   (Maharashtra), Hyderabad (Telangana) 605 474 1,357.10 1,831.10 474.00  Waste  Management Bengaluru (Karnataka)  2.00 2.17  5.50 7.67 2.17 Sustainability  Advocacy and  Research Bengaluru (Karnataka), New   Delhi, Mumbai (Maharashtra),   Bhubhaneshwar (Odissa) and others  (not location dependent)  20.00  20.94  34.00  54.94 20.94 4 Rural Development projects Rural livelihood  programs Uttarkashi (Uttarakhand), Cuddalore  (Tamil Nadu)  3.50 3.31  10.50 13.81 3.31 Total 1,777.50 1,866.00 4,784.38 6,650.38 1,866.00 Note : List of implementing partners are provided below.
9.
A responsibility statement of the CSR Committee that the implementation and monitoring of CSR Policy: Yes, is in compliance with CSR Policy and Objectives  of the Company.
Sd/- Azim H Premji (Executive Chairman and Managing Director) Sd/- Ashok S Ganguly (Chairman of Board Governance,   Nomination and Compensation Committee) Sl  No.
Name of Agency/Foundation/Trust Location 1 Army Navy Airforce Wives Activity Trust (ANAWA) NCR 2 ASHA Foundation Bengaluru 3 Ashray Akruti Hyderabad 4 Association for Rural and Urban Needy (ARUN) Kolkata 5Association for the Welfare of Persons with a  Mental Handicap in Maharashtra (AWMH) Mumbai 6 Community Educational Centre Society (CECS) Dimapur 7 Dnyangangotri Pratishthan Pune 8 Door Step School (DSS) Pune 9 Eleutheros Christian Society (ECS) Tuensang 10 Foundation for Mother and Child Health (FMCH) Mumbai 11 Fourth Wave Foundation (FWF) Hubli-Dharwad, Koppal 12 Gubbachi Learning Community Bengaluru 13 Hasiru Dala Bengaluru 14 Jhamtse Gatsal Children’s Community Tawang, Arunachal 15 Legal Aid to Women (LAW) Trust Cuddalore 16 Makkala Jagriti Bengaluru 17 National Association for the Blind (NAB) NCR 18 National Centre for Promotion of Employment for  Disabled People (NCPEDP) NCR 19 Prayas Society Jaipur 20 Rural Literacy and Health Programme (RLHP) Mysore 21 Sahasra Deepika International for Education (SDIE) Bengaluru 22 Shri Bhuvaneshwari Mahila Ashram (SBMA) Uttarakashi 23 Shri Sadguru Saibaba Seva Trust Pune Sl  No.
Name of Agency/Foundation/Trust Location 24 Society of Parents of Children with Autistic  Disorders (SOPAN) Mumbai 25 Sugra Humayun Mirza Wakf Hyderabad 26 Swadhar IDWC Pune 27 The Institution of Social Studies Trust (ISST) NCR 28 Towards Future Kolkata 29 V-Excel Education Trust Chennai 30 Youngistaan Foundation Hyderabad 31 Wipro Cares Bengaluru 32 Nature Forever Society Nashik 33 BIOME Trust Bengaluru 34 ACWADAM Pune 35 Oorvani Foundation Bengaluru 36 CII New Delhi 37 IUCN New Delhi 38 Global Reporting Initiative Private Limited New Delhi 39 Center for Study of Science, Technolgy and Policy Bengaluru 40 National center for Biological SciencesBengaluru 41 Carbon Disclosure Project India New Delhi 42 CEE (Centre for Environment Education) Ahmedabad, Gujarat 43 CPREEC (CP Ramaswamy Environmental Education  Centre) Chennai, Tamil Nadu 44 ATREE (Ashoka Trust for Energy and Environment) Bengaluru, Karnataka 45 Dakshin Foundation Bengaluru, Karnataka 46 Nature Conservation Foundation Bengaluru, Karnataka 81 Annual Report 2017-18 Sl  No.
Name of Agency/Foundation/Trust Location 47 BIOME Environmental Solutions Bengaluru, Karnataka 48 CSTEP (Centre of Study for Sceince Technology  and Policy) Bengaluru, Karnataka 49 Wild Ecologues Gurgaon, Delhi NCR 50 FAWES Nature Club Chennai, Tamil Nadu 51 GIM (Goa Institute of Management) Sanquelim, Goa 52 IIM, Ahmedabad Ahmedabad, Gujarat 53 IIM, Bengaluru Bengaluru, Karnataka 54 IIM, Lucknow Lucknow 55 CRDF Ahmedabad, Gujarat 56 ICT (Institute of Chemical Technology) Mumbai, Maharashtra 57 XUB (Xavier University Bhubaneshwar) Bhubaneshwar, Odisha 58 IIT, Bombay Mumbai, Maharashtra 59 CERE Mumbai, Maharashtra 60 IIM, Kozhikode Kozhikode, Kerala 61 NIT Trichy Trichy, Tamil Naadu 62 IIT, Kharagpur Kharagpur, West Bengal 63 BITS PILANI Goa Campus Goa 64 Quizbrain Bengaluru, Karnataka 65 TRUCOST Mumbai, Maharashtra 66 World Reseources Institute Mumbai, Maharashtra 67 SELCO Foundation Bengaluru, Karnataka 68 CDP India Delhi 69 Yuvasatta Chandigarh, Punjab 70 Arunachal State Council for Science & Technology Itanagar, Arunachal 71 Assam State Council for Science & Technology Guwahati, Assam 72 Himachal State Council for Science & Technology Simla, Himachal Pradesh 73 Nagaland State Council for Science & Technology Kohima, Nagaland 74 Mizoram State Council for Science & Technology Aizawl, Mizoram 75Meghalaya  State Council for Science & TechnologyShillong, Meghalaya 76 Punjab State Council for Science & Technology Chandigarh, Punjab 77 Tripura State Council for Science & TechnologyAgartala, Tripura 78 Madhya Pradesh Environmental Planning and  Coordination Organization Bhopal, Madhya  Pradesh 79 Sikkim ENVIS and Forest Department Gangtok, Sikkim 80 Delhi state Environment Education Department Delhi 81 Sankalp Taru Dehradun, Uttarakhand 82 Jubayer Masud Educational Charitable Trust Assam  83 Vikramshila Education Resource SocietyKolkata 84 Pratham Delhi 85 Jodogyan Shiksha Delhi 86 Muskaan  Bhopal 87 Vidya Mytri Koppal 88 Nature Conservation Foundation Mysore 89 DOST Educational Foundation Bengaluru 90 Gubbachi Bengaluru 91 Goodbooks Trust Chennai 92 The Tiny Seed Kottayam 93 Innovation and Science Promotion Foundation Bengaluru 94 Shahid Vierendra Smarak Samiti Samalkha 95 ArtSparks Bengaluru 96 Patang Sambalpur Sl  No.
Name of Agency/Foundation/Trust Location 97 Jan Sahas Dewas 98 Agragamee Rayagada  99 Samerth Ahmedabad 100 Art of Play Delhi 101 We, the People Mumbai 102 Simple Education Foundation Delhi 103 Khel Khel Mein Delhi 104 School Social Science Initiative Bhubaneshwar 105 Library for All Ukhrul 106 Mantra Social Services Bengaluru 107 ApniShala Mumbai 108 Vardishnu Social Research and Development Society Jalgaon 109 Pratyaya EduResearch Lab Chindwara 110 Kshamtalaya Udaipur 111 Shiksharth Sukma 112 Virasat-e-Hind Ahmedabad 113 Mobile Paatshala Sunderbans, South  Paraganas 114 The Ferdinand Centre Delhi  115 Dakshin Bengaluru 116 Unnati Akola 117 Aawaj Bhopal 118 Chale Chalo Sundergarh 119 Rural Aid Alipurduar 120 Dooars Jagran Jalpaiguri  121 Aavishkar Palampur 122 Joy of Learning Foundation Delhi 123 Vanangana Banda  124 Nagaland Centre for Human Development and  Information Technology Kiphire  125 Pararth Samiti hhindwara  126 Space for Nurturing Creativity Rudraprayag  127 School Education Trust for the Disadvantaged Aligarh 128 Swatantra Talim Foundation Lucknow  129 Agrini Seoni 130 Antral Ranchi 131 Happy Horizons Trust Saharsa  132 Vidyoday Foundation Kolhapur 133 Musht Samaj Seva Samiti Khandwa  134 Key Education Trust Bengaluru 135 Universe Simplified Mumbai 136 Vision Empower Bengaluru 137 Ayang Majuli 138 Samait Shala Ahmedabad 139 Had Anhad Indore 140 Awadh People’s Forum Faizabad 141 North East Educational Trust Guwahati 142 Antraal Delhi 143 Thrive Foundation Chennai 144 Prayog Gopalganj 145 Head Held High Foundation Bengaluru 146 Bookworm Goa 147 Digantar Jaipur Wipro Limited 82 Annexure VI Form No.
MGT-9 EXTRACT OF ANNUAL RETURN as on the financial year ended 31 March 2018 [Pursuant to Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule12(1) of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014] I.
REGISTRATION AND OTHER DETAILS: i. CIN L32102KA1945PLC020800 ii.
Registration Date December 29, 1945 iii.
Name of the Company Wipro Limited iv.
Category/Sub-Category of the Company Public Limited Company - Limited by Shares Indian Non-Government Company v. Address of the Registered office and  contact details Wipro Limited, Doddakannelli, Sarjapur Road, Bengaluru – 560 035 Ph: 080 28440011, Fax: 080 28440054 Website: www.wipro.com Email: corp-secretarial@wipro.com vi.
Whether listed company Yes vii.
Name, Address and Contact details of  Registrar and Transfer Agent, if any Karvy Computershare Private Limited, Karvy Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Gachibowli, Financial District,  Nanakramguda, Hyderabad – 500 032 Contact Person: Mr. B Srinivas Manager Tel: +91 40 67161500 Fax: +91 40 23440674 Email: srinivas.b@karvy.com II.
PRINCIPAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY  All the business activities contributing 10% or more of the total turnover of the company shall be stated:- Sl.
No.
Name and Description of main  products/services NIC Code of the  Product/service % to total turnover of  the company 1 IT Software, Services and related  activities 62013 62020 100% III.
PARTICULARS OF HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES Sr.  No.
Name of the Company Address of the Company CIN/GLN Holding/  Subsidiary /Associate % of  shares  held Applicable Section 1.
Wipro, LLC 2 Tower Center Blvd, Suite 2200; East Brunswick, NJ  08816, USA N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 2.
Wipro Gallagher  Solutions, Inc.(a) 18001, Old Cutler Road, Suite 651, Palmetto Bay,  Florida 33157, USA N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 3.
Opus Capital Market  Consultants LLC 100 Tri State International, Ste,  300A Lincolnshire,  IL 60069, USA N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 4.
Infocrossing, Inc. (b) 425 National Ave STE 200, Mountain View, CA 94043,  USA N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 5.
Wipro Promax Analytics  Solutions, LLC 2 Tower Center Blvd, Suite 2200; East Brunswick, NJ  08816, USA N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 6.
Wipro Data Centre and  Cloud Services, Inc.(c) 2 Christie Heights Street, Leonia, NJ 07605, USA N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 83 Annual Report 2017-18 Sr.  No.
Name of the Company Address of the Company CIN/GLN Holding/  Subsidiary /Associate % of  shares  held Applicable Section 7.
Wipro Insurance  Solutions, LLC 1209, Orange St, Wilmington, New Castle  Country-19801, USA N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 8.
Wipro IT Services, Inc. (d) 251, Little Falls Drive, Wilmington 19808 N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 9.
HPH Holdings Corp. State of Delaware, 1209 Orange Street, City of  Wilmington, Country of New Castle, 19801, USA N/A subsidiary 100 2(87) 10.
Wipro Solutions Canada  Limited Atco Center,909 11th Ave SW,Calgary, AB T2R 1L7,  Canada N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 11.
Wipro Japan KK Yokohama Landmark Tower 26F #2605, 2-2-1-1  Minato-Mirai 2208126  Yokohama,  Kanagawa, Japan N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 12.
Wipro Shanghai Limited F3, bldg9, zhangjiang Hi-Tech Park, Shanghai, Chna N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 13.
Wipro Information  Technology Netherlands  BV Hoogoorddreef 15, 1101 BA Amsterdam, The  Netherlands N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 14.
Wipro Chengdu Limited 3/F , A3, Building, Tianfu Software Park, Tianfu Avenue,  Hi-Tech zone, Chengdu, China – 610041 N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 15.
Wipro (Thailand) Co.  Limited 152, Chartered Square Building, Unit 17-02B, North  Sathorn Road, Kwaeng Silom, Khet Bangrak, Bangkok,  Thailand N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 16.
Wipro Technologies  Limited str.
1, 109028, dom 13, Khokhlovsky pereulok Moscow,  Russia N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 17.
Wipro Technologies  Australia Pty Ltd Unit 1, 7 Sky Close, Taylors Beach NSW 2316, Australia N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 18.
PT.
WT Indonesia Regus Jakarta Menara Standard Chartered 30/F  Menara Standard Chartered Jl.
164 Jakarta.
12930.
Indonesia N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 19.
Wipro Travel Services  Limited Sarjapur Road, Doddakannelli, Bengaluru - 560035,  India U91200KA1996PLC020622 Subsidiary 100 2(87) 20.
Wipro Trademarks  Holding Limited Sarjapur Road, Doddakannelli, Bengaluru - 560035,  India U93090KA1982PLC021795 Subsidiary 100 2(87) 21.
Wipro Networks Pte  Limited 31, Cantonment Road, Singapore 089747 N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 22.
Wipro Technologies SDN  BHD Suite 702, 7th floor, Wisma Hangsam, Jalan Hang lekir,  50000, Kualalumpur, Malaysia N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 23.
Wipro Airport IT Services  Limited(e) Sarjapur Road, Doddakanelli, Bengaluru - 560035,  India U72200KA2009PLC051272 Subsidiary 74 2(87) 24.
Wipro BPO Philippines  Limited, Inc. Cebu IT Tower 1 corner Archbishop Reyes Avenue and  Mindanao Street, Cebu Business Park, 6000 Cebu  City,Cebu, Philippines N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 25.
Wipro Information  Technology Kazakhstan  LLP 7, Azattyk Ave., Atyrau city, Kazakhstan N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 26.
Wipro IT Services Ukraine  LLC Regus - 42 - 44 Shovkovychna Street, Kiev 01601,  Ukraine N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 27.
Wipro Arabia Co. Limited Suite No.
209, Jarrir, Book Store Building, Alkhobar,  PO Box 31349, 31952, Saudi Arabia.
N/A Subsidiary 66.67 2(87) 28.
Women’s Business Park  Technologies Limited(f) P O Box 47033, Riyadh 11552 Kingdom of Saudi Arabia N/A Subsidiary 55 2(87) 29.
Wipro Information  Technology Egypt SAE B-124, Smart Village, Cairo-Alex Desert Road, Giza,  Egypt N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 30.
Wipro Bahrain Limited  WLL Seef Business Centre Building #2795 5th Floor # 510  Road 2835 , Kingdom of Bahrain N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 31.
Wipro Gulf LLC 322 Office # 28, KOM 4 Ground Floor, Knowledge Oasis  Muscat, Sultanate of Oman N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) Wipro Limited 84 Sr.  No.
Name of the Company Address of the Company CIN/GLN Holding/  Subsidiary /Associate % of  shares  held Applicable Section 32.
Wipro Doha LLC Servcorp, Level 22, Tomado Tower,West Bay, Doha N/A Subsidiary 49 2(87) 33.
Rainbow Software LLC D603, St.14, Building 43, Al Mansour, Baghdad, Iraq N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 34.
Wipro Technologies SA  DE CV Ave. Pedro Ramírez Vázquez 200-1, 4º Piso Valle  Oriente, Garza García, N.L., México 66269   N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 35.
Wipro Do Brasil  Technologia LTDA João Marchesini street, No.
139 - 5th and 6th floor  Post Code: 80215-432 Curitiba/Parana – Brazil N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 36.
Wipro Do Brasil  Sistemetas De  Informatica Ltd Av.
Maria Coelho Aguiar, 215 – Bloco B – 6º.
Andar – Jd.
São LuisSão Paulo – SP z ip code.
: 05804-900, Brazil N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 37.
Wipro Technoligies SA Carlos Pellegrini, 581 (Piso 7) 1009 Capital Federal,  Buenos Aires – Argentina N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 38.
Wipro Technologies Peru  SAC Av.De la Floresta No.
497, Piso 5, San Borja, Lima, Peru N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 39.
InfoSERVER S.A. (g) Dr. Yajiro Takaoka 4.348, 8th floor, room 809, Alphaville,  CEP 06541-038, City of Santana do Parniba, Sao  Paulo, Brazil Subsidiary 100 2(87) 40.
Wipro Technologies V z ,  C.A Av.Blandin, Torre B.O.D.
La Castellana.Caracas,  Venezuela.
N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 41.
Wipro Technologies W.T  Sociedad Anonima Escalante, Calle 31, Avenida 13, #2575, 7813-1000  San José, Costa Rica N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 42.
Wipro Technologies Chile  SPA Andrés Bello 2711, 8th floor, Las Condes, Torre  Costanera,CP 7550611, Santiago, CHILE.
N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 43.
Wipro Information  Technology Austria GmbH Reichsstrasse 126, 1st floor, 6800 Feldkirch N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 44.
Wipro Poland SP z .O.O Arkonska Business Park, ul.
Arkońska 6/A2, 2 Floor,  80-387 Gdansk, Poland N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 45.
Wipro IT Services Poland  SP z .O.O 16th Flr, (Millennium Plaza), Al.
Jerozolimskie 123a,  Warsaw 02-017, Poland N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 46.
Wipro Portugal SA Rua Engo, Frederico Ulrich, 2650, Edificio Wipro, 4470- 605 Moreira- Maia, Portugal N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 47.
Wipro Technologies SRL TRUST CENTER Splaiul Independentei, nr 319C, sector  6, Bucharest, Romania.
N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 48.
Wipro Technologies  Austria GmbH Reichsstrasse 126, 1st floor, 6800 Feldkirch N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 49.
NewLogic Technologies  SARL Tour Prisma, 4-6 Avenue d’Alsace 92400 Courbevoie-  Paris la Defense N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 50.
Wipro Technologies  GmbH Dusseldorferstr 71B, 40667 Meerbusch, Germany N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 51.
Cellent GmbH  Ringtrabe, 70, 70736 Fellbach, Germany N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 52.
Cellent  Mittelstandsberatung  GmbH Schickardstr.
30, 71034 Böblingen, Germany N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 53.
Cellent GmbH Lassallestraße 7b,1020 Vienna, Austria N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 54.
Wipro Digital APS Philip Heymans Alle 7, 2900 Hellerup, Denmark N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 55.
Designit A/S Bygmestervej 61, 2400 Copenhagen NV, Denmark N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 56.
Designit Denmark A/S Bygmestervej 61, 2400 Copenhagen NV, Denmark N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 57.
Designit Munich GmbH Steinerstrasse 15, building F , 81369 Munich N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 58.
Denextep Spain Digital,  S.L C/ Mártires de Alcalá 4, 1º, 28015 Madrid N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 59.
Designit  Colombia  S A S Carrera 48 20 114 Oficina 834, Medellin, Antioquia.
Columbia N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 85 Annual Report 2017-18 Sr.  No.
Name of the Company Address of the Company CIN/GLN Holding/  Subsidiary /Associate % of  shares  held Applicable Section 60.
Designit Peru SAC Av.
Benavides 1180, Piso 7, Miraflores-Lima, Peru N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 61.
Designit Oslo A/S Storgata 53A, 0182 Oslo, Norway N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 62.
Designit Sweden AB Norra Stationsgatan 99, 11364 Stockholm N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 63.
Designit T.L.V Ltd. 2, Sapir St, Herzeliya Pituach N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 64.
Designit Tokyo Ltd.
The Park Rex Koamicho Bldg 8F , 11-8 Koamicho  Nihombashi Chuo-ku Tokyo 103-0016 N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 65.
FRONTWORX  Informationstechnologie  Gmbh Lassallestraße 7b, 1020 Vienna, Austria N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 66.
Wipro Cyprus Pvt Ltd Diomidous 10, Alphamega-Akropolis Building, 3rd  Floor, Office 401, 2024 Nicosia, Cyprus  N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 67.
Wipro Holdings Hungary  Korlátolt Felelősségű  Társaság H-1143 Budapest, Stefánia út 101-103, Hungary N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 68.
Wipro Holdings  Investment  Korlátolt Felelősségű  Társaság H-1143 Budapest, Stefánia út 101-103, Hungary N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 69.
Wipro Outsourcing  Services (Ireland) Limited  Dromore House #rd Floor,Eastpark Business Centre,  Shannon , Co. Clare, Ireland N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 70.
Wipro Holdings ( UK)  Limited Devonshire House, 60 Goswell Road, London,EC1M  7AD, United Kingdom N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 71.
Wipro Europe Limited Devonshire House, 60 Goswell Road, London,EC1M  7AD, United Kingdom N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 72.
Wipro UK Limited Devonshire House, 60 Goswell Road, London,EC1M  7AD, United Kingdom N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 73.
Wipro Financial Services  UK Limited Devonshire House, 60 Goswell Road, London, United  Kingdom, EC1M 7AD N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 74.
Wipro Technologies  South Africa (Proprietary)  Limited The Forum, 10th Floor Office 162 Maude Street,  Sandton, 2198 Johannesburg, South Africa N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 75.
Wipro Technologies  Nigeria Limited  7th Floor, Mulliner Towers, 39 Alfred Rewane Road,  (Kingsway Road), Ikoyi Lagos, Nigeria N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 76.
Wipro Corporate  Technologies Ghana Ltd 2nd Floor, Opeibea House, 37 Liberation Road, ACCRA,  PO.
BOX.
CT 9347 Cantonments, ACCRA, Ghana N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 77.
Wipro (Dalian) Limited D7, Spring-Field Park, Ganjingzi District, Dalian,  China, Peoples Republic of China, Pin-116034 N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 78.
Wipro Overseas IT  Services Private Limited Sarjapur Road, Doddakanelli, Bengaluru - 560035, IndiaU72200KA2015PTC080266 Subsidiary 100 2(87) 79.
Healthplan Services  Insurance Agency, Inc. 3501 E Frontage Rd., Tampa, FL 33607, USA N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 80.
Healthplan Services, Inc.(h) 3501 E Frontage Rd, Tampa, FL 33607, USA N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 81.
Appirio, Inc. 201 S. Capitol Ave., #1100 Indianapolis, IN 46225, USA N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 82. Cooper Software, Inc.(i) 85 2nd Street, 8th Floor San Francisco, CA 94105, USA N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 83.
Appirio, K.K METLIFE Aoyama Building 8F , 2-11-16, Minami  Aoyama, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 84.
Topcoder, Inc. (j) 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington - 19808-1674 N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 85.
Appirio GmbH TorstraBe, 138, 10119, Berlin, Germany N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 86.
Appirio Limited 92-93- St. Stephens Green, Dublin-2, Ireland N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 87.
Apprio Limited Longcraft House, 2-8 Victoria Avenue, London,  EC2M4NS, UK N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 88.
Appirio Singapore Pte  Ltd. 3- Raffles place, #06-01, Bharat Building, Singapore  (048617) N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) Wipro Limited 86 Sr.  No.
Name of the Company Address of the Company CIN/GLN Holding/  Subsidiary /Associate % of  shares  held Applicable Section 89.
Appirio India Cloud  Solutions Private Limited Fourth floor, tower B-1 evolve Mahindra World City  Jaipur Rajasthan - 302037 India N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 90.
Wipro IT Services  Bangladesh Limited(k) Grand Delvista, Level-4, Plot 1/A, Road 113, Gulshan  Dhaka, 1212, Bangladesh N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 91.
Wipro SA Broad Based  Ownership Scheme SPV  (RF) (PTY) LTD(l) The Forum, 10 th  Floor Office 162 Maude Street,  Sandton, 2198 Johannesburg, South Africa N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 92.
Drivestream, Inc. 45610 Woodland Road, Suite 150 Sterling, VA 20166,  USA N/A Associate 47.3 2(6) 93.
Denim Group Limited 1354 North Loop 1604 E, Suite 110, San Antonio,  Texas 78232 N/A Associate 33 2(6) 94.
Denim Group  Management, LLC 1354 North Loop 1604 E, Suite 110, San Antonio,  Texas 78232 N/A Associate 33.33 2(6) (a)   Wipro Gallagher Solutions, Inc. was converted from a Corporation to a Limited Liability Company with effect from close of business of March 31, 2018.
(b)  Infocrossing, Inc. was converted from a Corporation to a Limited Liability Company with effect from close of business of March 31, 2018.
(c)   The Company signed a definitive agreement for sale of its data center services business to Ensono Holdings, LLC, including sale of Wipro Data  Centre and Cloud Services, Inc., which is expected to close during the quarter ending June 30, 2018.
(d)  Wipro IT Services, Inc. was converted from a Corporation to a Limited Liability Company with effect from close of business of March 31, 2018.
(e)  The Company reduced its shareholding in Wipro Airport IT Services Limited from 74% to 11% on April 5, 2018.
(f)  Women’s Business Park Technologies Limited was incorporated on October 26, 2017.
(g)  InfoSERVER S.A. was acquired on April 10, 2017.
(h)   Healthplan Services Insurance Agency, Inc. was converted from a Corporation to a Limited Liability Company with effect from close of business  of March 31, 2018.
(i)  Cooper Software, Inc. was acquired on October 24, 2017.
(j)  Topcoder, Inc. was converted from a Corporation to a Limited Liability Company with effect from close of business of March 31, 2018.
(k)    Wipro IT Services Bangladesh Limited was incorporated on January 9, 2018.
(l)   Wipro SA Broad Based Ownership Scheme SPV (RF) (PTY) LTD is incorporated in South Africa and controlled by Wipro Technologies SA Pty Ltd   KI Management Company, LLC was merged with and into Appirio Inc. with effect from May 19, 2017.
Therefore, particulars of the entity is not  included in the above list.
Wipro Australia Pty Limited was de-registered with effect from August 9, 2017.
Therefore, particulars of the entity is not included in the above list.
Wipro Retail UK Limited has been put into liquidation with effect from October 31, 2017.
Therefore, particulars of the entity is not included in the  above list.
Saaspoint, Inc. was liquidated with effect from March 27, 2018.
Therefore, particulars of the entity is not included in the above list.
Wipro Holdings (Mauritius) Limited was liquidated with effect from March 19, 2018.
Therefore, particulars of the entity is not included in the above  list.
Wipro Technologies Norway AS was de-registered with effect from December 19, 2017.
Therefore, particulars of the entity is not included in the  above list.
HPH Holdings Corp. was merged with and into Healthplan Services, Inc.  with effect from March 31, 2018.
87 Annual Report 2017-18 IV.
SHARE HOLDING PATTERN (Equity Share Capital Breakup as percentage of Total Equity) i.  Category-wise Share Holding Cate- gory  Code Category of Shareholder No.
of shares held at the beginning of the year  (April 01, 2017) No.
of shares held at the end of the year  (March 31, 2018) % Change  during the  yearDemat Physical Total % of Total  shares Demat Physical Total % of Total  shares (A) PROMOTER AND PROMOTER  GROUP   (1) INDIAN (a) Individual /HUF 9,54,19,432 - 9,54,19,432 3.93 19,08,38,864 - 19,08,38,864 4.22 0.29 (b) Central Government/State  Government(s) - - - - - - - - - (c) Bodies Corporate (Promoter  in his capacity as Director of  Private Limited/Section 25  Companies) 1,06,32,953 - 1,06,32,953 0.44 1,67,32,153 - 16,732,153 0.37 (0.07) (d) Financial Institutions / Banks - - - - - - - - - (e) Any Other - Partnership firms  (Promoter in his capacity as  partner of Partnership firms) 1,27,54,82,581 - 1,27,54,82,581 52.47 2,53,59,65,162 - 2,535,965,162 56.06 3.59 (f) Others - Trust 39,90,65,641  - 39,90,65,641 16.42 61,84,61,626  - 618,461,626 13.67 (2.75)    Sub-Total A(1)  1,78,06,00,607 - 1,78,06,00,607 73.25 3,36,19,97,805 - 3,36,19,97,805 74.32 1.07 (2) FOREIGN   (a) Individuals (NRIs/Foreign  Individuals) - - - - - - - - - (b) Bodies Corporate - - - - - - - - - (c) Institutions  - - - - - - - - - (d) Qualified Foreign Investor - - - - - - - - - (e) Others  - - - - - - - - -   Sub-Total A(2)  : - - - - - - - - -   Total A=A(1)+A(2) : 1,78,06,00,607 - 1,78,06,00,607 73.25 3,36,19,97,805 - 3,36,19,97,805 74.32 1.07 (B) PUBLIC SHAREHOLDING   (1) INSTITUTIONS (a) Mutual Funds /UTI  6,11,63,808 - 6,11,63,808 2.52 10,12,58,173 - 10,12,58,173 2.24 (0.28) (b) Financial Institutions /Banks 1,51,43,905 - 1,51,43,905 0.62 1,75,00,460 - 1,75,00,460 0.39 (0.23) (c) Central Government / State  Government(s) - - - - - - - - - (d) Venture Capital Funds - - - - - - - - - (e) Insurance Companies  6,39,47,020 - 6,39,47,020 2.63 14,25,60,401 - 14,25,60,401 3.15 0.52 (f) Foreign Institutional Investors 24,77,79,877  - 24,77,79,877 10.19 419,150,036  - 41,91,50,036 9.27 (0.92) (g) Foreign Venture Capital  Investors  - - - - - - - -   (h) Qualified Foreign Investor - - - - - - - -  - (i) Others - - - - - - - -  -   Sub-Total B(1)  38,80,34,610 - 38,80,34,610 15.96 68,04,69,070  68,04,69,070 15.04 (0.92) (2) NON-INSTITUTIONS   (a) Bodies Corporate 3,31,11,912 2,39,224 3,33,51,136 1.37 4,81,47,139 83,230 4,82,30,369 1.07 (0.3) (b) NBFCs Registered with RBI 20,517 - 20,517 - 43,869 - 43,869 - -   Overseas Corporate Bodies 11,772 - 11,772 - 12,544 - 12,544 - -   Individuals                     (i)   Individuals holding nominal  share capital upto ` 1 lakh4,84,60,138 9,03,628 4,93,63,766 2.03 7,62,09,953 10,88,350 7,72,98,303 1.70 (0.33)   (ii)   Individuals holding nominal  share capital in excess of  `1 lakh 6,53,83,735 1,96,40,859 8,50,24,594 3.5 14,41,44,215 1,37,89,767 15,79,33,982 3.49 (0.01) (c) Qualified Foreign Investor - - - - - - - -  - (d) Others                   Wipro Limited 88 Cate- gory  Code Category of Shareholder No.
of shares held at the beginning of the year  (April 01, 2017) No.
of shares held at the end of the year  (March 31, 2018) % Change  during the  yearDemat Physical Total % of Total  shares Demat Physical Total % of Total  shares   NON-RESIDENT INDIANS        82,72,838 21 82,72,859 0.34 20,90,745 205 2,50,90,950 0.55 0.21   IEPF - - - - 12,19,549 - 12,19,549 0.03 0.03   Foreign Bodies - DR 42,949 - 42,949 - 66,561 - 66,561 - -   TRUSTS                                                                (a) Wipro Equity Reward Trust 1,37,28,607 - 1,37,28,607 0.56 2,30,97,216 - 2,30,97,216 0.51 (0.05)   (b) Other Trusts 28,20,938 - 28,20,938 0.12 40,47,877 - 40,47,877 0.09 (0.03)   Non-Executive Directors and  Executive Directors & Relatives 1,867 - 1,867 - 3,734 - 3,734 - -   CLEARING MEMBERS                                  21,46,392 - 21,46,392 0.09 55,88,859 - 55,88,859 0.12 0.03   FOREIGN NATIONAL 1,86,42,447 - 1,86,42,447 0.77 3,72,84,874 - 3,72,84,874 0.82 0.05   Sub-Total B(2) : 19,26,44,112 2,07,83,732 21,34,27,844 8.78 36,49,57,135 1,49,61,552 37,99,18,687 8.40 (0.39)   Total B=B(1)+B(2) : 58,06,78,722 2,07,83,732 60,14,62,454 24.74 1,04,42,06,656 1,49,61,552 1,05,91,68,208 23.44 (1.30)   Total (A+B)   : 2,36,12,79,329 2,07,83,732 2,38,20,63,061 97.99 4,40,74,24,010 1,49,61,552 4,42,23,85,562 97.76 (0.23) (C) Shares held by custodians, against which Depository Receipts have been issued (1) Promoter and Promoter Group - - - - - - - - -  (2) Public 4,88,37,504 - 4,88,37,504 2.01 10,13,28,388 70,541 10,13,98,929 2.24 0.23   GRAND TOTAL (A+B+C) : 2,41,01,16,833 2,07,83,732 2,43,09,00,565 100 4,50,87,52,398 1,50,32,093 4,52,37,84,491 100 -  ii.
Shareholding of Promoters Sr.  No.
Shareholder’s Name Shareholding at the beginning of the year (April 01, 2017) Shareholding at the end of the year (March 31, 2018) % change in  shareholding  during the  year(3) No.
of Shares % of total  Shares of the  Company %of Shares  Pledged/  encumbered  to total  shares No.
of Shares % of total  Shares of the  Company %of Shares  Pledged/  encumbered  to total  shares 1 Azim H Premji 9,34,05,100    3.84 - 18,68,10,200 4.13 - 0.29 2 Yasmeen A Premji 10,62,666    0.04 - 21,25,332 0.05 - 0.01 3 Rishad A Premji 6,86,666    0.03 - 13,73,332 0.03 - - 4 Tariq A Premji 2,65,000    0.01 - 5,30,000 0.01 - - 5 Mr. Azim H Premji Partner  representing Prazim Traders 45,29,06,791  18.63 - 89,08,13,582 19.69 - 1.06 6 Mr. Azim H Premji Partner  representing z ash Traders 45,16,19,790 18.58 - 90,32,39,580 19.97 - 1.39 7 Mr. Azim H Premji Partner  representing Hasham Traders 37,09,56,000 15.26 - 74,19,12,000 16.40 - 1.14 8 Azim Premji Philanthropic  Initiatives Private Limited (1) 1,00,69,955 0.42 - 1,56,06,157 0.34 - (0.08) 9 Hasham Investment and  Trading Company Pvt Ltd 5,62,998  0.02 - 11,25,996 0.02 - - 10 Azim Premji Trust (2) 39,90,65,641 16.42 - 61,84,61,626 13.67 - (3.72) TOTAL 1,78,06,00,607 73.25 - 3,36,19,97,805 74.32 - 1.07 Note: (1)  Mr. Azim H Premji disclaims beneficial ownership of shares held by Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiatives Private Limited.
(2)   Mr. Azim H Premji disclaims beneficial ownership of shares held by Azim Premji Trust.
(3)    Percentage change in shareholding of promoters at the end of the year is as a result of reduction of paid-up share capital consequent to buyback and  dilution on account of allotment of equity shares to employees pursuant to exercise of stock options.
89 Annual Report 2017-18 iii.
Change in Promoters’ Shareholding (please specify, if there is no change) Sr.   No   Shareholding at the beginning of the year (April 01, 2017) Date Reason Increase/Decrease in  Shareholding Cumulative Shareholding  during the year No.
of  shares % of total  shares of the  company No.
of  Shares % total  shares of the  Company(1) No.
of  shares % of total  shares of the  Company (2)   At the beginning of the year (April  01, 2017) Detailed below   Date wise Increase/Decrease in  Promoters Share holding during  the year specifying the reasons for  increase/decrease (e.g.
allotment/  transfer/bonus/sweat equity etc):               1 Azim H Premji                                                                                                                                 9,34,05,100 3.84 15/06/2017  Bonus  allotment 9,34,05,100 - 18,68,10,200 4.13 2 Yasmeen A Premji 10,62,666 0.04  15/06/2017 Bonus  allotment 10,62,666 - 21,25,332 0.05 3 Rishad A Premji                                                                                                                          6,86,666 0.03 15/06/2017  Bonus  allotment 6,86,666 - 13,73,332 0.03 4 Tariq A Premji 2,65,000 0.01  15/06/2017 Bonus  allotment 2,65,000 - 5,30,000 0.01 5 Mr Azim Hasham Premji Partner  Representing Hasham Traders                                                                              37,09,56,000 15.26 15/06/2017  Bonus  allotment 37,09,56,000 - 74,19,12,000 16.40 6 Mr Azim Hasham Premji Partner  Representing Prazim Traders                                                                                                     45,29,06,791 18.63  15/06/2017 Bonus  allotment 45,29,06,791 - 89,08,13,582 19.69 20/12/2017 Buyback of  Shares (1,50,00,000) (0.33) 7 Mr Azim Hasham Premji Partner  Representing  zash Traders                                                                                                     45,16,19,790 18.58  15/06/2017 Bonus  allotment 45,16,19,790 - 90,32,39,580 19.97 8 Hasham Investment and Trading  Company Pvt.
Ltd. 5,62,998 0.02  15/06/2017 Bonus  allotment 5,62,998 - 11,25,996 0.02 9 Azim Premji Trust                                                                                                                            39,90,65,641 16.42  15/06/2017 Bonus  allotment 39,90,65,641 - 61,84,61,626 13.67 20/12/2017 Buyback of  Shares (17,96,69,656) (3.97) 10 Azim Premji Philanthropic   Initiatives Private Limited                                                                              1,00,69,955 0.41  15/06/2017 Bonus  allotment 1,00,69,955 - 1,56,06,157 0.34 20/12/2017 Buyback of  Shares (45,33,753) (0.10)   At the End of the year (March  31, 2018) 3,36,19,97,805 74.32           (1)    The issue of bonus equity shares was in the ratio of 1:1.
Consequently, there was no change in the percentage shareholding post issue of bonus  equity shares.
(2)   Percentage change in shareholding of promoters at the end of the year is as a result of reduction of paid-up share capital consequent to buyback and  dilution on account of allotment of equity shares to employees pursuant to exercise of stock options.
iv.
Shareholding Pattern of top ten Shareholders (other than Directors, Promoters and Holders of ADRs): Sl.
No.
For Each of the Top 10 Shareholders Shareholding at the beginning  of the year Cumulative Shareholding during the  year (2017-18) No.of shares % of total shares  of the Company No.of shares % of total shares  of the Company 1.
At the beginning of the year (April 01,  2017) Refer Annexure A 2.
Date wise Increase/Decrease in  Shareholding during the year specifying  the reasons for increase/decrease (e.g.
allotment/transfer/bonus/sweat equity  etc): 3, At the end of the year (March 31, 2018) Wipro Limited 90 v. Shareholding of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel: Sl.
No.
For Each of the Directors and KMP Shareholding at  the beginning of  the year (April 1, 2017) Cumulative Shareholding during the year (2017-18) No.
of shares % of total shares  of the Company No.
of shares % of total shares  of the Company 1.
At the beginning of the year (April  1, 2017) Refer Annexure B 2.
Date wise Increase/Decrease   in Shareholding during the year  specifying the reasons for increase/  decrease (e.g.
allotment/transfer/ bonus/sweat equity etc): 3.
At the end of the year (March 31, 2018) V. INDEBTEDNESS  Indebtedness of the Company including interest outstanding/accrued but not due for payment.
(` in Million) Secured Loans  excluding deposits Unsecured   Loans Deposits Total  Indebtedness Indebtedness at the beginning of the  financial year i) Principal Amount ii)  Interest due but not paid iii)  Interest accrued but not due 2,269 -  - 60,830 - 93 - -  - 63,099 - 93 Total (i+ii+iii) 2,269  60,923 -  63,192  Change in Indebtedness during the  financial year •	 Addition •	 Reduction 172 1,033 85,178 93,871 -  - 85,350 94,904 ERF (Gain)/Loss for foreign currency  loans (1) 4,483 - 4,482 Net Change  (862)  (4,210)  -    (5,072) Indebtedness at the end of the financial  year i) Principal Amount ii)  Interest due but not paid iii)  Interest accrued but not due   1,407 - -   56,621 130 -   - - -   58,028 130 - Total (i+ii+iii) 1,407 56,751 - 58,158 Note: Obligation under finance lease is secured by underlying fixed assets.
These obligations are repayable in monthly, quarterly  and yearly installments up to year ending March 31, 2021.
The interest rate for these obligations ranges from 1.43% to 10.61%.
91 Annual Report 2017-18 VI.
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL A. Remuneration to Managing Director, Whole-time Directors and/or Manager (` in Crores) Sl.
No.
Particulars of Remuneration Name of MD/WTD/Manager Azim H Premji Abidali Z  Neemuchwala(1)(2) Rishad A Premji(3) 1.
Gross salary (a)  Salary as per provisions contained in  section 17(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (b)  Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) Income-tax  Act, 1961 (c)  Profits in lieu of salary under section 17(3)  Income-Tax Act, 1961 0.30 - 6.29 - 0.93 - 2.
Stock Options - 10.20 - 3.
Sweat Equity - - - 4.
Commission - as % of net profits - others - - - - - - 5.
Others- Variable Pay - 1.71 4.13 6 Allowances & Other Annual Compensation 0.48 - 0.55 7 Retirals 0.09 0.03 0.28 Total (A) 0.87 18.23 5.89 Ceiling as per the Act `1,017.47 (being 10% of Net Profits of the Company as  calculated as under Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013) (1)   Figures mentioned in ` are equivalent to amounts paid in US$ (2)    Computation of remuneration to Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director is on an accrual basis and includes  amortisation of ADS Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) granted to him, which vests over a period a time.
This also includes  RSUs that vest based on performance parameters the Company.
(3)    Computation of remuneration to Executive Director and Chief Strategy Officer includes cash based bonus (part of  his variable pay) on an accrual basis, which is payable over a period of time.
B. Remuneration to Other Directors 2017-18: (` in Crores) Sl.
no.
Particulars of Remuneration Name of Directors 1.
Independent Directors 	 •	 Fee	for	attending	board	committee	meetings 	 •	 Commission 	 •	 Others,	please	specify Refer Annexure CTotal (1) 2.
Other Non-Executive Directors 	 •	 Fee	for	attending	board	committee	meetings 	 •	 Commission 	 •	 Others,	please	specify Total (2) Total (B)=(1+2)  Total Managerial Remuneration Overall Ceiling as per the Act` 101.75 (being 1% of Net Profits of the Company as  calculated as under Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013).
Wipro Limited 92 C. Remuneration to Key Managerial Personnel Other Than MD/Manager/WTD   (` in Crores) Sl.
no.
Particulars of Remuneration Key Managerial Personnel Chief Financial  Officer(1) Company Secretary 1.
Gross salary (a)   Salary as per provisions contained in section 17(1) of the  Income-tax Act, 1961 (b)   Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) Income-tax Act, 1961 (c)   Profits in lieu of salary under section 17(3) Income-tax Act, 1961 2.26 0.00 – 1.15 0.00 – 2.
Stock Option 2.18 – 3.
Sweat Equity – – 4.
Commission -  as % of profit -  others – – – – 5.
Retirals 0.21 0.06 Total 4.65 1.21 (1)       Computation of remuneration to Chief Financial Officer  is on an accrual basis and includes amortisation of Restricted  Stock Units (RSUs) granted to him, which vests over a period a time.
This also includes RSUs that vest based on  performance parameters the Company.
VII.
PENAL TIES/PUNISHMENT/COMPOUNDING OF OFFENCES:  There were no penalties, punishment or compounding of offences during the year ended March 31, 2018.
Type Section of the  companies Act Brief  description Details of  Penalty/ Punishment/ Compounding  fees imposed Authority [RD/ NCL T/Court] Appeal made.
If any (give  details) A.
Company Penalty NILPunishment Compounding B.
Directors Penalty NILPunishment Compounding C. Other Officers in Default Penalty NILPunishment Compounding 93 Annual Report 2017-18 Annexure A SHAREHOLDING PATTERN OF TOP 10 SHAREHOLDERS BETWEEN A PRIL 01, 2017 AND MARCH 31, 2018 (OTHER THAN DIRECTORS, PROMOTERS AND HOLDERS OF ADRs) Sl.
No.
Date of  Transaction Nature of  Transaction Name of the Shareholder Shareholding at the  beginning of the Year Cumulative Shareholding  during the Year No of Shares % of total  shares of the  Company No of Shares % of total  shares of the  Company 1 01/04/2017 Opening Balance LIC OF INDIA CHILD FORTUNE PLUS BALANCED  FUND  7,54,84,603 3.11 7,54,84,603 3.11   07/04/2017 Purchase   8,67,401 0.04 7,63,52,004 3.14   14/04/2017 Purchase   17,92,934 0.07 7,81,44,938 3.21   21/04/2017 Purchase   25,83,150 0.11 8,07,28,088 3.32   28/04/2017 Purchase   30,79,859 0.13 8,38,07,947 3.45   05/05/2017 Purchase   10,76,657 0.04 8,48,84,604 3.49   23/06/2017 Purchase -  Bonus Shares   8,50,72,236 - 16,99,56,840 3.49   30/06/2017 Purchase   26,49,166 0.05 17,26,06,006 3.55   07/07/2017 Purchase   42,44,407 0.09 17,68,50,413 3.63   14/07/2017 Purchase     9,80,000 0.02 17,78,30,413 3.65   21/07/2017 Purchase     5,00,000 0.01 17,83,30,413 3.66   10/11/2017 Sale   50,000 0.00 17,82,80,413 3.66   17/11/2017 Sale     7,15,000 0.01 17,75,65,413 3.65   24/11/2017 Purchase   1,500 0.00 17,75,66,913 3.65   24/11/2017 Sale     5,95,063 0.01 17,69,71,850 3.64   22/12/2017 Sale   1,08,73,639 0.24 16,60,98,211 3.67   26/01/2018 Sale     31,46,192 0.07 16,29,52,019 3.60   02/02/2018 Sale     14,71,668 0.03 16,14,80,351 3.57   23/02/2018 Sale     16,82,467 0.04 15,97,97,884 3.53   02/03/2018 Sale     23,23,412 0.05 15,74,74,472 3.48   09/03/2018 Sale     17,20,873 0.04 15,57,53,599 3.44   16/03/2018 Sale     6,70,715 0.01 15,50,82,884 3.43   31/03/2018 Closing Balance     0.00 15,50,82,884 3.43 2 01/04/2017 Opening Balance ICICI PRUDENTIAL VALUE FUND   4,10,19,758 1.69   4,10,19,758 1.69   07/04/2017 Purchase     2,016 0.00   4,10,21,774 1.69   07/04/2017 Sale     1,89,314 0.01   4,08,32,460 1.68   14/04/2017 Purchase     1,169 0.00   4,08,33,629 1.68   14/04/2017 Sale     72 0.00   4,08,33,557 1.68   21/04/2017 Purchase     1,118 0.00   4,08,34,675 1.68   28/04/2017 Sale     8,34,055 0.03   4,00,00,620 1.64   05/05/2017 Purchase     2,80,053 0.01   4,02,80,673 1.66   05/05/2017 Sale     142 0.00   4,02,80,531 1.66   12/05/2017 Purchase     510 0.00   4,02,81,041 1.66   19/05/2017 Purchase     5,55,209 0.02   4,08,36,250 1.68   19/05/2017 Sale     19,81,961 0.08   3,88,54,289 1.60   26/05/2017 Purchase     1,445 0.00   3,88,55,734 1.60   26/05/2017 Sale     5,52,000 0.02   3,83,03,734 1.57   02/06/2017 Purchase     687 0.00   3,83,04,421 1.57   02/06/2017 Sale     3,22,147 0.01   3,79,82,274 1.56   09/06/2017 Sale     23,98,793 0.10   3,55,83,481 1.46   16/06/2017 Purchase     2,339 0.00   3,55,85,820 1.46   16/06/2017 Sale     2,08,589 0.01   3,53,77,231 1.45   23/06/2017 Purchase -  Bonus Shares     3,53,79,187 -   7,07,56,418 1.45   30/06/2017 Purchase     2,369 0.00   7,07,58,787 1.45 Wipro Limited 94 SHAREHOLDING PATTERN OF TOP 10 SHAREHOLDERS BETWEEN A PRIL 01, 2017 AND MARCH 31, 2018 (OTHER THAN DIRECTORS, PROMOTERS AND HOLDERS OF ADRs) Sl.
No.
Date of  Transaction Nature of  Transaction Name of the Shareholder Shareholding at the  beginning of the Year Cumulative Shareholding  during the Year No of Shares % of total  shares of the  Company No of Shares % of total  shares of the  Company   30/06/2017 Sale     494 0.00   7,07,58,293 1.45   07/07/2017 Purchase     18,221 0.00   7,07,76,514 1.45   07/07/2017 Sale    1 0.00   7,07,76,513 1.45   14/07/2017 Purchase     3,60,000 0.01   7,11,36,513 1.46   14/07/2017 Sale     7,23,658 0.01   7,04,12,855 1.45   21/07/2017 Purchase     220 0.00   7,04,13,075 1.45   21/07/2017 Sale     1,62,108 0.00   7,02,50,967 1.44   28/07/2017 Purchase     1,026 0.00   7,02,51,993 1.44   28/07/2017 Sale     6,32,021 0.01   6,96,19,972 1.43   04/08/2017 Purchase     1,777 0.00   6,96,21,749 1.43   04/08/2017 Sale     622 0.00   6,96,21,127 1.43   11/08/2017 Purchase     993 0.00   6,96,22,120 1.43   11/08/2017 Sale     365 0.00   6,96,21,755 1.43   18/08/2017 Purchase     3,591 0.00   6,96,25,346 1.43   18/08/2017 Sale     9,50,107 0.02   6,86,75,239 1.41   25/08/2017 Purchase     6,239 0.00   6,86,81,478 1.41   25/08/2017 Sale     12,18,669 0.03   6,74,62,809 1.39   01/09/2017 Purchase     3,828 0.00   6,74,66,637 1.39   01/09/2017 Sale     27,15,917 0.06   6,47,50,720 1.33   08/09/2017 Purchase     674 0.00   6,47,51,394 1.33   08/09/2017 Sale     11,01,298 0.02   6,36,50,096 1.31   15/09/2017 Purchase     1,562 0.00   6,36,51,658 1.31   15/09/2017 Sale     55,73,714 0.11   5,80,77,944 1.19   22/09/2017 Purchase     1,164 0.00   5,80,79,108 1.19   22/09/2017 Sale     82 0.00   5,80,79,026 1.19   29/09/2017 Purchase     11,893 0.00   5,80,90,919 1.19   29/09/2017 Sale     335 0.00   5,80,90,584 1.19   06/10/2017 Sale     18,926 0.00   5,80,71,658 1.19   13/10/2017 Purchase     1,848 0.00   5,80,73,506 1.19   13/10/2017 Sale     166 0.00   5,80,73,340 1.19   20/10/2017 Purchase     1,656 0.00   5,80,74,996 1.19   20/10/2017 Sale     2,808 0.00   5,80,72,188 1.19   27/10/2017 Purchase     24 0.00   5,80,72,212 1.19   27/10/2017 Sale     11,199 0.00   5,80,61,013 1.19   31/10/2017 Purchase     318 0.00   5,80,61,331 1.19   31/10/2017 Sale     1,680 0.00   5,80,59,651 1.19   03/11/2017 Purchase     138 0.00   5,80,59,789 1.19   03/11/2017 Sale     980 0.00   5,80,58,809 1.19   10/11/2017 Sale     77,455 0.00   5,79,81,354 1.19   17/11/2017 Purchase     4,280 0.00   5,79,85,634 1.19   24/11/2017 Purchase     3,756 0.00   5,79,89,390 1.19   24/11/2017 Sale     11,022 0.00   5,79,78,368 1.19   01/12/2017 Purchase     376 0.00   5,79,78,744 1.19   08/12/2017 Purchase     13,047 0.00   5,79,91,791 1.19   08/12/2017 Sale     15,50,400 0.03   5,64,41,391 1.16   15/12/2017 Purchase     1,512 0.00   5,64,42,903 1.16   15/12/2017 Sale     1,34,848 0.00   5,63,08,055 1.16   22/12/2017 Purchase     98,275 0.00   5,64,06,330 1.25 95 Annual Report 2017-18 SHAREHOLDING PATTERN OF TOP 10 SHAREHOLDERS BETWEEN A PRIL 01, 2017 AND MARCH 31, 2018 (OTHER THAN DIRECTORS, PROMOTERS AND HOLDERS OF ADRs) Sl.
No.
Date of  Transaction Nature of  Transaction Name of the Shareholder Shareholding at the  beginning of the Year Cumulative Shareholding  during the Year No of Shares % of total  shares of the  Company No of Shares % of total  shares of the  Company   22/12/2017 Sale     1,30,46,267 0.29   4,33,60,063 0.96   29/12/2017 Purchase     156 0.00   4,33,60,219 0.96   29/12/2017 Sale     56,245 0.00   4,33,03,974 0.96   05/01/2018 Purchase     267 0.00   4,33,04,241 0.96   05/01/2018 Sale     1,59,251 0.00   4,31,44,990 0.95   12/01/2018 Purchase     5,742 0.00   4,31,50,732 0.95   12/01/2018 Sale     76 0.00   4,31,50,656 0.95   19/01/2018 Sale     38,048 0.00   4,31,12,608 0.95   26/01/2018 Purchase     170 0.00   4,31,12,778 0.95   26/01/2018 Sale     35,183 0.00   4,30,77,595 0.95   02/02/2018 Purchase     694 0.00   4,30,78,289 0.95   02/02/2018 Sale     12,90,475 0.03   4,17,87,814 0.92   09/02/2018 Purchase     2,062 0.00   4,17,89,876 0.92   09/02/2018 Sale     296 0.00   4,17,89,580 0.92   16/02/2018 Purchase     74,36,131 0.16   4,92,25,711 1.09   16/02/2018 Sale     1,258 0.00   4,92,24,453 1.09   23/02/2018 Purchase     25,55,400 0.06   5,17,79,853 1.14   23/02/2018 Sale     6,450 0.00   5,17,73,403 1.14   02/03/2018 Purchase     63,10,410 0.14   5,80,83,813 1.28   02/03/2018 Sale     3,435 0.00   5,80,80,378 1.28   09/03/2018 Purchase     88,82,145 0.20   6,69,62,523 1.48   16/03/2018 Purchase     39,48,821 0.09   7,09,11,344 1.57   23/03/2018 Purchase     2,752 0.00   7,09,14,096 1.57   23/03/2018 Sale     5,32,077 0.01   7,03,82,019 1.56   30/03/2018 Purchase     28,70,902 0.06   7,32,52,921 1.62   31/03/2018 Closing Balance         7,32,52,921 1.62 3 01/04/2017 Opening Balance FIRST STATE INVESTMENTS ICVC- STEWART  INVESTORS AS    3,08,01,733 1.27   3,08,01,733 1.27   23/06/2017 Purchase -  Bonus Shares     3,08,01,733 -   6,16,03,466 1.27   22/12/2017 Sale     37,55,933 0.08   5,78,47,533 1.28   26/01/2018 Sale     18,89,604 0.04   5,59,57,929 1.24   02/02/2018 Sale     28,40,045 0.06   5,31,17,884 1.17   09/02/2018 Sale     29,47,318 0.07   5,01,70,566 1.11   16/02/2018 Sale     58,25,232 0.13   4,43,45,334 0.98   23/02/2018 Sale     58,94,604 0.13   3,84,50,730 0.85   02/03/2018 Sale     71,40,592 0.16   3,13,10,138 0.69   09/03/2018 Sale     1,27,90,934 0.28   1,85,19,204 0.41   31/03/2018 Closing Balance         1,85,19,204 0.41 4 01/04/2017 Opening Balance ABDULREHMAN HAJI EBRAHIM COCHINWALA  (Shares in the custody of custodian of enemy  property) 1,72,21,818 0.71 1,72,21,818 0.71   23/06/2017 Purchase -  Bonus Shares   1,72,21,818 - 3,44,43,636 0.71   31/03/2018 Closing Balance       3,44,43,636 0.76 5 01/04/2017 Opening Balance ALCO  COMPANY  PRIVATE  LIMITED    1,67,00,000 0.69   1,67,00,000 0.69   23/06/2017 Purchase -  Bonus Shares     1,67,00,000 -   3,34,00,000 0.69   22/12/2017 Sale     20,00,000 0.04   3,14,00,000 0.69   31/03/2018 Closing Balance         3,14,00,000 0.69 Wipro Limited 96 SHAREHOLDING PATTERN OF TOP 10 SHAREHOLDERS BETWEEN A PRIL 01, 2017 AND MARCH 31, 2018 (OTHER THAN DIRECTORS, PROMOTERS AND HOLDERS OF ADRs) Sl.
No.
Date of  Transaction Nature of  Transaction Name of the Shareholder Shareholding at the  beginning of the Year Cumulative Shareholding  during the Year No of Shares % of total  shares of the  Company No of Shares % of total  shares of the  Company 6 01/04/2017 Opening Balance WIPRO EQUITY REWARD TRUST (ESOP Trust)    1,37,28,607 0.56   1,37,28,607 0.56   01/04/2017  to  22/06/2017 Transfer of  shares pursuant  to exercise of  vested stock  options     8,223 0   1,37,20,384 0.56   23/06/2017 Purchase-  Bonus Shares     1,37,20,384 -   2,74,40,768 0.56   24/06/2017  to  31/03/2018 Transfer of  shares pursuant  to exercise of  vested stock  options     43,43,552 0.05   2,30,97,216 0.51   31/03/2018 Closing Balance     0   2,30,97,216 0.51 7 01/04/2017 Opening  Balance T. ROWE PRICE INTERNATIONAL STOCK FUND    50,62,455 0.21   50,62,455 0.21   07/04/2017 Purchase     64,274 0.00   51,26,729 0.21   14/04/2017 Purchase     11,81,714 0.05   63,08,443 0.26   21/04/2017 Purchase     6,98,802 0.03   70,07,245 0.29   28/04/2017 Purchase     9,65,851 0.04   79,73,096 0.33   05/05/2017 Purchase     7,09,546 0.03   86,82,642 0.36   09/06/2017 Purchase     36,002 0.00   87,18,644 0.36   23/06/2017 Purchase-  Bonus Shares     87,18,644 -   1,74,37,288 0.36   04/08/2017 Sale     83,422 0.00   1,73,53,866 0.36   11/08/2017 Sale     4,28,631 0.01   1,69,25,235 0.35   06/10/2017 Sale     92,489 0.00   1,68,32,746 0.35   13/10/2017 Sale     50,655 0.00   1,67,82,091 0.34   20/10/2017 Sale     3,53,206 0.01   1,64,28,885 0.34   27/10/2017 Sale     60,213 0.00   1,63,68,672 0.34   22/12/2017 Sale     35,14,235 0.08   1,28,54,437 0.28   12/01/2018 Sale     38,742 0.00   1,28,15,695 0.28   26/01/2018 Sale     36,759 0.00   1,27,78,936 0.28   23/02/2018 Sale     40,676 0.00   1,27,38,260 0.28   02/03/2018 Purchase     3,45,156 0.01   1,30,83,416 0.29   09/03/2018 Purchase     1,14,975 0.00   1,31,98,391 0.29   31/03/2018 Closing Balance         1,31,98,391 0.29 8 01/04/2017 Opening  Balance PINEBRIDGE INVESTMENTS GI MAURITIUS  LIMITED     1,23,70,672 0.51   1,23,70,672 0.51   23/06/2017 Purchase-  Bonus Shares     1,23,70,672 -   2,47,41,344 0.51   18/08/2017 Sale     7,12,119 0.01   2,40,29,225 0.49   25/08/2017 Sale     15,00,000 0.03   2,25,29,225 0.46   22/12/2017 Sale     50,71,619 0.11   1,74,57,606 0.39   02/02/2018 Sale   13,11,122 0.03   1,61,46,484 0.36   09/02/2018 Sale   4,01,628 0.01   1,57,44,856 0.35   23/02/2018 Sale     2,00,000 0.00   1,55,44,856 0.34   02/03/2018 Sale     13,00,000 0.03   1,42,44,856 0.31   31/03/2018 Closing Balance         1,42,44,856 0.31 9 01/04/2017 Opening  Balance SBI -  ETI SENSEX   41,90,254 0.17   41,90,254 0.17   07/04/2017 Purchase     2,90,382 0.01   44,80,636 0.18 97 Annual Report 2017-18 SHAREHOLDING PATTERN OF TOP 10 SHAREHOLDERS BETWEEN A PRIL 01, 2017 AND MARCH 31, 2018 (OTHER THAN DIRECTORS, PROMOTERS AND HOLDERS OF ADRs) Sl.
No.
Date of  Transaction Nature of  Transaction Name of the Shareholder Shareholding at the  beginning of the Year Cumulative Shareholding  during the Year No of Shares % of total  shares of the  Company No of Shares % of total  shares of the  Company   07/04/2017 Sale     3,169 0.00   44,77,467 0.18   14/04/2017 Purchase     67,566 0.00   45,45,033 0.19   21/04/2017 Purchase     67,417 0.00   46,12,450 0.19   28/04/2017 Purchase     9,885 0.00   46,22,335 0.19   28/04/2017 Sale     4,43,878 0.02   41,78,457 0.17   05/05/2017 Purchase     3,34,342 0.01   45,12,799 0.19   12/05/2017 Purchase     33,171 0.00   45,45,970 0.19   12/05/2017 Sale     1,033 0.00   45,44,937 0.19   19/05/2017 Purchase     38,970 0.00   45,83,907 0.19   19/05/2017 Sale     1,947 0.00   45,81,960 0.19   26/05/2017 Purchase     19,744 0.00   46,01,704 0.19   26/05/2017 Sale     1,588 0.00   46,00,116 0.19   02/06/2017 Purchase     1,86,399 0.01   47,86,515 0.20   02/06/2017 Sale     784 0.00   47,85,731 0.20   09/06/2017 Purchase     39,885 0.00   48,25,616 0.20   09/06/2017 Sale     1,499 0.00   48,24,117 0.20   16/06/2017 Purchase     73,558 0.00   48,97,675 0.20   23/06/2017 Purchase-  Bonus Shares     48,20,701 -   97,18,376 0.20   30/06/2017 Purchase     82,364 0.00   98,00,740 0.20   07/07/2017 Purchase     96,136 0.00   98,96,876 0.20   07/07/2017 Sale     15,178 0.00   98,81,698 0.20   14/07/2017 Purchase     84,383 0.00   99,66,081 0.20   14/07/2017 Sale     15,293 0.00   99,50,788 0.20   21/07/2017 Purchase     76,702 0.00   1,00,27,490 0.21   21/07/2017 Sale     13,661 0.00   1,00,13,829 0.21   28/07/2017 Purchase     1,74,670 0.00   1,01,88,499 0.21   28/07/2017 Sale     3,422 0.00   1,01,85,077 0.21   04/08/2017 Purchase     1,83,468 0.00   1,03,68,545 0.21   11/08/2017 Purchase     1,63,951 0.00   1,05,32,496 0.22   11/08/2017 Sale     2,960 0.00   1,05,29,536 0.22   18/08/2017 Purchase     1,10,737 0.00   1,06,40,273 0.22   25/08/2017 Purchase     1,34,218 0.00   1,07,74,491 0.22   01/09/2017 Purchase     1,24,130 0.00   1,08,98,621 0.22   08/09/2017 Purchase     1,34,740 0.00   1,10,33,361 0.23   15/09/2017 Purchase     1,07,943 0.00   1,11,41,304 0.23   22/09/2017 Purchase     25,183 0.00   1,11,66,487 0.23   22/09/2017 Sale     1,50,675 0.00   1,10,15,812 0.23   29/09/2017 Purchase     46,839 0.00   1,10,62,651 0.23   29/09/2017 Sale     1,62,708 0.00   1,08,99,943 0.22   06/10/2017 Purchase     1,88,252 0.00   1,10,88,195 0.23   06/10/2017 Sale     24,916 0.00   1,10,63,279 0.23   13/10/2017 Purchase     69,853 0.00   1,11,33,132 0.23   20/10/2017 Purchase     34,719 0.00   1,11,67,851 0.23   20/10/2017 Sale     3,69,312 0.01   1,07,98,539 0.22   27/10/2017 Purchase     51,754 0.00   1,08,50,293 0.22   27/10/2017 Sale     5,32,104 0.01   1,03,18,189 0.21   31/10/2017 Purchase     11,906 0.00   1,03,30,095 0.21 Wipro Limited 98 SHAREHOLDING PATTERN OF TOP 10 SHAREHOLDERS BETWEEN A PRIL 01, 2017 AND MARCH 31, 2018 (OTHER THAN DIRECTORS, PROMOTERS AND HOLDERS OF ADRs) Sl.
No.
Date of  Transaction Nature of  Transaction Name of the Shareholder Shareholding at the  beginning of the Year Cumulative Shareholding  during the Year No of Shares % of total  shares of the  Company No of Shares % of total  shares of the  Company   31/10/2017 Sale     1,562 0.00   1,03,28,533 0.21   03/11/2017 Purchase     9,13,795 0.02   1,12,42,328 0.23   10/11/2017 Purchase     15,580 0.00   1,12,57,908 0.23   10/11/2017 Sale     7,680 0.00   1,12,50,228 0.23   17/11/2017 Purchase     28,658 0.00   1,12,78,886 0.23   24/11/2017 Purchase     1,45,368 0.00   1,14,24,254 0.23   24/11/2017 Sale     1,562 0.00   1,14,22,692 0.23   01/12/2017 Purchase     42,402 0.00   1,14,65,094 0.24   01/12/2017 Sale     7,71,217 0.02   1,06,93,877 0.22   08/12/2017 Purchase     5,98,122 0.01   1,12,91,999 0.23   15/12/2017 Purchase     47,206 0.00   1,13,39,205 0.23   15/12/2017 Sale     4,58,326 0.01   1,08,80,879 0.22   22/12/2017 Purchase     1,23,984 0.00   1,10,04,863 0.24   22/12/2017 Sale     56,354 0.00   1,09,48,509 0.24   29/12/2017 Purchase     1,27,534 0.00   1,10,76,043 0.24   29/12/2017 Sale     370 0.00   1,10,75,673 0.24   05/01/2018 Purchase     12,90,303 0.03   1,23,65,976 0.27   12/01/2018 Purchase     8,012 0.00   1,23,73,988 0.27   12/01/2018 Sale     9,01,185 0.02   1,14,72,803 0.25   19/01/2018 Sale     13,98,666 0.03   1,00,74,137 0.22   26/01/2018 Purchase     59,423 0.00   1,01,33,560 0.22   26/01/2018 Sale     9,92,605 0.02   91,40,955 0.20   02/02/2018 Purchase     6,28,521 0.01   97,69,476 0.22   02/02/2018 Sale     71,714 0.00   96,97,762 0.21   09/02/2018 Purchase     821 0.00   96,98,583 0.21   09/02/2018 Sale     1,24,158 0.00   95,74,425 0.21   16/02/2018 Purchase     1,09,488 0.00   96,83,913 0.21   16/02/2018 Sale     935 0.00   96,82,978 0.21   23/02/2018 Purchase     362 0.00   96,83,340 0.21   23/02/2018 Sale     23,302 0.00   96,60,038 0.21   02/03/2018 Purchase     17,11,899 0.04   1,13,71,937 0.25   02/03/2018 Sale     2,665 0.00   1,13,69,272 0.25   09/03/2018 Purchase     1,98,481 0.00   1,15,67,753 0.26   16/03/2018 Purchase     2,32,141 0.01   1,17,99,894 0.26   23/03/2018 Purchase     2,40,489 0.01   1,20,40,383 0.27   30/03/2018 Purchase     2,24,472 0.00   1,22,64,855 0.27   31/03/2018 Closing Balance         1,22,64,855 0.27 10  01/04/2017 Opening  Balance CHANDRAKUWARBA K VANSIA    85,72,250 0.35   85,72,250 0.35   23/06/2017 Purchase-  Bonus Shares     85,72,250 -   1,71,44,500 0.35   31/03/2018 Closing Balance     1,71,44,500 0.38   1,71,44,500 0.38 Opening Balance denotes: As on April 01, 2017 Closing Balance denotes:  As on March 31, 2018 99 Annual Report 2017-18 Annexure B Shareholding of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel  Name     Shareholding at the  beginning of the year April  01, 2017 Cumulative Shareholding  of the year (2017-18) No.
of  Shares % of total  shares  of the  Company(1) No.
of  Shares % of total  shares  of the  Company(2) Azim H Premji@         Executive Chairman & Managing  Director Opening Balance -  01/04/2017 9,54,19,432 3.93 - -   Bonus Allotment - 15/06/2017 9,54,19,432  - 19,08,38,864 3.93   Closing Balance - 31/03/2018 19,08,38,864 4.22 19,08,38,864 4.22 Rishad A Premji         Executive Director and Chief  Strategy Officer Opening Balance -  01/04/2017 6,86,666 0.03 - -   Bonus Allotment - 15/06/2017 6,86,666 0.00 13,73,332 0.01   Closing Balance - 31/03/2018 13,73,332 0.03 13,73,332 0.03 Ashok S Ganguly           Independent Director Opening Balance -  01/04/2017 1,867 0.00 - -   Bonus Allotment - 15/06/2017 1,867  0.00 3,734 0.00   Closing Balance - 31/03/2018 3,734 0.00 3,734 0.00 N Vaghul           Independent Director Opening Balance -  01/04/2017 - - - -   Purchase/Sales - -  - -   Closing Balance - 31/03/2018 - - - - William A Owens           Independent Director Opening Balance -  01/04/2017 - - - -   Purchase/Sales - - - -   Closing Balance - 31/03/2018 - - - - Abidali z Neemuchwala Opening Balance -  01/04/2017 - - - - Chief Executive Officer and  Executive Director Purchase* -  07/07/2017 (ESOP) - - 1,60,000 0.00   Closing Balance - 31/03/2018 - - 1,60,000 0.00 M K Sharma   Independent Director Opening Balance -  01/04/2017 - - - -   Purchase/Sales - - - -   Closing Balance - 31/03/2018 - - - - Ireena Vittal       - - Independent Director Opening Balance -  01/04/2017 - - - -   Purchase/Sales - - - - Patrick J Ennis Closing Balance - 31/03/2018 - - -  -  Independent Director Opening Balance -  01/04/2017     - -   Purchase/Sales - - - -   Closing Balance - 31/03/2018 - -     Patrick Dupuis     - - Independent Director Opening Balance -  01/04/2017 - - - -   Purchase/Sales - - - - Closing Balance - 31/03/2018 - - - - Wipro Limited 100  Name     Shareholding at the  beginning of the year April  01, 2017 Cumulative Shareholding  of the year (2017-18) No.
of  Shares % of total  shares  of the  Company(1) No.
of  Shares % of total  shares  of the  Company(2) Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal^ Chief Financial Officer Opening Balance - 1/04/2017 1,775 0.00 1,775 0.00   Purchase - 19/05/2017 (ESOP) 40,000 0.00 41,775 0.00   Bonus Allotment - 15/06/2017 41,775  0.00 83,550 0.00 Sale - 26/07/2017 80,000 0.00 3,550 0.00 Purchase - 04/08/2017 (ESOP) 60,000 0.00 63,550 0.00 Sale/Transfer - 16/08/2017 55,000 0.00 8,550 0.00 Buyback - 20/12/2017 1,874 0.00 6,676 0.00   Closing Balance - 31/03/2018 6,676 0.00 6,676 0.00 M Sanaulla Khan           Company Secretary Opening Balance -  01/04/2017 - - - -   Purchase/Sales - - - -   Closing Balance - 31/03/2018 - - - - @ includes equity shares held jointly by Mr. Azim H Premji and members of his immediate family.
*  represents ADS having underlying equity shares, acquired pursuant to exercise of stock options.
^ includes equity shares held jointly by Mr. Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal and a member of his immediate family.
(1)     The issue of bonus equity shares was in the ratio of 1:1.
Consequently, there was no change in the percentage shareholding post  issue of bonus equity shares.
(2)    Percentage change in shareholding at the end of the year is as a result of reduction of paid-up share capital consequent to buyback  and dilution on account of allotment of equity shares to employees pursuant to exercise of stock options.
Annexure C Remuneration to other Directors 2017-18: (` in Crores)^ Particulars of Remuneration Name of Independent Directors Independent Directors Mr. N  Vaghul Dr. Ashok  Ganguly Mr. M K  Sharma Mr.  William A  Owens* Ms. Ireena  Vittal Mr.  Patrick  Dupuis* Dr. Patrick J  Ennis* Fee for attending board and  committee meetings 0.05 0.04 0.05 0.04 0.03 0.04 0.04 Commission 0.75 0.61 0.60 2.06 0.60 1.62 1.62 Others, please specify         TOTAL 0.80 0.65 0.65 2.10 0.63 1.66 1.66 * Figure mentioned are rupee equivalent as amount paid in USD ^ Figures rounded off to two decimals    Apart from Independent Directors as detailed above, the Company does not have any other Non-Executive Directors.
101 Annual Report 2017-18      Corporate Governance Report I. Wipro’s Philosophy on Corporate Governance   Wipro’s governance framework is driven by the  objective of enhancing long term stakeholder value  without compromising on ethical standards and  corporate social responsibilities.
Efficient corporate  governance requires a clear understanding of the  respective roles of the Board of Directors (“Board”)  and of senior management and their relationships  with others in the corporate structure.
Sincerity,  fairness, good citizenship and commitment to  compliance are key characteristics that drive  relationships of the Board and senior management  with other stakeholders.
Corporate governance philosophy of Wipro flows from  the “Spirit of Wipro” which represents core values  by which policies and practices of the organization  are guided.
The values encapsulated in the “Spirit of  Wipro” are:   Corporate governance at Wipro is implemented  through robust board governance processes,   internal control systems and processes, and strong  audit mechanisms.
These are articulated through  Company’s Code of Business Conduct, Corporate  Governance Guidelines and charters of various sub- committees of the Board and Company’s Disclosure  Policy.
Wipro’s corporate governance practices can  be described through the following four layers: 	 •	 Governance 	by	Shareholders 	 •	 Governance 	by	Board	of	Directors 	 •	 Governance 	by	Sub-committees	of	Board,	and 	 •	 Governance 	through	management	process   In this report, we have provided details on how the  corporate governance principles are put in to practice  within Wipro.
Be passionate about  clients’ success Treat each person  with respect Be global and responsible Unyielding integrity  in everything we do II.
Shareholders  The Companies Act, 2013, Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations  and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015  (“Listing Regulations”) and NYSE Listed Company  Manual prescribe the governance mechanism by  shareholders in terms of passing of ordinary and  special resolutions, voting rights, participation in the  corporate actions such as bonus, buyback of shares,  declaration of dividend, etc.
Your Company follows  a robust process to ensure that the shareholders of  the Company are well informed of Board decisions  both on financial and non-financial information and  adequate notice with a detailed explanation is sent to  the shareholders well in advance to obtain necessary  approvals.
III.
Board of Directors  Composition of Board  As at March 31, 2018, our Board had seven Non- Executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
Out of the three Executive Directors, the Executive  Chairman and Managing Director and Executive  Director and Chief Strategy Officer are Promoter  Directors.
The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and  Executive Director is a professional CEO who is  responsible for the day to day operations of the  Company.
All the seven Non-Executive Directors are  Independent Directors free from any business or  other relationship that could materially influence  their judgment.
All the Independent Directors satisfy  the criteria of independence as defined under the  Wipro Limited 102 C ompanies Act, 2013, the Listing Regulations and the  New York Stock Exchange Listed Company manual.
The Board is well diversified and consists of one  Woman Independent Director and three Directors who  are foreign nationals.
The profiles of our Directors are  available on our website at https:/ /www.wipro.com/ leadership.
Information Flow to the Board Members  Information is provided to the Board Members on  a continuous basis for their review, inputs and  approval from time to time.
More specifically, we  present our annual Strategic Plan and Operating  Plans of our business to the Board for their review,  inputs and approval.
Likewise, our quarterly financial  statements and annual financial statements are first  presented to the Audit Committee and subsequently  to the Board of Directors for their approval.
In  addition, specific cases of acquisitions, important  managerial decisions, material positive/negative  developments and statutory matters are presented  to the respective Committees of the Board and later  with the recommendation of Committees to the Board  for their approval.
As a system, in most cases, information to Directors  is submitted along with the agenda papers well in  advance of the Board meeting.
Inputs and feedback  of Board Members are taken and considered while  preparation of agenda and documents for the Board  meeting.
Board Meetings  We decide about the Board meeting dates in  consultation with Board Governance, Nomination  and Compensation Committee and all our Directors.
Once approved by the Board Governance, Nomination  and Compensation Committee, the schedule of the  Board meetings and Board Committee meetings is  communicated in advance to the Directors to enable  them to attend the meetings.
Our Board meetings  are normally scheduled over two days.
In addition,  every quarter, Independent Directors meet amongst  themselves exclusively.
The Board met five times during the financial year  2017-18 on April 24-25, 2017, June 2, 2017, July 19- 20, 2017, October 16-17, 2017 and January 18-19,  2018.
The necessary quorum was present for all the  meetings.
The maximum interval between any two  meetings did not exceed 120 days.
Details of attendance of Directors at the Board  Meetings during the year 2017-18 is provided below: Name Designation Number of  Board Meetings  attended Mr. Azim H Premji Executive  Chairman and  Managing Director 5 Mr. Abidali Z  Neemuchwala Chief Executive  Officer and  Executive Director 4 (1) Mr. Rishad A  Premji Executive Director  and Chief Strategy  Officer 5 Mr. N Vaghul Independent  Director 5 Mr. M K Sharma Independent  Director 5 Ms. Ireena Vittal Independent  Director  3 (1)(2) Dr. Ashok S Ganguly Independent  Director  4 (1) Mr. William Arthur  Owens Independent  Director 4 (1) Dr. Patrick J Ennis Independent  Director 4 (1) Mr. Patrick Dupuis Independent  Director 4 (1)  (1)   Ms. Ireena Vittal, Dr. Ashok S Ganguly, Mr. Abidali Z  Neemuchwala, Mr. William Arthur Owens, Mr.  Patrick  Dupuis and Dr. Patrick J Ennis did not attend the Board  Meeting held on June 2, 2017.
(2)    Ms. Ireena Vittal did not attend the Board Meeting held over  October 16-17, 2017.
Ms. Vittal participated in the Board  Meeting over telephone and attendance of the same is not  included in the above table.
Post-Meeting Follow-up System  After the Board meeting, we have formal system of  follow up, review and reporting on actions taken by  the management on the decisions of the Board and  sub-committees of the Board.
Lead Independent Director  The Board has designated Mr. N Vaghul as the  Lead Independent Director.
The role of the Lead  Independent Director is described in the Corporate  Governance guidelines of your Company and is  available on the Company’s website at https:/ /www.
wipro.com/corporate-governance.
Appointment of Directors  As per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013,  the Independent Directors shall be appointed for not  more than two terms of maximum of five years each  and shall not be liable to retire by rotation.
103 Annual Report 2017-18  Your Board has adopted the provisions with respect  to appointment and tenure of Independent Directors  consistent with the Companies Act, 2013 and the  Listing Regulations.
At the time of appointment of an Independent  Director, the Company issues a formal letter of  appointment outlining his/her role, function, duties  and responsibilities as a Director.
The template of the  letter of appointment is available on our website at  https:/ /www.wipro.com/corporate-governance.
Details of Directors proposed for re-appointment at  the ensuing Annual General Meeting is provided at  page 60 of the Board’s Report and in Annexure A to  the notice convening the 72nd Annual General Meeting  (AGM).
Policy for Selection and Appointment of Directors  and their Remuneration  Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee has adopted a policy which, inter alia,  deals with the manner of selection of Board of  Directors and payment of their remuneration.
Criteria of Selection of Independent Directors  The Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee considers, inter alia, the following  attributes/criteria, whilst recommending to the Board  the candidature for appointment as Independent  Director: 	 •	 Qualification, 	expertise	and	experience	in	their	 respective fields such as Information Technology  Business, Scientific Research & Development,  International Markets, Leadership, Financial  Analysis, Risk Management and Strategic  Planning, etc.
•	 Personal 	characteristics	which	align	with	the	 Company’s values, such as integrity, accountability,  financial literacy, high performance standards,  etc.
•	 Diversity 	of	thought,	experience,	knowledge,	 perspective and gender in the Board.
•	 Such 	other	criteria	as	prescribed	in	the	Corporate	 Governance Guidelines of the Company or  prescribed by the Board from time to time.
In case of appointment of Independent Directors, the  Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee satisfies itself about the independence  of the Directors vis-à-vis the Company to enable the  Board to discharge its functions and duties effectively.
The Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee ensures that the candidates identified for  appointment as Directors are not disqualified for  appointment under Section 164 and other applicable  provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
In case of re-appointment of Independent Directors,  the Board takes into consideration the performance  evaluation of the Independent Directors and their  engagement level.
Familiarization Programme and Training for  Independent Directors  At the time of appointment, the Company conducts  familiarization programmes for an Independent  Director through meetings with key officials such  as Executive Chairman and Managing Director,  Chief Executive Officer, Chief Strategy Officer, Chief  Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Head  of Human Resources, General Counsel, Company  Secretary and other senior business leaders.
During  these meetings, presentations are made on the  roles and responsibilities, duties and obligations  of the Board members, Company’s business and  strategy, financial reporting, governance and  compliances and other related matters.
Details  regarding familiarization programme imparted by the  Company is available on our website at https:/ /www.
wipro.com/corporate-governance.
As part of ongoing training, the Company schedules  quarterly meetings of business heads and functional  heads with the Independent Directors.
During these  meetings, comprehensive presentations are made on  the various aspects such as business models, new  strategic initiatives, risk minimization procedures,  recent trends in technology, changes in domestic/  overseas industry scenario, and regulatory regime  affecting the Company globally.
These meetings  also facilitate Independent Directors to provide  their inputs and suggestions on various strategic  and operational matters directly to the business and  functional heads.
Some of our Board members also participated in our  executive customer event WINNOVATE held in San  Francisco on May 14 and 15, 2018 for deliberations on  topics of current relevance, learning and sharing the  ideas of the future perspectives on what is happening  across industries in the context of technology,  leadership and business strategy.
Discussions were  also held on digital transformation, cybersecurity,  emerging technologies, talent transformation, start- up culture, open innovation strategies, and more.
Board Evaluation  Details of methodology adopted for Board evaluation  have been provided at page 61 of the Board’s Report.
Wipro Limited 104  Remuneration Policy and Criteria of Making  Payments to Directors, Senior Management and Key  Managerial Personnel  The Independent Directors are entitled to receive  remuneration by way of sitting fees, reimbursement  of expenses for participation in the Board/Committee  meetings and commission as detailed hereunder: 	 •	 sitting 	fees	for	each	meeting	of	the	Board	or	 Committee of the Board attended by him or her,  of such sum as may be approved by the Board  of Directors within the overall limits prescribed  under the Companies Act, 2013.
•	 commission 	on	a	quarterly	basis,	of	such	sum	as	 may be approved by the Board and Members on  the recommendation of the Board Governance,  Nomination and Compensation Committee.
The  total commission payable to the Independent  Directors shall not exceed 1% of the net profits  of the Company during any financial year.
The  commission is payable on pro-rata basis to those  Directors who occupy office for part of the year.
•	 reimbursement 	of	expenses	for	participation	in	 Board/Committee meetings.
•	 Independent 	Directors 	are	not	entitled 	to	 participate in the stock option schemes of the  Company.
In determining the remuneration of Executive  Chairman and Managing Director, Executive Directors,  Senior Management Employees and Key Managerial  Personnel, the Board Governance, Nomination and  Compensation Committee and the Board shall  ensure/consider the following: 	 •	 the 	balance	between	fixed	and	variable	pay	 reflecting short and long-term performance  objectives, appropriate to the working of the  Company and its goals.
•	 alignment 	of	remuneration	of	Key	Managerial	 Personnel  and Directors with long-term  interests of the Company.
•	 Directors 	forming	part	of	the	Promoter	and	 Promoter Group shall not be entitled to receive  stock options.
•	 Company’s 	performance	vis-à-vis	the	annual	 achievement, individuals’ performance vis-à- vis KRAs/KPIs, industry benchmark and current  compensation trends in the market.
The Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee recommends the remuneration for the  Executive Chairman and Managing Director, other  Executive Directors, Senior Management and Key  Managerial Personnel.
The payment of remuneration  to the Executive Directors is approved by the  Board and Members.
Prior approval of Members  is also obtained in case of remuneration to Non- Executive Directors.
There has been no change in the  remuneration policy during the financial year.
Details of Remuneration to Directors  Details of remuneration paid to the Directors for the  services rendered and stock options granted during the  financial year 2017-18 are given below.
No stock options  were granted to any of the Independent Directors and  Promoter Directors during the year 2017-18.
(Figures In  ` ) Azim H Premji Abidali Z  Neemuchwala^* Rishad A  Premji** N Vaghul Dr. Ashok S  Ganguly William Arthur Owens* M K Sharma Ireena Vittal Patrick J  Ennis* Patrick  Dupuis* Relationship  with directors Father of  Rishad A Premji None Son of Azim H  Premji None None None None None None None Salary 30,00,000 6,29,56,357 93,33,330 - - - - - - - Allowances 13,10,184 - 53,52,168 - - - - - - - Commission/  Incentives/  Variable Pay - 1,70,73,730 4,13,55,804 75,06,250 61,20,833 2,06,23,593 59,89,583 59,89,583 1,62,04,251 1,62,04,251 Other annual  compensation 35,66,521 10,20,02,303 99,202 - - - - - - - Retirals 8,85,000 3,12,528 27,53,332 - - - - - - - Sitting fees - - - 5,00,000 4,00,000 4,00,000 5,00,000 3,00,000 4,00,000 4,00,000 TOTAL 87,61,705 18,23,44,918 5,88,93,836 80,06,250 65,20,833 2,10,23,593 64,89,583 62,89,583 1,66,04,251 1,66,04,251 Grant of ADS  Restricted Stock Units - 5,00,000*** - - - - - - - - Notice period Up to 180 days Up to 180 days Up to 180 days - - - - - - - *  Figures mentioned in ` are equivalent to amounts paid in US$ **   Computation of remuneration to Executive Director and Chief Strategy Officer includes cash based bonus (part of his variable pay) on an accrual  basis, which is payable over a period of time.
***   The ADS Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) granted to Mr. Abidali Z Neemuchwala, Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director, will vest as per the  vesting pattern approved by the Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee.
The expiration of these grants are as under:  For 2,00,000 ADS RSUs - January, 2021  For 3,00,000 ADS RSUs - September, 2022 ^   Computation of remuneration to Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director is on an accrual basis and includes amortisation of ADS Restricted  Stock Units (RSUs) granted to him, which vests over a period a time.
This also includes RSUs that vest based on performance parameters the Company.
105 Annual Report 2017-18  Terms of Employment Arrangements  Under the Companies Act, 2013, our shareholders  must approve the salary, bonus and benefits of all  Executive Directors.
Each of our Executive Directors  has signed an agreement containing the terms and  conditions of employment, including a monthly  salary, performance bonus and benefits including  vacation, medical reimbursement and pension fund  contributions.
These agreements have varying terms  ranging from two to five-year periods, but either we  or the Executive Director may generally terminate the  agreement upon six months’ notice to the other party.
The terms of our employment arrangements with  Mr. Azim H Premji, Mr. Abidali Z Neemuchwala  and Mr. Rishad A Premji provide for up to a 180- days’ notice period, up to 21 days of leave per year  in addition to statutory holidays, and an annual  compensation review.
Additionally, these officers  are required to relocate as we may determine, and  to comply with confidentiality provisions.
Service  contracts with our Executive Directors and Officers  provide for our standard retirement benefits that  consist of a pension, provident fund and gratuity  which are offered to all our employees, but no other  benefits upon termination of employment except as  mentioned below.
Pursuant to the terms of Mr. Abidali Z Neemuchwala’s  employment, if the agreement is terminated by  the Company, the Company is required to pay  Mr.  Neemuchwala severance pay equivalent of 12  months’ base pay.
We also indemnify our Directors and Officers for  claims brought under any rule of law to the fullest  extent permitted by applicable law.
Among other  things, we agree to indemnify our Directors and  Officers for certain expenses, judgments, fines and  settlement amounts incurred by any such person in  any action or proceeding, including any action by or in  the right of the Company, arising out of such person’s  services as our Director or Officer.
The Company also  has a Director’s and Officer’s liability insurance which  covers all Directors and Officers for liability arising  out of fiduciary acts.
Key Information pertaining to Directors as on March 31, 2018 is given below: Sl.
No.
Name of the  Director Designation Date of initial  appointment Date of  appointment  as  Independent  Director  under  Companies  Act, 2013 and  SEBI Listing  Regulations  (first term)# Directorship  in other  companies1 Chairmanship  in  Committees  of Board of other Companies2 Membership  in  Committees  of Board of other Companies2 Attendance  at the last  AGM held  on July 19,  2017 No.
of shares  held as on  March 31,  2018 Director  Identification  Number Other Listed  Companies where  the Director is  appointed as  Independent  Director 1 Azim H Premji Chairman and  Managing Director  (designated  as ‘Executive  Chairman’) 01-Sep-1968 - 12 - - Yes 19,08,38,864 @ 00234280 - 2 Abidali Z  Neemuchwala Chief Executive  Officer and  Executive  Director 01-Feb-2016 - - - - Yes 1,60,000 3 02478060 - 3 Rishad A Premji Executive  Director and Chief Strategy  Officer 01-May-2015 - 3 - - Yes 13,73,332 02983899 - 4 N Vaghul Independent  Director 09-Jun-1997 23-Jul-2014 6 2 1 Yes - 00002014 1.
Apollo Hospitals  Enterprises  Limited 2.
Piramal  Enterprises  Limited 5 Dr. Ashok S  Ganguly Independent  Director 01-Jan-1999 23-Jul-2014 1 - - Yes 3,734 00010812 - 6 William Arthur  Owens Independent  Director 01-Jul-2006 23-Jul-2014 - - - Yes - 00422976 - 7 M K Sharma Independent  Director 01-Jul-2011 23-Jul-2014 10 2 1 Yes - 00327684 1.
ICICI Bank Limited 2.
Asian Paints  Limited 3 .
United Spirits   Limited Wipro Limited 106 Sl.
No.
Name of the  Director Designation Date of initial  appointment Date of  appointment  as  Independent  Director  under  Companies  Act, 2013 and  SEBI Listing  Regulations  (first term)# Directorship  in other  companies1 Chairmanship  in  Committees  of Board of other Companies2 Membership  in  Committees  of Board of other Companies2 Attendance  at the last  AGM held  on July 19,  2017 No.
of shares  held as on  March 31,  2018 Director  Identification  Number Other Listed  Companies where  the Director is  appointed as  Independent  Director 8 Ireena Vittal 4 Independent  Director 01-Oct-2013 23-Jul-2014 8* - 5 Yes - 05195656 1.
The Indian Hotels  Company Limited 2.
Godrej Consumer  Products Limited 3 .
Titan Company   Limited 4 .
Tata Global   Beverages Limited 5.
Cipla Limited 9 Patrick J Ennis Independent  Director 01-Apr-2016 01-Apr-2016 - - - Yes - 07463299 - 10 Patrick Dupuis Independent  Director 01-Apr-2016 01-Apr-2016 - - - Yes - 07480046 - 1      This does not include position in foreign companies and position as an advisory board member but includes position in private companies and  companies under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013.
2         In accordance with regulation 26 of the Listing Regulations, Membership/Chairmanship of only Audit Committees and Stakeholders’ Relationship  Committees in all public limited companies have been considered.
3     Holds 1,60,000 ADS having underlying equity shares.
4        Ms. Ireena Vittal’s current term expires on September 30, 2018.
The Board of Directors has approved her re-appointment as an Independent Director  for a further period of 5 years, which is subject to approval of the Members at the 72nd  Annual General Meeting.
@    includes shares held jointly with immediate family members.
*   Ceased to be Director in one company with effect from April 23, 2018.
#    At the 70 th  Annual General Meeting, Mr. N Vaghul, Dr. Ashok S Ganguly and Mr. M K Sharma were re-appointed as Independent Directors for a second  term as under:   Mr. N Vaghul - From August 1, 2016 to July 31, 2019   Dr. Ashok S Ganguly - From August 1, 2016 to July 31, 2019   Mr. M K Sharma - From July 1, 2016 to June 30, 2021   At the 71 st  Annual General Meeting, Mr. William Arthur Owens was re-appointed as Independent Director for a second term from August 1, 2017 to  July 31, 2022.
Succession Planning  We have an effective mechanism for succession  planning which focuses on orderly succession of  Directors, including Executive Directors and other  senior management team and other executive officers.
The Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee implements this mechanism in concurrence  with the Board.
The Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee presents to the Board on a periodic basis,  succession plans for appointments to the Board  based on various factors such as current tenure of  Directors, outcome of performance evaluation, Board  diversity and business requirements.
In addition, the  Company conducts an annual Talent Review Process  for senior management and other executive officers  which provides a leadership-level talent inventory and  capability map that reflects the extent to which critical  talent needs are fulfilled vis-a-vis business drivers.
The Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee reviews the outcome of this process and  presents the succession plan for senior management  and other executive officers to the Board.
IV.
Committees of Board  Our Board has constituted sub-committees to focus  on specific areas and make informed decisions within  the authority delegated to each of the Committees.
Each Committee of the Board is guided by its Charter,  which defines the scope, powers and composition of  the Committee.
All decisions and recommendations  of the Committees are placed before the Board for  information or approval.
During the financial year, the Board has accepted  the recommendations of Committees on matters  where such a recommendation is mandatorily  required.
There have been no instances where such  recommendations have not been considered.
We have four sub-committees of the Board as at  March 31, 2018.
•	 Audit, 	Risk	and	Compliance	Committee,	which	 also acts as Risk Management Committee 	 •	 Board 	 Governance, 	 Nomination 	 and 	 Compensation Committee, which also oversees  the CSR initiatives of the Company 107 Annual Report 2017-18 	 •	 Strategy 	Committee 	 •	 Administrative 	and	Shareholders/Investors 	 Grievance Committee (Stakeholders   Relationship Committee)  Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee  The Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee of the  Board, reviews, acts on and reports to our Board with  respect to various auditing and accounting matters.
The primary responsibilities of the Committee, inter- alia, are: 	 •	 Auditing 	and	accounting 	matters,	including	 recommending the appointment of our  independent auditors to the shareholders.
•	 Compliance 	 with 	 legal 	 and 	 statutory 	 requirements.
•	 Integrity 	of	the	Company’s	financial	statements,	 discussions with the independent auditors  regarding the scope of the annual audits, and  fees to be paid to the independent auditors.
•	 Performance 	of	the	Company’s	internal	audit	 function, independent auditors and accounting  practices.
•	 Review 	of	related 	party 	transactions 	and	 functioning of whistle blower mechanism; and 	 •	 Implementation 	of	the	applicable	provisions	of	 the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, including review  of the progress of internal control mechanisms  to prepare for certification under Section 404 of  the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002.
•	 Evaluation 	of	internal	financial	controls	and	risk	 management systems and policies.
The Chairman of the Audit, Risk and Compliance  Committee was present at the Annual General  Meeting held on July 19, 2017.
The detailed charter  of the Committee is posted on our website and  available at https:/ /www.wipro.com/corporate- governance.
All members of our Audit, Risk and  Compliance Committee are Independent Directors  and financially literate.
The Chairman of our Audit,  Risk and Compliance Committee has the accounting  and financial management related expertise.
Statutory Auditors as well as Internal Auditors always  have independent meetings with the Audit, Risk and  Compliance Committee and also participate in the  Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee meetings.
Our  Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel and other  Corporate Officers make periodic presentations to  the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee on various  issues.
The Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee met six  times during the financial year 2017-18 on April 24,  2017, June 2, 2017, July 19, 2017, October 16, 2017,  January 18, 2018 and March 2, 2018.
Composition  of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee and  details of attendance of members at its meetings  during the year 2017-18 are given below: Name Position Number of  meetings attended Mr. N Vaghul Chairman 6 Mr. M K Sharma Member 6 Ms. Ireena Vittal Member 3*  * Ms. Ireena Vittal was not present at the meeting held  on June 2, 2017, October 16, 2017 and March 2, 2018.
Ms. Ireena Vittal participated over video conferencing  in meeting held on March 2, 2018 and attendance of  the same is not included in the above table.
Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee  The Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee is the apex body that oversees our  Corporate Social Responsibility policy and programs.
The Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee reviews, acts on and reports to our Board  of Directors with respect to various governance,  nomination and compensation matters.
The primary  responsibilities of this Committee, inter alia, are: 	 •	 Developing 	and	recommending 	to	the	Board	 corporate governance guidelines applicable to  the Company and implementing policies and  process relating to the same.
•	 Evaluating 	the	Board	on	a	continuing	basis,	 including an assessment of the effectiveness  of the full Board, operations of the Board  Committees and contributions of individual  Directors.
•	 Establishing 	policies	and	procedures	to	assess	 the requirements for induction of new members  to the Board.
•	 Ensuring 	that	appropriate	procedures	are	in	 place to assess Board membership needs and  Board effectiveness.
•	 Reviewing 	the	Company’s	policies	that	relate	 to matters of Corporate Social Responsibility  (CSR), including public issues of significance to  the Company and its shareholders.
•	 Formulating 	the	Disclosure	Policy,	its	review	and	 approval of disclosures.
Wipro Limited 108 	 •	 Approving 	and	evaluating	the	compensation	 plans, policies and programs for full-time  Directors and senior management, and 	 •	 Acting 	as	Administrator 	of	the	Company’s 	 Employee Stock Option Plans and Employee  Stock Purchase Plans drawn up from time to time.
The detailed charter of Board Governance, Nomination  and Compensation Committee is posted on our  website and is available at https:/ /www.wipro.com/ corporate-governance.
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013  and the Listing Regulations, the Board has carried  out an Annual Performance Evaluation of its own  performance and the Directors individually as well as  the evaluation of the working of its Board Governance,  Nomination and Compensation Committee and other  committees.
The Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee met four times during the year 2017- 18 on April 24, 2017, July 19, 2017, October 16,  2017 and January 18, 2018.
Composition of the  Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee and details of attendance of members at  its meetings during the year 2017-18 are given below: Name Position Number of  meetings attended Dr. Ashok S  Ganguly Chairman 4 Mr. N Vaghul Member 4 Mr. William  Arthur Owens Member 4  Strategy Committee  The Strategy Committee reviews, acts and reports  to our Board with respect to the mission, vision  and strategic direction of the Company.
Primary  responsibilities of this Committee, inter alia, are: 	 •	 Making 	recommendations	to	the	Board	relating	 to the Company’s mission, vision, strategic  initiatives, major programs and services.
•	 Ensuring 	management 	has	established 	an	 effective strategic planning process, including  development of a three to five-year strategic  plan with measurable goals and time targets.
•	 Establishing 	criteria 	for	management 	to	 evaluate potential strategic investments,  reviewing proposals for acquisition or  divestment opportunities for the Company  and making appropriate recommendations  to the Board, and reviewing post-transaction  integration matters.
•	 Monitoring 	the	organization’s 	performance 	 against measurable targets or progress points.
•	 Annually 	reviewing	the	strategic	plan	for	the	 Company and for each division and entity as well  and recommending updates to the Board.
The Strategy Committee met three times during the  financial year 2017-18 on July 19, 2017, October  17, 2017 and January 18, 2018.
Subsequently, the  Strategy Committee reviewed the progress on  strategy initiatives as part of meetings of the Board.
Composition of the Strategy Committee and details  of attendance of members at its meetings during the  year 2017-18 are given below: Name Position Number of  meetings attended Mr. William  Arthur Owens Chairman 3 Mr. Azim H  Premji Member 3 Ms. Ireena Vittal Member 1* Dr. Patrick J Ennis Member 3 Mr. Patrick  Dupuis Member 3 Mr Abidali Z  Neemuchwala Member 3 Mr Rishad A  Premji Member 3  * Ms. Ireena Vittal became a member of the Strategy  Committee on October 17, 2017.
Administrative and Shareholders/Investors  Grievance Committee (Stakeholders Relationship  Committee)  The Administrative and Shareholders/Investors  Grievance Committee carries out the role of  Stakeholders Relationship Committee in compliance  with Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the  Listing Regulations.
The Committee is responsible for resolving investor’s  complaints pertaining to share transfers, non-receipt  of annual reports, dividend payments, issue of  duplicate share certificates, transmission of shares  and other shareholder related queries, complaints etc.
In addition to above, the Committee is also empowered  to oversee administrative matters like opening/ closure of Company’s Bank accounts, grant and  revocation of general, specific and banking powers  of attorney, consider and approve allotment of equity  shares pursuant to exercise of stock options, setting  up branch offices and other administrative matters  as delegated by Board from time to time.
109 Annual Report 2017-18  Mr. M K Sharma, Independent Director, is the  Chairman of the Administrative and Shareholders/ Investors Grievance Committee.
The Administrative and Shareholders/Investors  Grievance Committee met four times during the year  2017-18 on April 24, 2017, July 19, 2017, October  16, 2017 and January 18, 2018.
In addition, the  management updates the Committee of investor  complaints and redressal of shareholders’ queries  once in 15 days.
Composition of the Administrative  and Shareholders/Investors Grievance Committee  and details of attendance of members at its meetings  during the year 2017-18 are given below: Name Position Number of  meetings attended Mr. M K Sharma Chairman 4 Ms. Ireena Vittal Member 3* Mr. Rishad A  Premji Member 3^  *    Ms. Ireena Vittal was not present at the meeting  held on October 16, 2017.
^   Mr. Rishad A Premji was not present at the meeting  held on April 24, 2017.
Status Report of investor queries and complaints  for the period from April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018 is  given below: Sl.
No.
Particulars No.
of  Complaints 1.
Investor complaints pending at  the beginning of the year NIL 2.
Investor complaints received  during the year 2,380* 3.
Investor complaints disposed of  during the year 2,380* 4.
Investor complaints remaining  unresolved at the end of the year NIL  *  This includes 1,771 investor complaints/queries  received on Buyback of equity shares.
Apart from these queries/complaints, there are  certain pending cases relating to dispute over title  to shares in which in certain cases the Company  has been made a party.
However, these cases are not  material in nature.
Mr. M Sanaulla Khan, Company Secretary, is our  Compliance Officer under the Listing Regulations.
V. Governance Through Management process  Code of Business Conduct  In the year 1983, we articulated ‘Wipro Beliefs’  consisting of six statements.
At the core of beliefs  was integrity, articulated as “individual and company  relationship should be governed by the highest  standard of conduct and integrity” .
Over years, this articulation has evolved in form but  remained constant in substance.
Today we articulate  it as Code of Business Conduct.
In our Company, the Board and all employees have  a responsibility to understand and follow the Code  of Business Conduct.
All employees are expected to  perform their work with honesty and integrity.
Wipro’s  Code of Business Conduct reflects general principles  to guide employees in making ethical decisions.
This  Code is also applicable to our representatives.
This  Code outlines fundamental ethical considerations  as well as specific considerations that need to be  maintained for professional conduct.
This Code has  been displayed on the Company’s website at https:/ / www.wipro.com/corporate-governance.
Code for Prevention of Insider Trading  The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct to  regulate, monitor and report trading by insiders under  the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations,  2015.
This Code of Conduct also includes code  for practices and procedures for fair disclosure of  unpublished price sensitive information and has been  made available on the Company’s website at https:/ / www.wipro.com/corporate-governance.
Disclosure Policy  In line with requirements under regulation 30 of the  Listing Regulations, the Company has framed a policy  on disclosure of material events and information as  per the Listing Regulations, which is available on  our website at https:/ /www.wipro.com/corporate- governance.
The objective of this policy is to have  uniform disclosure practices and ensure timely,  adequate and accurate disclosure of information on  an ongoing basis.
The Company has constituted a  Disclosure Committee consisting of senior officials,  which approves all disclosures required to be made  by the Company.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to  the Disclosure Committee.
Considering that the  Company’s securities are listed on New York Stock  Exchange, parity in disclosures are maintained  through simultaneous disclosure on National Stock  Exchange of India Limited, the BSE Limited and the  New York Stock Exchange.
Wipro Limited 110  Ombuds Policy  The Company has adopted an ombuds process which  is a channel for receiving and redressing complaints  from employees and directors.
Under this policy, we  encourage our employees to report any fraudulent  financial or other information to the stakeholders,  any conduct that results in violation of the Company’s  Code of Business Conduct, to management (on an  anonymous basis, if employees so desire).
Likewise,  under this policy, we have prohibited discrimination,  retaliation or harassment of any kind against any  employee who, based on the employee’s reasonable  belief that such conduct or practice have occurred or  are occurring, reports that information or participates  in the investigation.
Mechanism followed on under  ombuds process is appropriately communicated  within the Company across all levels and is displayed  on Wipro’s intranet and on Wipro’s website at https:/ / www.wipro.com/corporate-governance/#WiprosOmb udsProcess.
Policy for Preservation of Documents  Pursuant to the requirements under Regulation 9 of  the Listing Regulations, the Board has formulated and  approved a Document Retention Policy prescribing  the manner of retaining the Company’s documents  and the time period up to certain documents are to  be retained.
The policy percolates to all levels of the  organization who handle the prescribed categories  of documents.
Policy for Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal Sexual  Harassment of Women at Workplace  Pursuant to the requirements of Sexual Harassment  of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition &  Redressal) Act, 2013, your Company has a policy  and framework for employees to report sexual  harassment cases at workplace and our process  ensures complete anonymity and confidentiality of  information.
Adequate workshops and awareness  programmes against sexual harassment are  conducted across the organization.
Compliance Committee  We have a Compliance Committee which considers  matters relating to Wipro’s Code of Business Conduct,  Ombuds process and other applicable statutory  matters.
The Compliance Committee met twice during  the year 2017-18.
Internal Audit  The Company has a robust internal audit function with  the stated vision of “To be the best in class Internal  Audit function globally” .
In pursuit of this vision,  the function provides an independent, objective  assurance and consulting services to value-add and  improve Operations of Business Units and processes  by:  a.
Financial, Business Process and Compliance  Audit  b.
Operation Reviews  c.  Best Practices and Benchmarking  d.  Leadership Development  The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Chairman  of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee and  administratively to the Chief Financial Officer.
Head  of Internal Audit has regular and exclusive meetings  with the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.
The internal audit function is guided by its charter,  as approved by the Audit, Risk and Compliance  Committee.
The internal audit function formulates an  annual risk based audit plan based on consultations  and inputs from the Board and business leaders  and presents its to the Audit, Risk and Compliance  Committee for approval.
Findings of various audits  carried out during the financial year are also  periodically presented to the Audit, Risk and  Compliance Committee.
The internal audit function  adopts a risk based audit approach and covers core  areas such as compliance audits, financial audits,  technology audits, third party risk audits, M&A audits,  etc.
The internal audit team comprises of personnel with  professional qualifications and certifications in audit  and is rich on diversity.
The audit team hones its skills  through a robust knowledge management program to  continuously assimilate the latest trends and skills  in the domain and to retain the knowledge gained for  future reference and dissemination.
The function, which was the first Indian Internal audit  unit to get ISO certified in 1998 and win International  award from Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA) in 2002,  recently added one more first, by being an early  adopter of the new ISO 9001:2015 Version.
Testimony  to the functions’ innovation and excellence are the IIA  awards won in these categories continuously over the  last few years.
VI.
Disclosures  Disclosure of Materially Significant Related Party  Transactions  All related party transactions that were entered  during the financial year were at an arm’s length basis  and were in the ordinary course of business.
There are  no materially significant related party transactions  made by the Company with Promoters, Directors, Key  Managerial Personnel or other designated persons  111 Annual Report 2017-18 which may have a potential conflict with the interest  of the Company at large.
As required under regulation 23 of Listing Regulations,  the Company has adopted a policy on Related Party  Transactions.
The abridged policy on Related Party  Transactions is available on the Company’s website  at https:/ /www.wipro.com/corporate-governance.
Apart from receiving director remuneration, none  of the Directors has any pecuniary relationships or  transactions vis-à-vis the Company.
During the year  2017-18, no transactions of material nature were  entered by the Company with the Management or  their relatives that may have a potential conflict  of interest with the Company and the concerned  officials have given undertakings to that effect as  per the provisions of the Listing Regulations.
The Register under Section 189 of the Companies Act,  2013 is maintained and particulars of the transactions  have been entered in the Register, as applicable.
Subsidiary Monitoring Framework  All the subsidiary companies of the Company are  managed by their Boards having the rights and  obligations to manage these companies in the best  interest of respective stakeholders.
The Company  nominates its representatives on the Board of  subsidiary companies and monitors performance of  such companies, inter alia, by reviewing; 	 •	 Financial 	statements,	the	investment	made	by	 the unlisted subsidiary companies, statement  containing all significant transactions  and arrangements entered by the unlisted  subsidiary companies forming part of the  financials being reviewed by the Audit, Risk  and Compliance Committee of the Company on  a quarterly basis.
•	 Minutes 	of	the	meetings 	of	the	unlisted 	 subsidiary companies, if any, are placed before  the Company’s Board regularly.
•	 Providing 	necessary 	guarantees, 	letter 	of	 comfort and other support for their day-to-day  operations from time-to-time.
The Company does not have any material subsidiary  whose net worth exceeds 20% of the consolidated net  worth of the Company in the immediately preceding  accounting year or which has generated 20% of the  consolidated income of the Company during the  previous financial year.
Certificate on Corporate Governance  The certificate dated April 16, 2018, issued by Mr.  V  Sreedharan, Partner, V Sreedharan & Associates,  Company Secretaries, is given at page 119 of this Annual  Report in compliance with corporate governance norms  prescribed under the Listing Regulations.
Details of non-compliance by the Company,   penalties, and strictures imposed on the Company by  Stock Exchanges or SEBI or any statutory authority,  on any matter related to capital markets, during the  last three years.
The Company has complied with the requirements of the  Stock Exchanges or SEBI on matters related to Capital  Markets, as applicable, during the last three years.
Whistle Blower Policy and affirmation that no  personnel have been denied access to the Audit, Risk  & Compliance Committee  As mentioned earlier in this report, the Company has  adopted an Ombuds process which is a channel for  receiving and redressing employees’ complaints.
No  personnel in the Company has been denied access  to the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee or its  Chairman.
Disclosures with respect to demat suspense account/  unclaimed suspense account (Unclaimed Shares)  Pursuant to regulation 39 of the Listing Regulations,  reminder letters have been sent to shareholders  whose shares remain unclaimed from the Company.
Based on their response, such shares will be  transferred to “unclaimed suspense account” as  per the provisions of schedule VI of the Listing  Regulations.
The disclosure as required under  schedule V of the Listing Regulations is given below:  (a) Aggregate number of shareholders and the  outstanding shares in the suspense account lying  at the beginning of the year- 308 shareholders  and 401,936 shares*  (b) Number of shareholders who approached listed  entity for transfer of shares from suspense  account during the year- 1 shareholder holding  16 shares.
(c) Number of shareholders to whom shares were  transferred from suspense account during the  year - 1 shareholder holding 16 shares.
(d) Aggregate number of shareholders and the  outstanding shares in the suspense account  lying at the end of the year- 307 shareholders  holding 3,77,332 shares**   (e) Voting rights on these shares shall remain frozen  till the rightful owner of such shares claims the  shares - Yes  *   Adjusted for the Bonus equity shares issued by  the Company in June 2017.
**   24,588 shares were transferred to IEPF on  November 30, 2017.
Wipro Limited 112  Shareholder Information  Various shareholder information required to be  disclosed pursuant to Schedule V of the Listing  Regulations are provided in Annexure I to this report.
Compliance with Mandatory Requirements  Your Company has complied with all the mandatory  corporate governance requirements under the Listing  Regulations.
Specifically, your Company confirms  compliance with corporate governance requirements  specified in regulation 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i)  of sub- regulation (2) of regulation 46 of the Listing  Regulations.
Uday Kotak Committee Recommendations  In June 2017, SEBI set up a committee under the  chairmanship of Shri Uday Kotak to advise on issues  relating to corporate governance in India.
In October  2017, the committee submitted a report containing its  recommendations, which were considered by SEBI in  its board meeting held in March 2018.
On May 9, 2018,  SEBI notified SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018  implementing majority of these recommendations  effective from April 1, 2019 or such other date  as specified therein.
The Company substantially  complies with the amendments notified and wherever  there are new requirements, it will take necessary  steps to ensure compliance by the effective date.
VII.
Compliance Report on Discretionary requirements  under Regulation 27(1) of the Listing Regulations  1.
The Board   As per para A of Part E of Schedule II of the Listing  Regulations, a non-executive Chairman of the  Board may be entitled to maintain a Chairman’s  Office at the company’s expense and also  allowed reimbursement of expenses incurred in  performance of his duties.
The Chairman of the  Company is an Executive Director and hence this  provision is not applicable to us.
2.
Shareholders rights   We display our quarterly and half yearly results  on our web site www.wipro.com and also publish  our results in widely circulated newspapers.
We  have communicated the payment of dividend by  e-mail to shareholders in addition to dispatch of  letters to all shareholders.
We publish the voting  results of shareholder meetings and make it  available on our website www.wipro.com, and  report the same to Stock Exchanges in terms of  regulation 44 of the Listing Regulations.
3.
Modified opinion(s) in audit report   The Auditors have issued an un-modified opinion  on the financial statements of the Company.
4.
Separate posts of Chairperson and Chief  Executive Officer   Mr. Azim H Premji is the Executive Chairman  and Managing Director of the Company and Mr.  Abidali Z Neemuchwala is the Chief Executive  Officer of the Company.
The Company’s Board  consists of majority of Independent Directors.
All  policy and strategic decisions of the Company  are taken through a majority decision of this  independent Board.
5.
Reporting of Internal Auditor   Reporting of Head of Internal Audit is to the  Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Board  and administratively to the Chief Financial  Officer.
Head of Internal Audit has regular and  exclusive meetings with the Audit Committee.
6.
NYSE Corporate Governance Listing Standards   The Company has made this disclosure in  compliance with the New York Stock Exchange  Listing Standards and NYSE Listed Company  Manual on its website https:/ /www.wipro.com/ corporate-governance and has filed the same  with the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).
Declaration as required under Regulation 34(3) and  Schedule V of the Listing Regulations All Directors and senior management personnel of the  Company have affirmed compliance with Wipro’s Code  of Business Conduct for the financial year ended March  31, 2018.
Place: Bengaluru   Azim H Premji Date: June 8, 2018   Executive Chairman 113 Annual Report 2017-18 ANNEXURE  I Shareholder Information Corporate Identity Number (CIN) Our Corporate Identity Number (CIN), allotted by  Ministry of Company Affairs, Government of India is  L32102KA1945PLC020800, and our Company Registration  Number is 20800.
Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting for the year ended March 31, 2018  is scheduled to be held on Thursday, July 19, 2018 at 4.00  PM at Wipro Campus, Cafeteria Hall EC-3, Ground Floor,  Opp.
Tower 8, No.
72, Keonics Electronic City, Hosur Road,  Bengaluru - 561229.
The facility to appoint a proxy to represent the members at  the meeting is also available for the members who may be  unable to attend the meeting.
Shareholder’s are required to  fill a proxy form and send it to us latest by July 17, 2018 before  4:00 PM.
Shareholders can also cast their vote electronically  by following the instructions of e-voting sent separately.
Annual General Meetings and Other General Body meeting  of the Last Three Years and Special Resolutions, if any .
For the Financial Years 2014-15, 2015-16 and 2016-17, we  held our Annual General Meeting on July 22, 2015, at 4.00  PM, July 18, 2016 at 4:00 PM, and July 19, 2017 at 4:00 PM,  respectively, at Wipro Campus, Cafeteria Hall EC-3, Ground  Floor, Opp.
Tower 8, No.
72, Keonics, Electronic City, Hosur  Road, Bengaluru – 561229.
Financial Year 2014-15 The following resolutions were passed at the annual  general meeting: •	 Re-appointment 	of	Mr.	Azim	H	Premji	(DIN	00234280),	 as Executive Chairman and Managing Director of the  Company (special resolution) •	 Appointment 	of	Mr.	Rishad	A	Premji	(DIN	02983899),	 as a Whole-time Director of the Company (ordinary  resolution) Financial Year 2015-16 The following resolutions were passed at the annual  general meeting (third, fourth and fifth being Special  Resolutions): •	 Appointment 	of	Dr.	Patrick	Ennis	as	an	Independent	 Director •	 Appointment 	of	Mr.	Patrick	Dupuis	as	an	Independent	 Director •	 Re-appointment 	of	Mr.	N	Vaghul	as	an	Independent	 Director •	 Re-appointment 	of	Dr.	Ashok 	S	Ganguly 	as	an	 Independent Director •	 Re-appointment 	of	Mr.	M	K	Sharma	as	an	Independent	 Director •	 Re-appointment 	of	Mr.	T	K	Kurien	as	an	Executive	 Director •	 Appointment 	of	Mr.	Abidali	Z	Neemuchwala	as	the	 Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director •	 Revision 	in	the	payment	of	remuneration	to	Mr.	Rishad	 A Premji as an Executive Director and Chief Strategy  Officer Financial Year 2016-17 The following special resolutions were passed at the  annual general meeting: 1.
Re-appointment of Mr. Azim H Premji (DIN 00234280)  as Executive Chairman and Managing Director of the  Company.
2.
Re-appointment of Mr. William Arthur Owens (DIN  00422976) as Independent Director of the Company.
Details of resolutions passed through postal ballot in  Financial Year 2017-18 and details of the voting pattern: 1.
The Company sought the approval of shareholders  by way of ordinary resolution through notice of  postal ballot dated April 25, 2017 for increase in  authorized share capital and consequent amendment  to Memorandum of Association of the Company and  Issue of Bonus Shares, which were duly passed and  the results of which were announced on June 5,  2017.
Mr. V Sreedharan, Partner of V Sreedharan &  Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries, was  appointed as the Scrutinizer to scrutinize the postal  ballot and remote e-voting process in a fair and  transparent manner.
Resolution No.
of Votes  Polled No.
of Votes  Cast in Favour No.
of Votes  Cast Against % of Votes Cast  in Favour on  Votes Polled % of Votes Cast  Against on  Votes Polled Increase in authorized  share capital and  consequent amendment to  Memorandum of Association  of the Company 2,15,00,86,917 2,14,96,18,049 4,68,868 99.98 0.02 Issue of Bonus Shares 2,15,00,83,127 2,14,98,83,103 2,00,024 99.99 0.01 Wipro Limited 114 2.
The Company had sought the approval of the shareholders by way of special resolution through notice of postal  ballot dated July 20, 2017 for approval of Buyback of Equity Shares which was duly passed and the results of which  were announced on August 30, 2017.
Mr. Pradeep B Kulkarni, Partner of V Sreedharan & Associates Practicing  Company Secretaries, was appointed as the Scrutinizer to scrutinize the postal ballot and remote e-voting process  in a fair and transparent manner.
Resolution No.
of Votes  Polled No.
of Votes  Cast in Favour No.
of Votes  Cast Against % of Votes Cast  in Favour on  Votes Polled % of Votes Cast  Against on  Votes Polled Approval for Buyback of  Equity Shares 4,31,44,69,340 4,30,04,52,113 1,40,17,227 99.68 0.32 Procedure for Postal Ballot The postal ballot is conducted in accordance with the  provisions contained in Section 110 and other applicable  provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013, read with Rule  22 of the Companies (Management and Administration)  Rules, 2014.
The Shareholders are provided the facility  to vote either by physical ballot or through e-voting.
The  postal ballot notice is sent to shareholders in electronic  form to the email addresses registered with the depository  (in case of electronic shareholding)/the Company’s  Registrar and Share Transfer Agents (in case of physical  shareholding).
For shareholders whose email IDs are not  registered, physical copies of the postal ballot notice are  sent by permitted mode along with a postage prepaid self- addressed business reply envelope.
The Company also  publishes a notice in the newspapers in accordance with  the requirements under the Companies Act, 2013.
The Company fixes a cut-off date to reckon paid-up value  of equity shares registered in the name of shareholders for  the purpose of voting.
Shareholders may cast their votes  through e-voting during the voting period fixed for this  purpose.
Alternatively, shareholders may exercise their  votes through physical ballot by sending duly completed  and signed forms so as to reach the scrutinizer before a  specified date and time.
After completion of scrutiny of  votes, the scrutinizer submits his report to the Chairman  and the results of voting by postal ballot are announced  by the Chairman or any Director of the Company duly  authorized within 48 hours of conclusion of the voting  period.
The results are also displayed on the website of the  Company (www.wipro.com), besides being communicated  to the Stock Exchanges, Depositories and Registrar and  Share Transfer Agents.
The resolutions, if passed by the  requisite majority are deemed to have been passed on the  last date specified for receipt of duly completed postal  ballot forms or e-voting.
Means of Communication with Shareholders/Analysts: We have established procedures to disseminate, in a  planned manner, relevant information to our shareholders,  analysts, employees and the society at large.
Our Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee reviews the  earnings press releases, Securities Exchange Commission  (SEC) filings and annual and quarterly reports of the  Company, before they are presented to the Board for their  approval for release.
News Releases and Presentations: All our news releases  and presentations made at investor conferences and  to analysts are posted on the Company’s website at   https:/ /www.wipro.com/investors.
Quarterly results: Our quarterly results are published  in widely circulated national newspapers such as The  Business Standard and the local daily Vijaya Karnataka.
Website: The Company’s website contains a separate  dedicated section “Investors ” where information sought  by shareholders is available.
The Annual Report of the  Company, earnings, press releases, SEC filings and  quarterly reports of the Company, apart from the details  about the Company, Board of directors and Management,  are also available on the website in a user friendly and  downloadable form at https:/ /www.wipro.com/investors.
Annual Report: Annual Report containing audited  standalone accounts, consolidated financial statements  together with Board’s Report, Auditors Report and other  important information are circulated to members entitled  thereto.
Other Disclosures/Filings: Further, our Form 20-F filed  with SEC containing detailed disclosures and along  with other disclosures including Press Releases etc.
are  available at https:/ /www.wipro.com/investors.
Communication of Results Means of Communications Number of times  during 2017-18 Earnings Calls 4 Publication of results 4 Analysts/Investors  Meetings Details are provided in the  MD&A Report forming part  of this Annual Report.
Financial Calendar The financial year of the Company starts from the 1 st  day  of April and ends on 31 st  day of March of next year.
Our  115 Annual Report 2017-18 tentative calendar for declaration of results for the  financial year 2018-19 is as given below: Quarter Ending Release of Results For	the	Quarter	ending	June	 30, 2018 Third week of July, 2018 For	the	Quarter	and	half	year	 ending September 30, 2018 Fourth week of October,  2018 For	the	Quarter 	and	nine	 months ending December  31, 2018 Third week of January,  2019 For the year ending March  31, 2019 Fourth week of April, 2019 In addition, the Board may meet on other dates as and  when required.
The Register of Members and Share Transfer books will  remain closed from Tuesday, July 17, 2018 to Thursday,  July 19, 2018 (both days inclusive).
Dividend Pursuant to the approval of the Board on January 19, 2018,  your Company paid an interim dividend of `1/- per equity  share of face value of `2/- each, to shareholders who were  on the register of members as on closing hours of February  1, 2018, being the record date fixed for this purpose.
The  Board did not recommend a final dividend and therefore  total dividend for the year ended March 31, 2018 will be  `1/- per equity share of face value of `2/- each.
Unclaimed Dividends and Transfer to IEPF Pursuant to Section 124 of Companies Act, 2013, the  Company has transferred the unpaid or unclaimed final  dividend for the financial year 2009-10 and unpaid or  unclaimed interim dividend for the financial year 2010-11,  on the due date to the Investor Education and Protection  Fund (IEPF) administered by the Central Government.
Pursuant to the Rule 5(8) of Investor Education and  Protection Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and  Refund) Rules, 2016, the Company has uploaded the details  of unpaid and unclaimed amounts lying with the Company  as on July 19, 2017 (date of last Annual General Meeting)  on the website of the Company (www.wipro.com/investors)  and also on the website of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
After completion of seven years, no claims shall lie against  the said fund or against the Company for the amounts of  Dividend so transferred nor shall any payment be made in  respect of such claims under the Companies Act, 1956.
The  Companies Act, 2013 provides for claiming such Dividends  from the Central Government.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 124(6) of the  Companies Act, 2013 and Investor Education and  Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer  and Refund) Rules, 2016 (as amended from time to time),  equity shares in respect of which final dividend has not  been claimed for the financial year 2009-10 and interim  dividend for the financial year 2010-11, have been  transferred to the IEPF Authority in accordance with the  aforesaid rules.
Listing on Stock Exchanges, Stock Codes, International Securities Identification Number (ISIN) and Cusip Number  for ADRs Your Company’s shares are listed in the following exchanges as on March 31, 2018 and the stock codes are: Equity shares Stock Codes Address BSE Limited (BSE) 507685 BSE Limited, Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers Dalal Street, Mumbai - 400001 National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) WIPRO Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai - 400051 American Depository Receipts New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) WIT 11 Wall St, New York, NY 10005, United States of  America Notes: 1.
Listing fees for the year 2018-19 have been paid to the Indian Stock Exchanges as on date of this report.
2.
Listing fees to NYSE for the calendar year 2018 has been paid as on date of this report.
3.
The stock code on Reuters is WIPR.NS and on Bloomberg is WPRO:IN International Securities Identification Number (ISIN) ISIN is an identification number for traded shares.
This number needs to be quoted in each transaction relating to the  dematerialized equity shares of the Company.
ISIN number for our equity shares is INE075A01022.
Wipro Limited 116 CUSIP Number for American Depository Shares The Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures (CUSIP) of the American Bankers Association has  developed a unique numbering system for American Depository Shares.
This number identifies a security and its issuer  and is recognized globally by organizations adhering to standards issued by the International Securities Organization.
Cusip number for Wipro American Depository Scrip is 97651M109.
Description of Voting Rights All our equity shares carry voting rights on a pari-passu basis.
Distribution of Shareholding as on March 31, 2018 Category (No.
of Shares) 31-Mar-18 31-Mar-17 No.
of Shareholders % of Shareholders No.
of Shares % of Total Equity No.
of Shareholders % of Shareholders No.
of  Shares % of Total Equity 1-5000 2,63,566 97.73 3,57,05,960 0.79 2,36,761 98.17 2,46,36,146 1.01 5001- 10000 2,234 0.83 79,43,841 0.18 1,626 0.67 58,24,521 0.24 10001- 20000 1,411 0.52 1,00,53,160 0.22 1,024 0.42 72,69,189 0.30 20001- 30000 556 0.21 68,35,088 0.15 365 0.15 44,69,797 0.18 30001- 40000 323 0.12 56,34,614 0.12 227 0.10 39,55,075 0.16 40001- 50000 202 0.07 45,29,721 0.10 145 0.06 32,51,627 0.13 50001- 100000 467 0.17 1,61,70,373 0.36 314 0.13 1,13,65,237 0.47 100001& Above 935 0.35 4,43,69,11,734 98.08 692 0.30 2,37,01,28,973 97.51 Total 2,69,694 100.00 4,52,37,84,491 100.00 2,41,154 100.00 2,43,09,00,565 100.00 Dematerialisation of Shares and Liquidity 99.67% of outstanding equity shares have been dematerialized as at March 31, 2018.
Outstanding ADR/GDR/Warrants or any other Convertible instruments, Conversion Date and Likely Impact on Equity The Company has 2.24% of outstanding ADRs as on March 31, 2018.
Commodity Price Risk or Foreign Exchange Risk and Hedging Activities Please refer Management Discussion and Analysis Report for details.
Market Share Price Data The performance of our stock in the financial year 2017-18 is tabulated below: Month April May June July August September October November December January February March Volume traded NSE 39,955,809 29,544,873 47,156,457 75,632,559 60,211,439 72,676,586 36,437,930 40,861,202 44,784,582 72,041,954 63,408,221 64,617,659 Price in NSE during the month (in ` per share) High 258.9 272.45 284 293.5 300.5 303.4 303.95 308.75 316.4 334 309.1 302 Date 10-Apr-17 26-May-17 6-Jun-17 24-Jul-17 31-Aug-17 11-Sep-17 26-Oct-17 7-Nov-17 29-Dec-17 16-Jan-18 1-Feb-18 15-Mar-18 Volume traded NSE 2,587,277 1,456,096 2,071,865 6,554,857 10,344,646 5,353,348 3,776,497 5,685,446 3,776,248 6,166,445 2,202,328 4,942,929 Low 241.5 246.8 252 252 284.9 279.2 280.25 289.35 280 301.55 284 272.35 Date 7-Apr-17 2-May-17 21-Jun-17 3-Jul-17 8-Aug-17 29-Sep-17 3-Oct-17 30-Nov-17 7-Dec-17 31-Jan-18 9-Feb-18 26-Mar-18 Volume traded NSE 2,286,934 1,044,093 1,835,890 2,089,768 2,729,913 1,588,557 1,286,305 6,849,560 2,524,500 2,823,913 3,151,977 7,029,093  S&P CNX Nifty Index during each month High 9367.15 9649.6 9709.3 10114.85 10137.85 10178.95 10384.5 10490.45 10552.4 11171.55 11117.35 10525.5 Low 9075.15 9269.9 9448.75 9543.55 9685.55 9687.55 9831.05 10094 10033.35 10404.65 10276.3 9951.9 Wipro Price Movement vis-a-vis Previous Month High/Low (%) High %0.36% 5.23% 4.24% 3.35% 2.39% 0.97% 0.18% 1.58% 2.48% 5.56% -7.46% -2.30% Low % -0.31% 2.19% 2.11% 0.00% 13.06% -2.00% 0.38% 3.25% -3.23% 7.70% -5.82% -4.10% S&P CNX Nifty Index Movement vis-à-vis High % 2.11% 3.02% 0.62% 4.18% 0.23% 0.41% 2.02% 1.02% 0.59% 5.87% -0.49% -5.32% Low % 2.00% 2.15% 1.93% 1.55% 0.94% 0.02% 1.48% 2.67% -0.60% 3.70% -1.23% -3.16% 117 Annual Report 2017-18 ADS Share Price During the Financial Year 2017-18 April May June July August September October November December January February March Wipro ADS price in NYSE  during each month closing ($) 4.925 5.39 5.2 6.15 5.94 5.68 5.36 5.39 5.47 5.49 5.51 5.16 NYSE TMT index during each  month closing 8169.17 8228.13 8162.49 8387.52 8278.30 8323.51 8302.94 8424.45 8526.83 8902.37 8546.84 8450.05 Wipro ADS Price Movement  (%) Vis a vis Previous month  Closing $ -3.62% 9.44% -3.53% 18.27% -3.41% -4.38% -5.63% 0.56% 1.48% 0.37% 0.36% -6.35% NYSE TMT Index movement  (%) vis a vis Previous month  closing $ -0.38% 0.72% -0.80% 2.76% -1.30% 0.55% -0.25% 1.46% 1.22% 4.40% -3.99% -1.13% Note:  The stock prices for the prior periods are restated to reflect bonus issued by the Company.
Performance of Wipro equity shares relative to the SENSEX and NYSE Composite index during the period April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018 is given in the following chart: 80 90 100 110 120 130 140 1-Mar-2018 1-Feb-2018 1-Jan-2018 1-Dec-2017 1-Nov-2017 1-Oct-2017 1-Sept-2017 1-August-2017 1-July-2017 1-June-2017 1-May-2017 1-Apr-2017 Registrar and Transfer Agents Company’s share transfer and related operations is  operated through its Registrar and Share Transfer Agents  Karvy Computershare Private Limited, Hyderabad.
Share Transfer System The turnaround time for completion of transfer of shares in  physical form is generally less than 7(seven) days from the  date of receipt, if the documents are clear in all respects.
Investor Queries and Grievances Redressal Shareholders may write either to the Company or the  Registrar and Transfer Agents for redressal of queries  and grievances.
The address and contact details of the  concerned officials are given below.
Registrar and Share Transfer Agents: Karvy Computershare Private Limited Unit: Wipro Limited Karvy Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Gachibowli, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad – 500 032.
Phone: 040-23420818 Fax: 040 23420814 Contact Person: Mr. B. Srinivas - E-mail id: srinivas.b@karvy.com Ms. Rajitha Cholleti - E-mail id: rajitha.cholleti@karvy.com Shareholders Grievance can also be sent through email  to the following designated E-mail id: einward.ris@karvy.
com.
Wipro NYSE Composite IndexSensexBase 100 = April 1, 2017 Wipro Limited 118 Overseas Depository for ADSs - J.P .
Morgan Chase Bank  N.A.
383 Madison Avenue, Floor 11 New York, NY10179 General: +1 800 990 1135 From outside the U.S.: +1 651 453 2128 Indian Custodian for ADSs India Sub Custody J.P .
Morgan Chase Bank N.A.
J.P .
Morgan Towers, 1st  Floor, off C.S.T.
Road, Kalina, Santacruz (East),  Mumbai - 400 098 Tel: 022-61573484 Fax: 022-61573910 Web-Based Query Redressal System Members may utilize this facility extended by the Registrar  & Transfer Agents for redressal of their queries.
Please visit https:/ /karisma.karvy.com and click on  “investors” option for query registration through free  identity registration to log on.
Investor can submit the  query	in	the	“QUERIES”	option	provided	on	the	website,	 which will generate the grievance registration number.
For accessing the status/response to your query, please  use the same number at the option “VIEW REPLY” after 24  hours.
The investors can continue to put additional queries  relating to the case till they are satisfied.
Shareholders can also send their correspondence to the  Company with respect to their shares, dividend, request for  annual reports and shareholder grievances.
The contact  details are provided below: Mr. M Sanaulla Khan Company Secretary Wipro Limited Doddakannelli,  Sarjapur Road, Bengaluru - 560 035 Ph: +91 80 28440011  (Extn: 226185) Fax: +91 080 28440054 Email: sanaulla.khan@wipro.com  Mr. G Kothandaraman Head - Secretarial &  Compliance Wipro Limited Doddakannelli,  Sarjapur Road, Bengaluru - 560 035 Ph: +91 80 28440011  (Extn: 226183) Fax: +91 080 28440054 Email: kothandaraman.gopal@wipro.com Analysts can reach our Investor Relations Team for any  queries and clarification on Financial/Investor Relations  related matters: Ms. Aparna C Iyer Corporate Treasurer  and Investor  Relations Wipro Limited Doddkannelli,  Sarjapur Road, Bengaluru - 560 035 Ph: +91 80 28440011 (226186) Fax: +91 80 28440054 Email: iyer.aparna@wipro.com   Mr. Vaibhav Saha Senior Manager-  Investor Relations Wipro Limited Doddkannelli,  Sarjapur Road, Bengaluru - 560 035 Ph: +91 80 28440011 (226143) Fax: +91 80 28440054 Email: vaibhav.saha@wipro.com   Mr. Abhishek Kumar  Jain Senior Manager, 2 Tower Center,  Boulevard, 22nd  Floor, East  Brunswick, NJ - 08816, USA Ph: +1 9788264700 Fax: +1 8005724852 Email:  abhishekkumar.jain@wipro.com Plant Locations The Company has various offices in India and abroad.
Details of these locations as on March 31, 2018 are  available on our website www.wipro.com.
119 Annual Report 2017-18 Corporate Governance Compliance  Certificate Corporate Identity Number:  L32102KA1945PLC020800 Nominal Capital:  ` 1,126.50 Crores To the Members of  WIPRO LIMITED  Doddakannelli, Sarjapur Road, Bengaluru - 560035 We have examined all the relevant records of Wipro Limited for the purpose of certifying compliance of the conditions  of the Corporate Governance under the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 for  the financial year ended March 31, 2018.
We have obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of  our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of certification.
The compliance of conditions of corporate governance is the responsibility of the Management.
Our examination was  limited to the procedure and implementation process adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the  conditions of the corporate governance.
This certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness  with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations and information furnished to us, we  certify that the Company has complied with all the mandatory requirements of Corporate Governance as stipulated in  Schedule II of the said Regulations.
As regards Discretionary Requirements specified in Part E of Schedule II of the SEBI  (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the Company has complied with items C, D and E.    For V. Sreedharan & Associates  Company Secretaries  Sd/-  V. Sreedharan Bengaluru Partner April 16, 2018 F .C.S.2347; C.P .
No.
833 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 120 Wipro Limited Independent Auditor’s Report To the Members of Wipro Limited Report on the Standalone Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying standalone financial  statements of Wipro Limited (‘the Company’), which  comprise the Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2018,  the Statement of Profit and Loss (including other  comprehensive income), the Statement of Changes in  Equity and the Statement of Cash Flows for the year  then ended and a summary of the significant accounting  policies and other explanatory information.
Management’s Responsibility for the Standalone  Financial Statements The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the  matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Companies Act,  2013 (‘the Act’) with respect to the preparation of these  standalone financial statements that give a true and  fair view of the financial position, financial performance  including other comprehensive income, cash flows and  changes in equity of the Company in accordance with the  Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) prescribed under  Section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian  Accounting Standards) Rule, 2015, as amended, and other  accounting principles generally accepted in India.
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate  accounting records in accordance with the provisions of  the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for  preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities;  selection and application of appropriate accounting  policies; making judgments and estimates that are  reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and  maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that  were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and  completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the  preparation and presentation of the standalone financial  statements that give a true and fair view and are free from  material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these  standalone financial statements based on our audit.
In conducting our audit, we have taken into account  the provisions of the Act, the accounting and auditing  standards and matters which are required to be included  in the audit report under the provisions of the Act and  the Rules made thereunder and the Order issued under  Section 143(11) of the Act.
We conducted our audit of the standalone financial  statements in accordance with the Standards on  Auditing specified under Section 143(10) of the Act.
Those Standards require that we comply with ethical  requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain  reasonable assurance about whether the standalone  financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit  evidence about the amounts and the disclosures in  the standalone financial statements.
The procedures  selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including  the assessment of the risks of material misstatement  of the standalone financial statements, whether due to  fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the  auditor considers internal financial control relevant to  the Company’s preparation of the standalone financial  statements that give a true and fair view in order to  design audit procedures that are appropriate in the  circumstances.
An audit also includes evaluating the  appropriateness of the accounting policies used and the  reasonableness of the accounting estimates made by the  Company’s Directors, as well as evaluating the overall  presentation of the standalone financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us is  sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit  opinion on the standalone financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion and to the best of our information and  according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid  standalone financial statements give the information  required by the Act in the manner so required and give  a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting  principles generally accepted in India, of the state of  affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2018, and its  profit,total comprehensive income, the changes in equity  and its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 1.
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our  audit, we report that:  a)  we have sought and obtained all the information  and explanations which to the best of our  knowledge and belief were necessary for the  purposes of our audit.
b)  in our opinion, proper books of account as  required by law have been kept by the Company  so far as it appears from our examination of  those books.
c)  the Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit  and Loss including other comprehensive  income, Statement of Changes in Equity and  the Statement of Cash Flows dealt with by  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 121 this Report are in agreement with the books of  account.
d)  in our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial  statements comply with the Indian Accounting  Standards prescribed under Section 133 of the  Act.
e)  on the basis of the written representations  received from the directors of the Company as  on March 31, 2018 taken on record by the Board  of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified  as on March 31, 2018 from being appointed as a  director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
f)  with respect to the adequacy of the internal  financial controls over financial reporting of the  Company and the operating effectiveness of such  controls, refer to our separate report in ‘Annexure  A’ .Our report expresses an unmodified opinion on  the adequacy and operating effectiveness of  the Company’s internal financial controls over  financial reporting.
g)  with respect to the other matters to be included  in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule  11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules,  2014, as amended, in our opinion and to the  best of our information and according to the  explanations given to us:   i.
The Company has disclosed the impact of  pending litigations on its financial position  in its standalone financial Statements.
ii.
The Company has made provision,   as required under the applicable law  or accounting standards, for material  foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term  contracts including derivative contracts   iii.
There has been no delay in transferring  amounts, required to be transferred, to the  Investor Education and Protection Fund by  the Company.
2.
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report)  Order, 2016 (‘the Order’) issued by the Central  Government in terms of Section 143(11) of the Act,  we give in ‘Annexure B’ a statement on the matters  specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP Chartered Accountants Firm Registration Number: 117366W/W-100018 N. Venkatram Partner Membership number: 71387 Mumbai  June 08, 2018  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 122 Wipro Limited Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s Report (Referred to in paragraph 1(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal  and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report to the  Members of Wipro Limited of even date) Report on the Internal Financial Controls over Financial  Reporting under Clause (i) of sub-section 3 of Section 143  of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) We have audited the internal financial controls over financial  reporting of WIPRO LIMITED (‘the Company’) as of March 31,  2018 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial  statements of the Company for the year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls The Board of Directors of the Company is responsible for  establishing and maintaining internal financial controls  based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria  established by the Company considering the essential  components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on  Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting  issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
These responsibilities include the design, implementation  and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls  that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly  and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence  to respective company’s policies, the safeguarding of its  assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors,  the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records,  and the timely preparation of reliable financial information,  as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal  financial controls over financial reporting of the Company  based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance  with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls  Over Financial Reporting (the ‘Guidance Note’) issued by the  Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and the Standards  on Auditing prescribed under Section 143(10) of the  Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit of  internal financial controls.
Those Standards and the Guidance  Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and  plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance  about whether adequate internal financial controls over  financial reporting was established and maintained and if  such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit  evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial  controls system over financial reporting and their operating  effectiveness.
Our audit of internal financial controls over  financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of  internal financial controls over financial reporting, assessing  the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and  evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal  control based on the assessed risk.
The procedures selected  depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment  of the risks of material misstatement of the financial  statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained, is  sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit  opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls system  over financial reporting.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls over Financial  Reporting A company’s internal financial control over financial reporting  is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance  regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the  preparation of financial statements for external purposes in  accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A  company’s internal financial control over financial reporting  includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the  maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately  and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the  assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance  that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit  preparation of financial statements in accordance with  generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts  and expenditures of the company are being made only in  accordance with authorisations of management and directors  of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance  regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised  acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that  could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Limitations of Internal Financial Controls over Financial  Reporting Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial  controls over financial reporting, including the possibility  of collusion or improper management override of controls,  material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and  not be detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the  internal financial controls over financial reporting to future  periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial  control over financial reporting may become inadequate  because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of  compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion In our opinion, to the best of our information and according to  the explanations given to us, the Company has, in all material  respects, an adequate internal financial controls system  over financial reporting and such internal financial controls  over financial reporting were operating effectively as at  March 31, 2018, based on the internal control over financial  reporting criteria established by the Company considering  the essential components of internal control stated in the  Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over  Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered  Accountants of India.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP Chartered Accountants Firm Registration Number: 117366W/W-100018 N. Venkatram Partner Membership number: 71387 Mumbai  June 08, 2018   Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 123 Annexure B to the Independent Auditor’s Report (Referred to in paragraph 2 under ‘Report on Other Legal  and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report to the  members of Wipro Limited of even date) (i)  In respect of the Company’s fixed assets:   (a)  The Company has maintained proper records  showing full particulars, including quantitative  details and situation of fixed assets.
(b)  The Company has a program of verification to  cover all the items of fixed assets in a phased  manner over a period of 3 years which, in our  opinion, is reasonable having regard to the size  of the Company and the nature of its assets.
Pursuant to the program, certain fixed assets  were physically verified by the Management  during the year.
According to the information  and explanations given to us, no material  discrepancies were noticed on such verification.
(c)  According to the information and explanations  given to us, the records examined by us and  based on the examination of the conveyance  deeds provided to us, we report that, the title  deeds, comprising all the immovable properties  of land and buildings which are freehold, are held  in the name of the Company as at the balance  sheet date.
(ii)  As explained to us, the inventories were physically  verified during the year by the Management at  reasonable intervals.
Material discrepancies noticed  on physical verification during the year have been  properly dealt with in the books of account.
(iii)  The Company has not granted any loans, secured  or unsecured, to companies, firms, Limited Liability  Partnerships or other parties covered in the register  maintained under section 189 of the Companies Act,  2013.
(a)  The Company has not granted any loans, secured  or unsecured to the parties covered in the  register maintained under Section 189 of the  Act during the current year.
(b)  In the case of a loan granted to the party listed  in the register maintained under Section 189 of  the Act, the loan is interest free and the principal  was repayable on demand.
The loan is repaid  during the current year.
(c)  There is no overdue amount remaining  outstanding as at the year-end.
(iv)  In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, the Company has complied  with the provisions of Sections 185 and 186 of the  Companies Act, 2013 in respect of grant of loans,  making investments and providing guarantees and  securities, as applicable.
(v)  The Company has not accepted any deposit during  the year and does not have any unclaimed deposits  as at March 31, 2018 and therefore, the provisions of  the clause 3 (v) of the Order are not applicable to the  Company.
(vi)  The maintenance of cost records has not been  specified by the Central Government under Section  148(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 for the business  activities carried out by the Company.
Thus reporting  under Clause 3(vi) of the order is not applicable to the  Company.
(vii)  According to the information and explanations given  to us, in respect of statutory dues:   (a)  The Company has generally been regular in  depositing undisputed statutory dues, including  Provident Fund, Employees’ State Insurance,  Income Tax, Sales Tax, Service Tax, Goods and  Service Tax, Value Added Tax, Customs Duty,  Excise Duty, Cess and other material statutory  dues applicable to it with the appropriate  authorities.
(b)  There were no undisputed amounts payable in  respect of Provident Fund, Employees’ State  Insurance, Income Tax, Sales Tax, Service  Tax, Value Added Tax, Goods and Service Tax,  Customs Duty, Excise Duty, Cess and other  material statutory dues in arrears as at March  31, 2018 for a period of more than six months  from the date they became payable.
(c)  Details of dues of Income Tax, Sales Tax, Service  Tax, Customs Duty, Excise Duty  and Value Added  Tax which have not been deposited as at March  31, 2018 on account of dispute are given below: Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 124 Wipro Limited Name of Statue Nature of dues Forum where dispute is  pending Period to which the  amount relates Amount  Unpaid March  31, 2018 The Central Excise Act, 1944 Excise Duty Assistant Commissioner 1990-91 to 2014-15 59 The Central Excise Act, 1944 Excise Duty Commissioner 2004-05 to 2014-15 10 The Central Excise Act, 1944 Excise Duty Commissioner Appeals 1994-95 to 2012-13 13 The Central Excise Act, 1944 Excise Duty CESTAT 1999-2000 to 2012-13 180 The Central Excise Act, 1944 Excise Duty High Court 2007-08, 2008-09 1 The Customs Act, 1962 Customs Duty Asst.
Commissioner of  customs 1994-95 to 2010-11 47 The Customs Act, 1962 Customs Duty CESTAT 1991-92 to 2011-12 4 The Customs Act, 1962 Customs Duty Commissioner 2005-06 6 The Customs Act, 1962 Customs Duty Commissioner Appeals 1997-98 to 2009-10 210 The Customs Act, 1962 Customs Duty Deputy Commissioner - Air  Customs -Chennai 5 The Customs Act, 1962 Customs Duty Madras HC 4 The Customs Act, 1962 Penalty Karnataka High court 2001-02 to 2005-06 2,871 Finance Act, 1994 Service tax Assistant commissioner 2003-04 to -2015-16 366 Finance Act, 1994 Service tax Commissioner Appeals 2003-04 to 2015-16 273 Finance Act, 1994 Penalty Commissioner Appeals 2005-06 to 2015-16 24 Finance Act, 1994 Service tax CESTAT 2001-02 to 2011-12 1,062 Finance Act, 1994 Penalty CESTAT 2001-02 to 2011-12 1,034 Sales Tax / VAT Sales Tax / VAT Assistant commissioner 1988-89 to 2006-07 26 Sales Tax / VAT Sales Tax / VAT High court 1986-87 to 2004-05 53 Sales Tax / VAT Sales Tax / VAT Commissioner appeals 1986-87 to 2014-15 2,618 Sales Tax / VAT Sales Tax / VAT Joint commissioner 1994-95 to 2015-16 49 Sales Tax / VAT Sales Tax / VAT DY .
Commissioner of sales  tax.
1994-95 to 2014-15 218 Sales Tax / VAT Sales Tax / VAT Sales Tax Tribunal.
1998-99 to 2011-12 326 Sales Tax / VAT Sales Tax / VAT Commissioner 2009-10, 2010-11 70 The Income Tax Act, 1961 Income Tax -  TDS CIT(A) - TDS 2003-04, 2009-10  33 The Income Tax Act, 1961 Income Tax Income Tax Appellate  Tribunal 2006-07,2009-10,  2010-11, 2012-13  1,191 The Income Tax Act, 1961 Income Tax Dispute Resolution Panel 2013-14  8,701  The Income Tax Act, 1961 Income Tax CIT(A) 2011-12,2012-13 20 (viii)  In our opinion and according to the information  and explanations given to us, the Company has not  defaulted in the repayment of loans or borrowings  to financial institutions, banks and government.
The  Company has not issued any debentures.
(ix)  The Company has not raised moneys by way of  initial public offer or further public offer (including  debt instruments) during the year.
In our opinion  and according to the information and explanations  given to us, the term loans have been applied by the  Company during the year for the purposes for which  they were raised.
(x)  To the best of our knowledge and according to the  information and explanations given to us, no fraud by  the Company or no material fraud on the Company by  its officers or employees has been noticed or reported  during the year.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 125 (xi)  In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, the Company has paid/ provided managerial remuneration in accordance  with the requisite approvals mandated by the  provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V to the  Act.
(xii)  The Company is not a Nidhi Company and hence  reporting under clause 3 (xii) of the Order is not  applicable to the Company.
(xiii)  In our opinion and according to the information  and explanations given to us, the Company is  in compliance with Section 177 and 188 of the  Companies Act, 2013 where applicable, for all  transactions with the related parties and the details  of related party transactions have been disclosed in  the standalone financial statements as required by  the applicable accounting standards.
(xiv)  During the year, the Company has not made any  preferential allotment or private placement of shares  or fully or partly paid convertible debentures and  hence, reporting under clause 3 (xiv) of the Order is  not applicable to the Company.
(xv)  In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, during the year the Company  has not entered into any non-cash transactions with  its Directors or persons connected to its directors   and hence provisions of section 192 of the Companies  Act, 2013 are not applicable to the Company.
(xvi)  The Company is not required to be registered under  section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP Chartered Accountants Firm Registration Number: 117366W/W-100018 N. Venkatram Partner Membership number: 71387 Mumbai  June 08, 2018   Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 126 Wipro Limited Balance Sheet The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone financial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board of Directors for Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Azim H Premji N Vaghul Abidali Neemuchwala Chartered Accountants Executive Chairman  & Managing Director Director Chief Executive Officer & Executive DirectorFirm’s Registration No: 117366W/W- 100018 N. Venkatram Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal M Sanaulla Khan Partner Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Membership No.
71387 Mumbai Bengaluru June 08, 2018 June 08, 2018 (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) Notes As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 4 38,026 37,555 Capital work-in-progress 12,906 6,941 Goodwill 5 3,882 3,882 Other intangible assets 5 1,762 2,185 Financial assets  Investments 6 58,416 59,994  Derivative assets 18 41 106  Trade receivables 7 4,446 3,998  Other financial assets 9 3,078 3,545 Deferred tax assets (net) 19 4,520 2,352 Non-current tax assets (net) 18,349 12,008 Other non-current assets 11 11,614 11,732 Total non-current assets 157,040 144,298 Current assets Inventories 10 2,943 3,559 Financial assets  Investments 6 248,412 291,467  Trade receivables 7 95,020 81,299  Cash and cash equivalents 8 23,220 35,166  Derivative assets 18 1,232 9,747  Unbilled revenues 30,256 32,845  Loans to subsidiaries 32 - 1,917  Other financial assets 9 5,218 6,151 Current tax assets (net) 4,799 7,701 Other current assets 11 18,122 17,419 429,222 487,271 Assets held for sale 36 451 - Total  current assets 429,673 487,271 TOTAL ASSETS 586,713 631,569 EQUITY Equity Share capital 12 9,048 4,861 Other Equity 413,578 462,195 TOTAL EQUITY 422,626 467,056 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities  Borrowings 13 724 11,463  Derivative liabilities 18 - 2  Other financial liabilities 15 - 77 Provisions 16 1,688 3,733 Deferred tax liabilities (net) 19 463 1,391 Non-current tax liabilities (net) 8,557 9,099 Other non-current liabilities 17 2,296 349 Total non-current liabilities 13,728 26,114 Current liabilities Financial liabilities  Borrowings 13 46,477 50,186  Trade payables 14 41,762 38,186  Derivative liabilities 18 2,198 2,708  Other financial liabilities 15 25,343 17,628 Unearned revenues 12,709 11,506 Provisions 16 7,934 6,269 Current tax liabilities (net) 8,961 6,792 Other current liabilities 17 4,975 5,124 Total current liabilities 150,359 138,399 TOTAL LIABILITIES 164,087 164,513 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 586,713 631,569 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 127 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone financial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board of Directors for Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Azim H Premji N Vaghul Abidali Neemuchwala Chartered Accountants Executive Chairman  & Managing Director Director Chief Executive Officer & Executive DirectorFirm’s Registration No: 117366W/W- 100018 N. Venkatram Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal M Sanaulla Khan Partner Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Membership No.
71387 Mumbai Bengaluru June 08, 2018 June 08, 2018 Statement of Profit and Loss (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) Notes Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2,017  INCOME Revenue from operations 20 447,100 456,396 Other operating income 21 - 4,082 Other income 22 24,796 26,459 Total Income 471,896 486,937 EXPENSES Purchases of stock-in-trade 14,696 21,869 Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and stock-in-trade 23 577 1,640 Employee benefits expense 24 217,562 218,544 Finance costs 25 3,843 4,680 Depreciation and amortisation expense 10,148 10,477 Sub-contracting / technical fees / third party application 78,623 74,614 Travel 14,607 17,536 Facility expenses 13,397 12,509 Communication 4,136 3,463 Legal and professional charges 3,078 3,211 Marketing and brand building 2,596 2,737 Other expenses 26 8,290 8,786 Total expenses 371,553 380,066 Profit before tax 100,343 106,871 Tax expense Current tax 19 24,345 24,304 Deferred tax 19 (1,230) 950 Total tax expense 23,115 25,254 Profit for the year 77,228 81,617 Other comprehensive income (OCI) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Defined benefit plan actuarial gains/(losses) 24 746 191 Net change in fair value of financial instruments through OCI 18 (1,760) (183) Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss 19 160 (28) Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss: Net change in time value of option contracts designated as cash flow hedges 182 9 Net change in intrinsic value of option contracts designated as cash flow hedges 18 (95) 77 Net change in fair value of forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges 18 (7,368) 4,872 Net change in fair value of financial instruments through OCI (663) 1,787 Income tax relating to items that may be reclassified to profit and loss 19 1,678 (1,571) Total other comprehensive (loss)/ income for the year, net of taxes (7,300) 5,154 Total comprehensive income for the year 69,928 86,771 Earnings per equity share: (Equity shares of par value  ` 2 each) 27 Basic 16.26 16.80 Diluted 16.23 16.75 Number of shares Basic 4,750,043,400 4,857,081,010 Diluted 4,758,361,975 4,871,347,138 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 128 Wipro Limited Equity share capital Balance as at April 1, 2017 Change in equity share capital # Balance as at March 31, 2018 4,861 4,187 9,048 Balance as at April 1, 2016 Change in equity share capital # Balance as at March 31, 2017 4,941 (80) 4,861   Other equity Reserves and Surplus Particulars Share  application  money  pending  allotment Share  premium Capital  reserve Capital  redemption  reserve Retained  earnings Share  based  payment  reserve Special  economic  Zone re- investment  reserve Foreign  currency  translation  reserve Cash flow  hedging  reserve Other  Comprehensive  income Total other  equity Balance as at April 1, 2017  ^ 81 1,139 94 448,164 3,555 - 1,882 5,906 1,374 462,195  Profit for the year - - - - 77,228 - - - - - 77,228  Other comprehensive income - - - - - - - - (6,013) (1,287) (7,300) Total comprehensive income for the year - - - - 77,228 - - - (6,013) (1,287) 69,928 Issue of equity shares on exercise of  options - 1,987 - - - (1,971) - - - - 16 Issue of shares by controlled trust on exercise of options * - - - - 1,182 (1,182) - - - - - Dividend (including dividend tax thereon) - - - - (5,446) - - - - - (5,446) Buyback of equity shares  # - (1,656) - 687 (108,344) - - - - - (109,313) Transaction cost related to buyback - - - - (312) - - - - - (312) Bonus issue of equity shares - - - - (4,866) - - - - - (4,866) Compensation cost related to employee share based payment transactions - - - - 6 1,370 - - - - 1,376 Transferred to special economic zone re-investment reserve - - - - (20,037) - 20,037 - - - - Transferred from special economic zone re-investment reserve on utilisation - - - - 20,037 - (20,037) - - - - Balance as at March 31, 2018  ^ 412 1,139 781 407,612 1,772 - 1,882 (107) 87 413,578 #  Refer Note 28 * 4,351,775 and 1,101,217 shares have been issued by the controlled trust to eligible employees on exercise of options during the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
^ Value is less than ` 1 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 129 Reserves and Surplus Particulars Share  application  money  pending  allotment Share  premium Capital  reserve Capital  redemption  reserve Retained  earnings Share  based  payment  reserve Special  economic  Zone re- investment  reserve Foreign  currency  translation  reserve Cash flow  hedging  reserve Other  Comprehensive  income Total other  equity Balance as at April 1, 2016                 ^ 14,254 1,139 14 385,672 2,229 - 1,882 1,910 216 407,316  Profit for the year - - - - 81,617 - - - - - 81,617  Other comprehensive income - - - - - - - - 3,996 1,158 5,154 Total comprehensive income for the year - - - - 81,617 - - - 3,996 1,158 86,771 Issue of equity shares on exercise of  options - 81 - - - (81) - - - - - Dividend (including dividend tax thereon) - - - - (8,776) - - - - - (8,776) Buyback of equity shares - (14,254) - 80 (10,746) - - - - - (24,920) Transferred to Special economic zone re-investment reserve - - - - (13,521) - 13,521 - - - - Transferred from Special economic zone re-investment reserve on utilisation - - - - 13,521 - (13,521) - - - - Issue of shares by controlled trust on exercise of options - - - - 384 (384) - - - - - Compensation cost related to employee share based payment transactions - - - - 13 1,791 - - - - 1,804 Balance as at March 31, 2017  ^ 81 1,139 94 448,164 3,555 - 1,882 5,906 1,374 462,195 ^ Value is less than ` 1 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone financial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board of Directors for Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Azim H Premji N Vaghul Abidali Neemuchwala Chartered Accountants Executive Chairman & Managing Director Director Chief Executive Officer& Executive DirectorFirm’s Registration No: 117366W/W- 100018 N. Venkatram Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal M Sanaulla Khan Partner Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Membership No.
71387 Mumbai Bengaluru June 08, 2018 June 08, 2018 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 130 Wipro Limited Statement of Cash Flows (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) For the Year Ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 A.
Cash flows from operating activities: Profit for the year 77,228 81,617 Adjustments to reconcile profit for the year to net cash generated from operating activities: (Gain) / loss on sale of property, plant and equipment, net (159) 181 Depreciation and amortisation expense 10,148 10,477 Unrealised exchange loss, net 4,704 3,714 Gain on sale of investments, net (5,978) (3,486) Share based compensation expense 1,258 1,687 Income tax expense 23,115 25,254 Dividend and interest (income)/expenses, net (15,956) (17,259) Gain from sale of EcoEnergy division - (4,082) (Reversal of) / provision for diminution in the value of non-current investments (267) 403 Other non cash items 3,832 - Changes in operating assets and liabilities:  Trade receivables (16,361) (5) Unbilled revenues 2,589 4,236 Inventories 616 1,703 Other assets 2,971 1,973 Trade payables, other liabilities and provisions 1,923 (6,422) Unearned revenues 1,203 (2,711) Cash generated from operating activities before taxes 90,866 97,280 Income taxes paid, net (26,157) (23,573) Net cash generated from operating activities 64,709 73,707 B.
Cash flows from investing activities: Purchase of property, plant and equipment (16,237) (16,867) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 816 813 Proceeds from sale of EcoEnergy division, net of related expenses - 4,372 Purchase of  investments (779,032) (812,704) Investment in subsidiaries (4,559) (995) Proceeds from sale of investments 829,764 730,078 Proceeds from liquidation/ reduction in capital of subsidiaries 4,790 - Interest received 13,872 16,955 Dividend received 609 311 Income tax paid on sale of EcoEnergy division - (871) Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities 50,023 (78,908) C. Cash flows from financing activities: Proceeds from issuance of equity shares/ shares pending allotment 24  ^  Repayment of loans and borrowings (93,360) (91,627) Proceeds from loans and borrowings 81,180 82,619 Payment for buyback of shares including transaction cost (110,312) (25,000) Interest paid on loans and borrowings (1,272) (892) Payment of dividend (including dividend tax thereon) (5,444) (8,776) Net cash used in financing activities (129,184) (43,676) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents during the year (14,452) (48,877)  Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 52 (932)  Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 33,622 83,431  Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (Note 8) 19,222 33,622 Total taxes paid amounted to ` 26,157 and ` 24,444 for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively.
Refer note 13 for supplementary information on cash flow statement.
^ Value is less than ` 1 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone financial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board of Directors for Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Azim H Premji N Vaghul Abidali Neemuchwala Chartered Accountants Executive Chairman  & Managing Director Director Chief Executive Officer & Executive DirectorFirm’s Registration No: 117366W/W- 100018 N. Venkatram Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal M Sanaulla Khan Partner Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Membership No.
71387 Mumbai Bengaluru June 08, 2018 June 08, 2018 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 131 (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) Notes to the Standalone financial statements 1.
The Company overview   Wipro Limited (“Wipro” or the “Company”), is a leading  global information technology (“IT”), consulting and  business process services (BPS) company .
Wipro is a public limited company incorporated and  domiciled in India.
The address of its registered  office is Wipro Limited, Doddakannelli, Sarjapur  Road, Bengaluru – 560 035, Karnataka, India.
Wipro  has its primary listing with BSE Ltd. (Bombay Stock  Exchange) and National Stock Exchange of India  Ltd.
The Company’s American Depository Shares  representing equity shares are also listed on the New  York Stock Exchange.
These financial statements were authorised for issue  by the Board of Directors on June 08, 2018.
Amounts  as at and for the year ended March 31, 2017 were  audited by B S R & Co. LLP .
2.
Basis of preparation of financial statements (i) Statement of compliance and basis of preparation  These financial statements are prepared in  accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (“Ind  AS”), the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013  (“the Companies Act”), as applicable and guidelines  issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (“SEBI”).
The Ind AS are prescribed under Section 133  of the Act read with Rule 3 of the Companies (Indian  Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 and Companies  (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules,  2016.
Accounting policies have been applied consistently to  all periods presented in these financial statements.
The financial statements correspond to the  classification provisions contained in Ind AS 1,  “Presentation of Financial Statements” .
For clarity,  various items are aggregated in the statements of  profit and loss and balance sheet.
These items are  disaggregated separately in the notes to the financial  statements, where applicable.
All amounts included in the financial statements are  reported in millions of Indian rupees (`in millions)  except share and per share data, unless otherwise  stated.
Due to rounding off, the numbers presented  throughout the document may not add up precisely to  the totals and percentages may not precisely reflect  the absolute figures.
Previous year figures have been  regrouped/re-arranged, wherever necessary.
(ii) Basis of measurement   These financial statements have been prepared on  a historical cost convention and on an accrual basis,  except for the following material items which have  been measured at fair value as required by relevant  Ind AS:  a)  Derivative financial instruments;  b)  Financial instruments classified as fair value  through other comprehensive income or fair  value through profit or loss; and  c)  The defined benefit asset/(liability) is recognised  as the present value of defined benefit obligation  less fair value of plan assets.
(iii) Use of estimates and judgment  The preparation of the financial statements in  conformity with Ind AS requires management to  make judgments, estimates and assumptions that  affect the application of accounting policies and  the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income  and expenses.
Actual results may differ from those  estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed  on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates  are recognised in the period in which the estimates  are revised and in any future periods affected.
In  particular, information about significant areas of  estimation, uncertainty and critical judgments in  applying accounting policies that have the most  significant effect on the amounts recognised in the  financial statements are included in the following  notes:  a) Revenue recognition: The Company uses the  percentage of completion method using the  input (cost expended) method to measure  progress towards completion in respect of  fixed price contracts.
Percentage of completion  method accounting relies on estimates of  total expected contract revenue and costs.
This method is followed when reasonably  dependable estimates of the revenues and costs  applicable to various elements of the contract  can be made.
Key factors that are reviewed in  estimating the future costs to complete include  estimates of future labor costs and productivity  efficiencies.
Because the financial reporting of  these contracts depends on estimates that are  assessed continually during the term of these  contracts, recognised revenue and profit are  subject to revisions as the contract progresses  to completion.
When estimates indicate that a  loss will be incurred, the loss is provided for in  the period in which the loss becomes probable.
Volume discounts are recorded as a reduction  of revenue.
When the amount of discount varies  with the levels of revenue, volume discount is  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 132 Wipro Limited recorded based on estimate of future revenue  from the customer.
b) Impairment testing: Investments in subsidiaries,  goodwill and intangible assets are tested for  impairment at least annually and when events  occur or changes in circumstances indicate  that the recoverable amount of the asset or  cash generating units to which these pertain  is less than its carrying value.
The recoverable  amount of the asset or the cash generating units  is higher of value in use and fair value less cost  of disposal.
The calculation of value in use of a  cash generating unit involves use of significant  estimates and assumptions which includes  turnover, growth rates and net margins used  to calculate projected future cash flows, risk- adjusted discount rate, future economic and  market conditions.
c) Income taxes: The major tax jurisdictions for  the Company are India and the United States  of America.
Significant judgments are involved  in determining the provision for income taxes  including judgment on whether tax positions are  probable of being sustained in tax assessments.
A tax assessment can involve complex issues,  which can only be resolved over extended time  periods.
d) Deferred taxes: Deferred tax is recorded on  temporary differences between the tax bases  of assets and liabilities and their carrying  amounts, at the rates that have been enacted  or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets  is dependent upon the generation of future  taxable profits during the periods in which  those temporary differences and tax loss carry- forwards become deductible.
The Company  considers the expected reversal of deferred tax  liabilities and projected future taxable income  in making this assessment.
The amount of  the deferred tax assets considered realisable,  however, could be reduced in the near term if  estimates of future taxable income during the  carry-forward period are reduced.
e) Business combination: In accounting for  business combinations, judgment is required  in identifying whether an identifiable intangible  asset is to be recorded separately from goodwill.
Additionally, estimating the acquisition date  fair value of the identifiable assets (including  useful life estimates) and liabilities acquired  and contingent consideration assumed involves  management judgment.
These measurements  are based on information available at the  acquisition date and are based on expectations  and assumptions that have been deemed  reasonable by management.
Changes in these  judgments, estimates, and assumptions can  materially affect the results of operations.
f) Defined benefit plans and compensated  absences: The cost of the defined benefit plans,  compensated absences and the present value  of the defined benefit obligation are based on  actuarial valuation using the projected unit  credit method.
An actuarial valuation involves  making various assumptions that may differ  from actual developments in the future.
These  include the determination of the discount rate,  future salary increases and mortality rates.
Due  to the complexities involved in the valuation  and its long-term nature, a defined benefit  obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these  assumptions.
All assumptions are reviewed at  each reporting date.
g) Expected credit losses on financial assets: The  impairment provisions of financial assets are  based on assumptions about risk of default  and expected timing of collection.
The Company  uses judgment in making these assumptions  and selecting the inputs to the impairment  calculation, based on the Company’s history  of collections, customer’s creditworthiness,  existing market conditions as well as forward  looking estimates at the end of each reporting  period.
h) Measurement of fair value of non-marketable  equity investments: These instruments are  initially recorded at cost and subsequently  measured at fair value.
Fair value of investments  is determined using the market and income  approaches.
The market approach includes the  use of financial metrics and ratios of comparable  companies, such as revenue, earnings,   comparable performance multiples, recent  financial rounds and the level of marketability  of the investments.
The selection of comparable  companies requires management judgment  and is based on a number of factors, including  comparable company sizes, growth rates and  development stages.
The income approach  includes the use of discounted cash flow model,  which requires significant estimates regarding  the investees’ revenue, costs, and discount  rates based on the risk profile of comparable  companies.
Estimates of revenue and costs  are developed using available historical and  forecast data.
i) Useful lives of property, plant and equipment:  The Company depreciates property, plant  and equipment on a straight-line basis over  estimated useful lives of the assets.
The charge  in respect of periodic depreciation is derived  based on an estimate of an asset’s expected  useful life and the expected residual value  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 133 at the end of its life.
The lives are based on  historical experience with similar assets as  well as anticipation of future events, which may  impact their life, such as changes in technology.
The estimated useful life is reviewed at least  annually.
j) Other estimates: The share based compensation  expense is determined based on the Company’s  estimate of equity instruments that will  eventually vest.
Fair valuation of derivative  hedging instruments designated as cash flow  hedges involves significant estimates relating  to the occurrence of forecast transaction 3.
Significant accounting policies (i)  Functional and presentation currency  These financial statements are presented in Indian  rupees, which is the functional currency of the  Company.
(ii) Foreign currency transactions and translation  Transactions in foreign currency are translated  into the functional currency using the exchange  rates prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from  the settlement of such transactions and from  translation at the exchange rates prevailing at the  reporting date of monetary assets and liabilities  denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in  the statement of profit and loss and reported within  foreign exchange gains/(losses), net, within results  of operating activities except when deferred in  other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow  hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Gains/ (losses), net, relating to translation or settlement  of borrowings denominated in foreign currency are  reported within finance expense.
Non-monetary  assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency  and measured at historical cost are translated at the  exchange rate prevalent at the date of transaction.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial  assets measured at fair value at the reporting date,  such as equities classified as fair value through  other comprehensive income are included in other  comprehensive income, net of taxes.
(iii) Financial instruments a)  Non-derivative financial instruments:  Non derivative financial instruments consist of: 	 •	 financial 	assets, 	which 	include 	cash	and	 cash equivalents, trade receivables, unbilled  revenues, finance lease receivables, employee  and other advances, investments in equity and  debt securities and eligible current and non- current assets;   Financial assets are derecognised when  substantial risks and rewards of ownership of  the financial asset have been transferred.
In  cases where substantial risks and rewards of  ownership of the financial assets are neither  transferred nor retained, financial assets are  derecognised only when the Company has not  retained control over the financial asset.
•	 financial 	liabilities,	which	include	long	and	short- term loans and borrowings, bank overdrafts,  trade payables, eligible current and non-current  liabilities.
•	 Non- 	derivative 	financial 	instruments 	are	 recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, non-derivative  financial instruments are measured as described  below:  A.
Cash and cash equivalents   The Company’s cash and cash equivalents  consist of cash on hand and in banks and  demand deposits with banks, which can be  withdrawn at any time, without prior notice or  penalty on the principal.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement,  cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand,  in banks and demand deposits with banks, net of  outstanding bank overdrafts that are repayable  on demand and are considered part of the  Company’s cash management system.
In the  balance sheet, bank overdrafts are presented  under borrowings within current liabilities.
B.
Investments   Financial instruments measured at amortised  cost:   Debt instruments that meet the following criteria  are measured at amortised cost (except for  debt instruments that are designated at fair  value through Profit or Loss (FVTPL) on initial  recognition): 	 	 •	 the 	asset	is	held	within	a	business	model	 whose objective is to hold assets in order  to collect contractual cash flows; and 	 	 •	 the 	contractual	terms	of	the	instrument	give	 rise on specified dates to cash flows that  are solely payment of principal and interest  on the principal amount outstanding.
Financial instruments measured at fair value  through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI):   Debt instruments that meet the following  criteria are measured at fair value through  other comprehensive income (FVTOCI) (except  for debt instruments that are designated at fair  value through Profit or Loss (FVTPL) on initial  recognition) Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 134 Wipro Limited 	 	 •	 the 	asset	is	held	within	a	business	model	 whose objective is achieved both by  collecting contractual cash flows and  selling financial asset; and 	 	 •	 the 	contractual	terms	of	the	instrument	give	 rise on specified dates to cash flows that  are solely payment of principal and interest  on the principal amount outstanding.
Interest income is recognised in statement of  profit and loss for FVTOCI debt instruments.
Other changes in fair value of FVTOCI financial  assets are recognised in other comprehensive  income.
When the investment is disposed off, the  cumulative gain or loss previously accumulated  in reserves is transferred to statement of profit  and loss.
Financial instruments measured at fair value  through profit or loss (FVTPL):   Instruments that do not meet the amortised  cost or FVTOCI criteria are measured at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair  value at the end of each reporting period, with  any gains or losses arising on re-measurement  recognised in statement of profit and loss.
The gain or loss on disposal is recognised in  statement of profit and loss.
Interest income is recognised in statement of  profit and loss for FVTPL debt instruments.
Dividend on financial assets at FVTPL is  recognised when the Company’s right to receive  dividend is established.
Investments in equity instruments designated to  be classified as FVTOCI:   The Company carries certain equity instruments  which are not held for trading.
The Company  has elected the FVTOCI irrevocable option for  these instruments.
Movements in fair value  of these investments are recognised in other  comprehensive income and the gain or loss is not  reclassified to statement of profit and loss on  disposal of these investments.
Dividends from  these investments are recognised in statement  of profit and loss when the Company’s right to  receive dividends is established.
Investments in subsidiaries:   Investment in subsidiaries are measured at cost  less impairment.
C.  Other financial assets:   Other financial assets are non-derivative  financial assets with fixed or determinable  payments that are not quoted in an active  market.
They are presented as current assets,  except for those maturing later than 12 months  after the reporting date which are presented  as non-current assets.
These are initially  recognised at fair value and subsequently  measured at amortised cost using the effective  interest method, less any impairment losses.
These comprise trade receivables, unbilled  revenues, cash and cash equivalents and other  assets.
D.  Trade and other payables   Trade and other payables are initially recognised  at fair value, and subsequently carried at  amortised cost using the effective interest  method.
For these financial instruments, the  carrying amounts approximate fair value due to  the short-term maturity of these instruments.
b)  Derivative financial instruments  The Company is exposed to foreign currency  fluctuations on foreign currency assets, liabilities,  net investment in foreign operations and forecasted  cash flows denominated in foreign currency.
The Company limits the effect of foreign exchange  rate fluctuations by following established risk  management policies including the use of derivatives.
The Company enters into derivative financial  instruments where the counter party is primarily a  bank.
Derivatives are recognised and measured at fair  value.
Attributable transaction costs are recognised  in statement of profit and loss as cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial  instruments are measured as described below:  A.
Cash flow hedges   Changes in the fair value of the derivative  hedging instrument designated as a cash flow  hedge are recognised in other comprehensive  income and held in cash flow hedging reserve,  net of taxes, a component of equity, to the  extent that the hedge is effective.
To the extent  that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair  value are recognised in the statement of profit  and loss and reported within foreign exchange  gains/(losses), net, within results from operating  activities.
If the hedging instrument no longer  meets the criteria for hedge accounting, then  hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold,  terminated or exercised, the cumulative gain  or loss on the hedging instrument recognised  in cash flow hedging reserve till the period  the hedge was effective remains in cash flow  hedging reserve until the forecasted transaction  occurs.
The cumulative gain or loss previously  recognised in the cash flow hedging reserve is  transferred to the statement of profit and loss  upon the occurrence of the related forecasted  transaction.
If the forecasted transaction is  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 135 no longer expected to occur, such cumulative  balance is immediately recognised in the  statement of profit and loss.
B.
Others   Changes in fair value of foreign currency  derivative instruments not designated as cash  flow hedges are recognised in the statement  of profit and loss and reported within foreign  exchange gains/(losses), net within results from  operating activities.
Changes in fair value and gains/(losses), net,  on settlement of foreign currency derivative  instruments relating to borrowings, which have  not been designated as hedges are recorded in  finance expense.
c)  Derecognition of financial instruments  The Company derecognises a financial asset when the  contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial  asset expires or it transfers the financial asset and  the transfer qualifies for derecognition under Ind  AS109.
If the Company retains substantially all the  risks and rewards of a transferred financial asset, the  Company continues to recognise the financial asset  and also recognises a borrowing for the proceeds  received.
A financial liability (or a part of a financial  liability) is derecognised from the Company’s balance  sheet when the obligation specified in the contract  is discharged or cancelled or expires.
(iv) Equity a)  Share capital and share premium  The authorised share capital of the Company as of  March 31, 2018 is `11,265 divided into 5,500,000,000  equity shares of `  2 each, 25,000,000 10.25%  redeemable cumulative preference shares of   ` 10 each and 150,000, 10% optionally convertible  cumulative preference shares of ` 100 each.
Par  value of the equity shares is recorded as share capital  and the amount received in excess of par value is  classified as share premium.
Every holder of the equity shares, as reflected in  the records of the Company as of the date of the  shareholder meeting shall have one vote in respect  of each share held for all matters submitted to vote  in the shareholder meeting.
b)  Capital Reserve  Capital reserve amounting to ` 1,139(March 31, 2017:  `1,139) is not freely available for distribution.
c)  Capital Redemption Reserve  Capital redemption reserve amounting `781 (March  31, 2017: ` 94) is not freely available for distribution.
d)  Retained earnings  Retained earnings comprises of the Company’s  undistributed earnings after taxes.
e)  Share based payment reserve  The share based payment reserve is used to record  the value of equity-settled share based payment  transactions with employees.
The amounts recorded  in share based payment reserve are transferred to  share premium upon exercise of stock options and  restricted stock unit options by employees.
f)  Special Economic Zone Re-Investment reserve  The Special Economic Zone Re-Investment Reserve  has been created out of profit of eligible SEZ units as  per provisions of section 10AA (1)(ii) of the Income– tax Act, 1961 for acquiring new plant and machinery.
The reserve has also been utilised for other business  purposes of SEZ units as per provisions of section  10AA of the Income-tax Act, 1961 till the time the  said reserve is utilised completely for the purposes  of purchasing new plant and machinery.
g)  Other comprehensive income  Changes in the fair value of financial instruments  measured at fair value through other comprehensive  income and actuarial gains and losses on defined  benefit plans are recognised in other comprehensive  income (net of taxes), and presented within equity as  other comprehensive income.
h)  Cash flow hedging reserve  Changes in fair value of derivative hedging instruments  designated and effective as a cash flow hedge are  recognised in other comprehensive income (net of  taxes), and presented within equity as cash flow  hedging reserve.
i)  Foreign currency translation reserve (FCTR)  The exchange differences arising from the translation  of financial statements of foreign operations with  functional currency other than Indian rupees is  recognise in other comprehensive income, net of  taxes and is presented within equity in the FCTR.
j)  Dividend  A final dividend, including tax thereon, on equity  shares is recorded as a liability on the date of  approval by the shareholders.
An interim dividend,  including tax thereon, is recorded as a liability on the  date of declaration by the board of directors.
k)  Buyback of equity shares  The buyback of equity shares and related transaction  costs are recorded as a reduction of free reserves.
Further, capital redemption reserves is created as  an apportionment from retained earnings.
(v) Property, plant and equipment a)  Recognition and measurement  Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost  less accumulated depreciation and impairment  losses, if any.
Cost includes expenditures directly  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 136 Wipro Limited attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
General  and specific borrowing costs directly attributable to  the construction of a qualifying asset are capitalised  as part of the cost.
b)  Depreciation  The Company depreciates property, plant and  equipment over the estimated useful life on a  straight-line basis from the date the assets are  available for use.
Assets acquired under finance  lease and leasehold improvements are amortised  over the shorter of estimated useful life of the asset  or the related lease term.
Term licenses are amortised  over their respective contract term.
Freehold land is  not depreciated.
The estimated useful life of assets  are reviewed and where appropriate are adjusted,  annually.
The estimated useful lives of assets are as  follows: Category Useful life Buildings  28 to 40 years Plant and machinery  5 to 21 years Computer equipment and  software   2 to 7 years Furniture, fixtures and equipment 3 to 10 years Vehicles  4 to 5 years  When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment  have different useful lives, they are accounted for as  separate items (major components) of property, plant  and equipment.
Subsequent expenditure relating to  property, plant and equipment is capitalised only  when it is probable that future economic benefits  associated with these will flow to the Company and  the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
The cost of property, plant and equipment not  available for use before such date are disclosed under  capital work- in-progress.
(vi) Business combination, Goodwill and Intangible  assets a)  Business combination  Business combinations are accounted for using  the purchase (acquisition) method.
The cost of an  acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets  transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity  instruments issued at the date of exchange by the  Company.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities  and contingent liabilities assumed in a business  combination are measured initially at fair value at  the date of acquisition.
Transaction costs incurred in  connection with a business acquisition are expensed  as incurred.
The cost of an acquisition also includes the fair value  of any contingent consideration measured as at the  date of acquisition.
Any subsequent changes to the  fair value of contingent consideration classified  as liabilities, other than measurement period  adjustments, are recognised in the statement of  profit and loss.
b)  Goodwill  The excess of the cost of an acquisition over the  Company’s share in the fair value of the acquiree’s  identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent  liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
If the excess is  negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised in  equity as capital reserve.
Goodwill is measured at  cost less accumulated impairment (if any).
c)  Intangible assets  Intangible assets acquired separately are measured  at cost of acquisition.
Intangible assets acquired  in a business combination are measured at fair  value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial  recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less  accumulated amortization and impairment losses, if  any.
The amortization of an intangible asset with a finite  useful life reflects the manner in which the economic  benefit is expected to be generated.
The estimated useful life of amortisable intangibles  is reviewed and where appropriate are adjusted,  annually.
The estimated useful lives of the amortisable  intangible assets for the current and comparative  periods are as follows: Category Useful life Customer related intangibles  5 to 10 years Marketing related intangibles  3 to 10 years (vii) Leases  The determination of whether an arrangement is, or  contains, a lease is based on the substance of the  arrangement at the inception date.
The arrangement  is, or contains a lease if, fulfillment of the arrangement  is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets  or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset  or assets, even if that right is not explicitly specified  in an arrangement.
a)  Arrangements where the Company is the lessee  Leases of property, plant and equipment, where the  Company assumes substantially all the risks and  rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at lower of the fair  value of the leased property and the present value  of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments  are apportioned between the finance charge and the  outstanding liability.
The finance charge is allocated  to periods during the lease term at a constant  periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of  the liability.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all  the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as  operating leases.
Payments made under operating  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 137 leases are recognised in the statement of profit and  loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
b)  Arrangements where the Company is the lessor  In certain arrangements, the Company recognises  revenue from the sale of products given under  finance leases.
The Company records gross  finance receivables, unearned income and the  estimated residual value of the leased equipment  on consummation of such leases.
Unearned income  represents the excess of the gross finance lease  receivable plus the estimated residual value over  the sales price of the equipment.
The Company  recognises unearned income as finance income over  the lease term using the effective interest method.
(viii) Inventories  Inventories are valued at lower of cost and net  realisable value, including necessary provision for  obsolescence.
Cost is determined using the weighted  average method.
(ix) Impairment  A)  Financial assets   The Company applies the expected credit  loss model for recognizing impairment loss  on financial assets measured at amortised  cost, debt instruments classified as FVTOCI,  lease receivables, trade receivables and other  financial assets.
Expected credit loss is the  difference between the contractual cash flows  and the cash flows that the entity expects to  receive discounted using effective interest rate.
Loss allowances for trade receivables and lease  receivables are measured at an amount equal  to lifetime expected credit losses.
Lifetime  expected credit losses are the expected credit  losses that result from all possible default  events over the expected life of a financial  instrument.
Lifetime expected credit loss  is computed based on a provision matrix  which takes in to the account risk profiling of  customers and historical credit loss experience  adjusted for forward looking information.
For  other financial assets, expected credit loss is  measured at the amount equal to twelve months  expected credit loss unless there has been a  significant increase in credit risk from initial  recognition, in which case those are measured  at lifetime expected credit loss.
B)  Non - financial assets   The Company assesses long-lived assets such  as property, plant and equipment and acquired  intangible assets for impairment whenever  events or changes in circumstances indicate  that the carrying amount of an asset or group  of assets may not be recoverable.
If any such  indication exists, the Company estimates the  recoverable amount of the asset or group of  assets.
The recoverable amount of an asset  or cash generating unit is the higher of its fair  value less cost of disposal (FVLCD) and its  value-in-use (VIU).
The VIU of long-lived assets  is calculated using projected future cash flows.
FVLCD of a cash generating unit is computed  using turnover and earnings multiples.
If  the recoverable amount of the asset or the  recoverable amount of the cash generating  unit to which the asset belongs is less than its  carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced  to its recoverable amount.
The reduction is  treated as an impairment loss and is recognised  in the statement of profit and loss.
If at the  reporting date, there is an indication that a  previously assessed impairment loss no longer  exists, the recoverable amount is reassessed and  the impairment losses previously recognised are  reversed such that the asset is recognised at its  recoverable amount but not exceeding written  down value which would have been reported if  the impairment losses had not been recognised  initially.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least  annually at the same time and when events  occur or changes in circumstances indicate  that the recoverable amount of the cash  generating unit is less than its carrying value.
The goodwill impairment test is performed at  the level of cash-generating unit or groups of  cash-generating units which represent the  lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for  internal management purposes.
An impairment  in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
(x) Employee benefits a)  Post-employment and pension plans  The Company participates in various employee  benefit plans.
Pensions and other post-employment  benefits are classified as either defined contribution  plans or defined benefit plans.
Under a defined  contribution plan, the Company’s only obligation is to  pay a fixed amount with no obligation to pay further  contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient  assets to pay all employee benefits.
The related  actuarial and investment risks fall on the employee.
The expenditure for defined contribution plans is  recognised as an expense during the period when the  employee provides service.
Under a defined benefit  plan, it is the Company’s obligation to provide agreed  benefits to the employees.
The related actuarial and  investment risks fall on the Company.
The present  value of the defined benefit obligations is calculated  by an independent actuary using the projected unit  credit method.
Actuarial gains or losses are immediately recognised  in other comprehensive income, net of taxes and  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 138 Wipro Limited permanently excluded from profit or loss.
Further,  the profit or loss will no longer include an expected  return on plan assets.
Instead net interest recognised  in profit or loss is calculated by applying the discount  rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation  to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
The actual  return on the plan assets above or below the discount  rate is recognised as part of re-measurement of net  defined liability or asset through other comprehensive  income, net of taxes.
The Company has the following employee benefit  plans:  A.  Provident fund   Employees receive benefits from a provident  fund, which is a defined benefit plan.
The  employer and employees each make periodic  contributions to the plan.
A portion of the  contribution is made to the approved provident  fund trust managed by the Company while  the remainder of the contribution is made to  the government administered pension fund.
The contributions to the trust managed by the  Company is accounted for as a defined benefit  plan as the Company is liable for any shortfall  in the fund assets based on the government  specified minimum rates of return.
B.  Superannuation   Superannuation plan, a defined contribution  scheme is administered by third party fund  managers.
The Company makes annual  contributions based on a specified percentage  of each eligible employee’s salary.
C.  Gratuity   In accordance with the Payment of Gratuity  Act, 1972, applicable for Indian companies, the  Company provides for a lump sum payment to  eligible employees, at retirement or termination  of employment based on the last drawn salary  and years of employment with the Company.
The  gratuity fund is managed by the third-party fund  managers.
The Company’s obligation in respect  of the gratuity plan, which is a defined benefit  plan, is provided for based on actuarial valuation  using the projected unit credit method.
The  Company recognises actuarial gains and losses  in other comprehensive income, net of taxes.
b)  Termination benefits  Termination benefits are expensed when the  Company can no longer withdraw the offer of those  benefits.
c)  Short-term benefits  Short-term employee benefit obligations are  measured on an undiscounted basis and are recorded  as expense as the related service is provided.
A  liability is recognised for the amount expected to  be paid under short-term cash bonus or profit- sharing plans, if the Company has a present legal  or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a  result of past service provided by the employee and  the obligation can be estimated reliably.
d)  Compensated absences  The employees of the Company are entitled to  compensated absences.
The employees can carry  forward a portion of the unutilised accumulating  compensated absences and utilise it in future  periods or receive cash at retirement or termination  of employment.
The Company records an obligation  for compensated absences in the period in which the  employee renders the services that increases this  entitlement.
The Company measures the expected  cost of compensated absences as the additional  amount that the Company expects to pay as a result  of the unused entitlement that has accumulated  at the end of the reporting period.
The Company  recognises accumulated compensated absences  based on actuarial valuation using the projected  unit credit method.
Non-accumulating compensated  absences are recognised in the period in which the  absences occur.
(xi) Share based payment transactions  Selected employees of the Company receive  remuneration in the form of equity settled instruments,  for rendering services over a defined vesting period.
Equity instruments granted are measured by  reference to the fair value of the instrument at the  date of grant.
In cases, where equity instruments  are granted at a nominal exercise price, the intrinsic  value on the date of grant approximates the fair value.
The expense is recognised in the statement of profit  and loss with a corresponding increase to the share  based payment reserve, a component of equity.
The equity instruments generally vest in a graded  manner over the vesting period.
The fair value  determined at the grant date is expensed over  the vesting period of the respective tranches of  such grants (accelerated amortization).
The stock  compensation expense is determined based on the  Company’s estimate of equity instruments that will  eventually vest.
(xii) Provisions  Provisions are recognised when the Company has  a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a  result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow  of economic benefits will be required to settle the  obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the  amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best  estimate of the consideration required to settle the  present obligation at the end of the reporting period,  taking into account the risks and uncertainties  surrounding the obligation.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 139  When some or all of the economic benefits required  to settle a provision are expected to be recovered  from a third party, the receivable is recognised as an  asset, if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will  be received and the amount of the receivable can be  measured reliably.
Provisions for onerous contracts are recognised when  the expected benefits to be derived by the Company  from a contract are lower than the unavoidable costs  of meeting the future obligations under the contract.
Provisions for onerous contracts are measured at  the present value of lower of the expected net cost  of fulfilling the contract and the expected cost of  terminating the contract.
(xiii) Revenue  The Company derives revenue primarily from software  development, maintenance of software/hardware  and related services, business process services, sale  of IT and other products.
a)  Services  The Company recognises revenue when the significant  terms of the arrangement are enforceable, services  have been delivered and the collectability is  reasonably assured.
The method for recognizing  revenues and costs depends on the nature of the  services rendered:  A.
Time and materials contracts   Revenues and costs relating to time and  materials contracts are recognised as the  related services are rendered.
B.  Fixed-price contracts   Revenues from fixed-price contracts, including  systems development and integration contracts  are recognised using the “percentage-of- completion” method.
Percentage of completion  is determined based on project costs incurred  to date as a percentage of total estimated  project costs required to complete the project.
The cost expended (or input) method has been  used to measure progress towards completion  as there is a direct relationship between input  and productivity.
If the Company does not have  a sufficient basis to measure the progress of  completion or to estimate the total contract  revenues and costs, revenue is recognised  only to the extent of contract cost incurred for  which recoverability is probable.
When total cost  estimates exceed revenues in an arrangement,  the estimated losses are recognised in the  statement of profit and loss in the period in  which such losses become probable based on  the current contract estimates.
‘Unbilled revenues’ represent cost and earnings  in excess of billings as at the end of the reporting  period.
‘Unearned revenues’ represent billing  in excess of revenue recognised.
Advance  payments received from customers for which  no services have been rendered are presented  as ‘Advance from customers’ .
C.  Maintenance contracts   Revenue from maintenance contracts is  recognised ratably over the period of the  contract using the percentage of completion  method.
When services are performed through  an indefinite number of repetitive acts over a  specified period of time, revenue is recognised  on a straight-line basis over the specified period  unless some other method better represents the  stage of completion.
In certain projects, a fixed quantum of service or  output units is agreed at a fixed price for a fixed  term.
In such contracts, revenue is recognised  with respect to the actual output achieved till  date as a percentage of total contractual output.
Any residual service unutilised by the customer  is recognised as revenue on completion of the  term.
b)  Products  Revenue from products are recognised when the  significant risks and rewards of ownership have  been transferred to the buyer, continuing managerial  involvement usually associated with ownership  and effective control have ceased, the amount of  revenue can be measured reliably, it is probable that  economic benefits associated with the transaction  will flow to the Company and the costs incurred or  to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be  measured reliably.
c)  Multiple element arrangements  Revenue from contracts with multiple-element  arrangements are recognised using the guidance  in Ind AS 18, Revenue.
The Company allocates the  arrangement consideration to separately identifiable  components based on their relative fair values or  on the residual method.
Fair values are determined  based on sale prices for the components when it  is regularly sold separately, third-party prices for  similar components or cost plus an appropriate  business-specific profit margin related to the  relevant component.
d)  Others 	 •	 The 	Company	accounts	for	volume	discounts	 and pricing incentives to customers by reducing  the amount of revenue recognised at the time of  sale.
•	 Revenues 	are	shown	net	of	sales	tax,	value	 added tax, service tax, goods and sales tax and  applicable discounts and allowances.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 140 Wipro Limited 	 •	 The 	Company	accrues	the	estimated	cost	of	 warranties at the time when the revenue is  recognised.
The accruals are based on the  Company’s historical experience of material  usage and service delivery costs.
•	 Costs 	that	relate	directly	to	a	contract	and	 incurred in securing a contract are recognised as  an asset and amortised over the contract term  as reduction in revenue 	 •	 Contract 	expenses	are	recognised	as	expenses	 by reference to the stage of completion of  contract activity at the end of the reporting  period.
(xiv) Finance cost  Finance cost comprise interest cost on borrowings,  gain or losses arising on re-measurement of financial  assets at FVTPL, gains/ (losses) on translation  or settlement of foreign currency borrowings  and changes in fair value and gains/ (losses) on  settlement of related derivative instruments.
Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to  a qualifying asset are recognised in the statement of  profit and loss using the effective interest method.
(xv) Other income  Other income comprises interest income on deposits,  dividend income and gains / (losses), net, on disposal  of investments.
Interest income is recognised using  the effective interest method.
Dividend income is  recognised when the right to receive payment is  established.
(xvi) Income tax  Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax expense is recognised in the statement  of profit and loss except to the extent it relates to a  business combination, or items directly recognised  in equity or in other comprehensive income.
a)  Current income tax  Current income tax for the current and prior periods  are measured at the amount expected to be recovered  from or paid to the taxation authorities based on the  taxable income for the period.
The tax rates and tax  laws used to compute the current tax amount are  those that are enacted or substantively enacted as at  the reporting date and applicable for the period.
The  Company offsets current tax assets and current tax  liabilities, where it has a legally enforceable right to  set off the recognised amounts and where it intends  either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset  and liability simultaneously.
b)  Deferred income tax  Deferred income tax is recognised using the balance  sheet approach.
Deferred income tax assets and  liabilities are recognised for deductible and taxable  temporary differences arising between the tax base  of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount  in financial statements, except when the deferred  income tax arises from the initial recognition of  goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that  is not a business combination and affects neither  accounting nor taxable profits or loss at the time of  the transaction.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the  extent it is probable that taxable profit will be  available against which the deductible temporary  differences and the carry forward of unused tax  credits and unused tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for  all taxable temporary differences except in respect  of taxable temporary differences that is expected  to reverse within the tax holiday period, taxable  temporary differences associated with investments  in subsidiaries, associates and foreign branches  where the timing of the reversal of the temporary  difference can be controlled and it is probable that  the temporary difference will not reverse in the  foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is  reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the  extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient  taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of  the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are  measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply  in the period when the asset is realised or the liability  is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that  have been enacted or substantively enacted at the  reporting date.
The Company offsets deferred income tax assets  and liabilities, where it has a legally enforceable  right to offset current tax assets against current  tax liabilities, and they relate to taxes levied by the  same taxation authority on either the same taxable  entity, or on different taxable entities where there is  an intention to settle the current tax liabilities and  assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities  will be realised simultaneously.
(xvii) Earnings per share  Basic earnings per share is computed using  the weighted average number of equity shares  outstanding during the period adjusted for treasury  shares held.
Diluted earnings per share is computed  using the weighted-average number of equity and  dilutive equivalent shares outstanding during the  period, using the treasury stock method for options  and warrants, except where the results would be  anti-dilutive.
The number of equity shares and potentially dilutive  equity shares are adjusted retrospectively for all  periods presented for any splits and bonus shares  issues including for change effected prior to the  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 141 approval of the financial statements by the Board of  Directors.
(xviii) Cash flow statement  Cash flows are reported using the indirect method,  whereby profit for the period is adjusted for the  effects of transactions of a non-cash nature, any  deferrals or accruals of past operating cash receipts  or payments and item of income or expenses  associated with investing or financing cash flows.
The cash from operating, investing and financing  activities of the Company are segregated.
(xix) Discontinued operations  A discontinued operation is a component of the  Company’s business that represents a separate line  of business that has been disposed off or is held  for sale, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with  a view to resale.
Classification as a discontinued  operation occurs upon the earlier of disposal or when  the operation meets the criteria to be classified as  held for sale.
(xx) Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale  Assets of disposal groups that is available for  immediate sale and where the sale is highly probable  of being completed within one year from the date of  classification are considered and classified as assets  held for sale.
Noncurrent assets and disposal groups  held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying  amount and fair value less costs to sell.
New accounting standards adopted by the Company:  The accounting policies adopted in the preparation  of the financial statements are consistent with those  followed in the preparation of the Company’s annual  financial statements for the year ended March 31,  2017.
Amendment to Ind AS 7- Statement of Cash Flows  The amendment requires entities to provide  disclosures about changes in their liabilities arising  from financing activities, including both changes  arising from cash flows and non-cash changes  (such as foreign exchange gains or losses).
On  initial application of the amendment, entities are  not required to provide comparative information for  preceding periods.
The effect on adoption of Ind AS  7 on the financial statements is insignificant.
New accounting standards not yet adopted:  A new standard and amendment to a standard are not  yet effective for annual periods beginning after April  1, 2017, and have not been applied in preparing these  financial statements.
New standard and amendment  to standard that could have a potential impact on the  financial statements of the Company are:  Ind AS 115- Revenue from Contract with Customers  In March 2018, Ministry of Corporate Affairs  (“MCA”) has notified the Ind AS 115, Revenue from  Contract with Customers.
Ind AS 115 replaces  existing revenue recognition standards Ind AS 11,  Construction Contracts,Ind AS 18, Revenue and  revised guidance note of the Institute of Chartered  Accountants of India (ICAI) on Accounting for Real  Estate Transactions for Ind AS entities issued in  2016.
According to the new standard, revenue is  recognised to depict the transfer of promised goods  or services to a customer in an amount that reflects  the consideration to which the entity expects to be  entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Ind  AS 115 establishes a five-step model that will apply to  revenue earned from a contract with a customer (with  limited exceptions), regardless of the type of revenue  transaction or the industry.
Extensive disclosures will  be required,including disaggregation of total revenue;  information about performance obligation; changes  in contract asset and liability account balances  between periods and key judgments and estimates.
The standard allows for two methods of transition:  the full retrospective approach, under which the  standard will be applied retrospectively to each  reported period presented, or the cumulative catch  up approach, where the cumulative effect of applying  the standard retrospectively is recognised at the  date of initial application.
The standard is effective  for annual periods beginning on or after April 1,  2018.
The Company will adopt this standard using  the cumulative catch up transition method effective  April 1, 2018 and accordingly, the comparative for  year ended March 31, 2018, will not be retrospectively  adjusted.
The adoption of the new standard is  expected to result in a reduction of approximately  `1,604 in opening retained earnings, primarily  relating to certain contract costs because these  will not meet the criteria for recognition as contract  fulfillment asset.
Appendix B to Ind AS 21, Foreign Currency  Transactions and Advance Consideration  In March 2018, Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”)  has notified the Companies (Indian Accounting  Standards) Amendment Rules, 2018 containing  Appendix B to Ind AS 21, Foreign Currency Transactions  and Advance Consideration which clarifies that the  date of the transaction for the purpose of determining  the exchange rate to use on initial recognition of the  related asset, expense or income is the date on which  an entity initially recognises the non-monetary asset  or non-monetary liability arising from the payment or  receipt of advance consideration in a foreign currency.
The effective date for adoption of the amendment is  annual reporting periods beginning on or after April  1, 2018, though early adoption is permitted.
The  Company will apply the interpretation prospectively  from the effective date and the effect on adoption of  Appendix B to Ind AS 21 on the financial statements  is insignificant.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 142 Wipro Limited 4.
Property, Plant and Equipment Land Buildings Plant and  machinery * Furniture  and  fixtures Office  equipment Vehicles Total Gross carrying value: As at April 1, 2016 ` 3,490 ` 21,772 ` 59,293 ` 8,506 ` 3,511 ` 490 ` 97,062 Additions - 353 10,772 756 562 5 12,448 Disposals/ adjustments - (13) (5,336) (335) (26) (164) (5,874) As at March 31, 2017 ` 3,490 ` 22,112 ` 64,729 ` 8,927 ` 4,047 ` 331 ` 103,636 Accumulated depreciation/  impairment: As at April 1, 2016 - ` 3,814 ` 46,695 ` 6,850 ` 2,810 ` 475 ` 60,644 Depreciation - 718 8,586 486 288 4 10,082 Disposals/ adjustments - 34 (4,301) (225) 7 (160) (4,645) As at March 31, 2017 - ` 4,566 ` 50,980 ` 7,111 ` 3,105 ` 319 ` 66,081 Net book value as at March  31, 2017 ` 3,490 ` 17,546 ` 13,749 ` 1,816 ` 942 ` 12 ` 37,555 Gross carrying value: As at April 1, 2017 ` 3,490 ` 22,112 ` 64,729 ` 8,927 ` 4,047 ` 331 ` 103,636 Additions - 1,202 7,428 811 517 943 10,901 Disposals/ adjustments - (175) (6,247) (589) (220) (267) (7,498) Assets reclassified as held  for sale - - (305) - - - (305) As at March 31, 2018 ` 3,490 ` 23,139 ` 65,605 ` 9,149 ` 4,344 ` 1,007 ` 106,734 Accumulated depreciation/  impairment: As at April 1, 2017 - ` 4,566 ` 50,980 ` 7,111 ` 3,105 ` 319 ` 66,081 Depreciation - 740 7,690 552 349 358 9,689 Disposals/ adjustments - (57) (5,847) (490) (215) (232) (6,841) Assets reclassified as held  for sale - - (221) - - - (221) As at March 31, 2018 - ` 5,249 ` 52,602 ` 7,173 ` 3,239 ` 445 ` 68,708 Net book value as at March  31, 2018` 3,490 ` 17,890 ` 13,003 ` 1,976 ` 1,105 ` 562 ` 38,026  * Including net carrying value of computer equipment and software amounting to ` 9,461 and ` 7,099 as at March  31, 2018 and 2017 respectively.
Interest capitalised by the Company was ` 157 and ` 89 for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively.
The capitalization rate used to determine the amount of borrowing cost capitalised for the year ended March 31,  2018 and 2017 are 1.9% and 2.4%, respectively.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 143 5.
Goodwill and other intangible assets  The Company is organized by two operating segments: IT Services and IT Products.
Goodwill as at March 31, 2018  and 2017 has been allocated to the IT Services operating segment.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the company realigned its CGUs.
This realignment did not have any impact  on allocation of goodwill to the CGUs.
Below is the allocation of the goodwill to the CGUs: CGUs  As at  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Energy, Natural Resources and Utilities (ENU) ` 3,782 ` 3,782  Banking Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI)  100  100  Total ` 3,882 ` 3,882   For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to a CGU representing the lowest level within the  company at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes, and which is not higher than the  Company’s operating segment.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with the Company’s  procedure for determining the recoverable value of each CGU.
The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined on the basis of Fair Value Less Cost of Disposal (FVLCD).
The  FVLCD of the CGU is determined based on the market capitalization approach, using the turnover and earnings  multiples derived from observable market data.
The fair value measurement is categorised as a level 2 fair value  based on the inputs in the valuation techniques used.
Based on the above testing, no impairment was identified as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 as the recoverable value  of the CGUs exceeded the carrying value.
Further, none of the CGU’s tested for impairment as of March 31, 2018  and 2017 were at risk of impairment.
An analysis of the calculation’s sensitivity to a change in the key parameters  (turnover and earnings multiples), did not identify any probable scenarios where the CGU’s recoverable amount  would fall below its carrying amount.
Movement in intangible assets is given below: Intangible assets Customer  related Marketing  related * Total Gross carrying value: As at April 1, 2016 `             738 `               78 `             816 Additions 2,175 - 2,175 Disposal/ adjustment - - - As at March 31, 2017 2,913 78 2,991 Accumulated amortization/ impairment: As at April 1, 2016 `             367 `               74 `             441 Amortization 387 13 400 Disposal/ adjustment - (35) (35) As at March 31, 2017 754 52 806 Net carrying value as at March 31, 2017 `          2,159 `               26 `          2,185 Gross carrying value: As at April 1, 2017 `          2,913 `               78 `          2,991 Additions - - - Disposal/ adjustment - - - As at March 31, 2018 `          2,913 `               78 `          2,991 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 144 Wipro Limited Intangible assets Customer  related Marketing  related * Total Accumulated amortization/impairment: As at April 1, 2017 `              754 `               52 `              806 Amortization 397 26 423 Disposal/ adjustment - - - As at March 31, 2018 `          1,151 `               78 `          1,229 Net carrying value as at March 31, 2018 `          1,762 `                  - `          1,762  * Marketing related intangible assets include Technical Know-how, patents and trademarks.
Addition during the year ended March 31, 2017 represents customer relationship assigned to the Company under  a contract with a Group company.
The estimated remaining useful life of this is 5 years as of March 31, 2018.
6.
Investments  Non-current Investments As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Financial instruments at FVTOCI  Equity instruments -unquoted (Refer note 6.1) 228 3,533 Financial instruments at amortised cost  Inter corporate and term deposits-unquoted ** 3,500 1,774 `           3,728 `           5,307 Investment in Subsidiaries- unquoted 54,688 54,687 `        58,416 `        59,994 Aggregate amount of unquoted investments 58,416 59,994 Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments in subsidiaries*** - 2,196  Current Investments As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Financial instruments at FVTPL  Investments in liquid and short-term mutual funds -unquoted * `        46,438 `      104,675  Others - Debentures -unquoted - 569 Financial instruments at FVTOCI  Equity instruments -unquoted (Refer note 6.1) 1,545 -   Commercial paper, Certificate of deposits and bonds -unquoted   (Refer note 6.2) 23,343 65,279  Non-convertible debentures and bonds - quoted (Refer note 6.3) 152,891 80,335 Financial instruments at amortised cost  Inter corporate and term deposits -unquoted ** 24,158 40,609 `      248,375 `      291,467 Investment in Subsidiaries- unquoted (Refer note 36) 37 - `      248,412 `      291,467 Aggregate amount of quoted investments and aggregate market value thereof 152,891 80,335 Aggregate amount of unquoted investments 95,521 211,132  * Investments in liquid and short-term mutual funds include investments amounting to ` Nil (March 31, 2017:   ` 117) pledged as margin money deposits for entering into currency future contracts.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 145  ** These deposits earn a fixed rate of interest.
** Term deposits include deposits in lien with banks amounting to ` 453 (March 31, 2017: ` 308).
*** Wipro Holdings (Mauritius) Limited was liquidated during the year ended March 31, 2018.
Details of investments: 6.1  Details of investments in equity instruments-other than subsidiaries(fully paid-up) - classified as FVTOCI  Particulars Number of Shares Carrying value As at As at March 31,  2018 March 31,  2017 March 31,  2018 March 31,  2017 Non-Current Opera Solutions LLC - 2,390,433 `                    - `          3,232 Mycity Technology Limited 44,935 44,935 - 45 Wep Peripherals Limited 306,000 306,000 39 42 Wep Solutions Limited 1,836,000 1,836,000 72 97 Drivestream India Private Limited 267,600 267,600 19 19 Altizon Systems Private Limited 16,018 16,018 98 98 `              228 `           3,533 Current Opera Solutions LLC 2,390,433 - `          1,545 `                     - `          1,545 `                   - Total `          1,773 `          3,533 6.2 Investment in certificate of deposits/ commercial papers and bonds (unquoted)– classified as FVTOCI Particulars of issuer  As at  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Current Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited `          4,808 `          4,643 Canfin Homes Limited 4,545 755 Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited 3,333 9,931 IDFC Limited 3,223 9,482 L&T Finance Limited 2,143 1,847 HDB Financial Services Limited 1,980 3,649 LIC Housing Finance Limited 1,532 8,153 L&T Infrastructure Finance Company Limited 931 1,605 Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited 495 3,075 Bajaj Finance Limited 299 1,064 Sundaram Finance Limited 54 1,968 Aditya Birla Finance Limited - 4,103 Housing Development Finance Corp Limited - 4,837 L&T Housing Finance Limited - 2,328 Shriram Transport Finance Limited - 533 Tata Capital Financial Services Limited - 5,903 Tata Capital Housing Finance Limited - 1,403 Total `        23,343 `        65,279 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 146 Wipro Limited 6.3 Investment in non-convertible deposits and bonds (quoted) – classified as FVTOCI Particulars of issuer  As at  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Current LIC Housing Finance Limited `        21,231 `          1,659 Housing Development Finance Corp Limited 18,667 4,223 National Highways Authority Of India 18,456 18,359 Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited 10,288 2,026 HDB Financial Services Limited 10,969 7,830 Tata Capital Financial Services Limited 6,962 1,390 Hero Fincorp Limited 6,923 - Sundaram Finance Limited 6,643 4,864 L&T Finance Limited 6,169 3,457 L&T Infrastructure Finance Company Limited 6,126 5,709 Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited 5,899 3,649 Aditya Birla Finance Limited 5,202 2,983 Tata Capital Housing Finance Limited 5,045 715 L&T Housing Finance Limited 4,986 4,737 Idfc Limited 1,569 2,088 Bajaj Finance Limited 4,238 1,873 Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited 3,796 3,776 Canfin Homes Limited 1,904 - 6.79% GOI Security 2027 1,951 - Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited 1,842 1,715 Gruh Finance Limited 1,247 1,024 NABARD 968 440 Power Finance Corporation Limited 960 958 NTPC Limited 427 425 Rural Electrification Corporation Limited 423 423 Shriram Transport Finance Limited - 6,012 Total `      152,891 `        80,335 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 147 6.4 Details of investment in unquoted equity and preference instruments of subsidiaries (fully paid up) Name of the subsidiary Number of Units as at Balances as at  Currency Face  Value March 31,  2018 March 31,  2017 March 31,  2018 March 31,  2017 Non-Current Equity Instrument Wipro Trademarks Holding Limited` 10 93,250 93,250 22 22 Wipro Travel Services Limited ` 10 66,171 66,171 1 1 Wipro Holdings (Mauritius) Limited * USD 1 - 105,468,318 - 4,747 Wipro LLC USD 2,500 180,378 180,378 23,135 23,135 Wipro Japan KK JPY Note 1 650 650 6 10 Wipro Japan KK USD 16 16 641 1002 Wipro Shanghai Limited Note 2 - - 9 9 Wipro Cyprus Private Limited EUR 1 163,611 163,611 18,903 18,903 Wipro Networks Pte Limited SGD 1 28,126,108 28,126,108 1,339 1,339 Wipro Chengdu Limited Note 2 - - 24 24 Wipro Airport IT Services  Limited(Refer note 36) ` 10 - 3,700,000 - 37 Wipro Overseas IT Services Pvt.
Ltd. ` 10 50,000 50,000 ^ ^ Appirio India Cloud Solutions  Private Limited ` 10 800,000 800,000 995 995 Wipro Holdings UK Limited USD 1 130,151,974 - 4,480 - Wipro IT Services Bangladesh Limited BDT 10 10,000,000 - 78 - Sub-total 49,633 50,224 Preference Shares Wipro Cyprus Private Limited  (Redeemable) EUR 1 45,000 45,000 5,055 5055 Wipro Holdings (Mauritius) Limited  (Redeemable) * USD 1 - 25,000,000 - 1604 Wipro Trademarks Holding Limited  (9% cumulative redeemable)` 10 - 1,800 - ^ Sub-total 5,055 6,659 Total Non-Current 54,688 56,883 Current Wipro Airport IT Services Limited  (Refer note 36) ` 10 3,700,000 - 37 - Total Current 37 - Total investment in unquoted equity and preference instruments of subsidiaries 54,725 56,883  Note 1- As per the local laws of Japan, there is no concept of Face value of Shares.
Note 2 - As per the local laws of People’s Republic of China, there is no concept of issuance of Share Certificate.
Hence the investment by the Company is considered as equity contribution.
* Wipro Holdings (Mauritius) Limited was liquidated during the year ended March 31, 2018.
^ Value of investment is less than `1 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 148 Wipro Limited 7.
Trade receivables As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Unsecured Considered good `        99,466 `        85,297 Considered doubtful 11,514 7,722 `      110,980 `        93,019 Less: Allowance for lifetime expected credit loss (Refer note 26) (11,514) (7,722) `        99,466 `        85,297 Included in the financial statement as follows: Non-current 4,446 3,998 Current 95,020 81,299 The activity in the allowance for lifetime expected credit loss is given below: As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Balance at the beginning of the year `          7,722 `          7,568 Additions during the year, net 3,792 1,825 Uncollectable receivables charged against allowance - (1,671) Balance at the end of the year `        11,514 `          7,722 8.
Cash and cash equivalents  Cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 consists of cash and balances on deposit with banks.
Cash and cash equivalents consists of the following: As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Balances with banks Current accounts `        10,897 `        15,969 Unclaimed dividend 43 50 Demand deposits * 12,035 18,555 Cheques, drafts on hand 245 592 `        23,220 `        35,166  * These deposits can be withdrawn by the Company at any time without prior notice and without any penalty on  the principal.
Cash and cash equivalents consists of the following for the purpose of the cash flow statement: As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Cash and cash equivalents `        23,220 `        35,166 Bank overdrafts (3,998) (1,544) `        19,222 `        33,622 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 149 9.
Other Financial Assets As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Non-current Advance to related parties `                   - `                 43 Security deposits 984 1,497 Other deposits 247 49 Finance lease receivables 1,847 1,956 `          3,078 `          3,545 Current Due from officers and employees `              559 `              757 Finance lease receivables 1,381 1,560 Interest receivable 426 2,147 Security Deposits 1,099 173 Others 1,753 1,514 Considered doubtful 790 469 `          6,008 `          6,620 Less : Provision for doubtful advances (790) (469) `          5,218 `          6,151 Total `          8,296 `          9,696  The activities in the provision for doubtful advances is given below: As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Balance at the beginning of the year `           469 `             714 Addition during the year, net 327 16 Uncollectable advances charged against allowance (6) (261) Balance at the end of the year `             790 `             469  Finance lease receivables  Leasing arrangements  Finance lease receivables consist of assets that are leased to customers for contract terms ranging from 1 to 5  years, with lease payments due in monthly or quarterly installments.
Amounts receivable under finance leases:  The components of finance lease receivables are as follows: Minimum lease payments Present value of minimum  lease payment As at As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Not later than one year `          1,484 `          1,737 `          1,381 `          1,560 Later than one year but not later than five years 1,969 1979 1,847 1,898 Later than five years - - - - Unguaranteed residual values - 62 - 58 Gross investment in lease 3,453 3,778 3,228 3,516 Less: Unearned finance income (225) (262) - - Present value of minimum lease payment  receivables`          3,228 `          3,516 `          3,228 `          3,516 Included in the balance sheet as follows: - Non-current finance lease receivables 1,847 1,956 - Current finance lease receivables 1,381 1,560 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 150 Wipro Limited 10.
Inventories As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Finished goods [including goods in transit- ` 3 (` 2 for March 31, 2017) `                   3 `                   5 Stock-in-trade 2,171 2,746 Stores and spares 769 808 `          2,943 `          3,559 11.
Other assets As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Non-current Capital advances `          1,389 `           1,573 Prepaid expenses including rentals for leasehold land and Deposits 5,870 6,984 Others 4,468 3,175 Assets reclassified as held for sale (113) - `        11,614 `        11,732 Current Prepaid expenses `           9,750 `           8,583 Due from officers and employees 1,147 1,384 Advances to suppliers 1,191 1,169 Deferred contract costs 2,846 4,270 Balance with excise, customs and other authorities 3,442 2,013 Assets reclassified as held for sale (254) - `        18,122 `        17,419 Total `        29,736 `        29,151 12.
Share Capital As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Authorised capital 5,500,000,000 (March 31, 2017: 2,917,500,000) equity shares [Par value of ` 2 per share] `        11,000 `          5,835 25,000,000 (March 31, 2017: 25,000,000) 10.25 % redeemable cumulative  preference shares [Par value of ` 10 per share] 250 250 150,000 (March 31, 2017:1,50,000) 10% Optionally convertible cumulative  preference shares [Par value of ` 100 per share] 15 15 `        11,265 `          6,100 Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up capital 4,523,784,491 (March  31, 2017: 2,430,900,565) equity shares of ` 2 each 9,048 4,861 `          9,048 `          4,861  Terms / Rights attached to equity shares  The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of `2 per share.
Each shareholder of equity  shares is entitled to one vote per share.
The Company declares and pays dividend in Indian Rupees.
The dividend  proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to shareholders approval in the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
Following is the summary of per share dividends recognised as distributions to equity shareholders: For the year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Interim dividend `                 1 `                 2 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 151  In the event of liquidation of the Company, the equity shareholders will be entitled to receive the remaining assets  of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts, if any, in proportion to the number of equity shares  held by the shareholders.
i. Reconciliation of number of shares As at March 31, 2018 As at March 31, 2017 No of shares ` million No of shares ` million Opening number of equity shares / American Depository  Receipts (ADRs) outstanding2,430,900,565 4,861 2,470,713,290 4941 Equity shares issued pursuant to Employee Stock Option  Plan* 3,559,599 8 187,275  ^  Issue of bonus shares (Refer note 28) 2,433,074,327 4,866 - - Buyback of equity shares (Refer note 28) (343,750,000) (687) (40,000,000) (80) Closing number of equity shares / ADRs outstanding - 9,048 2,430,900,565 4,861  * 4,351,775 shares have been issued by the Controlled trust on exercise of options during the year ended March  31, 2018.
^ Value is less than ` 1 ii.
Details of shareholders holding more than 5% of the total equity shares of the Company Name of the Shareholder As at March 31, 2018 As at March 31, 2017 No of shares % held No of shares % held Mr. Azim Hasham Premji Partner representing  Hasham Traders 741,912,000 16.40 370,956,000 15.26 Mr. Azim Hasham Premji Partner representing  Prazim Traders 890,813,582 19.69 452,906,791 18.63 Mr. Azim Hasham Premji Partner representing  Zash Traders 903,239,580 19.97 451,619,790 18.58 Azim Premji Trust 618,461,626 13.67 399,065,641 16.42 iii.
Other details of equity shares for a period of five years immediately preceding March 31, 2018  (a)  2,433,074,327 bonus shares were issued during the year ended March 31, 2018 .
Refer note 28.
(b)  343,750,000 equity shares and 40,000,000 equity shares were bought back by the company during the year  ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively.
Refer note 28. iv.
Shares reserved for issue under option  For details of shares reserved for issue under the employee stock option plan of the Company, refer note 30.
13.
Borrowings As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Non-current Secured  Long term maturities of obligations under finance leases * `             539 `          1,161 `             539 `          1,161 Unsecured  External commercial borrowings (ECB)** - 9,728  Loans from institutions other than banks *** 185 574 185 10,302 Total Non-current `             724 `        11,463 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 152 Wipro Limited As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Current Unsecured  Bank overdrafts `          3,998 `          1,544  Borrowings from banks 42,479 48,642 Total current borrowings 46,477 50,186 Total borrowings `        47,201 `        61,649  * Current obligations under financial leases amounting to ` 868 (March 31, 2017: ` 1,108) is classified under “Other  current financial liabilities” .
Refer note 31.
** Current obligations under external commercial borrowings amounting to ` 9,777 (March 31, 2017: ` NIL) is  classified under “Other current financial liabilities” .
*** Current obligations under Loans from institutions other than banks amounting to ` 182 (March 31, 2017:   ` 342) is classified under “Other current financial liabilities” .
Short-term loans and borrowings As at March 31, 2018 As at March 31, 2017 Indian Rupee Interest rate Interest rate Indian Rupee Unsecured bank overdrafts `          3,998 Fixed 8.25% `          1,544 Unsecured borrowings from banks 42,479  Fixed/ Monthly  Libor   1 Month Libor,  6.25%  48,642 `        46,477 `        50,186  The principal source of Short-term borrowings from banks as of March 31, 2018 primarily consists of lines of  credit of approximately `10,000 (2017: ` 204) and U.S. Dollar (U.S. $) 1,081 Million (2017: U.S. $ 1,386 Million)  from bankers for working capital requirements and other short-term needs.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company  has unutilised lines of credit aggregating ` 1,003 (2017: ` NIL) and U.S.$ 506 Million (2017: U.S. $ 632 Million).
To utilise these unused lines of credit, the Company requires consent of the lender and compliance with certain  financial covenants.
Significant portion of these lines of credit are revolving credit facilities and floating rate  foreign currency loans, renewable on a periodic basis.
Significant portion of these facilities bear floating rates of  interest, referenced to LIBOR and a spread, determined based on market conditions.
The Company has non-fund based revolving credit facilities in INR and U.S. $ equivalent to `33,791 and ` 44,136  as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, towards operational requirements that can be used for the issuance  of letters of credit and bank guarantees.
As of March 31, 2018 and 2017, an amount of `16,974 and ` 26,761  respectively, was unutilised out of these non-fund based facilities.
Long-term borrowings  A summary of long- term borrowings is as follows: As at March 31, 2018 As at March 31, 2017 Foreign  currency  in millions Indian  Rupee Interest  rate Final  maturity Foreign  currency  in millions Indian  Rupee Unsecured external commercial borrowing  USD 150 9,777 1.94%  June 2018 150 9,728 Unsecured Loans from institutions other  than banks  Indian Rupee  NA 367  8.30% -  9.40%   December  2021   NA 916 `  10,144 ` 10,644 Secured obligations under finance leases 1,407  1.43%- 10.61%  2,269 ` 11,551 ` 12,913 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 153  The contracts governing the Company’s unsecured external commercial borrowing contain certain covenants that  limit future borrowings.
The terms of the other secured and unsecured loans and borrowings also contain certain  restrictive covenants primarily requiring the Company to maintain certain financial ratios.
As of March 31, 2018  and 2017 the Company has met all the covenants under these arrangements.
Changes in financing liabilities arising from cash and non-cash changes: April 1,  2017 Cash flow  Non-Cash Changes March 31,  2018 Assets taken on  financial lease  Foreign exchange  movements  Borrowings from banks 48,642 (10,598) - 4,435 42,479 Bank overdrafts 1,544 2,454 - - 3,998 External commercial borrowings * 9,728 - - 49 9,777 Obligations under finance leases * 2,269 (1,033) 172 (1) 1,407 Loans from institutions other than  banks* 916 (549) - - 367 Total 63,099 (9,726) 172 4,483 58,028 * Includes current obligations under borrowings classified under “Other current financial liabilities” 14.
Trade payables As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Trade payables `        41,762 `        38,186 `        41,762 `        38,186  Trade payables includes due to suppliers under The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006,  [MSMED Act] as at March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017.
The disclosure pursuant to the said Act is as under: Particulars As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Principal amount remaining unpaid `               38 `               30 Interest due thereon remaining unpaid  ^  ^  Interest paid by the Company in terms of Section 16 of the MSMED Act, along  with the amount of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day197 78 Interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment (which  have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the period) but without  adding interest specified under the MSMED Act - - Interest accrued and remaining unpaid 14 7 Interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, until such  date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprises ^  ^   ^ Value is less than ` 1.
This information has been determined to the extent such parties have been identified on the basis of information  available with the Company.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 154 Wipro Limited 15.
Other financial liabilities As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Non-current Deposits and others `                     - `                 77 `                     - `                 77 Current Salary Payable `        13,989 `        15,904 Current maturities of long term borrowings (Refer note 13) 9,959 342 Current maturities of  obligation under finance lease (Refer note 13) 868 1,108 Interest accrued but not due on borrowing 130 93 Unclaimed dividends 43 50 Balances due to related parties (Refer note 32) - 91 Others 354 40 `        25,343 `        17,628 Total `        25,343 `        17,705 16.
Provisions As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Non-current: Provision for employee benefits `          1,685 `          3,729 Provision for warranty 3 4 `          1,688 `          3,733 Current: Provision for employee benefits `          6,787 `          4,767 Provision for warranty 269 307 Others 878 1,195 `          7,934 `          6,269 Total `          9,622 `        10,002  Provision for warranty represents cost associated with providing sales support services which are accrued at  the time of recognition of revenues and are expected to be utilised over a period of 1 to 2 years.
Other provisions  primarily include provisions for indirect tax related contingencies and litigations.
The timing of cash outflows in  respect of such provision cannot be reasonably determined.
A summary of activity for provision for warranty and other provisions is as follows:   Particulars   Year ended March 31, 2018 Year ended March 31, 2017  Provision for  warranty Others Total  Provision for  warranty Others Total  Provision at the beginning of the year `             311 `    1,195 `    1,506 `             350 `    1,227 `    1,577 Additions during the year, net 282 17 299 381 180 561 Utilised/ reversed during the year (321) (334) (655) (420) (212) (632) Provision at the end of the year `              272 `       878 `  1,150 `             311 `    1,195 `    1,506 Included in the balance sheet as follows: Non-current portion `                   3 `             - `            3 `                  4 `             - `             4 Current portion `             269 `       878 `  1,147 `              307 `   1,195 `     1,502 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 155 17.
Other liabilities As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Non-current Others 2,296 349 `          2,296 `              349 Current Statutory and other liabilities `          3,067 `          2,668 Advance from customers 1,224 1,843 Others 684 613 `          4,975 `          5,124 Total `          7,271 `          5,473 18.
Financial instruments  Financial assets and liabilities (carrying value / fair value) As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Assets Cash and cash equivalents 23,220 35,166 Investments  Financial instrument at FVTPL 46,438 105,244  Financial instrument at FVTOCI 25,116 68,812  Financial instrument at Amortised cost 27,658 42,383 Investment in Subsidiaries 54,725 54,687 Loans to Subsidiaries - 1,917 Other financial assets  Trade receivables 99,466 85,297  Unbilled revenues 30,256 32,845  Other assets 8,296 9,696 Derivative assets 1,273 9,853 316,448 445,900 Liabilities Trade payables and other payables  Trade payables 41,762 38,186  Other financial liabilities 25,343 17,705 Borrowings 47,201 61,649 Derivative liabilities 2,198 2,710 116,504 120,250 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 156 Wipro Limited  Offsetting financial assets and liabilities  The following table contains information on other financial assets and trade payables and other payables subject  to offsetting: As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Financial Assets: Gross amounts of recognised other financial assets `      144,104 `      132,176 Gross amounts of recognised trade payables and other liabilities set off in  the balance sheet (6,086) (4,338) Net amounts of recognised other financial assets presented in the balance sheet `      138,018 `      127,838 Financial liabilities Gross amounts of recognised trade payables and other payables `        73,191 `        60,229 Gross amounts of recognised trade payables and other liabilities set off in  the balance sheet (6,086) (4,338) Net amounts of recognised trade payables and other payables presented in  the balance sheet `        67,105 `        55,891  For the financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting or similar arrangements, each agreement between the  Company and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both  elect to settle on a net basis.
In the absence of such an election, financial assets and liabilities will be settled on  a gross basis and hence are not offset.
Fair value  The fair value of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, unbilled revenues, borrowings, trade payables, other  current financial assets and liabilities approximate their carrying amount largely due to the short-term nature of  these instruments.
The Company’s long-term debt has been contracted at market rates of interest.
Accordingly,  the carrying value of such long-term debt approximates fair value.
Further, finance lease receivables that are  overdue are periodically evaluated based on individual credit worthiness of customers.
Based on this evaluation,  the Company records allowance for estimated losses on these receivables.
As of March 31, 2018, and 2017 the  carrying value of such receivables, net of allowances approximates the fair value.
Investments in liquid and short-term mutual funds, which are classified as FVTPL are measured using net asset  values at the reporting date multiplied by the quantity held.
Fair value of investments in certificate of deposits,  commercial papers and bonds classified as FVTOCI is determined based on the indicative quotes of price and  yields prevailing in the market at the reporting date.
Fair value of investments in equity instruments classified as  FVTOCI is determined using market and income approaches.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is determined based on observable market inputs including  currency spot and forward rates, yield curves, currency volatility etc.
Fair value hierarchy  The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The different levels have  been defined as follows:  Level 1 – Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability,  either directly (i.e.
as prices) or indirectly (i.e.
derived from prices).
Level 3 – Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs) .
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 157  The following table presents fair value of hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring  basis: Particulars As at March 31, 2018 As at March 31, 2017 Total Fair value measurements  at reporting date using Total Fair value measurements  at reporting date using Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets Derivative instruments:  Cash flow hedges 1,139 - 1,139 - 7,307 - 7,307 -  Others 134 - 134 - 2,546 - 2,120 426 Investments:   Investment in liquid and  short-term mutual funds 46,438 46,438 - - 104,675 104,675 - -   Other investments-  Debentures - - - - 569 - 569 -   Investment in equity  instruments-other than  subsidiaries 1,773 - - 1,773 3,533 - - 3,533   Commercial paper,  Certificate of deposits and  bonds 176,234 1,951 174,283 - 145,614 - 145,614 - Liabilities Derivative instruments:  Cash flow hedges (1,269) - (1,269) - (55) - (55) -  Others (929) - (929) - (2,655) - (2,655) -  The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of the level 2 financial instruments  included in the above table.
Derivative instruments (assets and liabilities): The Company enters into derivative financial instruments with  various counter-parties, primarily banks with investment grade credit ratings.
Derivatives valued using valuation  techniques with market observable inputs are mainly interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts and  foreign exchange option contracts.
The most frequently applied valuation techniques include forward pricing, swap  models and Black Scholes models (for option valuation), using present value calculations.
The models incorporate  various inputs including the credit quality of counterparties, foreign exchange spot and forward rates, interest rate  curves and forward rate curves of the underlying.
As at March 31, 2018, the changes in counterparty credit risk  had no material effect on the hedge effectiveness assessment for derivatives designated in hedge relationships  and other financial instruments recognised at fair value.
Investment in commercial papers, certificate of deposits and bonds: Fair value of these instruments is derived  based on the indicative quotes of price and yields prevailing in the market as at reporting date.
Details of assets and liabilities considered under Level 3 classification Particulars Investments in  equity instruments Derivative Assets –  Others Balance as at April 1, 2016 `          3,716 `             558 Gain/(loss) recognised in statement of profit and loss - (132) Gain/(loss) recognised in other comprehensive income (183) - Balance as at March 31, 2017 `          3,533 `             426 Balance as at April 1, 2017 `          3,533 `             426 Gain/(loss) recognised in statement of profit and loss - (426) Gain/(loss) recognised in other comprehensive income (1,760) - Balance as at March 31, 2018 `          1,773 `                  - Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 158 Wipro Limited  Description of significant unobservable inputs to valuation: As at March 31, 2018 Item Valuation technique Significant unobservable  inputs Movement  by Increase  (`) Decrease  (`) Unquoted equity  investments * Third party quote  Forecast Revenues 1.0% 18 (18) As at March 31, 2017 Item Valuation technique Significant unobservable  inputs Movement  by Increase  (`) Decrease  (`) Unquoted equity  investments Discounted cash flow  model Long term growth rate 0.5% 55 (51) Discount rate 0.5% (93) 101 Market multiple  approach Revenue multiple 0.5x 179 (186) Derivative assets Option pricing model Volatility of comparable  companies 2.5% 31 (31) Time to liquidation event 1 year 60 (69)  * Carrying value of ` 1,545 and ` 3,232 as at March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively.
A one percentage point change in the unobservable inputs used in fair valuation of Level 3 assets and liabilities  does not have a significant impact in its value.
Derivative assets and liabilities:  The Company is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations on foreign currency assets / liabilities, forecasted cash  flows denominated in foreign currency and net investment in foreign operations.
The Company follows established  risk management policies, including the use of derivatives to hedge foreign currency assets / liabilities, foreign  currency forecasted cash flows and net investment in foreign operations.
The counter parties in these derivative  instruments are primarily banks and the Company considers the risks of non-performance by the counterparty  as non-material.
The following table presents the aggregate contracted principal amounts of the Company’s derivative contracts  outstanding: (in millions) As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Designated derivatives instruments  Sell : Forward contracts USD   904 `  951 USD   886 `  3,627 €  134 ` (531) €  228 `  1,166 £  147 ` (667) £  280 `  2,475 AUD   77 `  29 AUD   129 `  154  Range forward options contracts USD   182 `  5 USD   130 `  106 €  10 `  2 €   - `  - £  13 `  5 £   - `  - Non-designated derivatives instruments  Sell : Forward contracts USD   919 ` (348) USD   889 `  1,714 €  58 `  6 €   83 ` (4) £  95 ` (56) £  82 `  79 AUD   77 `  68 AUD   51 `  3 SGD   6 ` (1) SGD   3 ` (3) Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 159 (in millions) As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Notional Fair value Notional Fair value ZAR   132 ` (16) ZAR   262 ` (17) CAD   14 `  32 CAD   41 `  22 CHF   6 `  3 CHF   - `  - SAR  62  ^ SAR  49 `  11 AED   8  ^ AED   69  ^  PLN   36 `  12 PLN   31  ^  QAR   11 ` (3) QAR   - `  - TRY   10 `  8 TRY   - `  - MXN   61 ` (6) MXN   - `  - NOK   34 `  3 NOK   - `  - OMR   3 ` (1) OMR   - `  -   Range forward options contracts USD   50 ` (6) USD   - - £  20 ` (2) £  - - Buy : Forward contracts USD   575 ` (417) USD   750 ` (2,616) JPY   399 `  6 JPY   - `  - DKK   9 ` (1) DKK   - `  -  ^ Value is less than ` 1.
The following table summarises activity in the cash flow hedging reserve within equity related to all derivative  instruments classified as cash flow hedges: As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Balance as at the beginning of the year `           7,325 `           2,367  Deferred cancellation gain/ (loss), net (6) 74  Changes in fair value of effective portion of derivatives (5) 12,391   Net (gain)/loss reclassified to statement of profit and loss on occurrence  of hedged transactions(7,450) (7,507) Gain/(loss) on cash flow hedging derivatives, net `       (7,461) `           4,958 Balance as at the end of the year `           (136) `           7,325 Deferred tax thereon 29 (1,419) Balance as at the end of the year, net of deferred tax `           (107) `            5,906  The related hedge transactions for balance in cash flow hedging reserves as of March 31, 2018 are expected to  occur and be reclassified to the statement of profit and loss over a period of two years.
As at March 31, 2018 and 2017, there were no significant gains or losses on derivative transactions or portions  thereof that have become ineffective as hedges, or associated with an underlying exposure that did not occur.
Sale of financial assets   From time to time, in the normal course of business, the Company transfers accounts receivables, unbilled revenues,  net investment in finance lease receivables (financials assets) to banks.
Under the terms of the arrangements,  the Company surrenders control over the financial assets and transfer is without recourse.
Accordingly, such  transfers are recorded as sale of financial assets.
Gains and losses on sale of financial assets without recourse  are recorded at the time of sale based on the carrying value of the financial assets and fair value of servicing  liability.
The incremental impact of such transactions on our cash flow and liquidity for the year ended March 31,  2018 and March 31, 2017 is not material.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 160 Wipro Limited  In certain cases, transfer of financial assets may be with recourse.
Under arrangements with recourse, the Company  is obligated to repurchase the uncollected financial assets, subject to limits specified in the agreement with the  banks.
These are reflected as part of borrowings in the balance sheet.
Financial risk management   Market Risk   Market risk is the risk of loss of future earnings, to fair values or to future cash flows that may result from a change  in the price of a financial instrument.
The value of a financial instrument may change as a result of changes in  the interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and other market changes that affect market risk sensitive  instruments.
Market risk is attributable to all market risk sensitive financial instruments including investments,  foreign currency receivables, payables and loans and borrowings.
The Company’s exposure to market risk is a function of investment and borrowing activities and revenue generating  activities in foreign currency.
The objective of market risk management is to avoid excessive exposure of the  Company’s earnings and equity to losses.
Risk Management Procedures   The Company manages market risk through a corporate treasury department, which evaluates and exercises  independent control over the entire process of market risk management.
The corporate treasury department  recommends risk management objectives and policies, which are approved by senior management and Audit  Committee.
The activities of this department include management of cash resources, implementing hedging  strategies for foreign currency exposures, borrowing strategies, and ensuring compliance with market risk limits  and policies.
Foreign currency risk   The Company operates internationally and a major portion of its business is transacted in several currencies.
Consequently, the Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk through receiving payment for sales and services  in the United States and elsewhere, and making purchases from overseas suppliers in various foreign currencies.
The exchange rate risk primarily arises from foreign exchange revenue, receivables, cash balances, forecasted  cash flows, payables and foreign currency loans and borrowings.
A significant portion of the Company’s revenue  is in the U.S. Dollar, the United Kingdom Pound Sterling, the Euro, the Canadian Dollar and the Australian Dollar,  while a large portion of costs are in Indian rupees.
The exchange rate between the rupee and these currencies  has fluctuated significantly in recent years and may continue to fluctuate in the future.
Appreciation of the rupee  against these currencies can adversely affect the Company’s results of operations.
The Company evaluates exchange rate exposure arising from these transactions and enters into foreign currency  derivative instruments to mitigate such exposure.
The Company follows established risk management policies,  including the use of derivatives like foreign exchange forward/option contracts to hedge forecasted cash flows  denominated in foreign currency.
The Company has designated certain derivative instruments as cash flow hedges to mitigate the foreign exchange  exposure of forecasted highly probable cash flows.
The Company has also designated foreign currency borrowings  as hedge against respective net investments in foreign operations.
As of March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively, a ` 1 increase/decrease in the spot exchange rate of the Indian  rupee with the U.S. dollar would result in approximately ` 1,500 (Statement of profit and loss `414 and other  comprehensive income ` 1,086) and ` 1,155 (Statement of profit and loss `139 and other comprehensive income  ` 1,016) respectively decrease/increase in the fair value of foreign currency dollar denominated derivative  instruments.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 161  The below table presents foreign currency risk from non-derivative financial instruments as of March 31, 2018  and 2017: (` in millions) As at March 31, 2018 Particulars US $ Euro Pound  Sterling Australian  Dollar Canadian  Dollar Other  currencies # Total Trade receivables 40,661 8,847 6,758 3,463 1,934 10,679 72,342 Unbilled revenues 12,384 2,375 5,175 2,094 338 1,480 23,846 Cash and cash equivalents 3,824 2,055 1,685 786 34 2,177 10,561 Other assets 1,393 1,710 279 1,122 1 308 4,813 Borrowings * (47,302) (41) (37) (165) - (137) (47,682) Trade payables and other  financial liabilities (16,820) (3,092) (6,084) (1,515) (654) (3,871) (32,036) Net assets/ (liabilities) (5,860) 11,854 7,776 5,785 1,653 10,636 31,844 As at March 31, 2017 Particulars US $ Euro Pound  Sterling Australian  Dollar Canadian  Dollar Other  currencies # Total Trade receivables 31,293 5,564 5,683 2,614 1,780 8,590 55,524 Unbilled revenues 14,030 2,606 4,417 2,023 570 2,461 26,107 Cash and cash equivalents 11,934 366 561 335 - 590 13,786 Other assets 1,237 1,291 189 1,568 7 348 4,640 Borrowings * (58,785) (494) (604) (537) - (509) (60,929) Trade payables and other  financial liabilities (21,050) (5,159) (5,838) (1,457) (443) (3,101) (37,048) Net assets/ (liabilities) (21,341) 4,174 4,408 4,546 1,914 8,379 2,080  #  Other currencies reflect currencies such as Singapore Dollars, Saudi Arabian Riyals etc.
* Includes current obligation under borrowings classified under “Other current financial liabilities”  As at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, every 1% increase/decrease of the respective foreign currencies  compared to functional currency of the Company would impact results by approximately ` 318 and ` 21 respectively.
Interest rate risk   Interest rate risk primarily arises from floating rate borrowing, including various revolving and other lines of  credit.
The Company’s investments are primarily in short-term investments, which do not expose it to significant  interest rate risk.
The Company manages its net exposure to interest rate risk relating to borrowings by entering  into interest rate swap agreements, which allows it to exchange periodic payments based on a notional amount  and agreed upon fixed and floating interest rates.
Certain borrowings are also transacted at fixed interest rates.
If  interest rates were to increase by 100 bps from March 31, 2018, additional net annual interest expense on floating  rate borrowing would amount to approximately ` 415.  Credit risk   Credit risk arises from the possibility that customers may not be able to settle their obligations as agreed.
To manage  this, the Company periodically assesses the financial reliability of customers, taking into account the financial  condition, current economic trends, analysis of historical bad debts and ageing of accounts receivable.
Individual  risk limits are set accordingly.
No single customer accounted for more than 10% of the accounts receivable as of  March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively and revenues for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
There is no significant concentration of credit risk.
Counterparty risk   Counterparty risk encompasses issuer risk on marketable securities, settlement risk on derivative and money  market contracts and credit risk on cash and time deposits.
Issuer risk is minimized by only buying securities which  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 162 Wipro Limited are at least AA rated in India based on Indian rating agencies.
Settlement and credit risk is reduced by the policy  of entering into transactions with counterparties that are usually banks or financial institutions with acceptable  credit ratings.
Exposure to these risks are closely monitored and maintained within predetermined parameters.
There are limits on credit exposure to any financial institution.
The limits are regularly assessed and determined  based upon credit analysis including financial statements and capital adequacy ratio reviews.
Liquidity risk   Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Company will not be able to settle or meet its obligations on time or  at a reasonable price.
The Company’s corporate treasury department is responsible for liquidity and funding as  well as settlement management.
In addition, processes and policies related to such risks are overseen by senior  management.
Management monitors the Company’s net liquidity position through rolling forecasts on the basis  of expected cash flows.
As of March 31, 2018, cash and cash equivalents are held with major banks and financial  institutions.
The table below provides details regarding the remaining contractual maturities of significant financial liabilities  at the reporting date.
The amounts include estimated interest payments and exclude the impact of netting  agreements, if any.
As at March 31, 2018 Contractual cash flows Carrying  value Less than  1 year 1-2  years 2-4  years 4-7  years Total Borrowings * ` 58,028 ` 58,134 ` 541 ` 226 `  - ` 58,901 Trade payables 41,762 41,762 - - - 41,762 Derivative liabilities 2,198 2,198 - - - 2,198 Other financial liabilities 14,516 14,516 - - - 14,516 As at March 31, 2017 Contractual cash flows Carrying  value Less than  1 year 1-2  years 2-4  years 4-7  years Total Borrowings * ` 63,099 ` 52,387 ` 10,745 ` 631 ` 20 ` 63,783 Trade payables 38,186 38,186 - - - 38,186 Derivative liabilities 2,710 2,708 2 - - 2,710 Other financial liabilities 16,255 16,178 - - 77 16,255  *  Includes current obligation under borrowings and financial leases classified under “Other current financial  liabilities”  The balanced view of liquidity and financial indebtedness is stated in the table below.
This calculation of the net  cash position is used by the management for external communication with investors, analysts and rating agencies: As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Cash and cash equivalent `         23,220 `         35,166 Investment 248,412 291,467 Borrowings* (58,028) (63,099) Loans to subsidiaries - 1,917 `       213,604 `       265,451 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 163 19.
Income tax  Income tax expense has been allocated as follows: Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Income tax expense    Current taxes `         24,345 `         24,304  Deferred taxes (1,230) 950 Income tax included in Other comprehensive income on:   Unrealised gains/ (losses) on investment securities (645) 594  Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedging derivatives (1,448) 962  Defined benefit plan actuarial gains 255 43 Total income taxes `         21,277 `         26,853  Income tax expenses consists of the following: Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Current taxes  Domestic 18,591 20,323  Foreign 5,754 3,981 24,345 24,304 Deferred taxes  Domestic (286) 743  Foreign (944) 207 (1,230) 950  Total income tax expense  `         23,115 `         25,254  Income tax expenses are net of reversal of provisions pertaining to earlier periods, amounting to ` 436 and ` 771  for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively.
The reconciliation between the provision of income tax and amounts computed by applying the Indian statutory  income tax rate to profit before taxes is as follows: Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  Profit before tax `       100,343 `       106,871  Enacted income tax rate in India 34.61% 34.61%  Computed expected tax expense 34,729 36,988  Effect of:   Income exempt from tax (12,346) (12,572)  Basis differences that will reverse during a tax holiday period (183) (167)  Income taxed at higher/ (lower) rates 277 269  Reversal of deferred tax liability for past years due to rate reduction * (347) -  Taxes related to prior years (436) (771)  Expenses disallowed for tax purpose 1,422 1,522  Others, net (2) (15) Total income taxes expenses `         23,115 `         25,254 Effective income tax rate 23% 24%  *The “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, ” was signed into law on December 22, 2017(‘US Tax Reforms’) which among other  things, makes significant changes to the rules applicable to the taxation of corporations, such as changing the  corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% rate effective January 1, 2018.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 164 Wipro Limited  For the year ended March 31, 2018, the Company took a positive impact of ` 347 on account of re-statement of  deferred tax items pursuant to US Tax Reforms.
The components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows: As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Carry-forward losses `               407 `                     - Other liabilities 2,761 2,882 Allowances for lifetime expected credit losses 4,405 2,783 Minimum alternate tax - 1,469 Cash flow hedges 29 - Others - 135 `           7,602 `            7,269 Property, plant and equipment `       (1,320) `         (1,683) Amortisable goodwill (90) (899) Interest on bonds and fair value movement of investments (1,739) (2,245) Cash flow hedges - (1,419) Deferred revenue - (62) Others (396) - `       (3,545) `         (6,308) Net deferred tax assets / (liabilities) `           4,057 `               961 Amounts presented in the balance sheet Deferred tax assets `           4,520 `           2,352 Deferred tax liabilities `               463 `           1,391  Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities  Movement during the year ended March 31, 2018 Particulars As at April  1, 2017 Credit/ (charge)  in the statement  of profit and loss Credit/ (charge)  in the Other  comprehensive  income As at March  31, 2018 Carry-forward losses - 407 - 407 Other liabilities 2,882 134 (255) 2,761 Allowances for lifetime expected credit losses 2,783 1,622 - 4,405 Minimum alternate tax 1,469 (1,469) - - Cash flow hedges (1,420) - 1,448 28 Property, plant and equipment (1,682) 363 - (1,319) Amortisable goodwill (899) 809 - (90) Interest on bonds and fair value movement of  investments (2,245) (139) 645 (1,739) Deferred / unbilled revenue (62) 62 - - Others 135 (531) - (396) Total 961 1,258 1,838 4,057 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 165 Movement during the year ended March 31, 2017 Particulars As at April  1, 2016 Credit/ (charge)  in the statement  of profit and loss Credit/ (charge)  in the Other  comprehensive  income As at March  31, 2017 Other liabilities 3,161 (236) (43) 2,882 Allowances for lifetime expected credit losses 2,819 (36) - 2,783 Minimum alternate tax 1,490 (21) - 1,469 Cash flow hedges (458) - (962) (1,420) Property, plant and equipment (2,225) 543 - (1,682) Amortisable goodwill (508) (391) - (899) Interest on bonds and fair value movement of  investments (814) (837) (594) (2,245) Deferred / unbilled revenue 16 (78) - (62) Others 51 84 - 135 Total 3,532 (972) (1,599) 961  Deferred taxes on unrealised foreign exchange gain / loss relating to cash flow hedges, fair value movements in  investments and actuarial gains/losses on defined benefit plans are recognised in other comprehensive income  and presented within equity.
Other than these, the change in deferred tax assets and liabilities is primarily recorded  in the statement of profit and loss.
In assessing the realisability of deferred tax assets, the Company considers the extent to which it is probable  that the deferred tax asset will be realised.
The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the  generation of future taxable profits during the periods in which those temporary differences and tax loss carry- forwards become deductible.
The Company considers the expected reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected  future taxable income and tax planning strategies in making this assessment.
Based on this, the Company believes  that it is probable that the Company will realise the benefits of these deductible differences.
The amount of  deferred tax asset considered realisable, however, could be reduced in the near term if the estimates of future  taxable income during the carry-forward period are reduced.
The Company has recognised deferred tax assets of ` 407 and ` Nil as at March 31, 2018 and 2017 in respect of  capital loss incurred on account of liquidation of a subsidiary.
Management’s projections of future taxable capital  gain support the assumption that it is probable that sufficient taxable income will be available to utilise this  deferred tax asset.
Pursuant to the changes in the Indian income tax laws in the past years, Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) has been  extended to income in respect of which deduction is claimed under Section 10A, 10B and 10AA of the Income Tax  Act, 1961; consequently, the Company has calculated its tax liability for current domestic taxes after considering  MAT.
The excess tax paid under MAT provisions over and above normal tax liability can be carried forward and set- off against future tax liabilities computed under normal tax provisions.
The Company was required to pay MAT in  the past years and accordingly, a deferred tax asset of  ` Nil and ` 1,469 has been recognised in the balance sheet  as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, which can be carried forward for a period of fifteen assessment years  immediately succeeding the assessment year in which it becomes allowable.
A substantial portion of the profits of the Company’s India operations are exempt from Indian income taxes being  profits attributable to export operations and profits from units established under Special Economic Zone, 2005  scheme.
Units in designated special economic zones providing service on or after April 1, 2005 will be eligible  for a deduction of 100 percent of profits or gains derived from the export of services for the first five years from  commencement of provision of services and 50 percent of such profits and gains for a further five years.
Certain tax  benefits are also available for a further five years subject to the unit meeting defined conditions.
Profits from certain  other undertakings are also eligible for preferential tax treatment.
The tax holiday period being currently available  to the Company expires in various years through fiscal 2030-31.
The expiration period of tax holiday for each unit  within a SEZ is determined based on the number of years that have lapsed following year of commencement of  production by that unit.
The impact of tax holidays has resulted in a decrease of current tax expense of `11,598  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 166 Wipro Limited and `11,927 for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, compared to the effective tax amounts that  we estimate we would have been required to pay if these incentives had not been available.
The effect of these tax  incentives on earnings per share for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was `2.44 and `2.46, respectively.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except in respect of taxable  temporary differences associated with US branch profit tax where the timing of the reversal of the temporary  difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable  future.
Accordingly, deferred income tax liabilities on branch profit tax @ 15% of the US branch profits have not  been recognised as the Company intends to reinvest the earnings in the branch operations.
Further, it is not  practicable to estimate the amount of the unrecognised deferred tax liabilities for these undistributed earnings.
20.
Revenue from operations Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  Sale of Services `       430,638 `       432,788  Sales of Products 16,462 23,608 `       447,100 `       456,396 21.
Other operating income  During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company had concluded the sale of the EcoEnergy division for a  consideration of ` 4,670.
Net gain from the sale, amounting to ` 4,082 has been recorded as other operating income.
22.
Other income Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Interest income `         17,300 `         17,922 Dividend income 609 311 Net Gain on sale of investments classified as FVTPL 5,410 3,822 Net Gain on sale of investments classified as FVTOCI 174 220 Finance and other income 23,493 22,275 Foreign exchange gain/(loss), net on financial instruments measured at FVTPL (82) 6,975 Other foreign exchange differences, net 1,385 (2,791) Foreign exchange gain/(loss), net 1,303 4,184 `         24,796 `         26,459 23.
Changes in inventories of finished goods, work in progress and stock-in-trade Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Opening stock Finished products `                  5 `                  8 Traded goods 2,746 4,383 2,751 4,391 Less: Finished products 3 5 Traded goods 2,171 2,746 2,174 2,751 Decrease/ (Increase) `              577 `           1,640 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 167 24.
Employee benefits (a) Employee costs include: Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  Salaries and bonus (Refer note 26) `       209,617 `       210,799  Employee benefits plans   Gratuity and other defined benefit plans 1,413 1,047  Defined contribution plans 5,274 5,011 Share based compensation 1,258 1,687 `       217,562 `       218,544  Defined benefit plan actuarial (gains)/ losses recognised in other comprehensive income include: Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Re-measurement of net defined benefit liability/(asset)  Return on plan assets excluding interest income `      (60) `      (189)  Actuarial (gains)/loss arising from financial assumptions (195) 358  Actuarial (gains)/loss arising from demographic assumptions (41) (59)  Actuarial (gains)/loss arising from experience adjustments (450) (301) `    (746) `      (191) b) Defined benefit plans- Gratuity:  In accordance with the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972, applicable for Indian companies, the Company provides  for a lump sum payment to eligible employees, at retirement or termination of employment based on the last  drawn salary and years of employment with the Company.
The gratuity fund is managed by certain third party fund  managers.
The Company’s obligation in respect of the gratuity plan, which is a defined benefit plan, is provided for  based on actuarial valuation using the projected unit credit method.
The Company recognises actuarial gains and  losses immediately in other comprehensive income, net of taxes.
Amount recognised in the statement of profit  and loss in respect of gratuity cost (defined benefit plan) is as follows:  Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Current service cost `         1,413 `          1,041 Net interest on net defined benefit liability/(asset)  ^ 6 Net gratuity cost/(benefit) 1,413 1,047 Actual return on plan assets `              526 `              642  Gratuity is applicable only to employees drawing a salary in Indian rupees and there are no other foreign defined  benefit gratuity plans.
Change in present value of defined benefit obligation is summarised below: Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the year `           6,856 `           6,080 Transfer in 349 `                    - Current service cost 1,413 1,041 Interest on obligation 466 459 Benefits paid (859) (722) Remeasurement (gains)/loss  Actuarial (gains)/loss arising from financial assumptions (195) 358  Actuarial (gains)/loss arising from demographic assumptions (41) (59)  Actuarial (gains)/loss arising from experience adjustments (450) (301) Defined benefit obligation at the end of the year `           7,539 `           6,856 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 168 Wipro Limited  Change in present value of defined benefit obligation is summarised below: Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year `           6,820 `           5,996 Transfer in 312 - Expected return on plan assets 466 453 Employer contributions 15 186 Benefits paid - (4) Remeasurement (gains)/loss  Return on plan assets excluding interest income 60 189 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year `           7,673 `           6,820 Present value of unfunded obligation 134 (36) Recognised asset/(liability) 134 (36)  The Company has invested the plan assets in insurer managed funds.
The expected rate of return on plan assets  is based on expectation of the average long-term rate of return expected on investments of the fund during the  estimated term of the obligation  The Company has established an income tax approved irrevocable trust fund to which it regularly contributes to  finance the liabilities of the gratuity plan.
The fund’s investments are managed by certain insurance companies  as per the mandate provided to them by the trustees and the asset allocation is within the permissible limits  prescribed in the insurance regulations.
The principal assumptions used for the purpose of actuarial valuation of these defined benefit plans are as follows: As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Discount rate 6.93% 6.90% Expected return on plan assets 6.93% 6.90% Expected rate of salary increase 7.51% 8.00% Duration of defined benefit obligations 5 years 6 years  The expected return on plan assets is based on expectation of the average long term rate of return expected on  investments of the fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
The discount rate is primarily based on the prevailing market yields of Indian government securities for the  estimated term of the obligations.
The estimates of future salary increases considered takes into account the  inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant factors.
Attrition rate considered is the management’s estimate,  based on previous years’ employee turnover of the Company.
The expected future contribution and estimated future benefit payments from the fund are as follows:  Expected contribution to the fund during the year ending March 31, 2019 1,103 Estimated benefit payments from the fund for the year ending March 31:  2019 1,326  2020 1,060  2021 1,057  2022 1,063  2023 1,051 Thereafter 5,329 Total 10,886  The expected benefits are based on the same assumptions used to measure the Company’s benefit obligations  as of March 31, 2018.
Sensitivity for significant actuarial assumptions is computed to show the movement in defined benefit obligation  by 0.5 percentage.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 169  As of March 31, 2018, every 0.5 percentage point increase/ (decrease) in discount rate will result in (decrease)/ increase of gratuity benefit obligation by approximately ` (201) and ` 217 respectively.
As of March 31, 2018 every 0.5 percentage point increase/ (decrease) in expected rate of salary will result in  increase/ (decrease) of gratuity benefit obligation by approximately ` 182 and ` (171) respectively.
c) Provident fund:  The details of fund and plan assets are given below: As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Fair value of plan assets `        46,016 `        40,059 Present value of defined benefit obligation 46,016 40,059 Net (shortfall)/ excess `                    - `                   -  The plan assets have been primarily invested in government securities and corporate bonds.
The principal assumptions used in determining the present value obligation of interest guarantee under the  deterministic approach are as follows:  As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Discount rate for the term of the obligation 7.35% 6.90% Average remaining tenure of investment portfolio 7 years 6 years Guaranteed rate of return 8.55% 8.65%  Also refer note 30 for details of employee stock options.
25.
Finance costs Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  Interest expense `          1,559 `          1,528  Exchange fluctuation on foreign currency borrowings, net  (to the extent regarded as borrowing cost) 2,284 3,152 `          3,843 `          4,680 26.
Other Expenses Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  Rates, taxes and insurance 1,530 1,514  Lifetime expected credit loss and provision for deferred contract cost * 5,013 1,825  Provision for diminution in value of investments (268) 403  Auditors' remuneration         Audit fees 50 37        For taxation matters 9 1        Out of pocket expenses 4 3  Miscellaneous expenses 1,952 5,003 `          8,290 `          8,786  *  Consequent to insolvency of two customers, the Company has recognised a provision of `3,832 for impairment  of receivables and deferred contract cost.
`416 and `3,146 of these provisions have been included in employee  benefits expense and Provision for doubtful debts respectively for the year ended March 31, 2018.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 170 Wipro Limited 27.
Earnings per equity share  A reconciliation of profit for the year and equity shares used in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per  equity share is set out below:  Basic: Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders of the  Company by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year, excluding equity shares  purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares.
Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company `                 77,228 `               81,617 Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 4,750,043,400 4,857,081,010 Basic earnings per share `                    16.26 `                 16.80  Diluted: Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of equity shares  outstanding during the year for assumed conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares.
Employee share options  are dilutive potential equity shares for the Company.
The calculation is performed in respect of share options to determine the number of shares that could have  been acquired at fair value (determined as the average market price of the Company’s shares during the year).
The number of shares calculated as above is compared with the number of shares that would have been issued  assuming the exercise of the share options.
Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company `                 77,228 `                 81,617 Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 4,750,043,400 4,857,081,010 Effect of dilutive equivalent share options 8,318,575 14,266,128 Weighted average number of equity shares for diluted earnings per share 4,758,361,975 4,871,347,138 Diluted earnings per share `                    16.23 `                   16.75  Earnings per share and number of share outstanding for the year ended March 31, 2017 have been proportionately  adjusted for the bonus issue in the ratio of 1:1 as approved by the shareholders on June 03, 2017 28.
Dividends, Bonus and Buyback of equity shares  The company declares and pays dividend in Indian rupees.
According to the Companies Act, 2013 any dividend  should be declared out of accumulated distributable profits.
A company may, before the declaration of any dividend,  transfer a percentage of its profits for that financial year as it may consider appropriate to the reserves.
The cash dividends paid per equity share were ` 1 and ` 3 during the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017,  respectively, including an interim dividend of ` 1 and ` 2 for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
The bonus issue in the proportion of 1:1 i.e.1 (One) bonus equity share of ` 2 each for every 1 (one) fully paid-up  equity share held (including ADS holders) had been approved by the shareholders of the Company on June 03,  2017 through Postal Ballot /e-voting.
For this purpose, June 14, 2017, was fixed as the record date.
Consequently,  on June 15, 2017, the Company allotted 2,433,074,327 shares and ` 4,866 (representing par value of ` 2 per share)  has been transferred from retained earnings to share capital.
During the current period, the Company has concluded the buyback of 343,750,000 equity shares as approved  by the Board of Directors on July 20, 2017.
This has resulted in a total cash outflow of `110,000.
In line with the  requirement of the Companies Act 2013, an amount of ` 1,656 and ` 108,344 has been utilised from the share  premium account and retained earnings respectively.
Further, capital redemption reserves of ` 687 (representing  the nominal value of the shares bought back) has been created as an apportionment from retained earnings.
Consequent to such buyback, share capital has reduced by ` 687.
29.
Additional capital disclosures  The key objective of the Company’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a stable capital structure with  the focus on total equity to uphold investor, creditor, and customer confidence and to ensure future development  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 171 of its business.
The Company focused on keeping strong total equity base to ensure independence, security, as  well as a high financial flexibility for potential future borrowings, if required without impacting the risk profile of  the Company.
The Company’s goal is to continue to be able to return excess liquidity to shareholders by continuing to distribute  annual dividends in future periods.
The amount of future dividends/ buyback of equity shares will be balanced with efforts to continue to maintain  an adequate liquidity status.
The capital structure as of March 31, 2017 and 2018 was as follows: As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 % Change Total equity (A) `      422,626 `      467,056 (9.51%) As percentage of total capital 87.93% 88.10% Current borrowings * 57,304 51,636 Non-current borrowings 724 11,463 Total borrowings (B) `        58,028 `        63,099 (8.04%) As percentage of total capital 12.07% 11.90% Total capital (A) + (B) `      480,654 `      530,155 (9.34%)  * Includes current obligation under borrowings classified under “Other current financial liabilities” (Refer note 13) 30.
Employee stock option  The stock compensation expense recognised for employee services received during the year ended year ended  March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 were `1,258 and ` 1,687, respectively.
Wipro Equity Reward Trust (“WERT”)  In 1984, the Company established a controlled trust called the Wipro Equity Reward Trust (“WERT”).
In the earlier  years, WERT purchased shares of the Company out of funds borrowed from the Company.
The Company’s Board  Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee recommends to WERT certain officers and key employees,  to whom WERT issues shares from its holdings at nominal price.
Such shares are then held by the employees  subject to vesting conditions.
Wipro Employee Stock Option Plans and Restricted Stock Unit Option Plans  A summary of the general terms of grants under stock option plans and restricted stock unit option plans are as  follows: Name of Plan  No.
of options  reserved under  the Plan   Range of  Exercise Prices  Wipro Employee Stock Option Plan 2000 (2000 Plan) 560,606,060 ` 171 - 490 Wipro Restricted Stock Unit Plan (WRSUP 2004 plan) 44,848,484 ` 2 Wipro ADS Restricted Stock Unit Plan (WARSUP 2004 plan) 44,848,484 US $  0.03 Wipro Employee Restricted Stock Unit Plan 2005 (WSRUP 2005 plan) 44,848,484 ` 2 Wipro Employee Restricted Stock Unit Plan 2007 (WSRUP 2007 plan) 37,373,738 ` 2 Wipro Equity Reward Trust Employee Stock Purchase Plan, 2013 29,659,648 ` 2 Below plans are discontinued as at March 31, 2018 Name of Plan  No.
of options  reserved under  the Plan   Range of  Exercise Prices  Wipro Employee Stock Option Plan 1999 (1999 Plan) 50,000,000 ` 171 - 490 Stock Option Plan (2000 ADS Plan) 15,000,000 US $  3 - 7 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 172 Wipro Limited  The activity in these stock option plans and restricted stock unit option plan is summarised below: Particulars Range of  Exercise  prices Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Number Weight Average  exercise price Number Weight Average  exercise price Outstanding at the beginning of  the year ` 480.20 20,181 ` 480.20 20,181 ` 480.20 ` 2 7,952,083 ` 2 7,254,326 ` 2 US $ 0.03 5,288,783 US $ 0.03 3,747,430 US $ 0.03 Bonus on outstanding ` 480.20 - ` 480.20 - ` 480.20 (Refer note 28) ` 2 6,968,406 ` 2 - ` 2 US $ 0.03 4,077,070 US $ 0.03 - US $ 0.03 Granted * ` 480.20 - ` 480.20 - ` 480.20 ` 2 4,612,400 ` 2 2,398,000 ` 2 US $ 0.03 3,897,000 US $ 0.03 2,379,500 US $ 0.03 Exercised ` 480.20 (20,181) ` 480.20 - ` 480.20 ` 2 (5,325,217) ` 2 (1,113,775) ` 2 US $ 0.03 (2,565,976) US $ 0.03 (174,717) US $ 0.03 Forfeited and expired ` 480.20 - ` 480.20 - ` 480.20 ` 2 (663,675) ` 2 (586,468) ` 2 US $ 0.03 (497,823) US $ 0.03 (663,430) US $ 0.03 Outstanding at the end of the year ` 480.20 - ` 480.20 20,181 ` 480.20 ` 2 13,543,997 ` 2 7,952,083 ` 2 US $ 0.03 10,199,054 US $ 0.03 5,288,783 US $ 0.03 Exercisable at the end of the year ` 480.20 - ` 480.20 20,181 ` 480.20 ` 2 1,875,994 ` 2 698,320 ` 2 US $ 0.03 789,962 US $ 0.03 141,342 US $ 0.03  The following table summarises information about outstanding stock options and restricted stock unit option plans: Range of  exercise  price March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Numbers Weighted Average  Remaining Life  (Months) Weight  Average  Exercise Price Numbers Weighted Average  Remaining Life  (Months) Weight  Average  Exercise Price ` 480.20 - - ` 480.20 20,181 - ` 480.20 ` 2 13,543,997 27 ` 2 7,952,083 19 ` 2 US $ 0.03 10,199,054 28 US $   0.03 5,288,783 24 US $   0.03  The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during the year ended March 31, 2018, and 2017  was ` 337.74 and ` 569.52 for each option, respectively.
The weighted average share price of options exercised  during the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was ` 303.44 and ` 536.80 for each option, respectively.
* Includes 1,097,600 and 79,000 Performance based stock options (RSU) granted during the year ended March  31, 2018 and 2017 respectively.
1,113,600 and 188,000 Performance based stock options (ADS) granted during  the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively.
Performance based stock options (RSU) were issued under  Wipro Employee Restricted Stock Unit plan 2007 (WSRUP 2007 plan) and Performance based stock options (ADS)  were issued under Wipro ADS Restricted Stock Unit Plan (WARSUP 2004 plan).
31.
Assets taken on lease  Obligation under finance lease is secured by underlying assets leased.
The legal title of these assets vests with  the lessors.
These obligations are repayable in monthly, quarterly and yearly installments up to year ending March  31, 2022.
The interest rate for these obligations ranges from 1.43% to 10.61%.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 173  Finance lease payables consist of liabilities that are taken on lease for a contract term ranging from 1 to 5 years.
Details of finance lease payable is as follows: As at March 31 2018 2017 2018 2017 Minimum lease  payments Present value of  minimum lease payment Not later than one year ` 933 ` 1,219 ` 868 ` 1,108 Later than one year but not later than five years 573 1,245 539 1,161 Total minimum lease payments 1,506 2,464 1,407 2,269 Less: Amount representing interest (99) (195) - - Present value of minimum lease payment payables ` 1,407 ` 2,269 ` 1,407 ` 2,269 Included in the balance sheet as follows: - Long term maturities of finance lease obligations 539 1,161 - Current maturities of obligation under finance lease 868 1,108  Operating leases: The Company has taken office, vehicle and IT equipment under cancellable and non-cancelable  operating lease agreements that are renewable on a periodic basis at the option of both the lessor and the lessee.
The operating lease agreements extend up a maximum of fifteen years from their respective dates of inception  and some of these lease agreements have price escalation clause.
Rental payments under such leases were   ` 3,299, and ` 2,878 during the years ended March 31, 2018, and March 31, 2017.
Details of contractual payments under non-cancellable leases are given below: As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Not later than one year `          3,263 `          2,243 Later than one year and not later than five years 5,476 5,801 Later than five years 1,037 2,175 Total `          9,776 `        10,219 32.
Related party relationship and transactions  List of subsidiaries as of March 31, 2018 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Country of  Incorporation Wipro LLC USA Wipro Gallagher Solutions, Inc. USA Opus Capital Markets Consultants  LLC USA Wipro Promax Analytics Solutions  LLC USA Infocrossing, Inc. USA Wipro Insurance Solutions LLC Wipro Data Centre and Cloud  Services, Inc. Wipro IT Services, Inc. USA USA USA HPH Holdings Corp. (A) Appirio, Inc. (A) USA USA Cooper Software, Inc. USA Wipro Overseas IT Services  Pvt.
Ltd     India Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 174 Wipro Limited Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Country of  Incorporation Wipro Japan KK     Japan Wipro Shanghai Limited     China Wipro Trademarks Holding  Limited     India Wipro Travel Services  Limited     India  Wipro Holdings UK Limited   U.K.   Wipro Information Technology  Austria GmbH Austria Wipro Technologies Austria GmbH Austria   Wipro Digital Aps Denmark Designit A/S (A) Denmark   Wipro Europe Limited U.K. Wipro UK Limited U.K.   Wipro Financial Services UK  Limited U.K. Wipro Cyprus Private  Limited     Cyprus   Wipro Doha LLC #   Qatar   Wipro Technologies S.A DE C.V   Mexico   Wipro BPO Philippines LTD.  Inc.   Philippines   Wipro Holdings Hungary  Korlátolt Felelősségű Társaság   Wipro Holdings Investment   Korlátolt Felelősségű Társaság Hungary Hungary   Wipro Technologies SA   Argentina   Wipro Information Technology  Egypt SAE   Egypt   Wipro Arabia Co. Limited *   Saudi Arabia Women’s Business Park  Technologies Limited *Saudi Arabia   Wipro Poland Sp.
Z.o.o   Poland   Wipro IT Services Poland  Sp.zo.o   Poland   Wipro Technologies Australia  Pty Ltd   Australia   Wipro Corporate Technologies  Ghana Limited Wipro Technologies South  Africa (Proprietary) Limited   Wipro Technologies Nigeria Limited Ghana South Africa Nigeria   Wipro IT Service Ukraine LLC Wipro Information Technology  Netherlands BV.
Ukraine Netherlands     Wipro Portugal S.A. (A) Portugal     Wipro Technologies Limited,  Russia Russia Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 175 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Country of  Incorporation     Wipro Technology Chile SPA Chile     Wipro Solutions Canada Limited Canada     Wipro Information Technology  Kazakhstan LLP Kazakhstan     Wipro Technologies W.T.
Sociedad  Anonima Costa Rica     Wipro Outsourcing Services  (Ireland) LimitedIreland     Wipro Technologies VZ, C.A.
Venezuela     Wipro Technologies Peru S.A.C InfoSERVER S.A. Wipro do Brasil Technologia  Ltda(A) Peru Brazil Brazil   Wipro Technologies SRL   Romania   PT WT Indonesia   Indonesia   Wipro (Thailand) Co Limited   Thailand   Wipro Bahrain Limited WLL   Bahrain   Wipro Gulf LLC   Sultanate of  Oman   Rainbow Software LLC   Iraq   Cellent GmbH   Germany     Cellent Mittelstandsberatung  GmbH Germany     Cellent Gmbh (A) Austria Wipro Networks Pte  Limited     Singapore   Wipro (Dalian) Limited   China   Wipro Technologies SDN BHD   Malaysia Wipro Chengdu Limited     China Wipro Airport IT Services  Limited *     India Appirio India Cloud  Solutions Private Limited India Wipro IT Services  Bangladesh Limited Bangladesh  *   All the above direct subsidiaries are 100% held by the Company except that the Company holds 66.67% of the  equity securities of Wipro Arabia Limited Co and 74% of the equity securities of Wipro Airport IT Services Limited  and 55% of the equity securities of Women’s Business Park Technologies Limited are held by Wipro Arabia Co.  Limited.
#   51% of equity securities of Wipro Doha LLC are held by a local shareholder.
However, the beneficial interest in  these holdings is with the Company.
The Company controls ‘The Wipro SA Broad Based Ownership Scheme Trust’ and ‘Wipro SA Broad Based Ownership  Scheme SPV (RF) (PTY) LTD incorporated in South Africa.
(A)   Step Subsidiary details of Wipro Portugal S.A, Wipro do Brasil Technologia Ltda, Designit A/s, Cellent GmbH,  HPH Holdings Corp. and Appirio, Inc. are as follows: Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 176 Wipro Limited Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Country of  Incorporation Wipro Portugal S.A.     Portugal   Wipro Technologies Gmbh New Logic Technologies SARL   Germany France Wipro do Brasil Technologia  Ltda Wipro Do Brasil Sistemetas De  Informatica Ltd Brazil Brazil  Designit A/S   Denmark   Designit Denmark A/S Denmark   Designit Munich GmbH Germany   Designit Oslo A/S Norway   Designit Sweden AB Sweden   Designit T.L.V Ltd. Israel   Designit Tokyo Lt.d Japan   Denextep Spain Digital, S.L Spain     Designit  Colombia  S A S Designit Peru SAC Colombia Peru Cellent GmbH Frontworx Informations  technologie GmbH Austria Austria HPH Holdings Corp.   HealthPlan Services Insurance  Agency, Inc. HealthPlan Services, Inc. USA USA USA Appirio, Inc. Appirio, K.K Topcoder, Inc. Appirio Ltd Appirio Singapore Pte Ltd Appirio GmbH Apprio Ltd (UK)  USA Japan USA Ireland Germany U.K. Singapore  As at March 31, 2018,Wipro LLC holds 43.7% interest in Drivestream Inc and Wipro IT Services, Inc. holds 33.3%  interest in Denim Group LLC.
The list of controlled trusts are: Name of entity Country of incorporation Wipro Equity Reward Trust India Wipro Inc.
Benefit Trust India Wipro Foundation India Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 177 The other related parties are: Name of the related parties Nature Azim Premji Foundation Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji Foundation for Development Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji education trust Entity controlled by Director Hasham Traders Entity controlled by Director Prazim Traders Entity controlled by Director Zash Traders Entity controlled by Director Hasham Investment and Trading Co. Pvt.
Ltd Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiatives Pvt.
Ltd Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji Trust Entity controlled by Director Wipro Enterprises (P) Limited Entity controlled by Director Wipro GE Healthcare Private Limited Entity controlled by Director Key management personnel  Azim H. Premji Executive Chairman and Managing Director  T K Kurien Executive Vice Chairman (3)  Abidali Z. Neemuchwala Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director  Dr. Ashok Ganguly Non-Executive Director  Narayanan Vaghul Non-Executive Director  Dr. Jagdish N Sheth Non-Executive Director (4)  William Arthur Owens Non-Executive Director  M.K.
Sharma Non-Executive Director  Vyomesh Joshi Non-Executive Director (1)  Ireena Vittal Non-Executive Director  Rishad Azim Premji Executive Director and Chief Strategy Officer  Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal Chief Financial Officer  Dr. Patrick J. Ennis Non-Executive Director (2)  Patrick Dupuis Non-Executive Director (2) (1)   Up to July19, 2016.
(2)   Effective April 1, 2016  (3)   Up to January 31, 2017.
(4)   Up to July 18, 2016.
Relative of key management personnel  - Yasmeen H. Premji  - Tariq Azim Premji Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 178 Wipro Limited The Company has the following related party transactions for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017: Transaction / balances Subsidiaries /  Trusts Entities controlled  by Directors Key Management  Personnel (2) 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sales of services 43,733 38,802 69 69 - - Purchase of services 19,250 16,895  ^ 3 - - Assets purchased/ capitalised - - 290 106 - - Dividend paid 24 42 3,171 5,087 191 287 Commission paid 1,147 882 - - - - Rent Paid 112 35 7 8 6 6 Rent Income 272 33 42 43 - - Acquisition of customer relationship (Refer note 5) - 2,175 - - - - Others 6,717 1,852 31 90 - - Buyback of shares - - 63,745 19,638 1 2 Interest Income - 2 - - - - Corporate guarantee commission 185 246 - - - - Key management personnel * Remuneration and short-term benefits - - - - 248 242 Other benefits - - - - 130 157 Balance as at the year end Receivables ** 23,273 17,117 2 44 - - Payables 2,299 6,099 26 22 55 27 *   Post employment benefit comprising compensated absences is not disclosed as this are determined for the Company  as a whole.
Benefits includes the prorated value of Restricted Stock Units (“RSU’s”) granted to the personnel, which  vest over a period of time.
Other benefits include share based compensation `124 and `148 for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017  respectively.
#   Including relative of key management personnel.
**   Includes the following balances being in the nature of loans given to subsidiaries of the Company including interest  accrued, where applicable and inter-corporate deposits with subsidiary.
^  Value is less than ` 1.
Loan amounts outstanding from subsidiaries: Name of the entity Balance As at   March 31, Maximum amount due  during the year 2018 2017 2018 2017 Wipro Cyprus Private Limited - 1,917 1,930 2,022 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 179 The following are the significant related party transactions during the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017: Particulars  Year ended   March 31, 2018  March 31, 2017 Sale of services  Wipro LLC 25,260 22,215  Wipro Technologies South Africa (Proprietary) Limited 1,654 2,813  Wipro Gallagher Solutions Inc 1,316 917  Wipro Technologies S.A DE C. V 1,068 569  Wipro Information Technology Netherlands BV.
909 690  Wipro Technologies Gmbh 1,753 636  Wipro Networks Pte Limited 1,518 2,205  Wipro Solutions Canada Limited 2,039 1,730  Wipro Data Centre and Cloud Services, Inc. 1,694 1,475  Wipro Holdings UK Limited 2,086 1,003 Purchase of services  Wipro Data Centre and Cloud Services, Inc. 2,844 3,389  Wipro LLC 1,831 2,247  Wipro do Brasil Technologia Ltda 2,542 1,707  Wipro Technologies Gmbh 1,724 1,624  Wipro BPO Philippines Limited Inc 1,668 1,581  Wipro Technologies SRL 1,622 1,332  Wipro Technologies S.A DE C. V 965 543  Wipro Portugal S.A. 1,198 767  Wipro IT Services Poland Sp.
Zo.o.
791 941 Asset purchased/ capitalised  Wipro Enterprises (P) Limited 290 106 Acquisition of customer relationship  Wipro Holdings UK Limited - 2,175 Dividend paid  Prazim Traders 891 1,359  Zash Traders 903 1,355  Azim Premji Trust 618 1,228  Hasham Traders 742 1,113 Commission paid  Wipro Japan KK 457 439  Wipro Technologies Gmbh 624 443 Rent paid  Wipro Holdings UK Limited 31 34 Buyback of shares  Azim Premji Trust 57,494 19,155 Rental income  Wipro Enterprises (P) Limited 40 38  Designit Denmark A/S 56 28  Wipro LLC 206 - Remuneration paid to key management personnel  Azim Premji 9 8  Abidali Z. Neemuchwala 182 136 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 180 Wipro Limited Particulars  Year ended   March 31, 2018  March 31, 2017  Rishad Azim Premji 59 17  T K Kurien * - 97  Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal 47 45 Corporate guarantee commission  Wipro Gulf LLC 45 47  Wipro IT Services Inc. - 45  Wipro Solutions Canada Ltd 38 43  Wipro LLC 38 40  Infocrossing Inc 15 32  Wipro Arabia Limited 17 18 *   T K Kurien, who was Executive Vice Chairman of the Company retired from the services of the Company and the Board  effective January 31, 2017.
Compensation disclosed above is for the period from April 1, 2016 to January 31, 2017.
33.
Commitments and contingencies  Capital commitments: As at March 31, 2018 and 2017 the Company had committed to spend approximately   ` 12,545 and ` 11,340 respectively, under agreements to purchase/ construct property and equipment.
These  amounts are net of capital advances paid in respect of these purchases.
Contingent liabilities to the extent not provided for: As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Performance and financial guarantees given by the banks on behalf of the  company `        16,817 `        17,375 Guarantees given by the Company on behalf of subsidiaries 1,400 6,237  Contingencies and lawsuits:   The Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims (including tax assessment orders/ penalty notices) which  have arisen in the ordinary course of its business.
Some of the claims involve complex issues and it is not possible  to make a reasonable estimate of the expected financial effect, if any, that will result from ultimate resolution of  such proceedings.
However, the resolution of these legal proceedings is not likely to have a material and adverse effect on the results  of operations or the balance sheet of the Company.
The significant matters are discussed below.
In March 2004, the Company received a tax demand for year ended March 31, 2001 arising primarily on account of  denial of deduction under section 10A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (Act) in respect of profit earned by the Company’s  undertaking in Software Technology Park at Bengaluru.
The same issue was repeated in the successive assessments  for the years ended March 31, 2002 to March 31, 2011 and the aggregate demand is ` 47,583 (including interest of  ` 13,832).
The appeals filed against the said demand before the Appellate authorities have been allowed in favor of  the Company by the second appellate authority for the years up to March 31, 2008.
Further appeals have been filed  by the Income tax authorities before the Hon’ble High Court.
The Hon’ble High Court has heard and disposed-off  majority of the issues in favor of the Company up to years ended March 31, 2004.
Department has filed a Special  Leave Petition (SLP) before the Supreme Court of India for the year ended March 31, 2001 to March 31, 2004.
On similar issues for years up to March 31, 2000, the Hon’ble High Court of Karnataka has upheld the claim of the  Company under section 10A of the Act.
For the year ended March 31, 2009, the appeals are pending before Income  Tax Appellate Tribunal (Tribunal).
For years ended March 31, 2010 and March 31, 2011, the Dispute Resolution  Panel (DRP) allowed the claim of the Company under section 10A of the Act.
The Income tax authorities have filed  an appeal before the Tribunal.
The Company received the draft assessment order for the year ended March 31, 2012 in March 2016 with a proposed  demand of ` 4,241 (including interest of ` 1,376).
Based on the DRP’s direction, allowing majority of the issues in  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 181 favor of the Company, the assessing officer has passed the final order with Nil demand.
However, on similar issue  for earlier years, the Income Tax authorities have appealed before the Tribunal.
For year ended March 31, 2013 the Company received the final assessment order in November 2017 with a proposed  demand of ` 3,286 (including interest of ` 1,166), arising primarily on account of section 10AA issues with respect  to exclusion from Export Turnover.
The Company has filed an appeal before Honorable ITAT, Bengaluru within the  prescribed timelines.
For year ended March 31, 2014 the Company received the draft assessment order in January 2018 with a proposed  demand of ` 8,701 (including interest of ` 2,700), arising primarily on account of section 10AA issues with respect  to exclusion from Export Turnover.
The Company has filed the appeal before DRP .
Considering the facts and nature of disallowance and the order of the appellate authority / Hon’ble High Court of  Karnataka upholding the claims of the Company for earlier years, the Company believes that the final outcome  of the above disputes should be in favor of the Company and there should not be any material adverse impact on  the financial statements.
Income tax claims against the Company (excluding interest) amounting to ` 64,643 and ` 55,942 have not been  acknowledged as debt as at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Interest, if these claims sustain on ultimate  resolution, amounted to ` 36,797 as at March 31, 2018.
These matters are pending before various Appellate  Authorities and the management expects its position will likely be upheld on ultimate resolution and will not have  a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations.
The contingent liability in respect of disputed demands for excise duty, custom duty, sales tax and other matters  against the Company (excluding interest) amounting to ` 5,826 and ` 2,585 are not acknowledged as debt as at  March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, respectively.
Interest, if these claims sustain on ultimate resolution amounted  to ` 1,919 as at March 31, 2018.
However, the resolution of these legal proceedings is not likely to have a material  and adverse effect on the results of operations or the financial position of the Company.
In December 2017, National Grid filed a legal claim against the Company in U.S. District Court of the Eastern  District of New York seeking damages amounting to $ 140 million (`9,124) plus additional costs related to an ERP  implementation project that was completed in 2014.
The Company expects to defend itself against the claim and  believes that the claim will not sustain.
34.
Corporate Social Responsibility  a.
Gross amount required to be spend by the Wipro during the year ` 1,833 (March 31, 2017: ` 1,764).
b.
Amount spent during the year on: Particulars For the year ended March 31, 2018 In cash Yet to be paid   in cash Total Construction/ acquisition of any asset `                   - `                  - `                   - On purpose other than above (i) above 1,630 236 1,866 Total amount spent during the year `          1,630 `             236 `          1,866 Particulars For the year ended March 31, 2017 In cash Yet to be paid   in cash Total Construction/ acquisition of any asset `                  - `                  - `                   - On purpose other than above (i) above 1,634 229 1,863 Total amount spent during the year `          1,634 `             229 `          1,863 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 182 Wipro Limited 35.
Segment information  The Company publishes this financial statement along with the consolidated financial statements.
In accordance  with Ind AS 108, Operating Segments, the Company has disclosed the segment information in the consolidated  financial statements.
36.
Assets held for sale  During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Company has signed a definitive agreement to divest its hosted  datacenter services business to Ensono Holdings, LLC and its affiliates (Ensono Group).
The sale is expected to  conclude during the quarter ending June 30, 2018.
This disposal group does not constitute a major component of the Company and hence is not classified as  discontinued operations.
The assets associated with this transaction are classified as assets held for sale  amounting to` 451.
Further on April 5, 2018, the Company has reduced its equity holding from 74% to 11% in Wipro Airport IT Services  Limited.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone financial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board of Directors for Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Azim H Premji N Vaghul Abidali Neemuchwala Chartered Accountants Executive Chairman   & Managing Director Director Chief Executive Officer & Executive DirectorFirm’s Registration No: 117366W/W- 100018 N. Venkatram Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal M Sanaulla Khan Partner Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Membership No.
71387 Mumbai Bengaluru June 08, 2018 June 08, 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 183 Independent Auditor’s Report on  Consolidated Financial Statements To The Members of Wipro Limited Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial  statements of WIPRO LIMITED (hereinafter referred to  as the ‘Company’) and its subsidiaries (the Company  and its subsidiaries together referred to as ‘the Group’)  comprising the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March  31, 2018, the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss  (including other comprehensive income), the Consolidated  Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated  Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and a  summary of the significant accounting policies and other  explanatory information.
Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated  Financial Statements   The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the  preparation of these consolidated financial statements  in terms of the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013  (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Act’) that give a true and fair  view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated  financial performance including other comprehensive  income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and  consolidated cash flows of the Group in accordance with  the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) prescribed under  Section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian  Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended and other  accounting principles generally accepted in India.
The  Respective Board of Directors of the companies included  in the Group are responsible for maintenance of adequate  accounting records in accordance with the provisions of  the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for  preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities;  the selection and application of appropriate accounting  policies; making judgments and estimates that are  reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation  and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls,  that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy  and completeness of the accounting records, relevant  to the preparation and presentation of the Consolidated  financial statements that give a true and fair view and are  free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or  error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation  of the consolidated financial statements by the Directors  of the Company, as aforesaid.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these  consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
In conducting our audit, we have taken into account  the provisions of the Act, the accounting and auditing  standards and matters which are required to be included  in the audit report under the provisions of the Act and the  Rules made thereunder.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards  on Auditing specified under Section 143(10) of the Act.
Those Standards require that we comply with ethical  requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain  reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated  financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit  evidence about the amounts and the disclosures in  the consolidated financial statements.
The procedures  selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including  the assessment of the risks of material misstatement  of the consolidated financial statements, whether due  to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the  auditor considers internal financial control relevant to  the Company’s preparation of the consolidated financial  statements that give a true and fair view in order to  design audit procedures that are appropriate in the  circumstances.
An audit also includes evaluating the  appropriateness of the accounting policies used and  there as on ableness of the accounting estimates made  by the Company’s Board of Directors, as well as evaluating  the overall presentation of the consolidated financial  statements.
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us, is  sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit  opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion and to the best of our information and  according to the explanations given to us,  the aforesaid  consolidated financial statements give the information  required by the Act in the manner so required and give  a true and fair view in conformity with the Ind AS and  other accounting principles generally accepted in India,  of the consolidated state of affairs of the Group as at  March 31, 2018, and it’s consolidated profit,consolidated  total comprehensive income, consolidated statement of  changes in equity and it’s consolidated cash flows for the  year ended on that date.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our  audit, we report that: Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 184 Wipro Limited (a)  we have sought and obtained all the information and  explanations which to the best of our knowledge and  belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit  of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements.
(b)  in our opinion, proper books of account as required  by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid  consolidated financial statements have been kept  so far as it appears from our examination of those  books.
(c)  the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated  Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other  Comprehensive Income), Consolidated Statement of  Changes in Equity and the Consolidated Statement of  Cash Flows dealt with by this Report are in agreement  with the relevant books of account maintained for the  purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial  statements.
(d)  in our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial  statements comply with the Indian Accounting  Standards prescribed under Section 133 of the Act.
(e)  on the basis of the written representations received  from the directors of the Company as on March 31,  2018, taken on record by the Board of Directors of  the Company and its subsidiaries incorporated in  India and the reports of the statutory auditors of its  subsidiary companies incorporated in India, none of  the directors of the Group companies incorporated in  India is disqualified as on March 31, 2018, from being  appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) of  the Act.
(f)  with respect to the adequacy of the internal financial  controls over financial reporting and the operating  effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate  Report in ‘Annexure A’ .
Which is based on the auditor’s  report of the Company and its subsidiary companies  incorporated in India.
Our report expresses an  unmodified opinion on the adequacy and operating  effectiveness of the internal financial control over  financial reporting of those companies, for the  reasons stated therein.
(g)  with respect to the other matters to be included in  the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of  the Companies (Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014,  as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our  information and according to the explanations given  to us:  i.  the consolidated financial statements disclose  the impact of pending litigations on the  consolidated financial position of the Group.
ii.
Provision has been made in the consolidated  financial statements, as required under the  applicable law or accounting standards, for  material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term  contracts including derivative contracts.
iii.
There has been no delay in transferring amounts,  required to be transferred, to the Investor  Education and Protection Fund by the Company  and its subsidiary companies incorporated in  India.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP Chartered Accountants Firm Registration Number: 117366W/W-100018 N. Venkatram Partner Membership number: 71387 Mumbai  June 08, 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 185 Annexure “A ” To The Independent Auditor’s Report (Referred to in paragraph (f) under ‘Report on Other Legal  and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report to the  Members of Wipro Limited of even date) Report on the Internal Financial Controls Over Financial  Reporting under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143  of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial  statements of the Company as of and for the year ended  March 31, 2018, we have audited the internal financial  controls over financial reporting of WIPRO LIMITED  (hereinafter referred to as “Company”) and its subsidiary  companies, which are companies incorporated in India, as  of that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial  Controls The Board of Directors of the company and its subsidiary  companies, which are companies incorporated in India,  are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal  financial controls based on the internal control over  financial reporting criteria established by the respective  Companies considering the essential components of  internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit  of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting  issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India  (‘the ICAI’).
These responsibilities include the design,  implementation and maintenance of adequate internal  financial controls that were operating effectively for  ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business,  including adherence to the respective company’s policies,  the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection  of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the  accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable  financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal  financial controls over financial reporting of the Company  and its subsidiary companies, which are companies  incorporated in India, based on our audit.
We conducted  our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit  of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting  (the “Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of Chartered  Accountants of India and the Standards on Auditing,  prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Companies Act,  2013, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal  financial controls.
Those Standards and the Guidance Note  require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan  and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance  about whether adequate internal financial controls over  financial reporting was established and maintained and if  such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit  evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial  controls system over financial reporting and their  operating effectiveness.
Our audit of internal financial  controls over financial reporting included obtaining an  understanding of internal financial controls over financial  reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness  exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed  risk.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s  judgement, including the assessment of the risks of  material misstatement of the financial statements, whether  due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is  sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit  opinion on the internal financial controls system over  financial reporting of the Company and its subsidiary  companies, which are companies incorporated in India.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial  Reporting A Company’s internal financial control over financial  reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable  assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting  and the preparation of financial statements for external  purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting  principles.
A Company’s internal financial control over  financial reporting includes those policies and procedures  that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that,  in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the  transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;  (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are  recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial  statements in accordance with generally accepted  accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures  of the company are being made only in accordance with  authorisations of management and directors of the  company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding  prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition,  use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have  a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls Over  Financial Reporting Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial  controls over financial reporting, including the possibility  of collusion or improper management override of controls,  material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and  not be detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the  internal financial controls over financial reporting to future  periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial  control over financial reporting may become inadequate  because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of  compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion In our opinion and to the best of our information and  according to the explanations given to us, the Company  and its subsidiary companies, which are companies  incorporated in India, have, in all material respects, an  adequate internal financial controls system over financial  reporting and such internal financial controls over  financial reporting were operating effectively as at March  31, 2018, based on the internal control over financial  reporting criteria established by the respective companies  considering the essential components of internal control  stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial  Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute  of Chartered Accountants of India.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP Chartered Accountants Firm Registration Number: 117366W/W-100018 N. Venkatram Partner Membership number: 71387 Mumbai  June 08, 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 186 Wipro Limited The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board of Directors for Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Azim H Premji N Vaghul Abidali Neemuchwala Chartered Accountants Executive Chairman  & Managing Director Director Chief Executive Officer & Executive DirectorFirm’s Registration No: 117366W/W-100018 N. Venkatram Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal M Sanaulla Khan Partner Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Membership No.
71387 Mumbai Bengaluru June 08, 2018 June 08, 2018 (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) As at Notes March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 4 49,108 60,667 Capital work-in-progress 13,777 7,377 Goodwill 5 114,046 122,276 Other intangible assets 5 18,113 15,922 Investments accounted for using equity method 7 1,206 - Financial assets Investments 7 7,668 7,103 Derivative assets 8 41 106 Trade receivables 9 4,446 3,998 Other financial assets 10 4,186 4,785 Deferred tax assets (net) 27 6,908 3,098 Non-current tax assets (net) 18,349 12,008 Other non-current assets 11 12,929 13,582 Total non-current assets 250,777 250,922 Current assets Inventories 12 3,370 3,915 Financial assets Investments 7 249,094 292,030 Trade receivables 9 100,990 94,846 Cash and cash equivalents 13 44,925 52,710 Derivative assets 8 1,232 9,747 Unbilled revenues 42,486 45,095 Other financial assets 10 7,429 8,629 Current tax assets (net) 6,262 9,804 Other current assets 11 23,167 22,122 478,955 538,898 Assets held for sale 40 27,201 - Total  current assets 506,156 538,898 TOTAL ASSETS 756,933 789,820 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY Equity share capital 14 9,048 4,861 Other equity 470,215 511,841 Equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company 479,263 516,702 Non-controlling interest 2,410 2,391 TOTAL EQUITY 481,673 519,093 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities Borrowings 15 45,268 19,611 Derivative liabilities 8 7 2 Other financial liabilities 16 7 853 Provisions 17 1,794 4,241 Deferred tax liabilities (net) 27 3,025 6,578 Non-current tax liabilities (net) 9,220 9,547 Other non-current liabilities 18 2,432 410 Total non-current liabilities 61,753 41,242 Current liabilities Financial liabilities Borrowings 15 79,598 116,741 Trade payables 19 51,203 48,673 Derivative liabilities 8 2,210 2,708 Other financial liabilities 16 31,369 23,156 Unearned revenues 17,139 16,150 Provisions 17 9,703 7,543 Current tax liabilities (net) 9,417 8,101 Other current liabilities 18 6,656 6,413 207,295 229,485 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 40 6,212 - Total current liabilities 213,507 229,485 TOTAL LIABILITIES 275,260 270,727 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 756,933 789,820 Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 187 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board of Directors for Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Azim H Premji N Vaghul Abidali Neemuchwala Chartered Accountants Executive Chairman  & Managing Director Director Chief Executive Officer & Executive DirectorFirm’s Registration No: 117366W/W-100018 N. Venkatram Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal M Sanaulla Khan Partner Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Membership No.
71387 Mumbai Bengaluru June 08, 2018 June 08, 2018 (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) Notes Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 INCOME   Revenue from operations 20 544,871 550,402   Other operating income 21 - 4,082   Other income 22 25,487 26,226 Total Income 570,358 580,710 EXPENSES   Purchases of stock-in-trade 18,434 25,560   Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and stock-in-trade 23 505 1,411   Employee benefits expense 24 272,223 268,081   Finance costs 25 5,830 5,942   Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense 21,117 23,100   Sub-contracting / technical fees / third party application 84,437 82,747   Facility expenses 21,044 19,297   Travel 17,399 20,147   Communication 5,353 5,370   Marketing and brand building 3,140 2,936   Legal and Professional charges 4,690 4,957   Other expenses 26 13,775 10,769  Total expenses 467,947 470,317 Share of profits of associates 11 - Profit before tax 102,422 110,393 Tax expense   Current tax 27 26,334 26,501   Deferred tax 27 (3,943) (1,287) Total tax expense 22,391 25,214 Profit for the year 80,031 85,179 Other comprehensive income (OCI) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Defined benefit plan actuarial gains 24 822 212 Net change in fair value of financial instruments through OCI 8 (1,165) (183) Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss 27 160 (28) Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss: Foreign currency translation differences 28 3,509 (2,992) Net change in time value of option contracts designated as cash flow hedges 8 2 9 Net change in intrinsic value of option contracts designated as cash flow hedges 8 (95) 77 Net change in fair value of forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges 8 (7,375) 4,872 Net change in fair value of financial instruments through OCI (663) 1,788 Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit and loss 27 1,678 (1,571) Total other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year, net of taxes (3,127) 2,184 Total comprehensive income for the year 76,904 87,363 Profit for the year attributable to:  Equity holders of the Company 80,028 84,931 Non-controlling interest 3 248 80,031 85,179 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 76,885 87,184 Non-controlling interest 19 179 76,904 87,363 Earnings per equity share: (Equity shares of par value ` 2 each) 29 Basic 16.85 17.49 Diluted 16.82 17.43 Number of shares Basic 4,750,043,400 4,857,081,010 Diluted 4,758,361,975 4,871,347,138 Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 188 Wipro Limited CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) Other equity Particulars Share  application  money  pending  allotment Reserves and Surplus Foreign  currency  translation  reserve** Cash flow  hedging  reserve Other  comprehensive  income Total  attributable  to equity  holders  of the  Company Non- controlling  interest Total  other  equity Share  premium Capital  reserve Capital  redemption  reserve Retained  earnings Share  based  payment  reserve Special  economic  Zone re- investment  reserves Balance as at April 1, 2017  ^ 540 1,139 94 487,065 3,555 - 12,146 5,906 1,396 511,841 2,391 514,232 Profit for the year - - - - 80,028 - - - - - 80,028 3 80,031 Other comprehensive income - - - - - - - 3,493 (6,020) (616) (3,143) 16 (3,127) Total comprehensive income for  the year - - - - 80,028 - - 3,493 (6,020) (616) 76,885 19 76,904 Issue of equity shares on exercise of options - 1,987 - - - (1,971) - - - - 16 - 16 Issue of shares by controlled Trust on exercise of options *- - - - 1,182 (1,182) - - - - - - - Dividend (including dividend tax thereon) - - - - (5,420) - - - - - (5,420) - (5,420) Buyback of equity shares # - (1,656) - 687 (108,344) - - - - - (109,313) - (109,313) Transaction cost related to buyback - - - - (312) - - - - - (312) - (312) Bonus issue of equity shares - - - - (4,866) - - - - - (4,866) - (4,866) Compensation cost related to employee share based payment- - - - 14 1,370 - - - - 1,384 - 1,384 Transferred to special economic zone re-investment reserve- - - - (20,037) - 20,037 - - - - - - Transferred from special economic zone re-investment reserve on utilisation- - - - 20,037 - (20,037) - - - - - - Balance as at March 31, 2018  ^ 871 1,139 781 449,347 1,772 - 15,639 (114) 780 470,215 2,410 472,625 *   Includes 23,097,216 and 13,728,607 treasury shares held as on March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, by a controlled Trust.
4,351,775 shares have been transferred by the controlled Trust to eligible employees on exercise of options during the year ended March 31, 2018 **   Foreign currency translation reserve includes ` 2,907 directly associated with assets held for sale.
#   Refer note 33 ^  Value is less than ` 1 Equity share capital Balance as at April 1, 2017 Change in equity share capital# Balance as at March 31, 2018 4,861 4,187 9,048 Balance as at April 1, 2016 Change in equity share capital Balance as at March 31, 2017 4,941 (80) 4,861 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 189 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) Particulars Share  application  money  pending  allotment Reserves and Surplus Foreign  currency  translation  reserve Cash flow  hedging  reserve Other  comprehensive  income Total  attributable  to equity  holders  of the  Company Non- controlling  interest Total  other  equity Share  premium Capital  reserve Capital  redemption  reserve Retained  earnings Share  based  payment  reserve Special  economic  Zone re- investment  reserves Balance as at April 1, 2016                 ^ 14,713 1,139 14 421,217 2,229 - 15,069 1,910 216 456,507 2,212 458,719 Profit for the year - - - - 84,931 - - - - - 84,931 248 85,179 Other comprehensive income - - - - - - - (2,923) 3,996 1,180 2,253 (69) 2,184 Total comprehensive income  for the year - - - - 84,931 - - (2,923) 3,996 1,180 87,184 179 87,363 Issue of equity shares on exercise of options - 81 - - - (81) - - - - - - - Issue of shares by controlled Trust on exercise of options- - - - 384 (384) - - - - - - - Buyback of equity shares - (14,254) - 80 (10,746) - - - - - (24,920) - (24,920) Dividend (including dividend tax thereon) - - - - (8,734) - - - - - (8,734) - (8,734) Compensation cost related to employee share based payment- - - - 13 1,791 - - - - 1,804 - 1,804 Transferred to special  economic zone re-investment reserve- - - - (13,521) - 13,521 - - - - - - Transferred from special economic zone re-investment reserve on utilisation- - - - 13,521 - (13,521) - - - - - - Balance as at March 31, 2017  ^ 540 1,139 94 487,065 3,555 - 12,146 5,906 1,396 511,841 2,391 514,232 ^ Value is less than ` 1 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board of Directors for Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Azim H Premji N Vaghul Abidali Neemuchwala Chartered Accountants Executive Chairman & Managing Director Director Chief Executive Officer& Executive DirectorFirm’s Registration No: 117366W/W-100018 N. Venkatram Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal M Sanaulla Khan Partner Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Membership No.
71387 Mumbai Bengaluru June 08, 2018 June 08, 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 190 Wipro Limited The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board of Directors for Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Azim H Premji N Vaghul Abidali Neemuchwala Chartered Accountants Executive Chairman  & Managing Director Director Chief Executive Officer & Executive DirectorFirm’s Registration No: 117366W/W-100018 N. Venkatram Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal M Sanaulla Khan Partner Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Membership No.
71387 Mumbai Bengaluru June 08, 2018 June 08, 2018 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) For the year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Cash flows from operating activities: Profit for the year 80,031 85,179 Adjustments to reconcile the profit for the year to net cash generated from operating  activities:  (Gain) / loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, net (334) 117  Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense 21,117 23,100  Unrealised exchange loss, net 4,794 3,945  Gain on sale of investments, net (5,978) (3,486)  Share based compensation expense 1,347 1,742  Share of profit of associates 11 -  Income tax expense 22,391 25,214  Dividend and interest (income)/expenses, net (14,569) (16,259)  Gain from sale of EcoEnergy division - (4,082)  Other non cash items 4,405 (1,732) Changes in operating assets and liabilities; net of effects from acquisitions:  Trade receivables (9,735) 3,346  Unbilled revenues 2,192 3,813  Inventories 545 1,475  Other assets (111) 4,054  Trade payables, other liabilities and provisions 4,499 (5,232)  Unearned revenues 1,733 (2,945) Cash generated from operating activities before taxes 112,338 118,249  Income taxes paid, net (28,105) (25,476) Net cash generated from operating activities 84,233 92,773 Cash flows from investing activities:  Purchase of property, plant and equipment (21,870) (20,853)  Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 1,171 1,207  Proceeds from sale of EcoEnergy division, net of related expenses - 4,372  Purchase of investments (782,475) (813,439)  Proceeds from sale of investments 830,448 729,755  Impact of investment hedging activities, net - (226)  Payment for business acquisitions including deposits and escrow, net of cash acquired (6,652) (33,608)  Interest received 14,347 17,069  Dividend received 609 311  Income taxes paid on sale of EcoEnergy division - (871) Net cash generated from/(used) in investing activities 35,578 (116,283) Cash flows from financing activities:  Proceeds from issuance of equity shares 24  ^   Repayment of loans and borrowings (155,254) (112,803)  Proceeds from loans and borrowings 144,271 125,922  Payment for deferred/contingent consideration in respect of business combinations (164) (138)  Payment for buyback of shares including transaction cost (110,312) (25,000)  Interest paid on loans and borrowings (3,123) (1,999)  Payment of dividend (including dividend tax thereon) (5,420) (8,734) Net cash used in financing activities (129,978) (22,752)  Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents during the year   (10,167) (46,262)  Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 375 (1,412)  Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 50,718 98,392 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (Note 13) 40,926 50,718 Total taxes paid amounted to ` 28,105 and ` 26,347 for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Refer note 15 for supplementary information on cash flow statement ^ Value is less than ` 1 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 191 1.
The Company overview    Wipro Limited (“Wipro” or the “Parent Company”),  together with its subsidiaries and controlled Trusts  (collectively, “the Company” or the “Group”) is a  global information technology (IT), consulting and  business process services (BPS) Company.
Wipro is a public limited company incorporated and  domiciled in India.
The address of its registered  office is Wipro Limited, Doddakannelli, Sarjapur  Road, Bengaluru – 560 035, Karnataka, India.
Wipro  has its primary listing with BSE Ltd. (Bombay Stock  Exchange) and National Stock Exchange of India  Ltd.
The Company’s American Depository Shares  representing equity shares are also listed on the  New York Stock Exchange.
These consolidated financial statements were  authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on  June 8, 2018.
Amounts as at and for the year ended  March 31, 2017, were audited by B S R & Co. LLP 2.
Basis of preparation of consolidated financial  statements  (i)  Statement of compliance and basis of preparation   The consolidated financial statements are prepared  in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards  (“Ind AS”), the provisions of the Companies Act,  2013 (“the Companies Act”), as applicable and  guidelines issued by the Securities and Exchange  Board of India (“SEBI”).
The Ind AS are prescribed  under Section 133 of the Act read with Rule 3 of the  Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules,  2015 and Companies (Indian Accounting Standards)  Amendment Rules, 2016.
Accounting policies have been applied consistently  to all periods presented in these financial  statements.
The consolidated financial statements correspond  to the classification provisions contained in Ind  AS 1, “Presentation of Financial Statements” .
For clarity, various items are aggregated in the  statements of profit and loss and balance sheet.
These items are disaggregated separately in the  notes to the consolidated financial statements,  where applicable.
All amounts included in the consolidated financial  statements are reported in Indian rupees (` in  millions) except share and per share data, unless  otherwise stated.
Due to rounding off, the numbers  presented throughout the document may not add  up precisely to the totals and percentages may not  precisely reflect the absolute figures.
Previous year  figures have been regrouped/re-arranged, wherever  necessary.
(ii)  Basis of measurement    The consolidated financial statements have been  prepared on a historical cost convention and on  an accrual basis, except for the following material  items which have been measured at fair value as  required by relevant Ind AS:-   a.
Derivative financial instruments;   b.
Financial instruments classified as fair value  through other comprehensive income or fair  value through profit or loss;  c.   The defined benefit asset/ (liability) is  recognised as the present value of defined  benefit obligation less fair value of plan assets;  and  d.  Contingent consideration.
(iii)  Use of estimates and judgment    The preparation of the consolidated financial  statements in conformity with Ind AS requires  management to make judgments, estimates  and assumptions that affect the application of  accounting policies and the reported amounts of  assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual  results may differ from those estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed  on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting  estimates are recognised in the period in which  the estimates are revised and in any future periods  affected.
In particular, information about significant  areas of estimation, uncertainty and critical  judgments in applying accounting policies that  have the most significant effect on the amounts  recognised in the consolidated financial statements  are included in the following notes:  a)   Revenue recognition: The Company uses the  percentage of completion method using the  input (cost expended) method to measure  progress towards completion in respect of  fixed price contracts.
Percentage of completion  method accounting relies on estimates of  total expected contract revenue and costs.
This method is followed when reasonably  dependable estimates of the revenues and  costs applicable to various elements of the  (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) Notes to the consolidated financial statements Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 192 Wipro Limited contract can be made.
Key factors that are  reviewed in estimating the future costs to  complete include estimates of future labor  costs and productivity efficiencies.
Because the  financial reporting of these contracts depends  on estimates that are assessed continually  during the term of these contracts, recognised  revenue and profit are subject to revisions as  the contract progresses to completion.
When  estimates indicate that a loss will be incurred,  the loss is provided for in the period in which  the loss becomes probable.
Volume discounts  are recorded as a reduction of revenue.
When  the amount of discount varies with the levels of  revenue, volume discount is recorded based on  estimate of future revenue from the customer.
b)   Impairment testing: Goodwill and intangible  assets with infinite useful life recognised  on business combination are tested for  impairment at least annually and when events  occur or changes in circumstances indicate  that the recoverable amount of the asset or the  cash generating unit to which these pertain is  less than the carrying value.
The recoverable  amount of the asset or the cash generating  units is higher of value-in-use and fair value  less cost of disposal.
The calculation of value  in use of a cash generating unit involves use  of significant estimates and assumptions  which includes turnover, growth rates and net  margins used to calculate projected future  cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rate, future  economic and market conditions.
c)   Income taxes: The major tax jurisdictions for  the Company are India and the United States  of America.
Significant judgments are involved  in determining the provision for income taxes  including judgment on whether tax positions  are probable of being sustained in tax  assessments.
A tax assessment can involve  complex issues, which can only be resolved  over extended time periods.
d)   Deferred taxes: Deferred tax is recorded on  temporary differences between the tax bases  of assets and liabilities and their carrying  amounts, at the rates that have been enacted  or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
The ultimate realisation of deferred tax assets  is dependent upon the generation of future  taxable profits during the periods in which  those temporary differences and tax loss carry- forwards become deductible.
The Company  considers the expected reversal of deferred tax  liabilities and projected future taxable income  in making this assessment.
The amount of  the deferred tax assets considered realisable,  however, could be reduced in the near term if  estimates of future taxable income during the  carry-forward period are reduced.
e)   Business combination: In accounting for  business combinations, judgment is required  in identifying whether an identifiable intangible  asset is to be recorded separately from goodwill.
Additionally, estimating the acquisition date  fair value of the identifiable assets (including  useful life estimates) and liabilities acquired,  and contingent consideration assumed involves  management judgment.
These measurements  are based on information available at the  acquisition date and are based on expectations  and assumptions that have been deemed  reasonable by management.
Changes in these  judgments, estimates, and assumptions can  materially affect the results of operations.
f)   Defined benefit plans and compensated  absences: The cost of the defined benefit plans,  compensated absences and the present value  of the defined benefit obligations are based  on actuarial valuation using the projected unit  credit method.
An actuarial valuation involves  making various assumptions that may differ  from actual developments in the future.
These  include the determination of the discount  rate, future salary increases and mortality  rates.
Due to the complexities involved in the  valuation and its long-term nature, a defined  benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes  in these assumptions.
All assumptions are  reviewed at each reporting date.
g)   Expected credit losses on financial assets: The  impairment provisions of financial assets are  based on assumptions about risk of default and  expected timing of collection.
The Company  uses judgment in making these assumptions  and selecting the inputs to the impairment  calculation, based on the Company’s past  history of collections, customer’s credit- worthiness, existing market conditions as well  as forward looking estimates at the end of each  reporting period.
h)   Measurement of fair value of non-marketable  equity investments: These instruments are  initially recorded at cost and subsequently  measured at fair value.
Fair value of  investments is determined using the market  and income approaches.
The market approach  includes the use of financial metrics and  ratios of comparable companies, such as  revenue, earnings, comparable performance  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 193 multiples, recent financial rounds and the  level of marketability of the investments.
The  selection of comparable companies requires  management judgment and is based on a  number of factors, including comparable  company sizes, growth rates, and development  stages.
The income approach includes the use  of discounted cash flow model, which requires  significant estimates regarding the investees’  revenue, costs, and discount rates based on  the risk profile of comparable companies.
Estimates of revenue and costs are developed  using available historical and forecast data.
i)   Useful lives of property, plant and equipment:  The Company depreciates property, plant  and equipment on a straight-line basis over  estimated useful lives of the assets.
The  charge in respect of periodic depreciation is  derived based on an estimate of an asset’s  expected useful life and the expected residual  value at the end of its life.
The lives are based  on historical experience with similar assets as  well as anticipation of future events, which may  impact their life, such as changes in technology.
The estimated useful life is reviewed at least  annually.
j)   Other estimates: The share based  compensation expense is determined based on  the Company’s estimate of equity instruments  that will eventually vest.
Fair valuation of  derivative hedging instruments designated  as cash flow hedges involves significant  estimates relating to the occurrence of forecast  transaction.
3.
Significant accounting policies  (i)  Basis of consolidation   Subsidiaries and controlled Trusts   The Company determines the basis of control in line  with the requirements of Ind AS 110, Consolidated  Financial Statements.
Subsidiaries and controlled  Trusts are entities controlled by the Group.
The  Group controls an entity when the parent has power  over the entity, it is exposed to, or has rights to,  variable returns from its involvement with the entity  and has the ability to affect those returns through  its power over the entity.
The financial statements  of subsidiaries and controlled Trusts are included  in the consolidated financial statements from the  date on which control commences until the date on  which control ceases.
All intra-Group balances, transactions, income and  expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
Non-controlling interest   Non-controlling interests in the net assets  (excluding goodwill) of consolidated subsidiaries  are identified separately from the Company’s equity.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders may  be initially measured either at fair value or at the  non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of  the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net  assets.
The choice of measurement basis is made  on an acquisition to acquisition basis.
Subsequent  to acquisition, the carrying amount of non- controlling interest is the amount of those interests  at initial recognition plus the non-controlling  interest’s share of subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non- controlling interests even if it results in the non- controlling interest having a deficit balance.
Associates   Associates are entities in respect of which, the  Company has significant influence, but not control,  over the financial and operating policies.
Generally,  a Company has a significant influence if it holds  between 20 and 50 percent of the voting power of  another entity.
Investments in such entities are  accounted for using the equity method (associates)  and are initially recognised at cost.
The carrying  amount of investment is increased / decreased to  recognised investors share of profit or loss of the  investee after the acquisition date.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for  sale   Assets of disposal groups that is available for  immediate sale and where the sale is highly probable  of being completed within one year from the date  of classification are considered and classified  as assets held for sale.
Non-current assets and  disposal groups held for sale are measured at the  lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to  sell.
(ii)  Functional and presentation currency    Items included in the financial statements of each  of the Company’s entities are measured using the  currency of the primary economic environment in  which these entities operate (i.e.
the “functional  currency”).
These consolidated financial statements  are presented in Indian rupees, which is the  functional currency of the Company.
(iii)  Foreign currency transactions and translation   a)  Transactions and balances     Transactions in foreign currency are translated  into the respective functional currencies using  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 194 Wipro Limited the exchange rates prevailing at the date  of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains  and losses resulting from the settlement of  such transactions and from translation at the  exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date  of monetary assets and liabilities denominated  in foreign currencies are recognised in the  consolidated statement of profit and loss  and reported within foreign exchange gains/ (losses), net, within results of operating  activities except when deferred in other  comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow  hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Gains/(losses), net, relating to translation  or settlement of borrowings denominated in  foreign currency are reported within finance  costs.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities  denominated in foreign currency and measured  at historical cost are translated at the exchange  rate prevalent at the date of transaction.
Translation differences on non-monetary  financial assets measured at fair value at the  reporting date, such as equities classified as  financial instruments measured at fair value  through other comprehensive income are  included in other comprehensive income, net  of taxes.
b)  Foreign operations     For the purpose of presenting consolidated  financial statements, the assets and liabilities  of the Company’s foreign operations that  have a functional currency other than Indian  rupees are translated into Indian rupees using  exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Income and expense items are translated at  the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are  recognised in other comprehensive income  and held in foreign currency translation  reserve (FCTR), a component of equity, except  to the extent that the translation difference is  allocated to non-controlling interest.
When a  foreign operation is disposed of, the relevant  amount recognised in FCTR is transferred  to the consolidated statement of profit and  loss as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising  on the acquisition of a foreign operation are  treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign  operation and translated at the exchange rate  prevailing at the reporting date.
c)  Others     Foreign currency differences arising on the  translation or settlement of a financial liability  designated as a hedge of a net investment in  a foreign operation are recognised in other  comprehensive income and presented within  equity in the FCTR to the extent the hedge is  effective.
To the extent the hedge is ineffective,  such differences are recognised in the  consolidated statement of profit and loss.
When the hedged part of a net investment is  disposed of, the relevant amount recognised  in FCTR is transferred to the consolidated  statement of profit and loss as part of the profit  or loss on disposal.
Foreign currency differences  arising from translation of intercompany  receivables or payables relating to foreign  operations, the settlement of which is neither  planned nor likely in the foreseeable future, are  considered to form part of net investment in  foreign operation and are recognised in FCTR.
(iv)  Financial instruments  A) Non-derivative financial instruments:   Non derivative financial instruments consist of: 	 •	 	financial	 assets,	 which	 include	 cash	 and	 cash equivalents, trade receivables, unbilled  revenues, finance lease receivables, employee  and other advances, investments in equity  and debt securities and eligible current and  non-current assets; Financial assets are  derecognised when substantial risks and  rewards of ownership of the financial asset have  been transferred.
In cases where substantial  risks and rewards of ownership of the financial  assets are neither transferred nor retained,  financial assets are derecognised only when  the Company has not retained control over the  financial asset.
•	 	financial	 liabilities,	 which	 include	 long	 and	 short-term loans and borrowings, bank  overdrafts, trade payables, eligible current and  non-current liabilities.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised  initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial  recognition, non-derivative financial instruments  are measured as described below:   a.
Cash and cash equivalents     The Company’s cash and cash equivalents  consist of cash on hand and in banks and  demand deposits with banks, which can be  withdrawn at any time, without prior notice or  penalty on the principal.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement,  cash and cash equivalents include cash on  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 195 hand, in banks and demand deposits with  banks, net of outstanding bank overdrafts that  are repayable on demand and are considered  part of the Company’s cash management  system.
In the consolidated balance sheet,  bank overdrafts are presented under  borrowings within current liabilities.
b.
Investments   Financial instruments measured at amortised cost:    Debt instruments that meet the following criteria  are measured at amortised cost (except for debt  instruments that are designated at fair value  through Profit or Loss (FVTPL) on initial recognition):  	 •	 	the	 asset	 is	 held	 within	 a	 business	 model	 whose objective is to hold assets in order to  collect contractual cash flows; and  	 •	 	the	contractual	terms	of	the	instrument	give	 rise on specified dates to cash flows that are  solely payment of principal and interest on the  principal amount outstanding.
Financial instruments measured at fair value  through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI):    Debt instruments that meet the following criteria are  measured at fair value through other comprehensive  income (FVTOCI) (except for debt instruments that  are designated at fair value through Profit or Loss  (FVTPL) on initial recognition):  	 •	 	the	 asset	 is	 held	 within	 a	 business	 model	 whose objective is achieved both by collecting  contractual cash flows and selling the financial  asset; and  	 •	 	the	contractual	terms	of	the	instrument	give	 rise on specified dates to cash flows that are  solely payment of principal and interest on the  principal amount outstanding.
Interest income is recognised in the consolidated  statement of profit and loss for FVTOCI debt  instruments.
Other changes in fair value of  FVTOCI financial assets are recognised in other  comprehensive income.
When the investment is  disposed of, the cumulative gain or loss previously  accumulated in reserves is transferred to the  consolidated statement of profit and loss.
Financial instruments measured at fair value  through profit or loss (FVTPL):    Instruments that do not meet the amortised cost  or FVTOCI criteria are measured at FVTPL.
Financial  assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value at the  end of each reporting period, with any gains or  losses arising on re-measurement recognised in  consolidated statement of profit and loss.
The gain  or loss on disposal is recognised in the consolidated  statement of profit and loss.
Interest income is recognised in the consolidated  statement of profit and loss for FVTPL debt  instruments.
Dividend on financial assets at FVTPL  is recognised when the Group’s right to receive  dividend is established.
Investments in equity instruments designated to be  classified as FVTOCI:    The Company carries certain equity instruments  which are not held for trading.
The Company has  elected the FVTOCI irrevocable option for these  instruments.
Movements in fair value of these  investments are recognised in other comprehensive  income and the gain or loss is not transferred  to consolidated statement of profit and loss on  disposal of these investments.
Dividends from these  investments are recognised in the consolidated  statement of profit and loss when the Company’s  right to receive dividends is established.
c.  Other financial assets:    Other financial assets are non-derivative financial  assets with fixed or determinable payments that are  not quoted in an active market.
They are presented  as current assets, except for those maturing later  than 12 months after the reporting date which  are presented as non-current assets.
These are  initially recognised at fair value and subsequently  measured at amortised cost using the effective  interest method, less any impairment losses.
These  comprise trade receivables, unbilled revenues and  other assets.
d.  Trade and other payables    Trade and other payables are initially recognised at  fair value, and subsequently carried at amortised  cost using the effective interest method.
For  these financial instruments, the carrying amounts  approximate fair value due to the short term maturity  of these instruments.
Contingent consideration  recognised in the business combination is  subsequently measured at fair value through profit  or loss.
B)    Derivative financial instruments    The Company is exposed to foreign currency  fluctuations on foreign currency assets, liabilities,  net investment in foreign operations and forecasted  cash flows denominated in foreign currency.
The Company limits the effect of foreign exchange  rate fluctuations by following established risk  management policies including the use of  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 196 Wipro Limited derivatives.
The Company enters into derivative  financial instruments where the counterparty is  primarily a bank.
Derivatives are recognised and measured at fair  value.
Attributable transaction costs are recognised  in consolidated statement of profit and loss as cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative  financial instruments are measured as described  below:   a.
Cash flow hedges     Changes in the fair value of the derivative  hedging instrument designated as a cash flow  hedge are recognised in other comprehensive  income and held in cash flow hedging reserve,  net of taxes, a component of equity, to the  extent that the hedge is effective.
To the  extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes  in fair value are recognised in the consolidated  statement of profit and loss and reported  within foreign exchange gains/(losses), net  within results from operating activities.
If the  hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria  for hedge accounting, then hedge accounting  is discontinued prospectively.
If the hedging  instrument expires or is sold, terminated or  exercised, the cumulative gain or loss on the  hedging instrument recognised in cash flow  hedging reserve till the period the hedge was  effective remains in cash flow hedging reserve  until the forecasted transaction occurs.
The  cumulative gain or loss previously recognised  in the cash flow hedging reserve is transferred  to the consolidated statement of profit and loss  upon the occurrence of the related forecasted  transaction.
If the forecasted transaction is  no longer expected to occur, such cumulative  balance is immediately recognised in the  consolidated statement of profit and loss.
b.  Hedges of net investment in foreign operations     The Company designates derivative financial  instruments as hedges of net investments  in foreign operations.
The Company has also  designated a foreign currency denominated  borrowing as a hedge of net investment in  foreign operations.
Changes in the fair value  of the derivative hedging instruments and  gains/losses on translation or settlement of  foreign currency denominated borrowings  designated as a hedge of net investment in  foreign operations are recognised in other  comprehensive income and presented within  equity in the FCTR to the extent that the hedge  is effective.
To the extent that the hedge is  ineffective, changes in fair value are recognised  in the consolidated statement of profit and loss  and reported within foreign exchange gains/ (losses), net within results from operating  activities.
c.  Others     Changes in fair value of foreign currency  derivative instruments neither designated as  cash flow hedges nor hedges of net investment  in foreign operations are recognised in the  consolidated statement of profit and loss  and reported within foreign exchange gains/ (losses), net within results from operating  activities.
Changes in fair value and gains/ (losses), net, on settlement of foreign currency  derivative instruments relating to borrowings,  which have not been designated as hedges are  recorded in finance costs.
C)  Derecognition of financial instruments    The Company derecognises a financial asset when  the contractual rights to the cash flows from the  financial asset expire or it transfers the financial asset  and the transfer qualifies for derecognition under Ind  AS 109.
If the Company retains substantially all the  risks and rewards of a transferred financial asset, the  Company continues to recognise the financial asset  and also recognises a borrowing for the proceeds  received.
A financial liability (or a part of a financial  liability) is derecognised from the group’s balance  sheet when the obligation specified in the contract is  discharged or cancelled or expires.
(v)  Equity and share capital  a)  Share capital and share premium    The authorised share capital of the Company  as at March  31, 2018 is ` 11,265 divided into  5,500,000,000 equity shares of ` 2 each, 25,000,000  10.25% redeemable cumulative preference shares  of ` 10 each and 150,000 10% optionally convertible  cumulative preference shares of ` 100 each.
Par  value of the equity shares is recorded as share  capital and the amount received in excess of par  value is classified as share premium.
Every holder of the equity shares, as reflected in  the records of the Company as of the date of the  shareholder meeting shall have one vote in respect  of each share held for all matters submitted to vote  in the shareholder meeting.
b)  Shares held by controlled Trust (Treasury shares)    The Company’s equity shares held by the controlled  Trust, which is consolidated as a part of the Group  are classified as Treasury shares.
The Company  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 197 has 23,097,216 and 13,728,607 treasury shares as  at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Treasury  shares are recorded at acquisition cost.
c)  Retained earnings    Retained earnings comprises of the Company’s  undistributed earnings after taxes.
A portion of  these earnings amounting to ` 1,139, represents  capital reserve which is not freely available for  distribution.
d)  Share based payment reserve    The share based payment reserve is used to record  the value of equity-settled share based payment  transactions with employees.
The amounts recorded  in share based payment reserve are transferred to  share premium upon exercise of stock options and  restricted stock unit options by employees.
e)  Foreign currency translation reserve    The exchange differences arising from the translation  of financial statements of foreign subsidiaries,  differences arising from translation of long-term  inter-company receivables or payables relating to  foreign operations settlement of which is neither  planned nor likely in the foreseeable future, changes  in fair value of the derivative hedging instruments and  gains/losses on translation or settlement of foreign  currency denominated borrowings designated as  hedge of net investment in foreign operations are  recognised in other comprehensive income, net of  taxes and presented within equity in the FCTR.
f)  Cash flow hedging reserve    Changes in fair value of derivative hedging  instruments designated and effective as a cash  flow hedge are recognised in other comprehensive  income (net of taxes), and presented within equity  as cash flow hedging reserve.
g)  Other reserves    Changes in the fair value of financial instruments  measured at fair value through other comprehensive  income and actuarial gains and losses on defined  benefit plans are recognised in other comprehensive  income (net of taxes), and presented within equity in  other reserves.
Other reserves also includes Capital redemption  reserve amounting to ` 781 which is not freely  available for distribution.
h)  Dividend    A final dividend, including tax thereon, on common  stock is recorded as a liability on the date of approval  by the shareholders.
An interim dividend, including  tax thereon, is recorded as a liability on the date of  declaration by the board of directors.
i)  Buyback of equity shares   The buyback of equity shares and related transaction  costs are recorded as a reduction of free reserves.
Further, capital redemption reserve is created as an  apportionment from retained earnings.
(vi)  Property, plant and equipment  a)  Recognition and measurement    Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost  less accumulated depreciation and impairment  losses, if any.
Cost includes expenditures directly  attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
General  and specific borrowing costs directly attributable to  the construction of a qualifying asset are capitalised  as part of the cost.
b)  Depreciation    The Company depreciates property, plant and  equipment over the estimated useful life on a  straight-line basis from the date the assets are  available for use.
Assets acquired under finance  lease and leasehold improvements are amortised  over the shorter of estimated useful life of the  asset or the related lease term.
Term licenses are  amortised over their respective contract term.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
The estimated  useful life of assets are reviewed and where  appropriate are adjusted, annually.
The estimated  useful lives of assets are as follows:   Category Useful life Buildings 28 to 40 years Plant and machinery 5 to 21 years Computer equipment and software 2 to 7 years Furniture, fixtures and equipment 3 to 10 years Vehicles4 to 5 years   When parts of an item of property, plant and  equipment have different useful lives, they  are accounted for as separate items (major  components) of property, plant and equipment.
Subsequent expenditure relating to property,  plant and equipment is capitalised only when it is  probable that future economic benefits associated  with these will flow to the Company and the cost of  the item can be measured reliably.
The cost of property, plant and equipment not  available for use before such date are disclosed  under capital work-in-progress.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 198 Wipro Limited (vii)  Business combination, Goodwill and Intangible  assets  a)  Business combination    Business combinations are accounted for using  the purchase (acquisition) method.
The cost of an  acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets  transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed and  equity instruments issued at the date of exchange  by the Company.
Identifiable assets acquired and  liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a  business combination are measured initially at fair  value at the date of acquisition.
Transaction costs  incurred in connection with a business acquisition  are expensed as incurred.
The cost of an acquisition also includes the fair value  of any contingent consideration measured as at the  date of acquisition.
Any subsequent changes to the  fair value of contingent consideration classified  as liabilities, other than measurement period  adjustments, are recognised in the consolidated  statement of profit and loss.
b)  Goodwill    The excess of the cost of an acquisition over the  Company’s share in the fair value of the acquiree’s  identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent  liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
If the excess is  negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised in  equity as capital reserve.
Goodwill is measured at  cost less accumulated impairment (if any).
c)  Intangible assets    Intangible assets acquired separately are measured  at cost of acquisition.
Intangible assets acquired  in a business combination are measured at fair  value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial  recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost  less accumulated amortisation and impairment  losses, if any.
The amortisation of an intangible asset with a  finite useful life reflects the manner in which the  economic benefit is expected to be generated and  is included in selling and marketing expenses in the  consolidated statement of profit and loss.
The estimated useful life of amortisable intangibles  are reviewed and where appropriate are adjusted,  annually.
The estimated useful lives of the  amortisable intangible assets for the current and  comparative periods are as follows:  Category Useful life Customer-related intangibles 5 to 15 years Marketing related intangibles 3 to 10 years (viii) Leases     The determination of whether an arrangement  is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance  of the arrangement at the inception date.
The  arrangement is, or contains a lease if, fulfillment  of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a  specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys  a right to use the asset or assets, even if that right is  not explicitly specified in an arrangement.
a)  Arrangements where the Company is the lessee    Leases of property, plant and equipment, where  the Company assumes substantially all the risks  and rewards of ownership are classified as finance  leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at lower of  the fair value of the leased property and the present  value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease  payments are apportioned between the finance  charge and the outstanding liability.
The finance  charge is allocated to periods during the lease  term at a constant periodic rate of interest on the  remaining balance of the liability.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all  the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as  operating leases.
Payments made under operating  leases are recognised in the consolidated statement  of profit and loss on a straight-line basis over the  lease term.
b)  Arrangements where the Company is the lessor    In certain arrangements, the Company recognizes  revenue from the sale of products given under  finance leases.
The Company records gross finance  lease receivables, unearned income and the  estimated residual value of the leased equipment  on consummation of such leases.
Unearned income  represents the excess of the gross finance lease  receivable plus the estimated residual value over  the sales price of the equipment.
The Company  recognizes unearned income as finance income over  the lease term using the effective interest method.
(ix)  Inventories    Inventories are valued at lower of cost and net  realisable value, including necessary provision  for obsolescence.
Cost is determined using the  weighted average method.
(x)  Impairment  A)  Financial assets    The Company applies the expected credit loss model  for recognizing impairment loss on financial assets  measured at amortised cost, debt instruments at  FVTOCI, lease receivables, trade receivables and  other financial assets.
Expected credit loss is the  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 199 difference between the contractual cash flows and  the cash flows that the entity expects to receive,  discounted using the effective interest rate.
Loss allowances for trade receivables and lease  receivables are measured at an amount equal to  lifetime expected credit loss.
Lifetime expected  credit losses are the expected credit losses that  result from all possible default events over the  expected life of a financial instrument.
Lifetime  expected credit loss is computed based on a provision  matrix which takes in to account risk profiling of  customers and historical credit loss experience  adjusted for forward looking information.
For other  financial assets, expected credit loss is measured at  the amount equal to twelve months expected credit  loss unless there has been a significant increase  in credit risk from initial recognition, in which case  those are measured at lifetime expected credit loss.
B)  Non-financial assets    The Company assesses long-lived assets such  as property, plant and equipment and acquired  intangible assets for impairment whenever events  or changes in circumstances indicate that the  carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may  not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists, the  Company estimates the recoverable amount of the  asset or group of assets.
The recoverable amount  of an asset or cash generating unit is the higher of  its fair value less cost of disposal (FVLCD) and its  value-in-use (VIU).
The VIU of long-lived assets is  calculated using projected future cash flows.
FVLCD  of a cash generating unit is computed using turnover  and earnings multiples.
If the recoverable amount  of the asset or the recoverable amount of the cash  generating unit to which the asset belongs is less  than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is  reduced to its recoverable amount.
The reduction  is treated as an impairment loss and is recognised  in the consolidated statement of profit and loss.
If at the reporting date, there is an indication that  a previously assessed impairment loss no longer  exists, the recoverable amount is reassessed and  the impairment losses previously recognised are  reversed such that the asset is recognised at its  recoverable amount but not exceeding written  down value which would have been reported if the  impairment losses had not been recognised initially.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually  at the same time and when events occur or changes  in circumstances indicate that the recoverable  amount of the cash generating unit is less than  its carrying value.
The goodwill impairment test is  performed at the level of cash-generating unit or  groups of cash -generating units which represents  the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for  internal management purposes.
An impairment in  respect of goodwill is not reversed.
(xi)  Employee benefits   Post-employment and pension plans   The Group participates in various employee benefit  plans.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits  are classified as either defined contribution plans or  defined benefit plans.
Under a defined contribution  plan, the Company’s only obligation is to pay a  fixed amount with no obligation to pay further  contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient  assets to pay all employee benefits.
The related  actuarial and investment risks are borne by the  employee.
The expenditure for defined contribution  plans is recognised as an expense during the period  when the employee provides service.
Under a  defined benefit plan, it is the Company’s obligation  to provide agreed benefits to the employees.
The  related actuarial and investment risks are borne by  the Company.
The present value of the defined benefit  obligations is calculated by an independent actuary  using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains or losses are immediately recognised  in other comprehensive income, net of taxes and  permanently excluded from profit or loss.
Further,  the profit or loss will no longer include an expected  return on plan assets.
Instead net interest recognised  in profit or loss is calculated by applying the discount  rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation  to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
The actual  return on the plan assets above or below the discount  rate is recognised as part of re-measurement of net  defined liability or asset through other comprehensive  income, net of taxes.
The Company has the following employee benefit  plans:  a.  Provident fund    Employees receive benefits from a provident fund,  which is a defined benefit plan.
The employer and  employees each make periodic contributions to  the plan.
A portion of the contribution is made to  the approved provident fund trust managed by the  Company while the remainder of the contribution  is made to the government administered pension  fund.
The contributions to the trust managed by the  Company is accounted for as a defined benefit plan  as the Company is liable for any shortfall in the fund  assets based on the government specified minimum  rates of return.
b.  Superannuation    Superannuation plan, a defined contribution scheme  is administered by third party fund managers.
The  Company makes annual contributions based on a  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 200 Wipro Limited specified percentage of each eligible employee’s  salary.
c.  Gratuity    In accordance with the Payment of Gratuity  Act, 1972, applicable for Indian companies, the  Company provides for a lump sum payment to  eligible employees, at retirement or termination  of employment based on the last drawn salary and  years of employment with the Company.
The gratuity  fund is managed by third party fund managers.
The  Company’s obligation in respect of the gratuity plan,  which is a defined benefit plan, is provided for based  on actuarial valuation using the projected unit credit  method.
The Company recognises actuarial gains and  losses in other comprehensive income, net of taxes.
d.  Termination benefits    Termination benefits are expensed when the  Company can no longer withdraw the offer of those  benefits.
e.  Short-term benefits    Short-term employee benefit obligations are  measured on an undiscounted basis and are  recorded as expense as the related service is  provided.
A liability is recognised for the amount  expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus or  profit-sharing plans, if the Company has a present  legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount  as a result of past service provided by the employee  and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
f.  Compensated absences    The employees of the Company are entitled to  compensated absences.
The employees can carry  forward a portion of the unutilised accumulating  compensated absences and utilise it in future  periods or receive cash at retirement or termination  of employment.
The Company records an obligation  for compensated absences in the period in which  the employee renders the services that increases  this entitlement.
The Company measures the  expected cost of compensated absences as the  additional amount that the Company expects to  pay as a result of the unused entitlement that has  accumulated at the end of the reporting period.
The  Company recognises accumulated compensated  absences based on actuarial valuation using the  projected unit credit method.
Non-accumulating  compensated absences are recognised in the period  in which the absences occur.
(xii)  Share based payment transactions    Selected employees of the Company receive  remuneration in the form of equity settled  instruments, for rendering services over a defined  vesting period.
Equity instruments granted are  measured by reference to the fair value of the  instrument at the date of grant.
In cases, where  equity instruments are granted at a nominal  exercise price, the intrinsic value on the date of  grant approximates the fair value.
The expense is  recognised in the consolidated statement of profit  and loss with a corresponding increase to the share  based payment reserve, a component of equity.
The equity instruments generally vest in a graded  manner over the vesting period.
The fair value  determined at the grant date is expensed over  the vesting period of the respective tranches of  such grants (accelerated amortisation).
The stock  compensation expense is determined based on the  Company’s estimate of equity instruments that will  eventually vest.
(xiii) Provisions    Provisions are recognised when the Company has  a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a  result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow  of economic benefits will be required to settle the  obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of  the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best  estimate of the consideration required to settle the  present obligation at the end of the reporting period,  taking into account the risks and uncertainties  surrounding the obligation.
When some or all of the economic benefits required  to settle a provision are expected to be recovered  from a third party, the receivable is recognised as  an asset, if it is virtually certain that reimbursement  will be received and the amount of the receivable  can be measured reliably.
Provisions for onerous contracts are recognised  when the expected benefits to be derived by  the Company from a contract are lower than the  unavoidable costs of meeting the future obligations  under the contract.
Provisions for onerous contracts  are measured at the present value of lower of the  expected net cost of fulfilling the contract and the  expected cost of terminating the contract.
(xiv)  Revenue    The Company derives revenue primarily from  software development, maintenance of software/ hardware and related services, business process  services, sale of IT and other products.
a)  Services    The Company recognizes revenue when the  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 201 significant terms of the arrangement are  enforceable, services have been delivered and the  collectability is reasonably assured.
The method  for recognising revenues and costs depends on the  nature of the services rendered:   A.
Time and materials contracts     Revenues and costs relating to time and  materials contracts are recognised as the  related services are rendered.
B.  Fixed-price contracts     Revenues from fixed-price contracts, including  systems development and integration contracts  are recognised using the “percentage-of- completion” method.
Percentage of completion  is determined based on project costs incurred  to date as a percentage of total estimated  project costs required to complete the project.
The cost expended (or input) method has been  used to measure progress towards completion  as there is a direct relationship between input  and productivity.
If the Company does not have  a sufficient basis to measure the progress of  completion or to estimate the total contract  revenues and costs, revenue is recognised only  to the extent of contract cost incurred for which  recoverability is probable.
When total cost  estimates exceed revenues in an arrangement,  the estimated losses are recognised in the  consolidated statement of profit and loss in the  period in which such losses become probable  based on the current contract estimates.
‘Unbilled revenues’ represent cost and earnings  in excess of billings as at the end of the reporting  period.
‘Unearned revenues’ represent billing  in excess of revenue recognised.
Advance  payments received from customers for which  no services have been rendered are presented  as ‘Advance from customers’ .
C.  Maintenance contracts     Revenue from maintenance contracts is  recognised ratably over the period of the  contract using the percentage of completion  method.
When services are performed through  an indefinite number of repetitive acts over a  specified period of time, revenue is recognised  on a straight-line basis over the specified  period unless some other method better  represents the stage of completion.
In certain projects, a fixed quantum of service  or output units is agreed at a fixed price for  a fixed term.
In such contracts, revenue is  recognised with respect to the actual output  achieved till date as a percentage of total  contractual output.
Any residual service  unutilised by the customer is recognised as  revenue on completion of the term.
b)  Products    Revenue from products are recognised when the  significant risks and rewards of ownership have  been transferred to the buyer, continuing managerial  involvement usually associated with ownership and  effective control have ceased, the amount of revenue  can be measured reliably, it is probable that economic  benefits associated with the transaction will flow to  the Company and the costs incurred or to be incurred  in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.
c)  Multiple element arrangements    Revenue from contracts with multiple-element  arrangements are recognised using the guidance  in Ind AS 18, Revenue.
The Company allocates  the arrangement consideration to separately  identifiable components based on their relative  fair values or on the residual method.
Fair values  are determined based on sale prices for the  components when it is regularly sold separately,  third-party prices for similar components or cost  plus an appropriate business-specific profit margin  related to the relevant component.
d)  Others  	 •	 	The	Company	accounts	for	volume	discounts	 and pricing incentives to customers by reducing  the amount of revenue recognised at the time  of sale.
•	 	Revenues	 are	 shown	 net	 of	 sales	 tax,	 value	 added tax, service tax, goods and sales tax and  applicable discounts and allowances.
Revenue  includes excise duty.
•	 	The	Company	accrues	the	estimated	cost	of	 warranties at the time when the revenue is  recognised.
The accruals are based on the  Company’s historical experience of material  usage and service delivery costs.
•	 	Costs	 that	 relate	 directly	 to	 a	 contract	 and	 incurred in securing a contract are recognised  as an asset and amortised over the contract  term as reduction of revenue.
•	 	Contract	expenses	are	recognised	as	expenses	 by reference to the stage of completion of  contract activity at the end of the reporting  period.
(xv)  Finance costs   Finance costs comprises interest cost on borrowings,  gains or losses arising on re-measurement of  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 202 Wipro Limited financial assets measured at FVTPL, gains/ (losses),  net, on translation or settlement of foreign currency  borrowings and changes in fair value and gains/  (losses), net, on settlement of related derivative  instruments.
Borrowing costs that are not directly  attributable to a qualifying asset are recognised in  the consolidated statement of profit and loss using  the effective interest method.
(xvi)  Finance and other income    Finance and other income comprises interest  income on deposits, dividend income and gains /  (losses) on disposal of investments.
Interest income  is recognised using the effective interest method.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to  receive payment is established.
(xvii) Income tax    Income tax comprises current and deferred  tax.
Income tax expense is recognised in the  consolidated statement of profit and loss except  to the extent it relates to a business combination,  or items directly recognised in equity or in other  comprehensive income.
a)  Current income tax    Current income tax for the current and prior  periods are measured at the amount expected to be  recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities  based on the taxable income for the period.
The tax  rates and tax laws used to compute the current tax  amounts are those that are enacted or substantively  enacted as at the reporting date and applicable for  the period.
The Company offsets current tax assets  and current tax liabilities, where it has a legally  enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts  and where it intends either to settle on a net basis,  or to realize the asset and liability simultaneously.
b)  Deferred income tax    Deferred income tax is recognised using the balance  sheet approach.
Deferred income tax assets and  liabilities are recognised for deductible and taxable  temporary differences arising between the tax base  of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount  in financial statements, except when the deferred  income tax arises from the initial recognition of  goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that  is not a business combination and affects neither  accounting nor taxable profits or loss at the time of  the transaction.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the  extent it is probable that taxable profit will be  available against which the deductible temporary  differences and the carry forward of unused tax  credits and unused tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for  all taxable temporary differences except in respect  of taxable temporary differences that is expected  to reverse within the tax holiday period, taxable  temporary differences associated with investments  in subsidiaries, associates and foreign branches  where the timing of the reversal of the temporary  difference can be controlled and it is probable that  the temporary difference will not reverse in the  foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets  is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to  the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient  taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of  the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are  measured at the tax rates that are expected to  apply in the period when the asset is realised or the  liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws)  that have been enacted or substantively enacted at  the reporting date.
The Company offsets deferred income tax assets  and liabilities, where it has a legally enforceable  right to offset current tax assets against current  tax liabilities, and they relate to taxes levied by the  same taxation authority on either the same taxable  entity, or on different taxable entities where there  is an intention to settle the current tax liabilities  and assets on a  net basis or their tax assets and  liabilities will be realised simultaneously.
(xviii) Earnings per share    Basic earnings per share is computed using  the weighted average number of equity shares  outstanding during the period adjusted for treasury  shares held.
Diluted earnings per share is computed  using the weighted-average number of equity and  dilutive equivalent shares outstanding during the  period, using the treasury stock method for options  and warrants, except where the results would be  anti-dilutive.
The number of equity shares and potentially dilutive  equity shares are adjusted retrospectively for all  periods presented for any splits and bonus shares  issues including for change effected prior to the  approval of the consolidated financial statements  by the Board of Directors.
(xix) Cash flow statement   Cash flows are reported using the indirect method,  whereby profit for the period is adjusted for the  effects of transactions of a non-cash nature, any  deferrals or accruals of past operating cash receipts  or payments and item of income or expenses  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 203 associated with investing or financing cash flows.
The cash from operating, investing and financing  activities of the Company are segregated.
(xx)   Discontinued operations    A discontinued operation is a component of the  Company’s business that represents a separate line  of business that has been disposed of or is held for  sale, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with  a view to resale.
Classification as a discontinued  operation occurs upon the earlier of disposal  or when the operation meets the criteria to be  classified as held for sale.
New Accounting standards adopted by the  Company:    The accounting policies adopted in the preparation  of the consolidated financial statements are  consistent with those followed in the preparation  of the Company’s annual consolidated financial  statements for the year ended March 31, 2017.
Ind AS 7- Statement of Cash flows   The amendments require entities to provide  disclosures about changes in their liabilities arising  from financing activities, including both changes  arising from cash flows and non-cash changes  (such as foreign exchange gains or losses).
On  initial application of the amendment, entities are  not required to provide comparative information  for preceding periods.
The effect on adoption of Ind  AS 7 on the consolidated financial statements is  insignificant.
New accounting standards not yet adopted:   A new standard and amendment to a standard  are not yet effective for annual periods beginning  after April 1, 2017, and have not been applied in  preparing these consolidated financial statements.
New standard and amendment to standard that  could have a potential impact on the consolidated  financial statements of the Company are:  Ind AS 115- Revenue from Contract with Customers   In March 2018, Ministry of Corporate Affairs  (“MCA”) has notified the Ind AS 115, Revenue from  Contract with Customers.
Ind AS 115 replaces  existing revenue recognition standards Ind AS 11,  Construction Contracts,Ind AS 18, Revenue and  revised guidance note of the Institute of Chartered  Accountants of India (ICAI) on Accounting for Real  Estate Transactions for Ind AS entities issued in  2016.
According to the new standard, revenue is  recognised to depict the transfer of promised goods  or services to a customer in an amount that reflects  the consideration to which the entity expects to be  entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Ind AS 115 establishes a five-step model that will  apply to revenue earned from a contract with a  customer (with limited exceptions), regardless  of the type of revenue transaction or the industry.
Extensive disclosures will be required, including  disaggregation of total revenue; information about  performance obligation; changes in contract asset  and liability account balances between periods and  key judgments and estimates.
The standard allows for two methods of transition:  the full retrospective approach, under which the  standard will be applied retrospectively to each  reported period presented, or the cumulative  catch up approach, where the cumulative effect of  applying the standard retrospectively is recognised  at the date of initial application.
The standard  is effective for annual periods beginning on or  after April 1, 2018.
The Company will adopt this  standard using the cumulative catch up transition  method effective April 1, 2018 and accordingly, the  comparative for year ended March 31, 2018, will not  be retrospectively adjusted.
The adoption of the  new standard is expected to result in a reduction of  approximately ` 2,239 in opening retained earnings,  primarily relating to certain contract costs because  these will not meet the criteria for recognition as  contract fulfillment asset.
Appendix B to Ind AS 21, Foreign Currency  Transactions and Advance Consideration   In March 2018, Ministry of Corporate Affairs  (“MCA”) has notified the Companies (Indian  Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2018  containing Appendix B to Ind AS 21, Foreign  Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration  which clarifies that the date of the transaction  for the purpose of determining the exchange rate  to use on initial recognition of the related asset,  expense or income is the date on which an entity  initially recognises the non-monetary asset or  non-monetary liability arising from the payment  or receipt of advance consideration in a foreign  currency.
The effective date for adoption of the  amendment is annual reporting periods beginning  on or after April 1, 2018, though, early adoption is  permitted.
The Company will apply the amendment  prospectively from the effective date and the effect  on adoption of the amendment on the consolidated  financial statements is insignificant.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 204 Wipro Limited 4.
Property, plant and equipment Land Buildings Plant and  machinery* Furniture  fixtures Office  equipment Vehicles Total Gross carrying value: As at April 1, 2017 ` 3,814 ` 27,385 ` 108,887 ` 10,224 ` 5,427 ` 432 ` 156,169 Translation adjustment 28 265 904 77 111 2 1,387 Additions/ adjustments 2 1,197 11,767 1,073 703 1,003 15,745 Acquisition through business  combinations - 13 4 7 4 1 29 Disposals/ adjustments - (190) (7,302) (641) (231) (294) (8,658) Assets reclassified as held  for sale (207) (3,721) (27,118) (882) (197) (5) (32,130) As at March 31, 2018 ` 3,637 ` 24,949 ` 87,142 ` 9,858 ` 5,817 ` 1,139 ` 132,542 Accumulated depreciation/  impairment: As at April 1, 2017  ` - ` 6,312 ` 76,952 ` 7,963  ` 3,910 ` 365  ` 95,502 Translation adjustment - 49 509 49 55 - 662 Depreciation - 1,019 14,075 846 535 387 16,862 Disposals/ adjustments - (70) (6,640) (533) (225) (242) (7,710) Assets reclassified as held  for sale (1,539) (19,627) (530) (182) (4) (21,882) As at March 31, 2018 - 5,771 65,269 7,795 4,093 506 83,434 Net book value as at March 31, 2018` 3,637 ` 19,178 ` 21,873 `  2,063 `  1,724 ` 633 `  49,108 Gross carrying value: As at April 1, 2016  ` 3,695  ` 25,893  ` 99,500  ` 9,608  ` 4,410  ` 589 ` 143,695 Translation adjustment (15) (69) (1,377) (67) (66) 3 (1,591) Additions/ adjustments - 1,133 16,572 1,214 1,028 23 19,970 Acquisition through business  combinations 134 446 835 1 76 - 1,492 Disposals/ adjustments - (18) (6,643) (532) (21) (183) (7,397) As at March 31, 2017 ` 3,814 ` 27,385 ` 108,887 ` 10,224 `  5,427 ` 432 ` 156,169 Accumulated depreciation/  impairment: As at April 1, 2016 ` - ` 5,300 ` 68,112 ` 7,716 ` 3,507 ` 504 ` 85,139 Translation adjustment - (39) (816) (38) (37) 2 (928) Depreciation - 1,054 14,906 619 498 28 17,105 Disposals/ adjustments - (3) (5,250) (334) (58) (169) (5,814) As at March 31, 2017 - 6,312 76,952 7,963 3,910 365 95,502 Net book value as at  March 31, 2017 ` 3,814 ` 21,073 ` 31,935 ` 2,261 ` 1,517 ` 67 ` 60,667 *   Including net carrying value of computer equipment and software amounting to ` 17,765 and ` 19,200 as at March  31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Interest capitalised by the Company was ` 157 and ` 89 for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing cost capitalised for the year ended March 31,  2018 and 2017, are 1.9% and 2.4%, respectively.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 205 5.
Goodwill and Other intangible assets  The movement in goodwill balance is given below:  As at  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  Balance at the beginning of the year ` 122,276 ` 98,394 Translation adjustment 2,952 (4,242) Acquisition through business combination, net 1,172 28,124 Assets reclassified as held for sale (12,354) - Balance at the end of the year ` 114,046 ` 122,276   Acquisition through business combinations for the year ended March 31, 2018, includes goodwill recognised on  four acquisitions.
Also refer note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Company is organised by two operating segments: IT Services and IT Products.
Goodwill as at March 31, 2018  and 2017 has been allocated to the IT Services operating segment.
Goodwill recognised on business combinations is allocated to Cash Generating Units (CGUs), within the IT Services  operating segment, which are expected to benefit from the synergies of the acquisitions.
Goodwill has been allocated to the CGUs as at March 31, 2018 and 2017 as follows: CGUs March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  Banking Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI) ` 17,475 ` 19,912 Healthcare and Life Sciences (HLS) 49,085 48,144 Consumer (CBU) 14,776 17,442 Energy, Natural Resources and Utilities (ENU) 14,863 16,393 Manufacturing and Technology (MNT) 16,868 19,480 Communication (COMM) 979 905 ` 114,046 ` 122,276   For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to a CGU representing the lowest level within the Group  at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes, and which is not higher than the Company’s  operating segment.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with the Company’s procedure  for determining the recoverable value of each CGU.
The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined on the basis of Fair Value Less Cost of Disposal  (FVLCD).
The  FVLCD of the CGU is determined based on the market capitalisation approach, using the turnover and earnings  multiples derived from observable market data.
The fair value measurement is categorised as a level 2 fair value  based on the inputs in the valuation techniques used.
Based on the above testing, no impairment was identified as at March 31, 2018 and 2017, as the recoverable value  of the CGUs exceeded the carrying value.
Further, none of the CGU’s tested for impairment as at March 31, 2018  and 2017 were at risk of impairment.
An analysis of the calculation’s sensitivity to a change in the key parameters  (turnover and earnings multiples), did not identify any probable scenarios where the CGU’s recoverable amount  would fall below its carrying amount.
The movement in intangible assets is given below: Intangible assets Customer  related Marketing  related Total Gross carrying value: As at April 1, 2017 ` 20,528 ` 6,279 ` 26,807 Translation adjustment 493 103 596 Acquisition through business combinations 5,565 169 5,734 As at March 31, 2018 `  26,586 `  6,551 `  33,137 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 206 Wipro Limited Intangible assets Customer  related Marketing  related Total Accumulated depreciation/impairment: As at April 1, 2017 ` 9,264 ` 1,621 ` 10,885 Translation adjustment 14 11 25 Amortisation and impairment* 2,985 1,129 4,114 As at March 31, 2018 ` 12,263 `  2,761 `  15,024 Net carrying value as at March 31, 2018 `  14,323 `  3,790 `  18,113 Gross carrying value: As at April 1, 2016 ` 18,360 ` 2,587 ` 20,947 Translation adjustment (546) (314) (860) Acquisition through business combinations 2,714 4,006 6,720 As at March 31, 2017 20,528 6,279 26,807 Accumulated depreciation/ impairment: As at April 1, 2016 `  4,164 ` 942 ` 5,106 Translation adjustment (7) (68) (75) Amortisation and impairment* 5,107 747 5,854 As at March 31, 2017 9,264 1,621 10,885 Net carrying value as at March 31, 2017 ` 11,264 ` 4,658 ` 15,922  *   includes impairment charge on certain intangible assets recognised on acquisitions, amounting to ` 643 and  ` 3,056 for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Acquisition through business combinations for the year ended March 31, 2018, includes intangible assets  recognised on four acquisitions.
Also refer note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
As at March 31, 2018, the estimated remaining amortisation period for intangible assets acquired on acquisition  are as follows: Acquisition  Estimated remaining  amortisation period  Global oil and gas information technology practice of the Commercial Business  2.25 – 3.25  years Services  Business Unit of Science Applications International Corporation Promax Application Group  4.25 years  Opus Capital Markets Consultants LLC  0.75 – 2.75 years  ATCO I-Tek  6.50 years  Designit AS  0.25 – 2.25 years  Cellent AG  2.75 – 4.75 years  HealthPlan Services  1 – 5 years  Appirio Inc.  2.50 – 8.50 years  Other entities  2 – 14.25 years  6.  Business combination  Summary of material acquisitions during the year ended March 31, 2018 is given below:   During the year, the Company has completed four business combinations (which both individually and in aggregate  are not material) for a total consideration of ` 6,924.
These transactions include (a) an acquisition of IT service  provider which is focused on Brazilian markets, (b) an acquisition of a design and business strategy consultancy  firm based in the United States, and (c) acquisition of intangible assets, assembled workforce and a multi-year  service agreement which qualify as business combinations.
During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Company concluded the fair value adjustments of the assets acquired  and liabilities assumed on acquisition.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 207  The following table presents the provisional allocation of purchase price: Description Purchase price  allocated  Net assets ` 5 Customer related intangibles 5,565 Other intangible assets 169 Total ` 5,739 Goodwill 1,185 Total purchase price ` 6,924   The goodwill of `  1,185 comprises value of acquired workforce and expected synergies arising from the acquisition.
The goodwill was allocated among the reportable operating segments and is partially deductible for U.S. federal  income tax purpose.
Net assets acquired include ` 58 of cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables valued at ` 215.
The pro-forma effects of these acquisition on the Company’s results were not material.
Summary of material acquisitions during the year ended March 31, 2017 is given below:  Appirio Inc.   On November 23, 2016, the Company obtained full control of Appirio Inc. (“Appirio”).
Appirio is a global services  company that helps customers create next-generation employee and customer experiences using latest cloud  technology services.
This acquisition will strengthen Wipro’s cloud application service offerings.
The acquisition  was consummated for a consideration of ` 32,402 (USD 475.7 million).
During the year, the Company concluded the fair value adjustments of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed  on acquisition.
Comparatives have not been retrospectively revised as the amounts are not material.
The following table presents the allocation of purchase price: Description  Pre-acquisition  carrying amount   Fair value  adjustments   Purchase price  allocated  Net assets ` 526 (29) ` 497 Technology platform 436 (89) 347 Customer related intangibles - 2,323 2,323 Brand 180 2,968 3,148 Alliance relationship - 858 858 Deferred tax liabilities on other intangible assets - (2,791) (2,791) Total ` 1,142 ` 3,240 ` 4,382 Goodwill 28,020 Total purchase price 32,402  Net assets acquired include ` 85 of cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables valued at ` 2,363.
The goodwill of `  28,020 comprises value of acquired workforce and expected synergies arising from the acquisition.
Goodwill is not deductible for income tax purposes.
If the acquisition had occurred on April 1, 2016, management estimates that consolidated revenue for the Company  would have been ` 559,575 and the profit after taxes would have been ` 85,460 for twelve months ended March  31, 2017.
The pro-forma amounts are not necessarily indicative of the results that would have occurred if the  acquisition had occurred on date indicated or that may result in the future.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 208 Wipro Limited 7.
Investments As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Non-current Financial instruments at FVTOCI  Equity instruments - unquoted (Refer note 7.1) ` 4,140 ` 5,303 Financial instruments at amortised cost  Inter corporate and term deposits - unquoted * 3,528 1,800 ` 7,668 ` 7,103 Aggregate amount of unquoted investments 7,668 7,103 Current Financial instruments at FVTOCI  Equity instruments - unquoted (Refer note 7.1) ` 1,545 `         -   Commercial papers, Certificate of deposits and bonds - unquoted  (Refer note 7.2) 23,343 65,279  Non-convertible debentures and bonds - quoted (Refer note 7.3) 152,891 80,335 Financial instruments at amortised cost  Inter corporate and term deposits -unquoted * 24,877 41,172 Financial instruments at FVTPL  Investments in liquid and short-term mutual funds - unquoted ** 46,438 104,675  Others - Debentures - unquoted - 569 ` 249,094 ` 292,030 Aggregate amount of quoted investments and aggregate market value thereof 225,751 226,750 Aggregate amount of unquoted investments 23,343 65,280  *  These deposits earn a fixed rate of interest.
*  Term deposits include deposits in lien with banks amounting to ` 453 (March 31, 2017: ` 308).
**   Investments in liquid and short-term mutual funds include investments amounting to  ` Nil (March 31, 2017:  ` 117) pledged as margin money deposits for entering into currency future contracts.
Investments accounted for using equity method   The Company has no material associates as at March 31, 2018.
The aggregate summarised financial information  in respect of the Company’s immaterial associates that are accounted for using the equity method is set forth  below: As at March 31,  2018 2017 Carrying amount of the Company’s interest in associates ` 1,206 ` - For the year ended March 31,  2018 2017 Company’s share in associates ` 11 ` -   During the year ended March 31, 2018, The Company has increased its investment in Drivestream Inc. from 19%  to 43.7%.
Drivestream Inc. is a private entity that is not listed on any public exchange.
The carrying value of the  investment as at March 31, 2018 was ` 630.
During the year ended March 31, 2018, The Company has invested ` 576 for 33.3% stake in Denim Group LLC, a  private entity that is not listed on any public exchange.
The carrying value of the investment as at March 31, 2018  was ` 576.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 209 Details of investments: 7.1  Details of investments in equity instruments- classified as FVTOCI Particulars Number of Shares Carrying value As at As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Non-current Opera Solutions LLC - 2,390,433 ` - ` 3,232 Drivestream Inc. * - 94,527 - 304 Mycity Technology Limited 44,935 44,935 - 45 Wep Peripherals Limited 306,000 306,000 39 42 Wep Solutions Limited 1,836,000 1,836,000 72 97 Vectra Networks Inc. 1,811,807 1,395,034 501 454 Talena Inc. 10,103,248 4,757,373 264 130 Drivestream India Private Limited 267,600 267,600 19 19 Altizon Systems Private Limited 16,018 16,018 98 98 Emailage Corp. 373,800 317,027 426 65 TLV Partners - - 237 94 Tradeshift Inc. 384,615 384,615 440 324 Avaamo Inc. 1,887,193 687,616 224 65 IntSights Cyber Intelligence Limited 1,716,512 1,716,512 255 143 Investments in convertible notes- Vicarious  FPC, Inc - - 211 191 Headspin Inc 139,823 - 96 - Work-Bench Ventures II - A, LP - - 31 - Demisto 330,578 - 130 - Harte Hanks Inc 9,926 - 646 - Tricentis 3,523,608 - 353 - eSilicon 1,485,149 - 98 - 4,140 5,303 Current Opera Solutions LLC 2,390,433 - ` 1,545 ` - Total ` 5,685 ` 5,303  *   As at 31st March, 2018, Drivestream Inc. has been classified as an associate, accounted for using the equity  method.
7.2  Investment in certificate of deposits/ commercial papers and bonds (unquoted)– classified as FVTOCI Particulars of issuer As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Current Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited ` 4,808 ` 4,643 Canfin Homes Limited 4,545 755 Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited 3,333 9,931 IDFC Limited 3,223 9,482 L&T Finance Limited 2,143 1,847 HDB Financial Services Limited 1,980 3,649 LIC Housing Finance Limited 1,532 8,153 L&T Infrastructure Finance Company Limited 931 1,605 Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited 495 3,075 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 210 Wipro Limited Particulars of issuer As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Bajaj Finance Limited 299 1,064 Sundaram Finance Limited 54 1,968 Aditya Birla Finance Limited - 4,103 Housing Development Finance Corp Limited - 4,837 L&T Housing Finance Limited - 2,328 Shriram Transport Finance Limited - 533 Tata Capital Financial Services Limited - 5,903 Tata Capital Housing Finance Limited - 1,403 Total ` 23,343 ` 65,279 7.3  Investment in non-convertible deposits and bonds (quoted) – classified as FVTOCI Particulars of issuer As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Current LIC Housing Finance Limited ` 21,231 ` 1,659 Housing Development Finance Corp Limited 18,667 4,223 National Highways Authority of India 18,456 18,359 Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited 10,288 2,026 HDB Financial Services Limited 10,969 7,830 Tata Capital Financial Services Limited 6,962 1,390 Hero Fincorp Limited 6,923 - Sundaram Finance Limited 6,643 4,864 L&T Finance Limited 6,169 3,457 L&T Infrastructure Finance Company Limited 6,126 5,709 Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited 5,899 3,649 Aditya Birla Finance Limited 5,202 2,983 Tata Capital Housing Finance Limited 5,045 715 L&T Housing Finance Limited 4,986 4,737 IDFC  Limited 1,569 2,088 Bajaj Finance Limited 4,238 1,873 Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited 3,796 3,776 Canfin Homes Limited 1,904 - 6.79% GOI Security 2027 1,951 - Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited 1,842 1,715 Gruh Finance Limited 1,247 1,024 NABARD 968 440 Power Finance Corporation Limited 960 958 NTPC Limited 427 425 Rural Electrification Corporation Limited 423 423 Shriram Transport Finance Limited - 6,012 Total ` 152,891 ` 80,335 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 211 8.
Financial instruments  Financial assets and liabilities (carrying value / fair value) As at March 31, 2018 2017 Assets Cash and cash equivalents ` 44,925 ` 52,710 Investments  Financial instrument at FVTPL 46,438 105,243  Financial instrument at FVTOCI 158,576 85,638  Financial instrument at Amortised cost 28,405 42,972 Other financial assets  Trade receivables 105,436 98,844  Unbilled revenues 42,486 45,095  Other assets 11,615 13,414 Derivative assets 1,273 9,853 ` 439,154 ` 453,769 Liabilities Trade payables and other payables  Trade payables ` 51,203 ` 48,673  Other liabilities 31,376 24,009 Borrowings 124,866 136,352 Derivative liabilities 2,217 2,710 ` 209,662 ` 211,744 Offsetting financial assets and liabilities   The following table contains information on other financial assets and trade payables and other payables, subject  to offsetting: As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Financial Assets Gross amount of recognised other financial assets ` 165,985 ` 162,252 Gross amount of recognised trade payables and other payables set off in the  consolidated balance sheet (6,448) (4,899) Net amount of other financial assets presented in the consolidated balance sheet ` 159,537 ` 157,353 Financial liabilities Gross amount recognised as Trade payables and other payables ` 89,027 ` 77,581 Gross amount of recognised trade payables and other payables set off in the  consolidated balance sheet (6,448) (4,899) Net amounts of Trade payables and other payables presented in the  consolidated balance sheet` 82,579 ` 72,682   For the financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting or similar arrangements, each agreement between the  Company and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both  elect to settle on a net basis.
In the absence of such an election, financial assets and liabilities will be settled on  a gross basis and hence are not offset.
Fair value   Financial assets and liabilities include cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, unbilled revenues, finance  lease receivables, employee and other advances and eligible current and non-current assets, long and short-term  loans and borrowings, finance lease payables, bank overdrafts, trade payable, eligible current liabilities and non- current liabilities.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 212 Wipro Limited   The fair value of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, unbilled revenues, borrowings, trade payables, other  current financial assets and liabilities approximate their carrying amount largely due to the short-term nature of  these instruments.
The Company’s long-term debt has been contracted at market rates of interest.
Accordingly,  the carrying value of such long-term debt approximates fair value.
Further, finance lease receivables that are  overdue are periodically evaluated based on individual credit worthiness of customers.
Based on this evaluation,  the Company records allowance for estimated losses on these receivables.
As at March 31, 2018 and 2017, the  carrying value of such receivables, net of allowances approximates the fair value.
Investments in liquid and short-term mutual funds, which are classified as FVTPL are measured using net asset  values at the reporting date multiplied by the quantity held.
Fair value of investments in commercial papers,  certificate of deposits and bonds classified as FVTOCI is determined based on the indicative quotes of price and  yields prevailing in the market at the reporting date.
Fair value of investments in equity instruments classified as  FVTOCI is determined using market and income approaches.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is determined based on observable market inputs including  currency spot and forward rates, yield curves, currency volatility etc.
Fair value hierarchy   The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The different levels have  been defined as follows:  Level 1   –  Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2   –   Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability,  either directly (i.e.
as prices) or indirectly (i.e.
derived from prices).
Level 3   –  Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
The following table presents fair value of hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring  basis: Particulars  As at March 31, 2018  As at March 31, 2017    Fair value measurements at  reporting date    Fair value measurements at  reporting date  Total  Level 1  Level 2  Level 3 Total  Level 1  Level 2  Level 3  Assets Derivative instruments:  Cash flow hedges 1,139 - 1,139 - 7,307 - 7,307 -  Others 134 - 134 - 2,546 - 2,120 426 Investments:   Investment in liquid and short- term mutual funds 46,438 46,438 - - 104,675 104,675 - -  Other investments - - - - 569 - 569 -  Investment in equity instruments 5,685 - - 5,685 5,303 - - 5,303   Commercial paper, Certificate  of deposits and bonds 176,234 1,951 174,283 - 145,614 - 145,614 - Liabilities Derivative instruments:  Cash flow hedges (1,276) - (1,276) - (55) - (55) -  Others (941) - (941) - (2,655) - (2,655) - Contingent consideration - - - - (339) - - (339)   The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of the level 2 financial instruments  included in the above table.
Derivative instruments (assets and liabilities): The Company enters into derivative financial instruments with  various counter-parties, primarily, banks with investment grade credit ratings.
Derivatives valued using valuation  techniques with market observable inputs are mainly interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts and  foreign exchange option contracts.
The most frequently applied valuation techniques include forward pricing, swap  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 213 models and Black Scholes models (for option valuation), using present value calculations.
The models incorporate  various inputs including the credit quality of counterparties, foreign exchange spot and forward rates, interest rate  curves and forward rate curves of the underlying.
As at March 31, 2018, the changes in counterparty credit risk  had no material effect on the hedge effectiveness assessment for derivatives designated in hedge relationships  and other financial instruments recognised at fair value.
Investment in commercial papers, certificate of deposits and bonds: Fair value of these instruments is derived  based on the indicative quotes of price and yields prevailing in the market as at reporting date.
Details of assets and liabilities considered under Level 3 classification Particulars Investment  in equity  instruments Derivative  Assets - others Liabilities -  Contingent  consideration Balance as at April 1, 2017 5,303 426 (339) Additions 1,851 - - Payouts - - 164 Transferred to investment in associates (357) - - Gain/loss recognised in statement of profit and loss - (426) 167 Gain/loss recognised in foreign currency translation reserve 53 - (32) Gain/loss recognised in other comprehensive income (1,165) - - Finance costs recognised in statement of profit and loss - - 40 Balance as at March 31, 2018 5,685 - - Balance as at April 1, 2016 4,907 558 (2,251) Additions 620 - - Payouts - - 138 Gain/loss recognised in statement of profit and loss - (132) 1,546 Gain/loss recognised in foreign currency translation reserve (41) - 198 Gain/loss recognised in other comprehensive income (183) - - Finance costs recognised in statement of profit and loss - - 30 Balance as at March 31, 2017 5,303 426 (339) Description of significant unobservable inputs to valuation: As at March 31, 2018 Items  Valuation technique  Significant unobservable    input   Movement   by  Increase (`) Decrease (`) Unquoted equity  Third party quote  Forecast revenues 1.0% 18 (18) As at March 31, 2017 Items  Valuation technique  Significant unobservable     inputs   Movement      by  Increase  (`) Decrease  (`) Unquoted equity  investments Discounted  cash flow  model  Market multiple  approach  Long term growth rate  Discount rate  Revenue Multiple  0.5% 0.5% 0.5x 55 (93) 179 (51) 101 (186) Derivative assets Option pricing  model   Volatility of comparable   companies   Time to liquidation    event  2.5% 1 year 31 60 (31) (69) Contingent  consideration Probability  weighted method  Estimated revenue  achievement  Estimated earnings  achievement  5.0% 1.0% 56 - (56) -  * Carrying value of  ` 1,545 and ` 3,232 as at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
A one percentage point change in the unobservable inputs used in fair valuation of other Level 3 assets does not  have a significant impact in their value.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 214 Wipro Limited  Derivative assets and liabilities:   The Company is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations on foreign currency assets / liabilities, forecasted cash  flows denominated in foreign currency and net investment in foreign operations.
The Company follows established  risk management policies, including the use of derivatives to hedge foreign currency assets / liabilities, foreign  currency forecasted cash flows and net investment in foreign operations.
The counter parties in these derivative  instruments are primarily banks and the Company considers the risks of non-performance by the counterparty  as non-material.
The following table presents the aggregate contracted principal amounts of the Company’s derivative contracts  outstanding: (in millions) As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Designated derivatives instruments Sell : Forward contracts USD 904 ` 951 USD  886 ` 3,627 € 134 ` (531) € 228 ` 1,166 £ 147 ` (667) £ 280 ` 2,475 AUD 77 ` 29 AUD  129 ` 154  Range forward options contracts USD 182 ` 5 USD  130 ` 106 £ 13 ` 5 £ - - € 10 ` 2 € - -  Interest rate swaps USD 75 ` (7) USD  - - Non-designated derivatives instruments Sell : Forward contractsUSD 939 ` (360) USD  889 ` 1,714 € 58 ` 6 € 83 ` (4) £ 95 ` (56) £ 82 ` 79 AUD 77 ` 68 AUD  51 ` 3 SGD 6 ` (1) SGD  3 ` (3) ZAR 132 ` (16) ZAR  262 ` (17) CAD 14 ` 32 CAD  41 ` 22 SAR 62  ^ SAR  49 ` 11 AED 8  ^ AED  69  ^  PLN 36 ` 12 PLN  31  ^  CHF 6 ` 3 CHF  - - QAR 11 ` (3) QAR  - - TRY 10 ` 8 TRY  - - MXN 61 ` (6) MXN  - - NOK 34 ` 3 NOK  - - OMR 3 ` (1) OMR  - -  Range forward options contracts USD 50 ` (6) USD  - - £ 20 ` (2) £ - - Buy : Forward contracts USD 575 ` (417) USD  750 ` (2,616) JPY 399 ` 6 JPY  - - DKK 9 ` (1) DKK  - -  ^ Value is less than ` 1 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 215   The following table summarizes activity in the cash flow hedging reserve within equity related to all derivative  instruments classified as cash flow hedges: As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Balance as at the beginning of the year ` 7,325 ` 2,367 Deferred cancellation gain/ (loss), net (6) 74 Changes in fair value of effective portion of derivatives (12) 12,391 Net (gain)/loss reclassified to statement of profit and loss on occurrence of  hedged transactions(7,450) (7,507) Gain/(loss) on cash flow hedging derivatives, net ` (7,468) ` 4,958 Balance as at the end of the year (143) ` 7,325 Deferred tax thereon 29 (1,419) Balance as at the end of the year, net of deferred tax ` (114) ` 5,906   The related hedge transactions for balance in cash flow hedging reserves as at March 31, 2018 are expected to  occur and be reclassified to the statement of profit and loss over a period of two years.
As at March 31, 2018 and 2017, there were no significant gains or losses on derivative transactions or portions  thereof that have become ineffective as hedges, or associated with an underlying exposure that did not occur.
Sale of financial assets    From time to time, in the normal course of business, the Company transfers accounts receivables, unbilled revenues,  net investment in finance lease receivables (financials assets) to banks.
Under the terms of the arrangements,  the Company surrenders control over the financial assets and transfer is without recourse.
Accordingly, such  transfers are recorded as sale of financial assets.
Gains and losses on sale of financial assets without recourse  are recorded at the time of sale based on the carrying value of the financial assets and fair value of servicing  liability.
The incremental impact of such transactions on our cash flow and liquidity for the year ended March 31,  2018 and March 31, 2017 is not material.
In certain cases, transfer of financial assets may be with recourse.
Under arrangements with recourse, the Company  is obligated to repurchase the uncollected financial assets, subject to limits specified in the agreement with the  banks.
These are reflected as part of loans and borrowings in the statement of consolidated balance sheet.
Financial risk management   Market Risk   Market risk is the risk of loss of future earnings, to fair values or to future cash flows that may result from a change  in the price of a financial instrument.
The value of a financial instrument may change as a result of changes in  the interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and other market changes that affect market risk sensitive  instruments.
Market risk is attributable to all market risk sensitive financial instruments including investments,  foreign currency receivables, payables and borrowings.
The Company’s exposure to market risk is a function of investment and borrowing activities and revenue generating  activities in foreign currency.
The objective of market risk management is to avoid excessive exposure of the  Company’s earnings and equity to losses.
Risk Management Procedures    The Company manages market risk through a corporate treasury department, which evaluates and exercises  independent control over the entire process of market risk management.
The corporate treasury department  recommends risk management objectives and policies, which are approved by senior management and Audit  Committee.
The activities of this department include management of cash resources, implementing hedging strategies  for foreign currency exposures, borrowing strategies, and ensuring compliance with market risk limits and policies.
Foreign currency risk    The Company operates internationally and a major portion of its business is transacted in several currencies.
Consequently, the Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk through receiving payment for sales and services  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 216 Wipro Limited in the United States and elsewhere, and making purchases from overseas suppliers in various foreign currencies.
The exchange rate risk primarily arises from foreign exchange revenue, receivables, cash balances, forecasted  cash flows, payables and foreign currency loans and borrowings.
A significant portion of the Company’s revenue  is in the U.S. Dollar, the United Kingdom Pound Sterling, the Euro, the Canadian Dollar and the Australian Dollar,  while a large portion of costs are in Indian rupees.
The exchange rate between the rupee and these currencies  has fluctuated significantly in recent years and may continue to fluctuate in the future.
Appreciation of the rupee  against these currencies can adversely affect the Company’s results of operations.
The Company evaluates exchange rate exposure arising from these transactions and enters into foreign currency  derivative instruments to mitigate such exposure.
The Company follows established risk management policies,  including the use of derivatives like foreign exchange forward/option contracts to hedge forecasted cash flows  denominated in foreign currency.
The Company has designated certain derivative instruments as cash flow hedges to mitigate the foreign exchange  exposure of forecasted highly probable cash flows.
The Company has also designated foreign currency borrowings  as hedge against respective net investments in foreign operations.
As at March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively, a ` 1 increase/decrease in the spot exchange rate of the Indian rupee  with the U.S. dollar would result in approximately ` 1,500 (consolidated statement of profit and loss ` 414 and  other comprehensive income ` 1,086) and ` 1,155 (consolidated statement of profit and loss ` 139 and other  comprehensive income ` 1,016) decrease/increase in the fair value of foreign currency dollar denominated derivative  instruments.
The below table presents foreign currency risk from non-derivative financial instruments as at March 31, 2018  and 2017: Particulars  As at March 31, 2018   US $  Euro  Pound  Sterling   Australian  Dollar   Canadian  Dollar   Other  currencies#  Total Trade receivables ` 32,948 ` 7,273 ` 6,585 ` 3,459 ` 990 ` 3,651 ` 54,906 Unbilled revenues 13,893 2,571 5,189 2,094 338 1,609 25,694 Cash and cash  equivalents 9,144 3,791 1,685 786 34 2,241 17,681 Other assets 1,879 1,993 285 1,122 1 333 5,613 Borrowings* (49,257) (41) (37) (165) - (137) (49,637) Trade payables  and other financial  liabilities (23,561) (3,474) (5,958) (1,516) (652) (2,942) (38,103) Net assets/(liabilities) ` (14,954) ` 12,113 ` 7,749 ` 5,780 ` 711 ` 4,755 ` 16,154 Particulars  As at March 31, 2017   US $  Euro  Pound  Sterling   Australian  Dollar   Canadian  Dollar   Other  currencies#   Total Trade receivables ` 33,388 ` 4,663 ` 5,078 ` 2,547 ` 890 ` 4,218 ` 50,784 Unbilled revenues 15,839 2,801 4,454 2,024 577 2,926 28,621 Cash and cash  equivalents 15,752 1,178 571 335 2 675 18,513 Other assets 1,612 1,437 190 1,568 7 360 5,174 Borrowings* (58,785) (494) (604) (537) - (509) (60,929) Trade payables  and other financial  liabilities (22,339) (4,284) (4,605) (1,453) (443) (2,136) (35,260) Net assets/(liabilities) ` (14,533) ` 5,301 ` 5,084 ` 4,484 ` 1,033 ` 5,534 ` 6,903  # Other currencies reflect currencies such as Singapore Dollars, Danish Krone, etc.
* Includes current obligation under borrowings classified under ‘Other current financial liabilities’ .
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 217 As at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, every 1% increase/decrease of the respective foreign currencies  compared to functional currency of the Company would impact results by approximately `  162 and `  69 respectively.
Interest rate risk    Interest rate risk primarily arises from floating rate borrowing, including various revolving and other lines of  credit.
The Company’s investments are primarily in short-term investments, which do not expose it to significant  interest rate risk.
The Company manages its net exposure to interest rate risk relating to borrowings by entering  into interest rate swap agreements, which allows it to exchange periodic payments based on a notional amount  and agreed upon fixed and floating interest rates.
Certain borrowings are also transacted at fixed interest rates.
If  interest rates were to increase by 100 bps from March 31, 2018, additional net annual interest expense on floating  rate borrowing would amount to approximately ` 1,186.  Credit risk    Credit risk arises from the possibility that customers may not be able to settle their obligations as agreed.
To manage  this, the Company periodically assesses the financial reliability of customers, taking into account the financial  condition, current economic trends, analysis of historical bad debts and aging of accounts receivable.
Individual  risk limits are set accordingly.
No single customer accounted for more than 10% of the accounts receivable as of  March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively and revenues for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
There is no significant concentration of credit risk.
Counterparty risk    Counterparty risk encompasses issuer risk on marketable securities, settlement risk on derivative and money  market contracts and credit risk on cash and time deposits.
Issuer risk is minimised by only buying securities which  are at least AA rated in India based on Indian rating agencies.
Settlement and credit risk is reduced by the policy  of entering into transactions with counterparties that are usually banks or financial institutions with acceptable  credit ratings.
Exposure to these risks are closely monitored and maintained within predetermined parameters.
There are limits on credit exposure to any financial institution.
The limits are regularly assessed and determined  based upon credit analysis including financial statements and capital adequacy ratio reviews.
Liquidity risk    Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Company will not be able to settle or meet its obligations on time or at a  reasonable price.
The Company’s corporate treasury department is responsible for liquidity and funding as well as  settlement management.
In addition, processes and policies related to such risks are overseen by senior management.
Management monitors the Company’s net liquidity position through rolling forecasts on the basis of expected cash  flows.
As of March 31, 2018, cash and cash equivalents are held with major banks and financial institutions.
The table below provides details regarding the remaining contractual maturities of significant financial liabilities  at the reporting date.
The amounts include estimated interest payments and exclude the impact of netting  agreements, if any.
As at March 31, 2018  Contractual cash flows  Carrying  value   Less than  1 year   1-2 years  2-4 years  4-7 years Total Borrowings * ` 138,259 ` 95,466 ` 18,997 ` 28,190 ` 6 ` 142,659 Trade payables 68,129 68,129 - - - 68,129 Derivative liabilities 2,217 2,210 7 - - 2,217 Other financial liabilities * 1,057 1,050 7 1,057  As at March 31, 2017  Contractual cash flows  Carrying  value   Less than  1 year   1-2 years  2-4 years  4-7 years Total Borrowings * ` 142,412 ` 124,243 ` 14,132 ` 5,526 ` 341 ` 144,242 Trade payables 48,673 48,673 - - - 48,673 Derivative liabilities 2,710 2,708 2 - - 2,710 Other financial liabilities * 17,949 17,095 810 - 77 17,982 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 218 Wipro Limited   The balanced view of liquidity and financial indebtedness is stated in the table below.
This calculation of the net  cash position is used by the management for external communication with investors, analysts and rating agencies: As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Cash and cash equivalent ` 44,925 ` 52,710 Investment 256,762 292,030 Borrowings * (138,259) (142,412) ` 163,428 ` 202,328  *   Includes current obligation under borrowings and financial leases classified under ‘Other current financial  liabilities’ .
9.
Trade receivables As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Unsecured Considered good ` 106,843 ` 98,844 Considered doubtful 14,570 9,108 Assets reclassified as held for sale (1,407) - ` 120,006 ` 107,952 Less: Allowances for lifetime expected credit losses (14,570) (9,108) ` 105,436 ` 98,844 Included in the consolidated balance sheet as follows: Non-current 4,446 3,998 Current 100,990 94,846  The activity in the allowance for lifetime expected credit losses is given below: As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Balance at the beginning of the year `  9,108 ` 8,709 Additions during the year, net uncollectable receivables 5,456 2,427 Uncollectable receivables charged against allowance (29) (2,099) Translation adjustments 35 71 Balance at the end of the year ` 14,570 ` 9,108 10.
Other Financial Assets As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Non-current Security deposits ` 1,197 ` 1,636 Other deposits 250 449 Finance lease receivables (Refer note 31) 2,739 2,674 Others - 26 ` 4,186 ` 4,785 Current Security Deposits ` 1,238 ` 514 Other deposits 59 148 Due from officers and employees 697 936 Finance lease receivables (Refer note 31) 2,271 1,854 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 219 As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Others 3,164 5,177 Considered doubtful 815 492 ` 8,244 ` 9,121 Less : Provision for doubtful advances (815) (492) ` 7,429 ` 8,629 Total ` 11,615 ` 13,414  The activities in the provision for doubtful advances is given below: As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Balance at the beginning of the year ` 492 ` 798 Addition during the year, net 409 32 Reversals/Uncollectable advances charged against allowance (86) (338) Balance at the end of the year ` 815 ` 492 11.
Other assets As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Non-current Prepaid expenses including rentals for leasehold land and Deposits ` 7,602 ` 8,833 Capital advances 1,389 1,574 Others 4,468 3,175 Assets reclassified as held for sale (530) - ` 12,929 ` 13,582 Current Prepaid expenses and Deposits ` 14,407 ` 12,824 Due from officers and employees 1,175 1,413 Deferred contract costs 3,211 4,270 Balance with excise, customs and other authorities 3,886 2,153 Advances to suppliers 1,819 1,451 Others 50 11 Assets reclassified as held for sale (1,381) - ` 23,167 ` 22,122 Total ` 36,096 ` 35,704 12.
Inventories As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Finished goods [including goods-in-transit- ` 3 (` 2 for March 31, 2017)] 3 7 Traded goods 2,600 3,101 Stores and spares 767 807 ` 3,370 ` 3,915 13.
Cash and cash equivalents   Cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 consists of cash and balances on deposit with banks.
Cash and cash equivalents consists of the following: Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 220 Wipro Limited As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Balances with banks  Current accounts ` 23,005 ` 27,163  Unclaimed dividend 43 50  Demand deposits * 21,625 24,902 Cheques, drafts on hand 251 593 Cash in hand 1 2 ` 44,925 ` 52,710  *  These deposits can be withdrawn by the Company at any time without prior notice and without any penalty on  the principal.
Cash and cash equivalents consists of the following for the purpose of the cash flow statement: As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Cash and cash equivalents (as above) ` 44,925 ` 52,710 Bank overdrafts (3,999) (1,992) ` 40,926 ` 50,718 14.
Share Capital As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Authorised capital 5,500,000,000 (March 31, 2017: 2,917,500,000) equity shares [Par value of  ` 2 per share] ` 11,000 ` 5,835 25,000,000 (March 31, 2017: 25,000,000) 10.25 % redeemable cumulative  preference shares [Par value of ` 10 per share]  250 250 150,000 (March 31, 2017:150,000) 10% Optionally convertible cumulative  prefence shares [Par value of ` 100 per share] 15 15 ` 11,265 ` 6,100 Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up capital 4,523,784,491 (March  31, 2017: 2,430,900,565) equity shares of ` 2 each 9,048 4,861 ` 9,048 ` 4,861  Terms / Rights attached to equity shares   The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of `2 per share.
Each shareholder of equity  shares is entitled to one vote per share.
The Company declares and pays dividend in Indian Rupees.
The dividend  proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to shareholders approval in the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
Following is the summary of per share dividends recognised as distributions to equity shareholders: For the year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Interim dividend ` 1 ` 2   In the event of liquidation of the Company, the equity shareholders will be entitled to receive the remaining assets  of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts, if any, in proportion to the number of equity shares  held by the shareholders.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 221 i.     Reconciliation of number of shares As at March 31, 2018 As at March 31, 2017 No.
of Shares ` Million No.
of Shares ` Million Opening number of equity shares/American  Depository Receipts (ADRs) outstanding 2,430,900,565 4,861 2,470,713,290 4,941 Equity shares issued pursuant to Employee Stock  Option Plan * 3,559,599 8 187,275 ^ Issue of bonus shares (Refer note 33) 2,433,074,327 4,866 Buyback of equity shares (Refer note 33) (343,750,000) (687) (40,000,000) (80) Closing number of equity shares/ADRs outstanding 4,523,784,491 9,048 2,430,900,565 4,861  *   4,351,775 shares have been transferred by the controlled Trust to eligible employees on exercise of options  during the year ended March 31, 2018  ^  Value is less than ` 1 ii.
Details of shareholders holding more than 5% of the total equity shares of the Company Name of the Shareholder As at March 31, 2018 As at March 31, 2017 No.
of Shares % held No.
of Shares % held Mr. Azim Hasham Premji, Partner representing  Hasham Traders 741,912,000 16.40 370,956,000 15.26 Mr. Azim Hasham Premji, Partner representing  Prazim Traders 890,813,582 19.69 452,906,791 18.63 Mr. Azim Hasham Premji, Partner representing  Zash Traders 903,239,580 19.97 451,619,790 18.58 Azim Premji Trust 618,461,626 13.67 399,065,641 16.42 iii.
Other details of equity shares for a period of five years immediately preceding March 31, 2018  (a)  2,433,074,327 bonus shares were issued during the year ended March 31, 2018, refer note 33.
(b)   343,750,000 equity shares and 40,000,000 equity shares were bought back by the company during the year  ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively, refer note 33. iv.
Shares reserved for issue under option  For details of shares reserved for issue under the employee stock option plan of the Company, refer note 30.
15.
Borrowings As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Non-current Secured  Obligations under finance leases (1) ` 2,438 ` 4,657  Less: Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale (716) - ` 1,722 ` 4,657 Unsecured Term loans:  External commercial borrowing `         - ` 9,728  Borrowings from banks (2) 43,070 4,116  Loans from institutions other than banks 476 1,110 43,546 14,954 Total Non-current ` 45,268 ` 19,611 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 222 Wipro Limited As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Current Unsecured  Cash Credit ` 3,999 ` 1,992  Borrowings from Banks (3) 75,597 114,749  Loans from institutions other than banks (4) 2 - 79,598 116,741 Total Current ` 79,598 ` 116,741 Total Borrowings ` 124,866 ` 136,352  (1)    Current obligations under financial leases amounting to 3,004 (March 31, 2017: 3,623) is classified under ‘Other  current financial liabilities’ .
(2)    Current obligations under external commercial borrowings amounting to 9,777 (March 31, 2017: Nil) is classified  under ‘Other current financial liabilities’ .
(3)    Current obligations under borrowings from banks amounting to 1,022 (March 31, 2017: 2,046) is classified  under ‘Other current financial liabilities’ .
(4)   Current maturities of loans from institutions other than bank amounting to 343 (March 31, 2017: 391) is classified  under ‘Other current financial liabilities’ .
Short-term borrowings   The Company had short-term borrowings including bank overdrafts amounting to ` 79,598 and ` 116,742 as at  March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively.
The principal source of Short-term borrowings from banks as of March  31, 2018 primarily consists of lines of credit of approximately ` 10,000 million, U.S. Dollar (USD) 1,748 million,  Canadian Dollar (CAD) 57 million, EURO 19 million, United Kingdom Pound Sterling (GBP) 43 million, Indonesian  Rupiah (IDR) 13,000 million and Saudi Riyal (SAR) 43 million from bankers for working capital requirements and  other short term needs.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company has unutilised lines of credit aggregating USD 711  million, EURO 2 million, GBP 42 million, CAD 27 million, ` 1,003 million, IDR 13,000 million and SAR 39 million.
To utilize these unused lines of credit, the Company requires consent of the lender and compliance with certain  financial covenants.
Significant portion of these lines of credit are revolving credit facilities and floating rate  foreign currency loans, renewable on a periodic basis.
Significant portion of these facilities bear floating rates of  interest, referenced to LIBOR and a spread, determined based on market conditions.
The Company has non-fund based revolving credit facilities in various currencies equivalent to ` 44,022 and  ` 51,739 as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, towards operational requirements that can be used for  the issuance of letters of credit and bank guarantees.
As of March 31, 2018 and 2017, an amount of ` 22,476 and  ` 29,716,respectively, was unutilised out of these non-fund based facilities.
Long-term borrowings  A summary of long- term loans and borrowings is as follows: Currency  As at March 31, 2018  As at March 31, 2017   Foreign  currency in   millions   Indian  Rupee   Interest rate  Final maturity  Foreign  currency in   millions   Indian  Rupee  Unsecured external  commercial borrowing  USD 150 9,777 1.94%  June 2018 150 9,728 Unsecured term loans  USD 625 40,715  1.90% - 3.81%  June 2021 2 118  Canadian Dollar (CAD) 72 3,660  1.20% - 3.26%  July 2021 85 4,131  Indian Rupee  NA 366  8.30% - 9.40%  December 2021  NA 714  Australian Dollar (AUD) 2 92 4.65%  January 2022 2 116 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 223 Currency  As at March 31, 2018  As at March 31, 2017   Foreign  currency in   millions   Indian  Rupee   Interest rate  Final maturity  Foreign  currency in   millions   Indian  Rupee    Great British Pound  (GBP)  ^ 42 2.93%  February 2022 1 73  Euro  ^ 24 2.98%  December 2020 19 1,282  Brazilian Real (BRL) 1 12 14.04%  May 2019 - -   Saudi Arabian Riyal  (SAR) - - 71 1,229 ` 54,688 ` 17,391 Obligations under finance  leases 5,442 8,280 Liabilities directly  associated with assets  held for sale (1,469) - - ` 58,661 ` 25,671  ^ Value is less than ` 1  Changes in financing liabilities arising from cash and non-cash changes: Particulars   April 1,  2017   Cash  flow   Non-cash changes  Less:  Liabilities  directly  associated  with assets  held for sale  March 31,  2018  Assets taken  on financial  lease   Foreign  exchange  movements  Borrowings from banks ` 120,911 ` (6,661) `  - `  5,439 `  - ` 119,689 Bank overdrafts 1,992 2,007 - - - 3,999 External commercial  borrowings 9,728 - - 49 - 9,777 Obligations under finance  leases 8,280 (3,627) 766 23 (1,469) 3,973 Loans from other than  bank 1,501 (695) - 15 - 821 ` 142,412 ` (8,976) ` 766 ` 5,526 ` (1,469) ` 138,259   The contracts governing the Company’s unsecured external commercial borrowing contain certain covenants that  limit future borrowings.
The terms of the other secured and unsecured loans and borrowings also contain certain  restrictive covenants primarily requiring the Company to maintain certain financial ratios.
As of March 31, 2018  and 2017, the Company has met all the covenants under these arrangements.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 224 Wipro Limited 16.
Other financial liabilities As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Non-current Deposits and others ` 7 ` 853 ` 7 ` 853 Current Salary payable ` 16,926 ` 16,813 Current maturities of long term borrowings * 11,142 2,437 Current maturities of  obligation under finance lease * 3,004 3,623 Interest accrued but not due on borrowing 336 229 Unclaimed dividends 43 50 Deposits and others 671 4 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale (753) - ` 31,369 ` 23,156 Total ` 31,376 ` 24,009  * For rate of interest and other terms and conditions, refer to note 15.
17.
Provisions As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Non-current Employee benefits obligations ` 1,791 ` 4,235 Provision for warranty 3 4 Others - 2 ` 1,794 ` 4,241 Current Employee benefits obligations ` 8,535 ` 5,912 Provision for warranty 290 436 Others 878 1,195 ` 9,703 ` 7,543 Total ` 11,497 ` 11,784    Provision for warranty represents cost associated with providing sales support services which are accrued at  the time of recognition of revenues and are expected to be utilised over a period of 1 to 2 years.
Other provisions  primarily include provisions for indirect tax related contingencies and litigations.
The timing of cash outflows in  respect of such provision cannot be reasonably determined.
Particulars  As at March 31, 2018  As at March 31, 2017   Provision  for  warranty   Others  Total  Provision  for  warranty   Others  Total  Provision at the beginning of the year ` 440 ` 1,197 ` 1,637 ` 402 ` 1,229 ` 1,631 Additions during the year, net 317 17 334 631 180 811 Utilised/ reversed during the year (464) (336) (800) (593) (212) (805) Provision at the end of the year ` 293 ` 878 ` 1,171 ` 440 ` 1,197 ` 1,637 Included in the consolidated balance  sheet as follows: Non-current portion `      3 `      - `         3 `      4 `         2 `         6 Current portion ` 290 ` 878 ` 1,168 ` 436 ` 1,195 ` 1,631 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 225 18.
Other liabilities As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Non-current Others 2,440 410 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale (8) - ` 2,432 `  410 Current Statutory and other liabilities ` 4,263 ` 3,353 Advance from customers 1,901 2,394 Others 769 666 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale (277) - ` 6,656 ` 6,413 Total ` 9,088 ` 6,823 19.
Trade payables As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Trade payables ` 53,112 ` 48,673 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale (1,909) - ` 51,203 ` 48,673   Trade payables includes due to suppliers under The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006,  [MSMED Act] as at March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017.
The disclosure pursuant to the said Act is as under: Particulars As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Principal amount remaining unpaid `  39 ` 31 Interest due thereon remaining unpaid  ^  ^  Interest paid by the Company in terms of Section 16 of the MSMED Act, along  with the amount of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed  day 197 78 Interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment (which  have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the period) but without  adding interest specified under the MSMED Act - - Interest accrued and remaining unpaid 14 7 Interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, until such  date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprises  ^  ^   ^ Value is less than ` 1   This information has been determined to the extent such parties have been identified on the basis of information  available with the Company.
20.
Revenue from operations  Year ended  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017   Sale of Services ` 524,543 ` 522,061  Sales of Products 20,328 28,341 ` 544,871 ` 550,402 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 226 Wipro Limited 21.
Other operating income   During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company had concluded the sale of the EcoEnergy division for a  consideration of ` 4,670.
Net gain from the sale, amounting to `  4,082 has been recorded as other operating income.
22.
Other income Year ended  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  Interest income ` 17,806 ` 18,066 Dividend income 609 311 Net gain from investments classified as FVTPL 5,410 3,822 Net gain from investments classified as FVTOCI 174 220 Finance and other income ` 23,999 ` 22,419 Foreign exchange gains/(losses), net on financial instrument measured at FVTPL (107) - Other exchange differences, net 1,595 3,807 Foreign exchange gains/(losses), net ` 1,488 ` 3,807 ` 25,487 ` 26,226 23.
Changes in inventories of finished goods, work in progress and stock-in-trade  Year ended  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  Opening stock Traded goods 3,101 4,512 Finished products 7 7 ` 3,108 `  4,519 Less: Closing stock Traded goods 2,600 3,101 Finished products 3 7 2,603 3,108 ` 505 ` 1,411 24.
Employee benefits a)  Employee costs includes  Year ended   March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017   Salaries and bonus ` 261,981 ` 258,207  Employee benefits plans   Gratuity and other defined benefit plans 1,532 1,095  Defined contribution plans 7,363 7,037 Share based compensation 1,347 1,742 ` 272,223 ` 268,081  Defined benefit plan actuarial (gains)/ losses recognised in other comprehensive income include:  Year ended   March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  Re-measurement of net defined benefit liability/(asset)  Return on plan assets excluding interest income `  (18) `  (189)  Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from financial assumptions (296) 363  Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from demographic assumptions (54) (73)  Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from experience adjustments (454) (313) `  (822) ` (212) Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 227 b)  Defined benefit plans   Defined benefit plans include gratuity for employees drawing salary in Indian rupees and certain benefits plans  in foreign jurisdictions   Amount recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss in respect of defined benefit plans is as  follows:  Year ended  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  Current service cost ` 1,525 ` 1,130 Net interest on net defined benefit liability/(asset) 7 (35) Net gratuity cost 1,532 1,095 Actual return on plan assets ` 501 ` 692  Change in present value of defined benefit obligation is summarised below:  As at  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  Defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the year ` 8,270 ` 6,656 Acquisitions 38 751 Current service cost 1,525 1,130 Interest on obligation 490 464 Benefits paid (865) (708) Remeasurement (gains)/losses  Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from financial assumptions (296) 363  Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from demographic assumptions (54) (73)  Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from experience adjustments (454) (313) Defined benefit obligation at the end of the year ` 8,654 ` 8,270  Change in plan assets is summarised below:  As at  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year ` 7,919 ` 6,488 Acquisitions 28 561 Expected return on plan assets 483 499 Employer contributions 59 186 Benefits paid - (4) Remeasurement (gains)/losses Return on plan assets excluding interest income 18 189 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year ` 8,507 ` 7,919 Present value of unfunded obligation (147) (351) Recognised asset/(liability) (147) (351)  As at March 31, 2018 and 2017, plan assets were primarily invested in insurer managed funds.
The Company has established an income tax approved irrevocable trust fund to which it regularly contributes to  finance the liabilities of the gratuity plan.
The fund’s investments are managed by certain insurance companies  as per the mandate provided to them by the trustees and the asset allocation is within the permissible limits  prescribed in the insurance regulations.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 228 Wipro Limited  The principal assumptions used for the purpose of actuarial valuation of these defined benefit plans are as follows:  As at  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  Discount rate 6.30% 5.91% Expected return on plan assets 6.30% 5.91% Expected rate of salary increase 6.89% 6.90% Duration of defined benefit obligations 8 years 8 years   The expected return on plan assets is based on expectation of the average long term rate of return expected on  investments of the fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
The discount rate is primarily based on the prevailing market yields of government securities for the estimated  term of the obligations.
The estimates of future salary increases considered takes into account the inflation,  seniority, promotion and other relevant factors.
Attrition rate considered is the management’s estimate, based  on previous years’ employee turnover of the Company.
The expected future contribution and estimated future benefit payments from the fund are as follows:  Expected contribution to the fund during the year ending March 31, 2019 ` 1,162 Estimated benefit payments from the fund for the year ending March 31:  2019 1,338  2020 1,062  2021 1,059  2022 1,065  2023 1,053 Thereafter 5,454 Total ` 11,031 The expected benefits are based on the same assumptions used to measure the Company’s benefit obligations  as of March 31, 2018.
Sensitivity for significant actuarial assumptions is computed to show the movement in defined benefit obligation  by 0.5 percentage.
As of March 31, 2018, every 0.5 percentage point increase/(decrease) in discount rate will result in (decrease)/ increase of defined benefit obligation by approximately ` (320) and ` 341 respectively (March 31, 2017: ` (187) and  ` 207 respectively).
As of March 31, 2018, every 0.5 percentage point increase/ (decrease) in expected rate of salary will result in  increase/(decrease) of defined benefit obligation by approximately ` 184 and ` (173) respectively (March 31, 2017:  ` 176 and ` (169) respectively).
c)  Provident fund:  The details of fund and plan assets are given below:  As at  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  Fair value of plan assets ` 46,016 ` 40,059 Present value of defined benefit obligation 46,016 40,059 Net (shortfall)/ excess `  - `  -  The plan assets have been primarily invested in government securities and corporate bonds.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 229   The principal assumptions used in determining the present value obligation of interest guarantee under the  deterministic approach are as follows:  As at  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  Discount rate for the term of the obligation 7.35% 6.90% Average remaining tenure of investment portfolio 7 years 6 years Average guaranteed rate of return 8.55% 8.65%  Also refer note 30 for details of employee stock options.
25.
Finance costs Year ended  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  Interest expense ` 3,451 ` 2,675 Exchange fluctuation on foreign currency borrowings, net (to the extent regarded as borrowing cost) 2,379 3,267 ` 5,830 `  5,942 26.
Other Expenses  Year ended  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017   Rates, taxes and insurance ` 2,400 ` 2,261  Allowance for lifetime expected credit losses and deferred contract cost * 6,565 2,427  Auditors’ remuneration         Audit fees 57 38        For tax matters 9 1        Out of pocket expenses 4 3  Miscellaneous expenses 4,740 6,039 ` 13,775 ` 10,769  *   Consequent to insolvency of two of our customers, the Company has recognised provision of ` 4,612 for  impairment of receivables and deferred contract cost.
27.
Income tax  Income tax expense has been allocated as follows:  Year ended  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  Income tax expense as per the statement of profit and loss ` 22,391 `  25,214 Income tax included in Other comprehensive income on:   Unrealised gains/ (losses) on investment securities (645) 594  Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedging derivatives (1,448) 962  Defined benefit plan actuarial gains/(losses) 255 43 Total income taxes ` 20,553 ` 26,813 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 230 Wipro Limited  Income tax expense consists of the following:  Year ended   March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  Current taxes  Domestic ` 18,500 ` 21,089  Foreign 7,834 5,412 26,334 26,501 Deferred taxes  Domestic 3 (62)  Foreign (3,946) (1,225) (3,943) (1,287) Total income taxes ` 22,391 ` 25,214   Income tax expenses are net of reversal of provisions pertaining to earlier periods, amounting to ` 380 and ` 593  for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The reconciliation between the provision of income tax and amounts computed by applying the Indian statutory  income tax rate to profit before tax is as follows:  Year ended  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017   Profit before tax `      102,422 `      110,393  Enacted income tax rate in India 34.61% 34.61%  Computed expected tax expense 35,448 38,207  Effect of:   Income exempt from tax (12,878) (12,684)   Basis differences that will reverse during a tax holiday period 167 (274)   Income taxed at higher/ (lower) rates (111) (1,105)   Reversal of deferred tax liability for past years due to rate reduction* (1,563) -   Income taxes related to prior years (380) (593)   Changes in unrecognised deferred tax assets 239 40   Expenses disallowed for tax purpose 1,431 1,787   Others, net 38 (164)  Total income taxes expenses `        22,391 `        25,214  Effective tax rate 21.86% 22.84% *   The “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, ” was signed into law on December 22, 2017 (‘US tax reforms’) which among other  things, makes significant changes to the rules applicable to the taxation of corporations, such as changing  the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% rate effective January 1, 2018.
For the year ended March 2018, the  Company took a positive impact of  ` 1,563 on account of re-statement of deferred tax items pursuant to US  tax reforms.
The components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows: As at  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  Carry-forward losses * `          5,694 `          5,513 Trade payables and other liabilities 3,107 3,151 Allowance for lifetime expected credit losses 4,499 2,955 Minimum alternate tax 74 1,520 Cash flow hedges 29 - 13,403 13,139 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 231 As at  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017   Property, plant and equipment (2,132) ` (4,117)  Amortisable goodwill (1,810) (4,057)  Other intangible assets (3,190) (4,511)  Interest on bonds and fair value movement of investments (1,712) (2,245)  Cash flow hedges - (1,419)  Deferred revenue (273) (183)  Others (403) (87) ` (9,520) ` (16,619) Net deferred tax assets / (liabilities) ` 3,883 ` (3,480) Amounts presented in statement of consolidated balance sheet  Deferred tax assets `  6,908 ` 3,098  Deferred tax liabilities ` (3,025) ` (6,578)  *  Includes deferred tax asset recognised on carry-forward losses pertaining to business combinations.
Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities Movement during the year  ended March 31, 2018 As at  April 1,  2017 Credit/  (charge)  in the  consolidated  statement  of profit and  loss Credit/ (charge)  in the Other  comprehensive  income On account  of business  combination Assets  held for  sale As at  March  31, 2018 Carry-forward losses 5,513 133 48 - - 5,694 Trade payables and other  liabilities 3,151 243 (246) - (41) 3,107 Expected credit loss 2,955 1,564 2 - (22) 4,499 Minimum alternate tax 1,520 (1,446) - - - 74 Property, plant and equipment (4,117) 911 (76) - 1,150 (2,132) Amortisable goodwill (4,057) 1,522 (53) - 778 (1,810) Other intangible assets (4,511) 1,546 (112) (113) - (3,190) Interest on bonds and fair value  movement of investments (2,245) (112) 645 - - (1,712) Cash flow hedges (1,419) - 1,448 - - 29 Deferred revenue (183) (35) (9) - (46) (273) Others (87) (383) (75) - 142 (403) Total (3,480) 3,943 1,572 (113) 1,961 3,883 Movement during the year  ended March 31, 2017 As at April  1, 2016 Credit/ (charge) in  the consolidated  statement of  profit and loss Credit/ (charge)  in the Other  comprehensive  income On account  of business  combination As at  March 31,  2017 Carry-forward losses 5,250 825 (562) - 5,513 Trade payables and other liabilities 3,270 (44) (75) - 3,151 Expected credit loss 3,039 (77) (7) - 2,955 Minimum alternate tax 1,457 63 - - 1,520 Property, plant and equipment (4,223) (250) 356 - (4,117) Amortisable goodwill (3,963) (401) 307 - (4,057) Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 232 Wipro Limited Movement during the year  ended March 31, 2017 As at April  1, 2016 Credit/ (charge) in  the consolidated  statement of  profit and loss Credit/ (charge)  in the Other  comprehensive  income On account  of business  combination As at  March 31,  2017 Other intangible assets (4,665) 2,639 279 (2,764) (4,511) Interest on bonds and fair value  movement of investments (814) (837) (594) - (2,245) Cash flow hedges (458) - (961) - (1,419) Deferred revenue (4) (192) 13 - (183) Others 328 (439) 24 - (87) Total (783) 1,287 (1,220) (2,764) (3,480)   Deferred taxes on unrealised foreign exchange gain/loss relating to cash flow hedges, fair value movements in  investments and actuarial gains/losses on defined benefit plans are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax liability on the other intangible assets identified and carry forward losses on acquisitions is recorded  by an adjustment to goodwill.
Other than these, the change in deferred tax assets and liabilities is primarily  recorded in the consolidated statement of profit and loss.
In assessing the realisability of deferred tax assets, the Company considers the extent to which it is probable  that the deferred tax asset will be realised.
The ultimate realisation of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the  generation of future taxable profits during the periods in which those temporary differences and tax loss carry- forwards become deductible.
The Company considers the expected reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected  future taxable income and tax planning strategies in making this assessment.
Based on this, the Company believes  that it is probable that the Company will realize the benefits of these deductible differences.
The amount of  deferred tax asset considered realizable, however, could be reduced in the near term if the estimates of future  taxable income during the carry-forward period are reduced.
Deferred tax asset amounting to ` 3,756 and ` 4,238 as at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively in respect of  unused tax losses have not been recognised by the Company.
The tax loss carry-forwards of  ` 14,510 and ` 13,581  as at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, relates to certain subsidiaries on which deferred tax asset has not  been recognised by the Company, because there is a lack of reasonable certainty that these subsidiaries may  generate future taxable profits.
Approximately, ` 6,223 and ` 5,371 as at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, of  these tax loss carry-forwards is not currently subject to expiration dates.
The remaining tax loss carry-forwards of  approximately, ` 8,287 and ` 8,210 as at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, expires in various years through  fiscal 2037.
The Company has recognised deferred tax assets of  ` 5,287 and ` 5,513 in respect of carry forward losses of its  various subsidiaries as at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Management’s projections of future taxable  income and tax planning strategies support the assumption that it is probable that sufficient taxable income will  be available to utilize these deferred tax assets.
Pursuant to the changes in the Indian income tax laws in the past year, Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) has been  extended to income in respect of which deduction is claimed under Section 10A, 10B and 10AA of the Income Tax  Act, 1961; consequently, the Company has calculated its tax liability for current domestic taxes after considering  MAT.
The excess tax paid under MAT provisions over and above normal tax liability can be carried forward and  set-off against future tax liabilities computed under normal tax provisions.
The Company was required to pay MAT  and accordingly, a deferred tax asset of ` 74 and ` 1,520 has been recognised in the statement of consolidated  balance sheet as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively, which can be carried forward for a period of fifteen  years from the year of recognition.
A substantial portion of the profits of the Company’s India operations are exempt from Indian income taxes being  profits attributable to export operations and profits from units established under the Special Economic Zone Act,  2005 scheme.
Units designated in special economic zones providing service on or after April 1, 2005 will be eligible  for a deduction of 100 percent of profits or gains derived from the export of services for the first five years from  commencement of provision of services and 50 percent of such profits and gains for a further five years.
Certain tax  benefits are also available for a further five years subject to the unit meeting defined conditions.
Profits from certain  other undertakings are also eligible for preferential tax treatment.
The tax holiday period being currently available  to the Company expires in various years through fiscal 2030-31.
The expiration period of tax holiday for each unit  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 233 within a SEZ is determined based on the number of years that have lapsed following year of commencement of  production by that unit.
The impact of tax holidays has resulted in a decrease of current tax expense of ` 11,635  and ` 11,958 for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, compared to the effective tax amounts  that we estimate we would have been required to pay if these incentives had not been available.
The per share  effect of these tax incentives for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was ` 2.45 and ` 2.46, respectively.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except in respect of taxable  temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary  difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable  future.
Accordingly, deferred income tax liabilities on cumulative earnings of subsidiaries amounting to ` 51,432  and ` 46,905 as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively and branch profit tax @ 15% of the US branch profit  have not been recognised.
Further, it is not practicable to estimate the amount of the unrecognised deferred tax  liabilities for these undistributed earnings.
28.
Foreign currency translation reserve   The movement in foreign currency translation reserve attributable to equity holders of the Company is summarised  below: As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Balance at the beginning of the year `       12,146 `        15,069 Translation difference related to foreign operations, net 3,542 ` (3,199) Change in effective portion of hedges of net investment in foreign operations `            (49) `             276 Total change during the year 3,493 (2,923) Balance at the end of the year `        15,639 `        12,146 29.
Earnings per equity share   A reconciliation of profit for the year and equity shares used in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per  equity share is set out below:   Basic: Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders of the  Company by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year, excluding equity shares  purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares.
Year ended  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company `        80,028 `        84,931 Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 4,750,043,400 4,857,081,010 Basic earnings per share `          16.85 `          17.49 Diluted: Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of equity shares  outstanding during the year for assumed conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares.
Employee share options  are dilutive potential equity shares for the Company.
The calculation is performed in respect of share options to determine the number of shares that could have  been acquired at fair value (determined as the average market price of the Company’s shares during the year).
The number of shares calculated as above is compared with the number of shares that would have been issued  assuming the exercise of the share options.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 234 Wipro Limited  Year ended  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017   Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company `        80,028 `        84,931  Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 4,750,043,400 4,857,081,010  Effect of dilutive equivalent share options 8,318,575 14,266,128  Weighted average number of equity shares for diluted earnings per share 4,758,361,975 4,871,347,138  Diluted earnings per share `          16.82 `          17.43 Earnings per share and number of share outstanding for the year ended March 31, 2017, has been proportionately  adjusted for the bonus issue in the ratio of 1:1 as approved by the shareholders on June 03, 2017.
30.
Employee stock option   The stock compensation expense recognised for employee services received during the year ended March 31,  2018 and 2017 were ` 1,347 and ` 1,742, respectively.
Wipro Equity Reward Trust (“WERT”)   In 1984, the Company established a controlled Trust called the Wipro Equity Reward Trust (“WERT”).
In the earlier  years, WERT purchased shares of the Company out of funds borrowed from the Company.
The Company’s Board  Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee recommends to WERT certain officers and key employees,  to whom WERT issues shares from its holdings at nominal price subject to vesting conditions.
WERT held 23,097,216  and 13,728,607 treasury shares as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Wipro Employee Stock Option Plans and Restricted Stock Unit Option Plans   A summary of the general terms of grants under stock option plans and restricted stock unit option plans are as  follows: Name of Plan  Number of  Options reserved  under the plan   Range of Exercise Price  Wipro Employee Stock Option plan 2000 (2000 plan) 560,606,060 ` 171 - 490 Wipro Restricted Stock Unit Plan (WRSUP 2004 plan) 44,848,484 ` 2 Wipro ADS Restricted Stock Unit Plan (WARSUP 2004 plan) 44,848,484 US $ 0.03 Wipro Employee Restricted Stock Unit Plan 2005 (WSRUP 2005 plan) 44,848,484 ` 2 Wipro Employee Restricted Stock Unit Plan 2007 (WSRUP 2007 plan) 37,373,738 ` 2 Wipro Equity Reward Trust Employee Stock Purchase Plan, 2013 29,659,648 ` 2  Below plans are discontinued as at March 31, 2018 Name of Plan  Number of  Options reserved  under the plan   Range of Exercise  Price  Wipro Employees Stock Option plan 1999 (1999 plan) 50,000,000 ` 171 - 490 Stock Option plan (2000 ADS Plan) 15,000,000 US $ 3 - 7   Employees covered under Stock Option Plans and Restricted Stock Unit (RSU) Option Plans (collectively “stock  option plans”) are granted an option to purchase shares of the Company at the respective exercise prices, subject  to requirements of vesting conditions.
These options generally vest in tranches over a period of three to five years  from the date of grant.
Upon vesting, the employees can acquire one equity share for every option.
The maximum  contractual term for these stock option plans is ten years.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 235  The activity in these stock option plans and restricted stock unit option plan is summarised below: Particulars Range of  exercise  price  Year ended   March 31, 2018  March 31, 2017   Number  Weighted  Average  Exercise  Price   Number  Weighted  Average  Exercise  Price  Outstanding at the beginning of the  year ` 480.20 20,181 ` 480.20 20,181 ` 480.20 ` 2 7,952,083 ` 2 7,254,326 ` 2 US $ 0.03 5,288,783 US $  0.03 3,747,430 US $  0.03 Bonus on outstanding (Refer note 33)  ` 480.20 - ` 480.20 - -  ` 2 6,968,406 ` 2 - - US $  0.03 4,077,070 US $  0.03 - - Granted*  ` 480.20 -  ` 480.20 -  ` 480.20  ` 2 4,612,400  ` 2 2,398,000  ` 2 US $  0.03 3,897,000 US $  0.03 2,379,500 US $  0.03 Exercised  ` 480.20 (20,181)  ` 480.20 -  ` 480.20  ` 2 (5,325,217)  ` 2 (1,113,775)  ` 2 US $  0.03 (2,565,976) US $  0.03 (174,717) US $  0.03 Forfeited and expired  ` 480.20 -  ` 480.20 -  ` 480.20  ` 2 (663,675)  ` 2 (586,468)  ` 2 US $  0.03 (497,823) US $  0.03 (663,430) US $  0.03 Outstanding at the end of the year  ` 480.20 -  ` 480.20 20,181  ` 480.20  ` 2 13,543,997  ` 2 7,952,083  ` 2 US $  0.03 10,199,054 US $  0.03 5,288,783 US $  0.03 Exercisable at the end of the year  ` 480.20 -  ` 480.20 20,181  ` 480.20  ` 2 1,875,994  ` 2 698,320  ` 2 US $  0.03 789,962 US $  0.03 141,342 US $  0.03  The following table summarizes information about outstanding stock options and restricted stock unit option plan : Range of exercise price  Year ended March 31,   2018  2017  Numbers Weighted  Average  Remaining  life (months) Weighted  Average  Exercise  Price Numbers Weighted  Average  Remaining  life (months) Weighted  Average  Exercise  Price  `        480.20 - -  `        480.20 20,181 -  `        480.20  `                   213,543,997 27  `                    2 7,952,083 19  `                 2 US $      0.03 10,199,054 28 US $  0.03 5,288,783 24 US $  0.03   The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017  was ` 337.74 and ` 569.52 for each option, respectively.
The weighted average share price of options exercised  during the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was ` 303.44 and ` 536.80 for each option, respectively.
*  Includes  1,097,600 and 79,000 Performance based stock options (RSU) granted during the year ended March  31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
1,113,600 and 188,000 Performance based stock options (ADS) during the year  ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Performance based stock options(RSU) were issued under Wipro  Employee Restricted Stock Unit plan 2007 (WSRUP 2007 plan) and Performance based stock options (ADS) were  issued under Wipro granted ADS Restricted Stock Unit Plan (WARSUP 2004 plan).
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 236 Wipro Limited 31.
Finance lease receivables   Finance lease receivables consist of assets that are leased to customers for a contract term ranging from 1 to 5  years, with lease payments due in monthly or quarterly installments.
Details of finance lease receivables are given  below: As at March 31,  2018 March 31,  2017 March 31,  2018 March 31,  2017 Minimum lease   payments Present value of  minimum lease payment Not later than one year  `          2,414  `          2,060  `          2,271  `          1,854 Later than one year but not later than five years 2,890 2725 2,739 2,616 Later than five years - - - - Unguaranteed residual values - 62 - 58 Gross investment in lease 5,304 4,847 5,010 4,528 Less: Unearned finance income (294) (319) - - Present value of minimum lease payment receivables  `          5,010  `         4,528  `          5,010  `          4,528 Included in the consolidated balance sheet as follows:  Non-current 2,739 2,674 Current 2,271 1,854 32.
Assets taken on lease   Obligation under finance lease is secured by underlying assets leased.
The legal title of these assets vests with  the lessors.
These obligations are repayable in monthly, quarterly and yearly installments up to year ending March  31, 2022.
The interest rate for these obligations ranges from 1.43% to 10.61%.
Finance lease payables consist of liabilities that are taken on lease for a contract term ranging from 1 to 5 years.
Details of finance lease payable is as follows: As at March 31,  2018 March 31,  2017 March 31,  2018 March 31,  2017 Minimum lease   payments Present value of minimum  lease payment Not later than one year  `          3,838  `          3,876  `          3,720  `          3,623 Later than one year but not later than five years 1,784 4841 1,722 4,657 Later than five years - - - - Total minimum lease payments 5,622 8,717 5,442 8,280 Less: Amounts representing interest (180) (437) - - Present value of minimum lease payment payables 5,442 8,280 5,442 8,280 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale (1,469) - (1,469) - Obligation under finance lease  `          3,973  `          8,280  `          3,973  `         8,280 Included in the consolidated balance sheet as follows:  Non-current 1,722 4,657 Current 2,251 3,623   Operating leases: The Company has taken offices, vehicles and IT equipments under cancellable and non-cancelable  operating lease agreements that are renewable on a periodic basis at the option of both the lessor and the lessee.
The operating lease agreements extend up a maximum of fifteen years from their respective dates of inception and  some of these lease agreements have price escalation clause.
Rental payments under such leases were  ` 6,236  and  ` 5,953 during the years ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, respectively.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 237  Details of contractual payments under non-cancelable leases are given below: As at March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Not later than one year  `          6,186  `          5,040 Later than one year and not later than five years 12,470 12,976 Later than five years 2,354 2,760 Total  `        21,010  `        20,776 33.
Dividends, Bonus and Buyback of equity shares   The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian rupees.
According to the Companies Act, 2013 any dividend  should be declared out of accumulated distributable profits.
A Company may, before the declaration of any dividend,  transfer a percentage of its profits for that financial year as it may consider appropriate to the reserves.
The cash dividends paid per equity share were ` 1, and  ` 3, during the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017,  respectively, including an interim dividend of  `  1 and  ` 2 for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The bonus issue in the proportion of 1:1 i.e.
1 (One) bonus equity share of  ` 2 each for every 1 (one) fully paid-up  equity share held (including ADS holders) had been approved by the shareholders of the Company on June 03, 2017  through Postal Ballot /e-voting.
For this purpose, June 14, 2017, was fixed as the record date.
Consequently, on  June 15, 2017, the Company allotted 2,433,074,327 shares and  ` 4,866 (representing par value of  ` 2 per share)  has been transferred from retained earnings to share capital.
During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Company has concluded the buyback of 343,750,000 equity shares  as approved by the Board of Directors on July 20, 2017.
This has resulted in a total cash outflow of  ` 110,000.
In  line with the requirement of the Companies Act 2013, an amount of  ` 1,656 and  ` 108,344 has been utilised from  the share premium account and retained earnings respectively.
Further, capital redemption reserves (included  in other reserves) of ` 687 (representing the nominal value of the shares bought back) has been created as an  apportionment from retained earnings.
Consequent to such buyback, share capital has reduced by  ` 687.
34.
Additional capital disclosures   The key objective of the Company’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a stable capital structure with  the focus on total equity to uphold investor, creditor, and customer confidence and to ensure future development  of its business.
The Company focused on keeping strong total equity base to ensure independence, security, as  well as a high financial flexibility for potential future borrowings, if required without impacting the risk profile of  the Company.
The Company’s goal is to continue to be able to return excess liquidity to shareholders by continuing to distribute  annual dividends in future periods.
The amount of future dividends/ buyback of equity shares will be balanced with efforts to continue to maintain  an adequate liquidity status.
The capital structure as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 was as follows:  As at  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 % Change  Equity attributable to the equity shareholders of the Company (A)  `      479,263  `      516,702 (7.25)% As percentage of total capital 78% 78% Current borrowings * 92,991 122,801 Non-current borrowings 45,268 19,611 Total borrowings (B)  `      138,259  `      142,412 (2.92)% As percentage of total capital 22% 22%  Total capital (A) + (B)  `      617,522  `      659,114 (6.31)%  * Includes current obligation under borrowings classified under “Other current financial liabilities” Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 238 Wipro Limited   Borrowings represents 22 % and 22 % of total capital as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Company  is not subjected to any externally imposed capital requirements.
35.
Commitments and contingencies   Capital commitments: As at March 31, 2018 and 2017 the Company had committed to spend approximately `  13,091  and ` 12,238 respectively, under agreements to purchase/ construct property and equipment.
These amounts are  net of capital advances paid in respect of these purchases.
Guarantees: As at March 31, 2018 and 2017, performance and financial guarantees provided by banks on behalf of  the Company to the Indian Government, customers and certain other agencies amount to approximately ` 21,546  and ` 22,023 respectively, as part of the bank line of credit.
Contingencies and lawsuits: The Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims (including tax assessment  orders/penalty notices) which have arisen in the ordinary course of its business.
Some of the claims involve  complex issues and it is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the expected financial effect, if any, that  will result from ultimate resolution of such proceedings.
However, the resolution of these legal proceedings is not  likely to have a material and adverse effect on the results of operations or the financial position of the Company.
Significant matters are discussed below.
In March 2004, the Company received a tax demand for year ended March 31, 2001 arising primarily on account of  denial of deduction under section 10A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (Act) in respect of profit earned by the Company’s  undertaking in Software Technology Park at Bengaluru.
The same issue was repeated in the successive assessments  for the years ended March 31, 2002 to March 31, 2011 and the aggregate demand is ` 47,583 (including interest of  ` 13,832).
The appeals filed against the said demand before the Appellate authorities have been allowed in favor of  the Company by the second appellate authority for the years up to March 31, 2008.
Further appeals have been filed  by the Income tax authorities before the Hon’ble High Court.
The Hon’ble High Court has heard and disposed-off  majority of the issues in favor of the Company up to years ended March 31, 2004.
Department has filed a Special  Leave Petition (SLP) before the Supreme Court of India for the year ended March 31, 2001 to March 31, 2004.
On similar issues for years up to March 31, 2000, the Hon’ble High Court of Karnataka has upheld the claim of the  Company under section 10A of the Act.
For the year ended March 31, 2009, the appeals are pending before Income  Tax Appellate Tribunal (Tribunal).
For years ended March 31, 2010 and March 31, 2011 the Dispute Resolution Panel  (DRP) allowed the claim of the Company under section 10A of the Act.
The Income tax authorities have filed an  appeal before the Tribunal.
The Company received the draft assessment order for the year ended March 31, 2012 in March 2016 with a proposed  demand of ` 4,241 (including interest of ` 1,376).
Based on the DRP’s direction, allowing majority of the issues  in favor of the Company, the assessing officer has passed the final order with ` Nil demand.
However, on similar  issue for earlier years, the Income Tax authorities have appealed before the Tribunal.
For year ended March 31, 2013 the Company received the final assessment order in November 2017 with a proposed  demand of ` 3,286 (including interest of ` 1,166), arising primarily on account of section 10AA issues with respect  to exclusion from Export Turnover.
The Company has filed an appeal before Hon’ble ITAT, Bengaluru within the  prescribed timelines.
For year ended March 31, 2014 the Company received the draft assessment order in January 2018 with a proposed  demand of ` 8,701 (including interest of ` 2,700), arising primarily on account of section 10AA issues with respect  to exclusion from Export Turnover.
The Company has filed the appeal before DRP .
Income tax claims against the Company (excluding interest) amounting to ` 64,643 and ` 55,942 have not been  acknowledged as debt as at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Interest, if these claims sustain on ultimate  resolution, amounted to ` 36,797 as at March 31, 2018.
These matters are pending before various Appellate  Authorities and the management expects its position will likely be upheld on ultimate resolution and will not have  a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations.
The contingent liability in respect of disputed demands for excise duty, custom duty, sales tax and other matters  against the Company (excluding interest) amounting to ` 5,826 and ` 2,585 are not acknowledged as debt as at  March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, respectively.
Interest, if these claims sustain on ultimate resolution, amounted  to ` 1,919 as at March 31, 2018.
However, the resolution of these legal proceedings is not likely to have a material  and adverse effect on the results of operations or the financial position of the Company.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 239   In December 2017, National Grid filed a legal claim against the Company in U.S. District Court of the Eastern  District of New York seeking damages amounting to $140 millions (` 9,124) plus additional costs related to an  ERP implementation project that was completed in 2014.
The Company expects to defend itself against the claim  and believes that the claim will not sustain.
36.
Segment information  The Company is organised by the following operating segments: IT Services and IT Products.
IT Services: The IT Services segment primarily consists of IT Service offerings to customers organised by industry  verticals.
Effective April 1, 2016, The Company realigned its industry verticals.
The Communication Service Provider  business unit was regrouped from the former Global Media and Telecom (GMT) industry vertical into a new  industry vertical named “Communications” .
The Media business unit from the former GMT industry vertical has  been realigned with the former Retail, Consumer, Transport and Government (RCTG) industry vertical which has  been renamed as “Consumer Business Unit” industry vertical.
Further, the Network Equipment Provider business  unit of the former GMT industry vertical has been realigned with the Manufacturing industry vertical to form the  “Manufacturing and Technology” industry vertical.
The revised industry verticals are as follows: Banking, Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI), Healthcare and  Lifesciences (HLS), Consumer Business unit (CBU), Energy, Natural Resources & Utilities (ENU), Manufacturing  & Technology (MNT) and Communications (COMM).
IT Services segment also includes Others which comprises  dividend income relating to strategic investments, which are presented within “finance and other income” in the  statement of profit and loss.
Key service offerings to customers includes software application development and  maintenance, research and development services for hardware and software design, business application services,  analytics, consulting, infrastructure outsourcing services and business process services.
Comparative information has been restated to give effect to the above changes.
IT Products: The Company is a value added reseller of desktops, servers, notebooks, storage products, networking  solutions and packaged software for leading international brands.
In certain total outsourcing contracts of the  IT Services segment, the Company delivers hardware, software products and other related deliverables.
Revenue  relating to the above items is reported as revenue from the sale of IT Products.
The Chairman and Managing Director of the Company has been identified as the Chief Operating Decision Maker  (CODM) as defined by Ind AS 108, “Operating Segments.
” The Chairman of the Company evaluates the segments  based on their revenue growth and operating income.
Assets and liabilities used in the Company’s business are not identified to any of the operating segments, as these  are used interchangeably between segments.
Management believes that it is currently not practicable to provide  segment disclosures relating to total assets and liabilities since a meaningful segregation of the available data  is onerous.
Information on reportable segment for the year ended March 31, 2018 is as follows: IT Services IT  Products Reconciling  Items Total BFSI HLS CBU ENU MNT COMM Total Revenue 148,062 74,177 83,762 68,427 120,272 33,710 528,410 17,998 (49) 546,359 Segment Result 24,626 9,620 13,060 8,060 21,742 3,158 80,266 362 267 80,895 Unallocated 3,347 - - 3,347 Segment Result Total 83,613 362 267 84,242 Finance costs (5,830) Finance and other income 23,999 Share of profit/ (loss) of 11 associates Profit before tax 102,422 Income tax expense (22,391) Profit for the year 80,031 Depreciation and  amortisation 21,117 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 240 Wipro Limited  Information on reportable segment for the year ended March 31, 2017 is as follows: IT Services IT  Products Reconciling  Items Total BFSI HLS CBU ENU MNT COMM Total Revenue 135,967 82,242 83,417 68,883 119,175 38,756 528,440 25,922 (153) 554,209 Other operating income - - - - - - 4,082 - - 4,082 Segment Result 24,939 9,479 14,493 14,421 23,453 6,149 92,934 (1,680) (469) 90,785 Unallocated (951) - - (951) Segment Result Total 96,065 (1,680) (469) 93,916 Finance costs (5,942) Finance and other income 22,419 Profit before tax 110,393 Income tax expense (25,214) Profit for the year 85,179 Depreciation and  amortisation 23,100   The Company has four geographic segments:  India, Americas, Europe and Rest of the world.
Revenues from the  geographic segments based on domicile of the customer is as follows:  Year ended  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  India  `        43,099  `        46,585 Americas* 283,515 290,719 Europe 138,597 133,909 Rest of the world 81,148 82,996 Total  `      546,359  `      554,209  * Substantially related to Operations in the United States of America   No customer individually accounted for more than 10% of the revenues during the year ended March 31, 2018 and  2017.
Management believes that it is currently not practicable to provide disclosure of geographical location wise assets,  since the meaningful segregation of the available information is onerous.
Notes:  a)  “Reconciling items” includes elimination of inter-segment transactions and other corporate activities.
b)  Revenue from sale of traded cloud based licenses is reported as part of IT Services revenues.
c)   For the purpose of segment reporting, the Company has included the impact of “foreign exchange gains /  (losses), net” in revenues (which is reported as a part of operating profit in the consolidated statement of  profit and loss).
d)   For evaluating performance of the individual operating segments, stock compensation expense is allocated  on the basis of straight line amortisation.
The differential impact of accelerated amortisation of stock  compensation expense over stock compensation expense allocated to the individual operating segments is  reported in reconciling items.
e)   The Company generally offers multi-year payment terms in certain total outsourcing contracts.
These payment  terms primarily relate to IT hardware, software and certain transformation services in outsourcing contracts.
The finance income on deferred consideration earned under these contracts is included in the revenue of the  respective segment and is eliminated under reconciling items.
f)   Segment results for ENU and COMM industry vertical for year ended March 31, 2018 is after considering the  impact of provision by ` 3,175 and ` 1,437 for impairment of receivables and deferred contract costs (Refer  note 26).
g)   Segment results of HLS industry vertical for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, is after considering the  impact of impairment charge recorded on certain intangible assets recognised on acquisition (Refer note 5).
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 241  h)   Net gain from sale of EcoEnergy division amounting to ` 4,082 is included as part of IT Services segment  result for the year ended March 31, 2017.  i)   Operating income of segments is after recognition of stock compensation expense arising from the grant of  options:  Year ended  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  IT Services `          1,402 `          1,550 IT Products 3 4 Reconciling items (58) 188 Total `          1,347 `          1,742 37.
Related party relationship and transactions  List of subsidiaries and associates as of March 31, 2018 are provided in the table below: Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Country of  Incorporation Wipro LLC USA Wipro Gallagher Solutions, Inc. USA Opus Capital Markets Consultants  LLC USA Wipro Promax Analytics Solutions  LLC USA Infocrossing, Inc. USA Wipro Insurance Solutions LLC Wipro Data Centre and Cloud  Services, Inc. Wipro IT Services, Inc. USA USA USA HPH Holdings Corp. (A) Appirio, Inc. (A) USA USA Cooper Software, Inc. USA Wipro Overseas IT Services  Pvt. Ltd.
India Wipro Japan KK     Japan Wipro Shanghai Limited     China Wipro Trademarks Holding  Limited     India Wipro Travel Services Limited     India  Wipro Holdings UK Limited   U.K.   Wipro Information Technology  Austria GmbH Austria Wipro Technologies Austria GmbH Austria   Wipro Digital Aps Denmark Designit A/S (A) Denmark   Wipro Europe Limited U.K. Wipro UK Limited U.K.    Wipro Financial Services UK Limited U.K. Wipro Cyprus Private Limited     Cyprus   Wipro Doha LLC #   Qatar   Wipro Technologies S.A DE C.V   Mexico   Wipro BPO Philippines LTD.  Inc.   Philippines Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 242 Wipro Limited Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Country of  Incorporation   Wipro Holdings Hungary  Korlátolt Felelősségű Társaság   Wipro Holdings Investment   Korlátolt Felelősségű Társaság Hungary Hungary   Wipro Technologies SA   Argentina   Wipro Information Technology   Egypt SAE   Egypt   Wipro Arabia Co. Limited *   Saudi Arabia Women’s Business Park  Technologies Limited * Saudi Arabia   Wipro Poland Sp.
Z.o.o   Poland   Wipro IT Services Poland  Sp.zo.o   Poland   Wipro Technologies Australia Pty Ltd   Australia   Wipro Corporate Technologies   Ghana Limited Wipro Technologies South Africa  (Proprietary) Limited   Wipro Technologies Nigeria Limited Ghana South Africa Nigeria   Wipro IT Service Ukraine LLC Wipro Information Technology   Netherlands BV.
Ukraine Netherlands     Wipro Portugal S.A. (A) Portugal     Wipro Technologies Limited,  Russia Russia     Wipro Technology Chile SPA Chile     Wipro Solutions Canada Limited Canada     Wipro Information Technology   Kazakhstan LLP Kazakhstan     Wipro Technologies W.T.
Sociedad  Anonima Costa Rica     Wipro Outsourcing Services   (Ireland) Limited Ireland     Wipro Technologies VZ, C.A.
Venezuela     Wipro Technologies Peru S.A.C InfoSERVER S.A. Wipro do Brasil Technologia Ltda(A) Peru Brazil Brazil   Wipro Technologies SRL   Romania   PT WT Indonesia   Indonesia   Wipro (Thailand) Co Limited   Thailand   Wipro Bahrain Limited WLL   Bahrain   Wipro Gulf LLC   Sultanate  of   Oman   Rainbow Software LLC   Iraq   Cellent GmbH   Germany     Cellent Mittelstandsberatung  GmbH Germany     Cellent Gmbh (A) Austria Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 243 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Country of  Incorporation Wipro Networks Pte Limited     Singapore   Wipro (Dalian) Limited   China   Wipro Technologies SDN  BHD   Malaysia Wipro Chengdu Limited     China Wipro Airport IT Services  Limited *     India Appirio India Cloud Solutions  Private Limited India Wipro IT Services Bangladesh  Limited Bangladesh  *   All the above direct subsidiaries are 100% held by the Company except that the Company holds 66.67% of  the equity securities of Wipro Arabia Co. Limited and 74% of the equity securities of Wipro Airport IT Services  Limited and 55% of the equity securities of Women’s Business Park Technologies Limited are held by Wipro  Arabia Co. Limited.
#   51% of equity securities of Wipro Doha LLC are held by a local shareholder.
However, the beneficial interest  in these holdings is with the Company.
The Company controls ‘The Wipro SA Broad Based Ownership Scheme Trust’ , ‘Wipro SA Broad Based Ownership  Scheme SPV (RF) (PTY) LTD incorporated in South Africa.
(A)   Step Subsidiary details of Wipro Portugal S.A, Wipro do Brasil Technologia Ltda , Desgnit A/s, Cellent GmbH,  HPH Holdings Corp. and Appirio, Inc. are as follows: Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Country of  Incorporation Wipro Portugal S.A.     Portugal   Wipro Technologies Gmbh   Germany  New Logic Technologies SARL France Wipro do Brasil Technologia Ltda Wipro Do Brasil Sistemetas De   Informatica Ltd Brazil Brazil  Designit A/S   Denmark   Designit Denmark A/S Denmark   Designit Munich GmbH Germany   Designit Oslo A/S Norway   Designit Sweden AB Sweden   Designit T.L.V Ltd. Israel   Designit Tokyo Lt.d Japan   Denextep Spain Digital, S.L Spain     Designit  Colombia  S A S Designit Peru SAC Colombia Peru Cellent GmbH Austria Frontworx Informations technologie  GmbH Austria HPH Holdings Corp.   HealthPlan Services Insurance  Agency, Inc. HealthPlan Services, Inc. USA USA USA Appirio, Inc. Appirio, K.K Topcoder, Inc. Appirio Ltd Appirio Singapore Pte Ltd Appirio GmbH Apprio Ltd (UK)  USA Japan USA Ireland Germany U.K. Singapore   As at March 31, 2018, the Company held 43.7% interest in Drivestream Inc and 33.3% interest in Demin Group  LLC, accounted for using the equity method.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 244 Wipro Limited  The list of controlled Trusts are: Name of entity Country of incorporation Wipro Equity Reward Trust India  Wipro Inc.
Benefit Trust India  Wipro Foundation India   The other related parties are:  Name of the related parties Nature Azim Premji Foundation Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji Foundation for Development Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji education Trust Entity controlled by Director Hasham Traders Entity controlled by Director Prazim Traders Entity controlled by Director Zash Traders Entity controlled by Director Hasham Investment and Trading Co. Pvt.
Ltd.
Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiatives Pvt.
Ltd.
Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji Trust Entity controlled by Director Wipro Enterprises (P) Limited Entity controlled by Director Wipro GE Healthcare Private Limited Entity controlled by Director Key management personnel Azim H. Premji Executive Chairman and Managing Director T K Kurien  Executive Vice Chairman (6) Abidali Z. Neemuchwala  Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director (4) Dr. Ashok Ganguly  Non-Executive Director Narayanan Vaghul  Non-Executive Director Dr. Jagdish N Sheth  Non-Executive Director (7) William Arthur Owens  Non-Executive Director M.K.
Sharma  Non-Executive Director Vyomesh Joshi  Non-Executive Director (3) Ireena Vittal  Non-Executive Director Rishad Azim Premji  Executive Director and Chief Strategy Officer (1) Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal  Chief Financial Officer (2) Dr. Patrick J. Ennis  Non-Executive Director (5) Patrick Dupuis  Non-Executive Director (5) (1)   Effective May 1, 2015   (2)   Effective April 1, 2015   (3)   Up to July19, 2016.
(4)   Effective February 1, 2016   (5)   Effective April 1, 2016   (6)  Up to January 31, 2017.
(7)  Up to July 18, 2016.
Relative of key management personnel:   -  Yasmeen H. Premji  -  Tariq Azim Premji Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 245  The Company has the following related party transactions: Transaction / balances Entities controlled by Directors Key Management Personnel March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Sales of goods and services 136 114 - - Assets purchased 290 106 - - Dividend 3,171 5,087 191 287 Buyback of shares 63,745 19,638  ^ 2 Rental Income 42 43 - - Rent Paid 7 8 6 6 Others 31 93 - - Key management personnel * Remuneration and short-term benefits - - 248 242 Other benefits - - 130 157 Remuneration to relative of key  management personnel - - - - Balance as at the year end Receivables 39 76 - - Payables 57 22 55 27  Further, investment in associates during the year ` 261 and ` Nil as at March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively.
^ value is less than ` 1 *  Post employment benefit comprising compensated absences is not disclosed as this are determined for the  Company as a whole.
Benefits includes the prorated value of Restricted Stock Units (“RSU’s”) granted to the  personnel, which vest over a period of time.
Other benefits include share based compensation ` 124 and ` 148  for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The following are the significant related party transactions during the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017:  Year ended  March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017  Asset purchased/ capitalised  Wipro Enterprises (P) Limited 290 106 Dividend paid  Hasham Traders 742 1,113  Prazim Traders 891 1,359  Zash Traders 903 1,355  Azim Premji Trust 618 1,228 Buyback of shares  Azim Premji Trust 57,494 19,154 Rent paid  Yasmeen Premji 6 6 Rental income  Wipro Enterprises (P) Limited 40 38 Remuneration paid to key management personnel  Azim Premji 9 8  T K Kurien * - 97  Abidali Z. Neemuchwala 182 136  Rishad Azim Premji 59 17  Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal 47 45 *   T K Kurien, who was Executive Vice Chairman of the Company retired from the services of the Company and the Board  effective January 31, 2017.
Compensation disclosed above is for the period from April 1, 2016 to January 31, 2017.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 246 Wipro Limited 38.
Corporate Social Responsibility  a.
Gross amount required to be spend by the Wipro during the year ` 1,835 (March 31, 2017: ` 1,764).
b.
Amount spent during the year on:  For the year ended March 31, 2018   In Cash  Yet to be paid  in Cash   Total  (i)  Construction/ acquisition of any asset `                  - `                  - `                  - (ii)  On purpose other than above (i) above 1,632 236 1,868 Total amount spent during the year `          1,632 `             236 `          1,868  For the year ended March 31, 2017   In Cash  Yet to be paid  in Cash   Total  (i)  Construction/ acquisition of any asset `                  -`                  -`                  - (ii)  On purpose other than above (i) above 1,634 229 1,863 Total amount spent during the year `          1,634 `             229 `          1,863 39.
Additional information pursuant to para 2 of general instructions for the preparation of consolidated financial  statements Name of the Subsidiary Net Asset Share in Profit or  Loss Share in Other  comprehensive  income Share in total  comprehensive  income As % of  total Amount  in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` Parent Wipro Limited 76.0% 422,626 100.9% 77,228 139.2% (7,300) 98.0% 69,928 Indian Subsidiaries Wipro Overseas IT Services Pvt.
Ltd - - - - - - - - Wipro Trademarks Holding Limited 0.0% 42 0.0% 2 - - 0.0% 2 Wipro Travel Services Limited 0.0% 124 0.0% 9 - - 0.0% 9 Wipro Airport IT Services Limited 0.0% 203 0.1% 86 - - 0.1% 86 Appirio India Cloud Solutions Private  Limited 0.1% 383 0.1% 108 - - 0.2% 108 Foreign Subsidiaries Wipro LLC 0.4% 2,416 (3.9)% (2,958) (37.3)% 1,958 (1.4)% (1,000) Wipro Gallagher Solutions, Inc. 0.3% 1,679 0.4% 275 2.7% (140) 0.2% 135 Opus Capital Markets Consultants  LLC 0.1% 501 (0.4)% (271) (0.0)% 1 (0.4)% (270) Wipro Promax Analytics Solutions  LLC (0.0)% (263) (0.1)% (99) 0.0% (2) (0.1)% (101) Infocrossing, Inc. 0.2% 1,366 0.5% 360 (4.3)% 223 0.8% 583 Wipro Insurance Solutions LLC 0.0% 126 0.0% 21 (0.0)% 1 0.0% 22 Wipro Data Centre and Cloud  Services, Inc.  2.1% 11,593 1.9% 1,474 (7.0)% 369 2.6% 1,843 Wipro IT Services, Inc. (3.0)% (16,899) (5.5)% (4,249) 9.8% (516) (6.7)% (4,765) HPH Holdings Corp. 1.8% 10,046 1.8% 1,398 (0.6)% 32 2.0% 1,430 Appirio, Inc. 0.1% 803 (0.5)% (359) (0.0)% 2 (0.5)% (357) Cooper Software, Inc (0.0)% (5) (0.1)% (50) - - (0.1)% (50) Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 247 Name of the Subsidiary Net Asset Share in Profit or  Loss Share in Other  comprehensive  income Share in total  comprehensive  income As % of  total Amount  in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` Wipro Japan KK 0.1% 580 0.2% 123 (1.0)% 50 0.2% 173 Wipro Shanghai Limited 0.1% 332 (0.0)% (18) (0.6)% 31 0.0% 13 Wipro Holdings (Mauritius) Limited - - 0.5% 353 14.9% (780) (0.6)% (427) Wipro Holdings UK Limited 0.4% 2,347 (1.4)% (1,096) (6.2)% 323 (1.1)% (773) Wipro Information Technology  Austria GmbH 0.0% 43 (0.0)% (6) 0.1% (5) (0.0)% (11) Wipro Technologies Austria GmbH (0.0)% (101) 0.1% 48 0.4% (21) 0.0% 27 Wipro Digital Aps 0.7% 3,867 0.0% 34 (1.7)% 90 0.2% 124 Designit A/S 0.2% 958 (0.2)% (121) (0.6)% 32 (0.1)% (89) Wipro Europe Limited 0.0% 57 (0.7)% (535) - - (0.8)% (535) Wipro UK Limited 0.0% 104 0.2% 165 (0.0)% 2 0.2% 167 Wipro Financial Services UK Limited (0.0)% (38) 0.0% 3 0.1% (5) (0.0)% (2) Wipro Cyprus Private Limited 5.1% 28,594 (0.3)% (255) - - (0.4)% (255) Wipro Doha LLC 0.0% 110 0.1% 42 (0.0)% 2 0.1% 44 Wipro Technologies S.A DE C.V (0.1)% (732) (0.4)% (292) 0.3% (17) (0.4)% (309) Wipro BPO Philippines LTD. Inc 0.8% 4,655 2.3% 1,764 2.7% (142) 2.3% 1,622 Wipro Holdings Hungary Korlátolt  Felelősségű Társaság  6.5% 35,885 1.6% 1,225 - - 1.7% 1,225 Wipro Holdings Investment Korlátolt  Felelősségű Társaság 4.0% 22,339 0.6% 470 - - 0.7% 470 Wipro Technologies SA 0.0% 138 0.1% 74 0.6% (32) 0.1% 42 Wipro Information Technology Egypt  SAE (0.0)% (112) - - 0.1% (4) (0.0)% (4) Wipro Arabia Co. Limited 1.3% 7,480 (0.1)% (60) (0.7)% 37 (0.0)% (23) Women’s Business Park  Technologies Limited  - - - - - - - - Wipro Poland Sp.
Z.o.o 0.1% 379 0.1% 63 (1.0)% 52 0.2% 115 Wipro IT Services Poland Sp.
z o. o 0.1% 393 (0.1)% (39) (1.2)% 61 0.0% 22 Wipro Technologies Australia Pty  Ltd. (0.1)% (496) 0.0% 36 0.6% (29) 0.0% 7 Wipro Corporate Technologies  Ghana Limited 0.0% 30 - - - - - - Wipro Technologies South Africa  (Proprietary) Limited 0.1% 634 0.3% 231 (1.4)% 76 0.4% 307 Wipro Technologies Nigeria Limited 0.0% 38 (0.0)% (10) 0.1% (7) (0.0)% (17) Wipro IT Services Ukraine LLC (0.0)% (2) (0.0)% (1) - - (0.0)% (1) Wipro Information Technology  Netherlands BV.
0.6% 3,553 0.8% 622 2.2% (115) 0.7% 507 Wipro Portugal S.A. 0.8% 4,227 0.4% 334 (10.6)% 558 1.3% 892 Wipro Technologies Limited, Russia 0.0% 154 (0.0)% (20) (0.2)% 9 (0.0)% (11) Wipro Technology Chile SPA (0.0)% (14) (0.0)% (26) - - (0.0)% (26) Wipro Solutions Canada Limited (0.9)% (4,997) (0.0)% (3) 3.6% (187) (0.3)% (190) Wipro Information Technology  Kazakhstan LLP (0.0)% (41) 0.0% 1 (0.0)% 1 0.0% 2 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 248 Wipro Limited Name of the Subsidiary Net Asset Share in Profit or  Loss Share in Other  comprehensive  income Share in total  comprehensive  income As % of  total Amount  in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` Wipro Technologies W.T.
Sociedad  Anonima 0.0% 3 0.0% 3 - - 0.0% 3 Wipro Outsourcing Services (Ireland)   Limited 0.0% 269 (0.1)% (77) (0.8)% 44 (0.0)% (33) Wipro Technologies Norway AS - - (0.0)% (1) (0.2)% 9 0.0% 8 Wipro Technologies VZ, C.A.
- - - - - - - - Wipro Technologies Peru S.A.C 0.0% 47 (0.0)% (20) - - (0.0)% (20) InfoSERVER S.A. 0.0% 82 0.0% 8 0.1% (4) 0.0% 4 Wipro do Brasil Technologia Ltda 0.3% 1,643 0.9% 659 1.2% (64) 0.8% 595 Wipro Technologies SRL 0.1% 782 0.5% 370 (1.8)% 93 0.6% 463 PT WT Indonesia 0.1% 504 0.2% 120 0.4% (19) 0.1% 101 Wipro (Thailand) Co Limited 0.1% 406 0.0% 35 (0.7)% 38 0.1% 73 Wipro Bahrain Limited WLL 0.1% 561 0.2% 153 (0.1)% 4 0.2% 157 Wipro Gulf LLC 0.2% 913 0.6% 494 (0.2)% 9 0.7% 503 Rainbow Software LLC (0.0)% (2) (0.0)% (1) - - (0.0)% (1) Cellent Gmbh, Germany 0.3% 1,676 (0.0)% (20) (1.4)% 76 0.1% 56 Cellent Mittelstandsberatung GmbH 0.0% 257 0.0% 7 (0.7)% 36 0.1% 43 Cellent Gmbh, Austria 0.1% 448 0.0% 20 (0.8)% 41 0.1% 61 Wipro Networks Pte Limited 0.3% 1,850 (0.0)% (28) (0.1)% 4 (0.0)% (24) Wipro (Dalian) Limited 0.1% 452 0.0% 7 (0.6)% 32 0.1% 39 Wipro Technologies SDN BHD 0.0% 6 0.0% 4 (0.0)% 1 0.0% 5 Wipro Chengdu Limited 0.1% 385 0.4% 296 (0.4)% 20 0.4% 316 Wipro IT Services Bangladesh  Limited 0.0% 90 0.0% 12 0.0% (1) 0.0% 11 Wipro Technologies Gmbh (0.1)% (777) (0.1)% (86) 1.0% (53) (0.2)% (139) New Logic Technologies SARL 0.0% 68 0.0% 4 (0.2)% 9 0.0% 13 Wipro Do Brasil Sistemetas De  Informatica Ltd 0.0% 25 (0.0)% (6) 0.0% (1) (0.0)% (7) Designit Denmark A/S 0.1% 283 (0.5)% (393) (1.8)% 92 (0.4)% (301) Designit Munchen GmbH (0.0)% (128) (0.0)% (24) 0.3% (16) (0.1)% (40) Designit Oslo A/S 0.0% 73 0.0% 2 (0.1)% 7 0.0% 9 Designit Sweden AB (0.0)% (50) (0.0)% (24) 0.0% (2) (0.0)% (26) Designit T.L.V Ltd. 0.0% 116 0.0% 25 (0.1)% 3 0.0% 28 Designit Tokyo Ltd. (0.0)% (90) (0.0)% (25) 0.1% (5) (0.0)% (30) Denextep Spain Digital, S.L 0.0% 50 (0.1)% (56) (0.2)% 11 (0.1)% (45) Designit Colobia S A S 0.0% 1 (0.0)% (14) - - (0.0)% (14) Designit Peru S.A.C (0.0)% (34) (0.0)% (23) 0.0% (1) (0.0)% (24) Frontworx Informations  technologie Gmbh 0.0% 113 0.0% 12 (0.3)% 15 0.0% 27 Healthplan Services Insurance  Agency, Inc. (0.0)% (20) 0.0% 15 0.2% (8) 0.0% 7 Healthplan Services, Inc. (0.1)% (344) (1.4)% (1,050) 0.6% (32) (1.5)% (1,082) Appirio K.K.
(0.0)% (254) 0.0% 21 0.3% (14) 0.0% 7 Topcoder, Inc. (0.0)% (35) - - - - - - Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 249 Name of the Subsidiary Net Asset Share in Profit or  Loss Share in Other  comprehensive  income Share in total  comprehensive  income As % of  total Amount  in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` Appirio Ltd 0.0% 15 0.0% 6 (0.0)% 1 0.0% 7 Appirio GmbH 0.0% 2 - - - - - - Appirio Ltd (UK) (0.1)% (639) (0.0)% (8) 1.5% (78) (0.1)% (86) Appirio Singapore Pte Ltd (0.0)% (28) 0.0% 1 0.0% (2) (0.0)% (1) Wipro SA Broad Based Ownership  Scheme SPV (RF) (PTY) LTD 0.1% 776 (0.0)% (1) - - (0.0)% (1) Trust Wipro Equity Reward Trust 0.2% 1,152 0.1% 79 - - 0.1% 79 Wipro Inc.
Benefit Trust (0.0)% (1) - - - - - - Wipro SA Broad Based Ownership  Scheme Trust 0.0% 29 - - 1.8% (96) (0.1)% (96) Wipro Foundation - - - - - - - - Total 100.0% 555,780 100.0% 76,576 100.0% (5,243) 100.0% 71,333 Non-controlling interest (2,408) (3) (16) (19) Adjustment arising out of  consolidation (74,109) 3,455 2,116 5,571 Grand Total 479,263 80,028 (3,143) 76,885 40.
Assets held for sale   During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Company has signed a definitive agreement to divest its hosted data  center services business to Ensono Holdings, LLC and its affiliates (Ensono Group).
The sale is expected to conclude  during the quarter ending June 30, 2018.
Further on April 5, 2018, the Company has reduced its equity holding from 74% to 11% in Wipro Airport IT Services  Limited.
These disposal groups do not constitute a major component of the Company and hence are not classified as  discontinued operations.
The assets and liabilities associated with these transactions are classified as assets held for sale and liabilities  directly associated with assets held for sale amounting to ` 27,201 and ` 6,212 respectively.
Foreign currency  translation reserve includes ` 2,907 directly associated with assets held for sale.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board of Directors for Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Azim H Premji N Vaghul Abidali Neemuchwala Chartered Accountants Executive Chairman  & Managing Director Director Chief Executive Officer & Executive DirectorFirm’s Registration No: 117366W/W-100018 N. Venkatram Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal M Sanaulla Khan Partner Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Membership No.
71387 Mumbai Bengaluru June 08, 2018 June 08, 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 250 Wipro Limited Sr.  No.
Name of the Subsidiary Date of  becoming the  subsidiary/  acquisition Reporting  period Reporting  Currency  Exchange  rate as on   March, 31  2018/ Dec  31, 2017#   Share  capital  Reserves  &  Surplus   Total  Assets   Total Li- abilities  exclud- ing (6) &  (7)   Invest- ments  (m)   % of  Holding  Turnover   (^)  Profit  before  taxation  (^)  Provision  for  taxation     (^)  Profit  after  taxation  (^)  Proposed  Dividend  (incl.
dividend  tax) (^)  (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) 1 Wipro, LLC 7-Jul-98 31-Mar-18 USD 65  32,778  (18,101)  62,139  47,463  3,863 100  37,750  (3,251)  (293)  (2,958)  -    2 Wipro Data Centre and  Cloud Services Inc (a) 29-Mar-16 31-Mar-18 USD 65  *  11,593  17,637  6,043  -   100  14,299  772  (706)  1,478  -    3 Appirio Inc. 23-Nov-16 31-Mar-18 USD 65  *  640  4,276  3,637  26 49  12,371  (499)  18  (517)  -    4 Wipro Arabia Co.Limited 19-Jun-07 31-Dec-17 SAR 17  511  6,826  14,067  6,730  -   100  12,060  67  -    67  -    5 Healthplan Services, Inc 29-Feb-16 31-Mar-18 USD 65  4,801  (5,366)  4,776  5,341  -   100  11,006  (1,024)  245  (1,269)  -    6 Wipro Solutions Canada  Limited 16-Aug-14 31-Mar-18 CAD 51  1,620  (6,616)  4,649  9,645  -   100  7,764  123  127  (3)  -    7 Wipro Technologies GmbH 30-Jun-06 31-Mar-18 EUR 81  2  (2)  6,592  6,592  -   100  6,916  (216)  -    (216)  -    8 Infocrossing, Inc. (b) 20-Sep-07 31-Mar-18 USD 65  *  1,366  4,047  2,681  -   100  6,009  1,422  1,062  360  -    9 Wipro BPO Philippines  LTD, Inc. 16-Oct-07 31-Mar-18 PHP 1  235  4,431  5,415  749  -   100  5,447  1,846  61  1,785  -    10 Cellent GmbH 15-Jan-16 31-Mar-18 EUR 81  436  1,241  2,640  964  -   100  5,231  (7)  11  (19)  -    11 Wipro do Brasil  Technologia Ltda 29-May-01 31-Dec-17 BRL 19  495  967  2,528  1,067  -   100  4,914  754  261  493  -    12 Wipro Technologies SA  DE C V 13-Jun-07 31-Mar-18 MXN 4  39  (770)  2,061  2,793  -   100  3,966  (292)  -    (292)  -    13 Wipro Holdings (UK)  Limited 9-Dec-02 31-Mar-18 GBP 92  7,330  (4,362)  10,582  7,613  -   100  3,040  (362)  (47)  (315)  -    14 Wipro Gallagher  Solutions, Inc (c) 1-Jul-08 31-Mar-18 USD 65  1,913  (26)  4,655  2,768  -   100  2,774  205  (70)  275  -    15 Wipro Technologies SRL 17-Aug-06 31-Dec-17 RON 16  177  882  1,569  510  -   100  2,691  475  73  402  -    16 Wipro Technologies South Africa (Proprietary) Limited 2-Nov-10 31-Mar-18 ZAR 6  29  604  1,440  807  -   100  2,667  293  62  231  -    17 Wipro Gulf LLC 1-Jun-11 31-Mar-18 OMR 169  25  885  1,641  731  -   100  2,460  584  86  498  -    18 Wipro IT Services Poland  SP Z.   O .
O 6-Apr-12 31-Mar-18 PLN 19  *  393  2,068  1,675  -   100  2,384  152  191  (39)  -    19 Wipro Networks Pte  Limited 15-Dec-99 31-Mar-18 USD 65  1,458  (52)  2,745  1,339  -   100  2,187  (115)  -    (115)  -    20 Opus Capital Markets  Consultants LLC 14-Jan-14 31-Mar-18 USD 65  66  435  1,123  623  -   74  1,786  (210)  60  (271)  -    21 Wipro Information  Technology Netherlands BV 30-Jun-06 31-Mar-18 EUR 81  1,782  1,802  5,943  2,360  -   100  1,576  618  38  580  -    22 Wipro Portugal SA 30-Jun-06 31-Mar-18 EUR 81  4  3,683  4,516  829  -   100  1,488  205  55  150  -    23 HPH Holdings Corp.  (d) 29-Feb-16 31-Mar-18 USD 65  *  10,046  10,046  -    -   100  1,383  1,383  *  1,383  -    24 Wipro Holdings Hungary  Korlátolt Felelősségű Társaság 17-Sep-07 31-Dec-17 USD 64  1,757  33,464  35,304  84  -   100  1,264  1,253  96  1,157  -    25 Wipro Technologies Australia Pty Ltd 30-Apr-12 31-Mar-18 AUD 50  *  (483)  1,452  1,935  -   100  1,188  (61)  7  (68)  -    26 Cellent GmbH 15-Jan-16 31-Mar-18 EUR 81  6  442  676  229  -   67  1,163  16  (3)  18  -    27 Wipro Chengdu Limited 13-Oct-08 31-Dec-17 RMB 10  195  36  886  655  -   100  1,100  293  30  263  -    28 Appirio Limited 23-Nov-16 31-Dec-17 GBP 86  *  (603)  316  918  -   100  959  (31)  (19)  (12)  -    Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of Companies Act, 2013, read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 - AOC-1, the Company is presenting summarised financial information about individual subsidiaries as at March 31, 2018/December 31, 2017.
Information relating to Subsidiaries as at March 31, 2018/December 31, 2017   Part -A- Subsidiaries Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 251 Sr.  No.
Name of the Subsidiary Date of  becoming the  subsidiary/  acquisition Reporting  period Reporting  Currency  Exchange  rate as on   March, 31  2018/ Dec  31, 2017#   Share  capital  Reserves  &  Surplus   Total  Assets   Total Li- abilities  exclud- ing (6) &  (7)   Invest- ments  (m)   % of  Holding  Turnover   (^)  Profit  before  taxation  (^)  Provision  for  taxation     (^)  Profit  after  taxation  (^)  Proposed  Dividend  (incl.
dividend  tax) (^)  (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) 29 Wipro Doha LLC 26-Feb-14 31-Mar-18 QAR 18  4  106  557  447  -   100  933  45  5  40  -    30 PT.
WT Indonesia 24-Jul-09 31-Mar-18 IDR 0.005  64  436  862  362  -   100  928  228  108  120  -    31 Wipro Information  Technology Austria GmbH 29-Dec-05 31-Mar-18 EUR 81  2,584  (2,541)  877  834  353 100  822  (5)  *  (5)  -    32 Appirio India Cloud  Solutions Private Limited 23-Nov-16 31-Mar-18 INR 1  8  375  485  102  10 100  766  106  (6)  112  -    33 InfoSERVER S.A. (e) 10-Apr-17 31-Dec-17 BRL 19  204  (166)  304  265  -   100  735  (111)  -    (111)  -    34 Wipro Shanghai Limited 27-Apr-04 31-Dec-17 RMB 10  106  211  864  547  -   100  701  32  10  22  -    35 Wipro Technologies SA 22-Apr-08 31-Mar-18 ARS 3  45  93  435  296  -   100  649  105  31  74  -    36 Cellent  Mittelstandsberatung  GmbH 15-Jan-16 31-Mar-18 EUR 81  2  255  378  121  -   100  634  6  *  7  -    37 Wipro Airport IT Services  Limited (f) 22-Oct-09 31-Mar-18 INR 1  50  5  864  809  -   100  577  3  81  (78)  -    38 Wipro (Dalian) Limited 25-Dec-15 31-Dec-17 RMB 10  518  (86)  651  220  -   100  561  (47)  -    (47)  -    39 Wipro Bahrain Limited WLL 28-Oct-09 31-Mar-18 BHD 173  9  552  762  201  -   100  551  153  -    153  -    40 Designit Oslo A/S 1-Dec-06 31-Mar-18 NOK 8  1  73  228  154  -   100  533  4  1  2  -    41 Appirio, K.K.
23-Nov-16 31-Mar-18 JPY 0.62  6  (259)  220  474  -   100  520  30  10  21  -    42 Wipro Outsourcing  Services (Ireland) Limited 14-May-12 31-Mar-18 EUR 81  *  269  596  328  -   100  496  (93)  *  (93)  -    43 Wipro Holdings  Investment Korlátolt Felelősségű Társaság 23-Mar-17 31-Dec-17 USD 64  1  21,962  22,005  42  -   100  471  468  42  426  -    44 Wipro Cyprus Private  Limited 27-Apr-06 31-Mar-18 INR 1  13  28,581  36,920  8,325  -   100  462  (97)  172  (269)  -    45 Wipro Japan KK 1-May-98 31-Mar-18 JPY 0.62  265  314  634  54  -   100  455  280  156  123  -    46 Designit Spain Digital SL 4-Nov-10 31-Mar-18 EUR 81  *  75  309  234  -   100  422  (43)  1  (43)  -    47 Designit MunchenGmbH 7-Nov-07 31-Mar-18 EUR 81  2  (186)  192  377  -   100  386  (48)  -    (48)  -    48 Designit T.L.V Ltd 1-Mar-05 31-Mar-18 ILS 19  *  114  224  110  -   100  361  46  11  35  -    49 Wipro Poland S P  Z. O .
O .
1-Jul-08 31-Mar-18 PLN 19  1  378  427  47  -   100  359  79  16  63  -    50 Healthplan Services  Insurance Agency, Inc (g) 29-Feb-16 31-Mar-18 USD 65  *  (20)  23  44  -   100  335  23  8  15  -    51 Appirio Ltd. 23-Nov-16 31-Dec-17 EUR 77  78  (61)  1,115  1,098  -   100  297  16  5  11  -    52 Cooper Software, Inc (h) 23-Oct-17 31-Mar-18 USD 65  14  (19)  142  147  -   100  275  (69)  (19)  (50)  -    53 Wipro Technologies Austria GmbH 29-Dec-05 31-Mar-18 EUR 81  2,624  (2,725)  442  543  -   100  266  44  -    44  -    54 Wipro Technologies Nigeria Limited 15-Aug-12 31-Mar-18 NGN 0.18  3  76  425  346  -   100  264  41  8  33  -    55  Wipro Technology Chile SPA 19-Dec-11 31-Mar-18 CLP 0.11  108  (122)  255  269  -   100  251  (26)  -    (26)  -    56 Designit Sweden AB 11-Jun-07 31-Mar-18 SEK 8  1  *  92  91  -   100  238  (26)  -    (26)  -    57 Wipro (Thailand) Co.,  Limited 30-Jul-07 31-Mar-18 THB 2  215  198  444  32  -   100  215  47  5  42  -    58 Wipro IT Services  Bangladesh Limited (i) 09-Jan-18 31-Mar-18 BDT 0.78  78  12  292  202  -   100  188  19  6  12  -    59 FRONTWORX  Informationstechnologie AG 15-Jan-16 31-Mar-18 EUR 81  97  16  188  75  -   100  160  16  4  12  -    60 Wipro Technologies W.T  Sociedad Anonima 15-Oct-10 31-Mar-18 CRC 0.11  *  3  357  354  -   100  160  4  *  3  -    61 Designit Colombia SAS 21-Dec-15 31-Dec-17 COP 0.02  5  (13)  77  85  -   100  125  (25)  (4)  (21)  -    Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 252 Wipro Limited Sr.  No.
Name of the Subsidiary Date of  becoming the  subsidiary/  acquisition Reporting  period Reporting  Currency  Exchange  rate as on   March, 31  2018/ Dec  31, 2017#   Share  capital  Reserves  &  Surplus   Total  Assets   Total Li- abilities  exclud- ing (6) &  (7)   Invest- ments  (m)   % of  Holding  Turnover   (^)  Profit  before  taxation  (^)  Provision  for  taxation     (^)  Profit  after  taxation  (^)  Proposed  Dividend  (incl.
dividend  tax) (^)  (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) 62 Wipro Technologies Peru  SAC 15-Aug-12 31-Mar-18 PEN 20  24  23  154  107  -   100  121  (4)  15  (20)  -    63 Wipro Information  Technology Kazakhstan LLP 27-Sep-06 31-Mar-18 KZT 0.20  6  (47)  199  240  -   100  111  1  *  1  -    64 Wipro Insurance  Solutions LLC 30-Nov-12 31-Mar-18 USD 65  26  100  150  25  -   100  99  31  10  21  -    65 Designit Tokyo Ltd 6-May-13 31-Mar-18 JPY 0.62  10  (101)  51  142  -   100  93  (25)  1  (25)  -    66 Designit Peru SAC 1-Sep-16 31-Mar-18 PEN 20  2  (36)  51  85  -   100  93  (23)  -    (23)  -    67 Wipro Do Brasil  Sistemetas De Informatica Ltd 22-Aug-14 31-Dec-17 BRL 19  27  *  255  227  -   100  82  16  20  (4)  -    68 Wipro IT Services, Inc (j) 6-Apr-15 31-Mar-18 USD 65  *  (16,899)  43,498  60,397  -   100  66  (4,532)  (327)  (4,205)  -    69 Wipro Travel Services Limited 10-Jun-96 31-Mar-18 INR 1  1  120  418  298  -   100  66  13  7  6  -    70 Wipro Promax Analytics  Solutions, LLC 30-Apr-12 31-Mar-18 USD 65  2  (265)  153  416  -   100  60  (84)  15  (99)  -    71 Wipro Technologies SDN BHD 16-Nov-06 31-Mar-18 MYR 17  *  7  19  12  -   100  30  3  *  4  -    72 Wipro Technologies Limited  8-Feb-08 31-Dec-17 RUB 1  11  218  317  88  -   100  24  (7)  (1)  (5)  -    73 NewLogic Technologies SARL 29-Dec-05 31-Mar-18 EUR 81  50  18  69  1  -   100  6  4  (1)  4  -    74 Wipro Information  Technology Egypt SAE 22-May-08 31-Mar-18 EGP 4  3  (115)  25  137  -   100  3  *  -    *  -    75 Wipro Financials Services  UK Ltd.  30-Apr-12 31-Mar-18 GBP 92  *  (38)  9  47  -   100  2  4  1  2  -    76 Appirio Singapore Pte.Ltd.
23-Nov-16 31-Mar-18 SGD 50  *  (28)  *  28  -   100  2  1  -    1  -    77 Wipro Trademarks Holding Limited 30-Oct-82 31-Mar-18 INR 1  1  41  42  *  -   100  *  2  1  2  -    78  Wipro Technologies VZ, C.A.
13-Jun-13 31-Mar-18 VEF 0.001  -    *  *  *  -   100  *  *  -    *  -    79 Wipro UK Limited 1-Jun-11 31-Mar-18 GBP 92  65  45  1,021  910  -   100  *  126  3  123  1,365  80 Wipro Europe Limited 1-Jun-11 31-Mar-18 GBP 92  9  159  168  -    -   100  -    663  -    663  1,365  81 Appirio GmbH 23-Nov-16 31-Mar-18 EUR 81  2  -    2  *  -   100  -    -    -    -    -    82 Topcoder, Inc. (k)  23-Nov-16 31-Mar-18 USD 65  1,141  (1,177)  31  66  -   100  -    -    -    -    -    83 Wipro Overseas IT  Services Private Limited 12-May-15 31-Mar-18 INR 1  1  *  *  *  -   100  -    *  -    *  -    84 Wipro Corporate  Technologies Ghana Limited 9-Jul-14 31-Mar-18 GHS 15  35  (4)  31  1  -   100  -    *  -    *  -    85 Wipro IT Services Ukraine  LLC 6-Oct-14 31-Mar-18 UAH 2  *  (2)  *  2  -   100  -    (1)  -    (1)  -    86 Rainbow Software LLC 10-Jan-16 31-Mar-18 IQD 0.06  *  (2)  *  2  -   100  -    (1)  -    (1)  -    87 Wipro SA Broad Based  Ownership Scheme SPV (Rf) (Pty) Ltd 17-Jan-14 31-Mar-18 ZAR 6  767  2  771  2  -   100  -    (1)  -    (1)  -    88 Designit Denmark A/S 13-Sep-90 31-Mar-18 DKK 11  13  427  1,239  798  -   100  -    (407)  86  (493)  -    89 Designit A/S 31-May-13 31-Mar-18 DKK 11  108  201  1,249  940  -   100  -    (764)  39  (803)  -    90 Wipro Digital Aps 29-Jun-15 31-Mar-18 DKK 11  1  3,152  3,189  37  -   100  -    (1,129)  *  (1,129)  -    91 Women's Business Park  Technologies Limited  (l) 26-Oct-17 31-Dec-17 SAR 17 55 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Annual Report 2017-18 253 Notes: (a)   The Company signed a definitive agreement for sale of its data center services business to Ensono Holdings, LLC, including sale of Wipro Data Centre and Cloud Services, Inc., which is expected to close during the quarter ending June 30, 2018.
(b)   Infocrossing, Inc. was converted from a Corporation to a Limited Liability Company with effect from close of business of March 31, 2018.
(c)  Wipro Gallagher Solutions, Inc. was converted from a Corporation to a Limited Liability Company with effect from close of business of March 31, 2018.
(d)   HPH Holdings Corp. was merged with and into Healthplan Services, Inc.  with effect from March 31, 2018.
(e)  InfoSERVER S.A. was acquired on April 10, 2017.
(f)  The Company reduced its shareholding in Wipro Airport IT Services Limited from 74% to 11% on April 5, 2018.
(g)  Healthplan Services Insurance Agency, Inc. was converted from a Corporation to a Limited Liability Company with effect from close of business of March 31, 2018.
(h)  Cooper Software, Inc. was acquired on October 24, 2017.
(i)  Wipro IT Services Bangladesh Limited was incorporated on January 9, 2018.
(j)  Wipro IT Services, Inc. was converted from a Corporation to a Limited Liability Company with effect from close of business of March 31, 2018.
(k)  Topcoder, Inc. was converted from a Corporation to a Limited Liability Company with effect from close of business of March 31, 2018.
(l)  Women’s Business Park Technologies Limited was incorporated on October 26, 2017 and is yet to commence operations.
(m)  Investments excludes investments in subsidiaries and associates  (^)   Indian rupee equivalents of the figures given in the foreign currencies in the accounts of the subsidiary companies, are based on the exchange rates of the respective reporting period end dates.
*    Value is less than One Million Rupees (#)  Converted at yearly average exchange rate.
KI Management Company, LLC was merged with and into Appirio Inc. with effect from May 19, 2017.
Therefore, the financial information for the entity has not been included in the above list.
Wipro Australia Pty Limited was de-registered with effect from August 9, 2017.
Therefore,the financial information for the entity has not been included in the above list.
Wipro Retail UK Limited has been put into liquidation with effect from October 31, 2017.
Therefore,the financial information for the entity has not been included in the above list.
Saaspoint, Inc. was liquidated with effect from March 27, 2018.
Therefore,the financial information for the entity has not been included in the above list.
Wipro Holdings (Mauritius) Limited was liquidated with effect from March 19, 2018.
Therefore, the financial information for the entity has not been included in the above list.
Wipro Technologies Norway AS was de-registered with effect from December 19, 2017.
Therefore, the financial information for the entity has not been included in the above list.
Azim H Premji N Vaghul Executive Chairman & Managing Director Director Abidali Z Neemuchwala Jatin P Dalal M Sanaulla Khan Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Bengaluru June 8, 2018 Part-B - List of Associates  Sr.   No.
Name of  associates/Joint Ventures Latest  audited  Balance   Sheet date Date on which  the Associate  or Joint Venture  was associated  or acquired No.
of shares held  by the Company in  Associate on the  yearend Amount of  investment  in  Associates  Extent of  Holding (in  percentage) Description of how  there is significant  influence Reason why  the associate/ joint venture  is not  consolidated Net worth  attributable to  shareholding as  per latest audited  Balance Sheet Profit or Loss for the year Considered in  Consolidation Not  Considered in  Consolidation 1 Drivestream Inc. 31-Dec-17 12-Jun-17 94,527 Series A  Preferred Stock  27,865 common stock  190,525 Series B  Preferred stock USD  9,480,032   43.75% Extent of equity  holding in  the associate  company exceeds  20%  Not  Applicable USD (1,088,937) USD 176, 678 USD 194,237 2 Denim Group  Ltd. 31-Dec-16 01-Mar-18 510 Series A Preferred  Units USD  8,633,333 33.33% Extent of equity  holding in  the associate  company exceeds  20%  Not  Applicable USD 1,774,709 USD (4,343)  USD (35,139)  3 Denim Group  Management,  LLC  - 01-Mar-18 500 Membership Units USD 200,000 33% Extent of equity  holding in  the associate  company exceeds  20%  Not  Applicable  - -  -  Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 254 Wipro Limited Independent Auditor’s Report  To the Board of Directors of Wipro Limited Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying Consolidated  Financial Statements of WIPRO LIMITED (hereinafter  referred to as “the Company”) and its subsidiaries (the  Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as  “the Group”), comprising the Consolidated Statement of  Financial Position as at March 31, 2018, the Consolidated  Statement of Income, and the Consolidated Statement of  Comprehensive Income for the  year ended on that date,  the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, and the  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended  on that date, and a summary of the significant accounting  policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter  referred to as “the consolidated financial statements”).
Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated  Financial Statements The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the  preparation of these consolidated financial statements  that give a true and fair view of the consolidated  financial position, consolidated financial performance,  consolidated total comprehensive income, consolidated  changes in equity, and consolidated cash flows of the  Group in accordance with the International Financial  Reporting Standards as issued by the International  Accounting Standards Board (“IFRS”).
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate  accounting records for safeguarding the assets of the  Group and for preventing and detecting frauds and other  irregularities; the selection and application of appropriate  accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that  are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation  and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls,  that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy  and completeness of the accounting records, relevant  to the preparation and presentation of the consolidated  financial statements that give a true and fair view and are  free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud  or error.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these  consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial  statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing  issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
Those Standards require that we comply with ethical  requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain  reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated  financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit  evidence about the amounts and the disclosures in  the consolidated financial statements.
The procedures  selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including  the assessment of the risks of material misstatement  of the consolidated financial statements, whether due  to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the  auditor considers internal financial control relevant  to the Company’s preparation and presentation of the  consolidated financial statements that give a true and  fair view in order to design audit procedures that are  appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose  of expressing an opinion on whether the Company has  in place an adequate internal financial controls system  over financial reporting and the operating effectiveness  of such controls.
An audit also includes evaluating the  appropriateness of the accounting policies used and the  reasonableness of the accounting estimates made by  the Company’s Board of Directors, as well as evaluating  the overall presentation of the consolidated financial  statements.
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us is  sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit  opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion and to the best of our information and  according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid  consolidated financial statements give a true and fair  view in conformity with IFRS, of the consolidated state of  affairs of the Group as at March 31, 2018, the consolidated  profit and the consolidated total comprehensive income  for the year ended on that date, consolidated changes in  equity and the consolidated cash flows for the year ended  on that date.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s Registration No.
117366W/W-100018 Vikas Bagaria Partner Membership No.
60408 Bengaluru June 08, 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 255 WIPRO LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION  (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated)    As at March 31,    Notes  2017  2018  2018         Convenience  translation  into US dollar  in millions  (unaudited)  Refer Note 2(iii) ASSETS     Goodwill .................................................................. 5 125,796 117,584 1,806  Intangible assets  .................................................... 5 15,922 18,113 278  Property, plant and equipment  ................................ 4 69,794 64,443 990  Derivative assets  .................................................... 15 106 41 1  Investments ............................................................ 7 7,103 7,668 118  Investment in equity accounted investee  ................ 7 - 1,206 19  Trade receivables  .................................................... 8 3,998 4,446 68  Deferred tax assets  ................................................. 17 3,098 6,908 106  Non-current tax assets  ........................................... 12,008 18,349 282  Other non-current assets  ........................................ 11 16,793 15,726 242 Total non-current assets .............................................. 254,618 254,484 3,910  Inventories .............................................................. 9 3,915 3,370 52  Trade receivables  .................................................... 8 94,846 100,990 1,551  Other current assets  ............................................... 11 30,751 30,596 469  Unbilled revenues  ................................................... 45,095 42,486 653  Investments ............................................................ 7 292,030 249,094 3,826  Current tax assets .................................................. 9,804 6,262 96  Derivative assets  .................................................... 15 9,747 1,232 19  Cash and cash equivalents  ..................................... 10 52,710 44,925 690 538,898 478,955 7,356  Assets held for sale  ................................................ 32 - 27,201 418 Total  current assets .................................................... 538,898 506,156 7,774 TOTAL ASSETS 793,516 760,640 11,684 EQUITY  Share capital  .......................................................... 4,861 9,048 139  Share premium  ....................................................... 469 800 12  Retained earnings  ................................................... 490,930 453,265 6,962  Share based payment reserve  ................................. 3,555 1,772 27  Other components of equity  .................................... 20,489 18,051 277  Equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company  .
520,304 482,936 7,417 Non-controlling interest  ............................................... 2,391 2,410 37 TOTAL EQUITY 522,695 485,346 7,454 LIABILITIES  Long-term loans and borrowings  ............................ 12 19,611 45,268 695  Derivative liabilities  ................................................ 15 2 7 -  Deferred tax liabilities  ............................................ 17 6,614 3,059 47  Non-current tax liabilities  ....................................... 9,547 9,220 142  Other non-current liabilities  ................................... 14 5,500 4,230 65  Provisions  ............................................................... 14 4 3 - Total non-current liabilities  ........................................ 41,278 61,787 949  Loans, borrowings and bank overdrafts  ................... 12 122,801 92,991 1,428  Trade payables and accrued expenses  .................... 13 65,486 68,129 1,047  Unearned revenues ................................................. 16,150 17,139 264  Current tax liabilities  .............................................. 8,101 9,417 145  Derivative liabilities  ................................................ 15 2,708 2,210 34  Other current liabilities  ........................................... 14 13,027 16,613 256  Provisions  ............................................................... 14 1,270 796 12 229,543 207,295 3,186  Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale  ... 32 - 6,212 95 Total current liabilities ................................................. 229,543 213,507 3,281 TOTAL LIABILITIES 270,821 275,294 4,230 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 793,516 760,640 11,684 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 256 Wipro Limited WIPRO LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated)   Year ended March 31,    Notes  2016  2017  2018  2018         Convenience  translation  into US dollar  in millions  (unaudited)  Refer Note  2(iii)  Revenues ................................................ 20 512,440 550,402 544,871 8,368  Cost of revenues  ..................................... 21 (356,724) (391,544) (385,575) (5,922) Gross profit 155,716 158,858 159,296 2,446  Selling and marketing expenses  ............. 21 (34,097) (40,817) (42,349) (650)  General and administrative expenses  ..... 21 (28,626) (32,021) (34,141) (524)  Foreign exchange gains/(losses), net  ...... 24 3,867 3,777 1,488 23  Other operating income  .......................... 22 - 4,082 - - Results from operating activities 96,860 93,879 84,294 1,295  Finance expenses  ................................... 23 (5,378) (5,942) (5,830) (90)  Finance and other income  ....................... 24 23,451 22,419 23,999 369   Share of profit /(loss) of equity accounted  investee .................................................. 7 - - 11 - Profit before tax 114,933 110,356 102,474 1,574  Income tax expense  ................................ 17 (25,366) (25,213) (22,390) (344) Profit for the year 89,567 85,143 80,084 1,230 Profit attributable to:  Equity holders of the Company  ............... 89,075 84,895 80,081 1,230  Non-controlling interest  ......................... 492 248 3 - Profit for the year 89,567 85,143 80,084 1,230 Earnings per equity share: 25 Attributable to equity shareholders of the  Company  Basic  ...................................................... 18.13 17.48 16.86 0.26  Diluted  .................................................... 18.09 17.43 16.83 0.26 Weighted average number of equity shares  used in computing earnings per equity share  Basic  ...................................................... 4,913,118,800 4,857,081,010 4,750,043,400 4,750,043,400  Diluted  .................................................... 4,923,379,816 4,871,347,138 4,758,361,975 4,758,361,975 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 257 WIPRO LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated)   Year ended March 31,    Notes  2016  2017  2018  2018         Convenience  translation  into US dollar  in millions  (unaudited)  Refer Note  2(iii) Profit for the year ...................................................... 89,567 85,143 80,084 1,230 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in  subsequent periods Defined benefit plan actuarial gains/(losses)  ............ (788) 169 567 9 Net change in fair value of financial instruments  through OCI  ............................................................... 17 (168) (750) (12) (771) 1 (183) (3) Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss in  subsequent periods Foreign currency translation differences   Translation difference relating to foreign  operations ............................................................ 16 5,766 (3,354) 3,576 55   Net change in fair value of hedges of net investment  in foreign operations ............................................ 16 (813) 276 (49) (1) Net change in time value of option contracts designated  as cash flow hedges .................................................. 13,16 - 9 1 - Net change in intrinsic value of option contracts  designated as cash flow hedges................................ 13,16 - 77 (76) (1) Net change in fair value of forward contracts designated  as cash flow hedges .................................................. 13,16 (1,640) 3,910 (5,945) (91) Net change in fair value of financial instruments  through OCI ............................................................... 7,16 363 1,179 (433) (7) 3,676 2,097 (2,926) (45) Total other comprehensive income, net of taxes ....... 2,905 2,098 (3,109) (48) Total comprehensive income for the year ................. 92,472 87,241 76,975 1,182 Profit attributable to:    Equity holders of the Company  ............................ 91,894 87,062 76,956 1,182  Non-controlling interest  ...................................... 578 179 19 -  92,472 87,241 76,975 1,182 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 258 Wipro Limited WIPRO LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) No.
of  Shares* Share  capital,  fully paid- up Share  premium Retained  earnings Share  based  payment  reserve Other components of equity Equity  attributable  to the equity  holders of the  Company Non- controlling  interest Total  equityParticulars Foreign  currency  translation  reserve Cash  flow  hedging  reserve Other  reserves As at April 1, 2015  .................................................. 2,469,043,038 4,937 14,031 371,478  1,312 11,249 3,550 624 407,181 1,634 408,815 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year  ................................................... - - - 89,075 - - - - 89,075 492 89,567 Other comprehensive income  ................................. - - - - - 4,867 (1,640) (408) 2,819 86 2,905 Total comprehensive income for the year - - - 89,075 - 4,867 (1,640) (408) 91,894 578 92,472 Transaction with owners of the Company,  recognized directly in equity  ..................................
Contributions by and distributions to owners of the Company  ................................................................ Cash dividend paid (including dividend tax thereon) - - - (35,494) - - - - (35,494) - (35,494) Issue of equity shares on exercise of options  ......... 1,670,252 4 611 - (611) - - - 4 - 4 Compensation cost related to employee share based payment  ...................................................... - - - 59 1,528 - - - 1,587 - 1,587 Total transactions with  owners of the Company  .... 1,670,252 4 611 (35,435) 917 - - - (33,903) - (33,903) As at March 31, 2016  .............................................. 2,470,713,290 4,941 14,642 425,118 2,229 16,116 1,910 216 465,172 2,212 467,384 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 259 WIPRO LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) No.
of  Shares* Share  capital,  fully paid- up Share  premium Retained  earnings Share  based  payment  reserve Other components of equity Equity  attributable  to the equity  holders of the  Company Non- controlling  interest Total  equityParticulars Foreign  currency  translation  reserve Cash  flow  hedging  reserve Other  reserves As at April 1, 2016 2,470,713,290 4,941 14,642 425,118 2,229 16,116 1,910 216 465,172 2,212 467,384 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year  ................................................... - - - 84,895 - - - - 84,895 248 85,143 Other comprehensive income  ................................. - - - - - (3,009) 3,996 1,180 2,167 (69) 2,098 Total comprehensive income for the year - - - 84,895 - (3,009) 3,996 1,180 87,062 179 87,241 Transaction with owners of the Company,  recognized directly in equity Contributions by and distributions to owners of the  Company Cash dividend paid (including dividend tax  thereon)  ................................................................. - - - (8,734) - - - - (8,734) - (8,734) Issue of equity shares on exercise of options 187,275 ^ 81 - (81) - - - - - - Issue of shares by controlled trust on exercise of options  ................................................................... - - - 384 (384) - - - - - - Buyback of equity shares  ....................................... (40,000,000) (80) (14,254) (10,746) - - - 80 (25,000) - (25,000) Compensation cost related to employee share based payment  ...................................................... - - - 13 1,791 - - - 1,804 - 1,804 Total transactions with  owners of the Company (39,812,725) (80) (14,173) (19,083) 1,326 - - 80 (31,930) - (31,930) As at March 31, 2017 2,430,900,565 4,861 469 490,930 3,555 13,107 5,906 1,476 520,304 2,391 522,695 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 260 Wipro Limited WIPRO LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) No.
of  Shares* Share  capital,  fully paid- up Share  premium Retained  earnings Share  based  payment  reserve Other components of equity Equity  attributable  to the equity  holders of the  Company Non- controlling  interest Total  equityParticulars Foreign  currency  translation  reserve** Cash  flow  hedging  reserve Other  reserves As at April 1, 2017 .................................................. 2,430,900,565 4,861 469 490,930 3,555 13,107 5,906 1,476 520,304 2,391 522,695 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year  ................................................... - - - 80,081 - - - - 80,081 3 80,084 Other comprehensive income  ................................. - - - - - 3,511 (6,020) (616) (3,125) 16 (3,109) Total comprehensive income for the year - - - 80,081 - 3,511 (6,020) (616) 76,956 19 76,975 Transaction with owners of the Company,  recognized directly in equity Contributions by and distributions to owners of  the Company Cash dividend paid (including dividend tax thereon) - - - (5,420) - - - - (5,420) - (5,420) Issue of equity shares on exercise of options  ......... 3,559,599 8 1,987 - (1,971) - - - 24 - 24 Issue of shares by controlled trust on exercise of  options  ................................................................... - - - 1,182 (1,182) - - - - - - Buyback of equity shares #  ...................................... (343,750,000) (687) (1,656) (108,344) - - - 687 (110,000) - (110,000) Transaction cost related to buyback  ....................... - - - (312) - - - - (312) - (312) Bonus issue of equity shares  .................................. 2,433,074,327 4,866 - (4,866) - - - - - - - Compensation cost related to employee share based payment  ...................................................... - - - 14 1,370 - - - 1,384 - 1,384 Total transactions with  owners of the Company .... 2,092,883,926 4,187 331 (117,746) (1,783) - - 687 (114,324) - (114,324) As at March 31, 2018 .............................................. 4,523,784,491 9,048 800 453,265 1,772 16,618 (114) 1,547 482,936 2,410 485,346 Convenience translation into US dollar in millions (unaudited) Refer Note 2(iii)................................... 69,479,104 139 12 6,962 27 255 (2) 24 7,417 37 7,454 *   Includes 14,829,824, 13,728,607 and 23,097,216 treasury shares held as of March 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively, by a controlled trust.
4,351,775 shares have been transferred by the controlled trust to eligible employees on exercise of options during the year ended March 31, 2018.
**  Foreign currency translation reserve includes ` 2,907 directly associated with assets held for sale.
#  Refer Note 18.
^  Value is less than ` 1.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements   Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 261  Year ended March 31,    2016  2017  2018  2018        Convenience  translation  into US dollar  in millions  (Unaudited)  Refer note 2(iii)   Cash flows from operating activities:      Profit for the year  ................................................................................... 89,567 85,143 80,084 1,230 Adjustments to reconcile profit for the year to net cash generated from  operating activities:   (Gain)/ loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible  assets, net ..................................................................................... (55) 117 (334) (5)  Depreciation, amortization and impairment  ................................... 14,965 23,107 21,124 324  Unrealized exchange loss, net  ........................................................ 2,664 3,945 4,794 74  Gain on sale of investments, net  ..................................................... (2,646) (3,486) (5,978) (92)  Share based compensation expense  .............................................. 1,534 1,742 1,347 21  Share of profits/(loss) of equity accounted investee  ....................... - - 11 ^   Income tax expense........................................................................ 25,366 25,213 22,390 344  Dividend and interest (income)/expenses, net  ................................ (19,599) (16,259) (14,569) (224)  Gain from sale of EcoEnergy division  .............................................. - (4,082) - -  Other non-cash items  ..................................................................... - (1,732) 4,405 68 Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of effects from acquisitions:  Trade receivables  ........................................................................... (5,317) 3,346 (9,735) (150)  Unbilled revenues  .......................................................................... (5,329) 3,813 2,192 34  Inventories ..................................................................................... (541) 1,475 545 8  Other assets  ................................................................................... (766) 4,054 (170) (3)  Trade payables, accrued expenses, other liabilities and provisions  4,683 (5,202) 4,499 69  Unearned revenues ........................................................................ 1,282 (2,945) 1,733 27 Cash generated from operating activities before taxes  ........................... 105,808 118,249 112,338 1,725  Income taxes paid, net  ................................................................... (26,935) (25,476) (28,105) (432) Net cash generated from operating activities 78,873 92,773 84,233 1,293 Cash flows from investing activities:  Purchase of property, plant and equipment  .................................... (13,951) (20,853) (21,870) (336)  Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  ............................. 779 1,207 1,171 18  Proceeds from sale of EcoEnergy division, net of related expenses  - 4,372 - -  Purchase of  investments  ............................................................... (934,958) (813,439) (782,475) (12,018)  Proceeds from sale of investments  ................................................ 830,647 729,755 830,448 12,755  Impact of investment hedging activities, net  .................................. 266 (226) - -   Payment for business acquisitions including deposits and escrow,  net of cash acquired  ...................................................................... (39,373) (33,608) (6,652) (102)  Interest received ............................................................................ 18,368 17,069 14,347 220  Dividend received  ........................................................................... 66 311 609 9  Income taxes paid on sale of EcoEnergy division  ............................ - (871) - - Net cash (used)/ generated in investing activities (138,156) (116,283) 35,578 546 Cash flows from financing activities:  Proceeds from issuance of equity shares/shares pending allotment 4 ^ 24 ^   Repayment of loans and borrowings  ............................................... (137,298) (112,803) (155,254) (2,384)  Proceeds from loans and borrowings  .............................................. 172,549 125,922 144,271 2,216   Payment for deferred contingent consideration in respect of business  combination ................................................................................... - (138) (164) (3)  Payment for buyback of shares including transaction cost  ............. - (25,000) (110,312) (1,694)  Interest paid on loans and borrowings  ............................................ (1,348) (1,999) (3,123) (48)  Payment of cash dividend (including dividend tax thereon)  ............ (35,494) (8,734) (5,420) (83) Net cash used in financing activities (1,587) (22,752) (129,978) (1,996)  Net (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents during the year  ......... (60,870) (46,262) (10,167) (156)  Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents...... 549 (1,412) 375 6  Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year  ................. 158,713 98,392 50,718 779 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (Note 10) 98,392 50,718 40,926 629 Total taxes paid amounted to ` 26,935, ` 26,347 and ` 28,105 for the years ended March 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
Refer  Note 12 for supplementary information on cash flow statement.
^ Value is less than ` 1 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements  WIPRO LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS  (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated)  Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 262 Wipro Limited WIPRO LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated)  1.
The Company overview Wipro Limited (“Wipro” or the “Parent Company”), together  with its subsidiaries and controlled trusts (collectively,  “the Company” or the “Group”) is a global information  technology (IT), consulting and business process services  (BPS) company.
Wipro is a public limited company incorporated and  domiciled in India.
The address of its registered office is  Wipro Limited, Doddakannelli, Sarjapur Road, Bengaluru  – 560 035, Karnataka, India.
Wipro has its primary listing  with BSE Ltd. (Bombay Stock Exchange) and National  Stock Exchange of India Ltd.
The Company’s American  Depository Shares representing equity shares are also  listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
These consolidated financial statements were authorized  for issue by the Board of Directors on June 8, 2018.
Amounts as at March 31, 2017 and for the year ended  March 31, 2017 and 2016 were audited by KPMG.
2.
Basis of preparation of consolidated financial  statements (i)  Statement of compliance and basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared  in accordance with International Financial Reporting  Standards and its interpretations (“IFRS”), as issued by  the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”).
All accounting policies have been applied consistently  to all periods presented in these consolidated financial  statements.
The consolidated financial statements correspond to  the classification provisions contained in IAS 1(revised),  “Presentation of Financial Statements” .
For clarity,  various items are aggregated in the statement of income  and statement of financial position.
These items are  disaggregated separately in the notes to the consolidated  financial statements, where applicable.
All amounts included in the consolidated financial  statements are reported in millions of Indian rupees  (` in millions) except share and per share data, unless  otherwise stated.
Due to rounding off, the numbers  presented throughout the document may not add up  precisely to the totals and percentages may not precisely  reflect the absolute figures.
(ii)  Basis of measurement The consolidated financial statements have been prepared  on a historical cost convention and on an accrual basis,  except for the following material items which have been  measured at fair value as required by relevant IFRS: a.
Derivative financial instruments; b.
Financial instruments classified as fair value through  other comprehensive income or fair value through  profit or loss; c.  The defined benefit asset/(liability) is recognized as  the present value of defined benefit obligation less  fair value of plan assets; and d.  Contingent consideration.
(iii)  Convenience translation (unaudited) The accompanying consolidated financial statements  have been prepared and reported in Indian rupees, the  functional currency of the Parent Company.
Solely for the  convenience of the readers, the consolidated financial  statements as of and for the year ended March 31, 2018,  have been translated into United States dollars at the  certified foreign exchange rate of US$1 = ` 65.11 as  published by Federal Reserve Board of Governors on March  31, 2018.
No representation is made that the Indian rupee  amounts have been, could have been or could be converted  into United States dollars at such a rate or any other rate.
Due to rounding off, the translated numbers presented  throughout the document may not add up precisely to  the totals.
(iv)  Use of estimates and judgment The preparation of the consolidated financial statements  in conformity with IFRS requires management to make  judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the  application of accounting policies and the reported  amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual  results may differ from those estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed  on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates  are recognized in the period in which the estimates are  revised and in any future periods affected.
In particular,  information about significant areas of estimation,  uncertainty and critical judgments in applying accounting  policies that have the most significant effect on the  amounts recognized in the consolidated financial  statements are included in the following notes: a)  Revenue recognition: The Company uses the  percentage of completion method using the input  (cost expended) method to measure progress towards  completion in respect of fixed price contracts.
Percentage  of completion method accounting relies on estimates of  total expected contract revenue and costs.
This method  is followed when reasonably dependable estimates of the  revenues and costs applicable to various elements of the  contract can be made.
Key factors that are reviewed in  estimating the future costs to complete include estimates  of future labor costs and productivity efficiencies.
Because  the financial reporting of these contracts depends on  estimates that are assessed continually during the term of  these contracts, recognized revenue and profit are subject  to revisions as the contract progresses to completion.
When estimates indicate that a loss will be incurred, the  loss is provided for in the period in which the loss becomes  probable.
Volume discounts are recorded as a reduction  Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 263 of revenue.
When the amount of discount varies with the  levels of revenue, volume discount is recorded based on  estimate of future revenue from the customer.
b)  Impairment testing: Goodwill and intangible  assets with infinite useful life recognized on business  combination are tested for impairment at least annually  and when events occur or changes in circumstances  indicate that the recoverable amount of the asset or the  cash generating unit to which these pertain is less than  the carrying value.
The recoverable amount of the asset  or the cash generating units is higher of value-in-use and  fair value less cost of disposal.
The calculation of value in  use of a cash generating unit involves use of significant  estimates and assumptions which includes turnover,  growth rates and net margins used to calculate projected  future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rate, future  economic and market conditions.
c)  Income taxes:  The major tax jurisdictions for the  Company are India and the United States of America.
Significant judgments are involved in determining  the provision for income taxes including judgment on  whether tax positions are probable of being sustained in  tax assessments.
A tax assessment can involve complex  issues, which can only be resolved over extended time  periods.
d)  Deferred taxes: Deferred tax is recorded on temporary  differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities  and their carrying amounts, at the rates that have been  enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting  date.
The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is  dependent upon the generation of future taxable profits  during the periods in which those temporary differences  and tax loss carry-forwards become deductible.
The  Company considers the expected reversal of deferred tax  liabilities and projected future taxable income in making  this assessment.
The amount of the deferred tax assets  considered realizable, however, could be reduced in the  near term if estimates of future taxable income during  the carry-forward period are reduced.
e)  Business combination: In accounting for business  combinations, judgment is required in identifying whether  an identifiable intangible asset is to be recorded separately  from goodwill.
Additionally, estimating the acquisition  date fair value of the identifiable assets (including useful  life estimates) and liabilities acquired, and contingent  consideration assumed involves management judgment.
These measurements are based on information available  at the acquisition date and are based on expectations  and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by  management.
Changes in these judgments, estimates,  and assumptions can materially affect the results of  operations.
f)  Defined benefit plans and compensated absences:   The cost of the defined benefit plans, compensated  absences and the present value of the defined benefit  obligations are based on actuarial valuation using the  projected unit credit method.
An actuarial valuation  involves making various assumptions that may differ  from actual developments in the future.
These include  the determination of the discount rate, future salary  increases and mortality rates.
Due to the complexities  involved in the valuation and its long-term nature, a  defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes  in these assumptions.
All assumptions are reviewed at  each reporting date.
g)  Expected credit losses on financial assets: The  impairment provisions of financial assets are based on  assumptions about risk of default and expected timing of  collection.
The Company uses judgment in making these  assumptions and selecting the inputs to the impairment  calculation, based on the Company’s past history of  collections, customer’s credit-worthiness, existing market  conditions as well as forward looking estimates at the end  of each reporting period.
h)  Measurement of fair value of non-marketable equity  investments: These instruments are initially recorded  at cost and subsequently measured at fair value.
Fair  value of investments is determined using the market  and income approaches.
The market approach includes  the use of financial metrics and ratios of comparable  companies, such as revenue, earnings, comparable  performance multiples, recent financial rounds and the  level of marketability of the investments.
The selection of  comparable companies requires management judgment  and is based on a number of factors, including comparable  company sizes, growth rates, and development stages.
The  income approach includes the use of discounted cash flow  model, which requires significant estimates regarding the  investees’ revenue, costs, and discount rates based on  the risk profile of comparable companies.
Estimates of  revenue and costs are developed using available historical  and forecast data.
i)  Useful lives of property, plant and equipment: The  Company depreciates property, plant and equipment on  a straight-line basis over estimated useful lives of the  assets.
The charge in respect of periodic depreciation is  derived based on an estimate of an asset’s expected useful  life and the expected residual value at the end of its life.
The lives are based on historical experience with similar  assets as well as anticipation of future events, which  may impact their life, such as changes in technology.
The  estimated useful life is reviewed at least annually.
j)  Other estimates: The share based compensation  expense is determined based on the Company’s estimate  of equity instruments that will eventually vest.
Fair  valuation of derivative hedging instruments designated as  cash flow hedges involves significant estimates relating  to the occurrence of forecast transaction.
3.
Significant accounting policies (i)  Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries and controlled trusts The Company determines the basis of control in line with  the requirements of IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial  Statements.
Subsidiaries and controlled trusts are entities  controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity  when the parent has power over the entity, it is exposed  Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 264 Wipro Limited to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement  with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns  through its power over the entity.
The financial statements  of subsidiaries and controlled trusts are included in the  consolidated financial statements from the date on which  control commences until the date on which control ceases.
All intra-Group balances, transactions, income and  expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
Non-controlling interest Non-controlling interests in the net assets (excluding  goodwill) of consolidated subsidiaries are identified  separately from the Company’s equity.
The interest of  non-controlling shareholders may be initially measured  either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s  proportionate share of the fair value of the acquiree’s  identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement  basis is made on an acquisition to acquisition basis.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non- controlling interest is the amount of those interests at  initial recognition plus the non-controlling interest’s share  of subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive  income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if  it results in the non-controlling interest having a deficit  balance.
Equity accounted investees Equity accounted investees are entities in respect  of which, the Company has significant influence, but  not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Generally, a Company has a significant influence if it  holds between 20 and 50 percent of the voting power of  another entity.
Investments in such entities are accounted  for using the equity method (equity accounted investees)  and are initially recognized at cost.
The carrying amount  of investment is increased/ decreased to recognized  investors share of profit or loss of the investee after the  acquisition date.
Non current assets and disposal groups held for sale Assets of disposal groups that is available for immediate  sale and where the sale is highly probable of being  completed within one year from the date of classification  are considered and classified as assets held for sale.
Non current assets and disposal groups held for sale are  measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value  less costs to sell.
(ii)  Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of  the Company’s entities are measured using the currency  of the primary economic environment in which these  entities operate (i.e., the “functional currency”).
These  consolidated financial statements are presented in Indian  rupees, which is the functional currency of the Parent  Company.
(iii)  Foreign currency transactions and translation a)  Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currency are translated into the  respective functional currencies using the exchange  rates prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Foreign  exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement  of such transactions and from translation at the exchange  rates prevailing at the reporting date of monetary assets  and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are  recognized in the consolidated statement of income  and reported within foreign exchange gains/(losses),  net, within results of operating activities except when  deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying  cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Gains/(losses), net, relating to translation or settlement  of borrowings denominated in foreign currency are  reported within finance expense.
Non-monetary assets  and liabilities denominated in foreign currency and  measured at historical cost are translated at the exchange  rate prevalent at the date of transaction.
Translation  differences on non-monetary financial assets measured  at fair value at the reporting date, such as equities  classified as financial instruments measured at fair value  through other comprehensive income are included in other  comprehensive income, net of taxes.
b)  Foreign operations For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial  statements, the assets and liabilities of the Company’s  foreign operations that have a functional currency other  than Indian rupees are translated into Indian rupees using  exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Income  and expense items are translated at the average exchange  rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any,  are recognized in other comprehensive income and held in  foreign currency translation reserve (FCTR), a component of  equity, except to the extent that the translation difference  is allocated to non-controlling interest.
When a foreign  operation is disposed of, the relevant amount recognized  in FCTR is transferred to the consolidated statement of  income as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill  and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a  foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of  the foreign operation and translated at the exchange rate  prevailing at the reporting date.
c)  Others Foreign currency differences arising on the translation or  settlement of a financial liability designated as a hedge  of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognized  in other comprehensive income and presented within  equity in the FCTR to the extent the hedge is effective.
To the extent the hedge is ineffective, such differences  are recognized in the consolidated statement of income.
When the hedged part of a net investment is disposed of,  the relevant amount recognized in FCTR is transferred  to the consolidated statement of income as part of the  profit or loss on disposal.
Foreign currency differences  arising from translation of intercompany receivables or  payables relating to foreign operations, the settlement  of which is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable  future, are considered to form part of net investment in  foreign operation and are recognized in FCTR.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 265 (iv)  Financial instruments A) Non-derivative financial instruments: Non derivative financial instruments consist of: •	 financial 	assets, 	which	include 	cash	and	cash	 equivalents, trade receivables, unbilled revenues,  finance lease receivables, employee and other  advances, investments in equity and debt securities  and eligible current and non-current assets.
Financial  assets are derecognized when substantial risks and  rewards of ownership of the financial asset have  been transferred.
In cases where substantial risks  and rewards of ownership of the financial assets  are neither transferred nor retained, financial assets  are derecognized only when the Company has not  retained control over the financial asset.
•	 financial 	liabilities,	which	include	long	and	short- term loans and borrowings, bank overdrafts, trade  payables, eligible current and non-current liabilities.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognized  initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition,  non-derivative financial instruments are measured as  described below: a.
Cash and cash equivalents The Company’s cash and cash equivalents consist of cash  on hand and in banks and demand deposits with banks,  which can be withdrawn at any time, without prior notice  or penalty on the principal.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash  and cash equivalents include cash on hand, in banks  and demand deposits with banks, net of outstanding  bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and are  considered part of the Company’s cash management  system.
In the consolidated statement of financial  position, bank overdrafts are presented under borrowings  within current liabilities.
b.
Investments Financial instruments measured at amortized cost: Debt instruments that meet the following criteria are  measured at amortized cost (except for debt instruments  that are designated at fair value through Profit or Loss  (FVTPL) on initial recognition): •	 the 	asset	is	held	within	a	business	model	whose	 objective is to hold assets in order to collect  contractual cash flows; and •	 the 	contractual	terms	of	the	instrument	give	rise	on	 specified dates to cash flows that are solely payment  of principal and interest on the principal amount  outstanding.
Financial instruments measured at fair value through other  comprehensive income (FVTOCI): Debt instruments that meet the following criteria are  measured at fair value through other comprehensive  income (FVTOCI) (except for debt instruments that are  designated at fair value through Profit or Loss (FVTPL) on  initial recognition): •	 the 	asset	is	held	within	a	business	model	whose	 objective is achieved both by collecting contractual  cash flows and selling the financial asset; and •	 the 	contractual	terms	of	the	instrument	give	rise	on	 specified dates to cash flows that are solely payment  of principal and interest on the principal amount  outstanding.
Interest income is recognized in the consolidated  statement of income for FVTOCI debt instruments.
Other  changes in fair value of FVTOCI financial assets are  recognized in other comprehensive income.
When the  investment is disposed of, the cumulative gain or loss  previously accumulated in reserves is transferred to the  consolidated statement of income.
Financial instruments measured at fair value through profit  or loss (FVTPL): Instruments that do not meet the amortized cost or FVTOCI  criteria are measured at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL  are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting  period, with any gains or losses arising on re-measurement  recognized in consolidated statement of income.
The  gain or loss on disposal is recognized in the consolidated  statement of income.
Interest income is recognized in the consolidated  statement of income for FVTPL debt instruments.
Dividend  on financial assets at FVTPL is recognized when the  Group’s right to receive dividend is established.
Investments in equity instruments designated to be  classified as FVTOCI: The Company carries certain equity instruments which are  not held for trading.
The Company has elected the FVTOCI  irrevocable option for these instruments.
Movements  in fair value of these investments are recognized in  other comprehensive income and the gain or loss is not  transferred to consolidated statement of income on  disposal of these investments.
Dividends from these  investments are recognized in the consolidated statement  of income when the Company’s right to receive dividends  is established.
c.  Other financial assets: Other financial assets are non-derivative financial assets  with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted  in an active market.
They are presented as current assets,  except for those maturing later than 12 months after  the reporting date which are presented as non-current  assets.
These are initially recognized at fair value and  subsequently measured at amortized cost using the  effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
These comprise trade receivables, unbilled revenues and  other assets.
d.  Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are initially recognized at  fair value, and subsequently carried at amortized cost  Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 266 Wipro Limited using the effective interest method.
For these financial  instruments, the carrying amounts approximate fair value  due to the short term maturity of these instruments.
Contingent consideration recognized in the business  combination is subsequently measured at fair value  through profit or loss.
B) Derivative financial instruments The Company is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations  on foreign currency assets, liabilities, net investment in  foreign operations and forecasted cash flows denominated  in foreign currency.
The Company limits the effect of foreign exchange rate  fluctuations by following established risk management  policies including the use of derivatives.
The Company  enters into derivative financial instruments where the  counterparty is primarily a bank.
Derivatives are recognized and measured at fair value.
Attributable transaction costs are recognized in  consolidated statement of income as cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial  instruments are measured as described below: a.
Cash flow hedges Changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging  instrument designated as a cash flow hedge are  recognized in other comprehensive income and held in  cash flow hedging reserve, net of taxes, a component  of equity, to the extent that the hedge is effective.
To  the extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair  value are recognized in the consolidated statement of  income and reported within foreign exchange gains/ (losses), net within results from operating activities.
If  the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for  hedge accounting, then hedge accounting is discontinued  prospectively.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold,  terminated or exercised, the cumulative gain or loss on  the hedging instrument recognized in cash flow hedging  reserve till the period the hedge was effective remains in  cash flow hedging reserve until the forecasted transaction  occurs.
The cumulative gain or loss previously recognized  in the cash flow hedging reserve is transferred to the  consolidated statement of income (gross revenues) upon  the occurrence of the related forecasted transaction.
If  the forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur,  such cumulative balance is immediately recognized in the  consolidated statement of income.
b.  Hedges of net investment in foreign operations The Company designates derivative financial instruments  as hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
The Company has also designated a foreign currency  denominated borrowing as a hedge of net investment  in foreign operations.
Changes in the fair value of the  derivative hedging instruments and gains/losses on  translation or settlement of foreign currency denominated  borrowings designated as a hedge of net investment in  foreign operations are recognized in other comprehensive  income and presented within equity in the FCTR to the  extent that the hedge is effective.
To the extent that the  hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value are recognized  in the consolidated statement of income and reported  within foreign exchange gains/(losses), net within results  from operating activities.
c.  Others Changes in fair value of foreign currency derivative  instruments neither designated as cash flow hedges  nor hedges of net investment in foreign operations are  recognized in the consolidated statement of income  and reported within foreign exchange gains/(losses), net  within results from operating activities.
Changes in fair  value and gains/(losses), net on settlement of foreign  currency derivative instruments relating to borrowings,  which have not been designated as hedges are recorded  in finance expense.
C)  Derecognition of financial instruments The Company derecognizes a financial asset when the  contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial  asset expire or it transfers the financial asset and the  transfer qualifies for derecognition under IFRS 9.
If the  Company retains substantially all the risks and rewards  of a transferred financial asset, the Company continues  to recognize the financial asset and also recognizes a  borrowing for the proceeds received.
A financial liability  (or a part of a financial liability) is derecognized from the  group’s balance sheet when the obligation specified in the  contract is discharged or cancelled or expires.
(v)  Equity and share capital a) Share capital and share premium The authorized share capital of the Company as at March  31, 2018 is `  11,265 divided into 5,500,000,000 equity  shares of `  2 each, 25,000,000 10.25% redeemable  cumulative preference shares of ` 10 each and 150,000  10% optionally convertible cumulative preference shares  of ` 100 each.
Par value of the equity shares is recorded  as share capital and the amount received in excess of par  value is classified as share premium.
Every holder of the equity shares, as reflected in the  records of the Company as of the date of the shareholder  meeting shall have one vote in respect of each share  held for all matters submitted to vote in the shareholder  meeting.
b) Shares held by controlled trust (Treasury shares) The Company’s equity shares held by the controlled trust,  which is consolidated as a part of the Group are classified  as Treasury shares.
The Company has 14,829,824,  13,728,607 and 23,097,216 treasury shares as at March  31, 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
Treasury shares are  recorded at acquisition cost.
c) Retained earnings Retained earnings comprises of the Company’s  undistributed earnings after taxes.
A portion of these  earnings amounting as at March 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018  to `1,139, ` 1,139 and `  1,139 respectively, represents  capital reserve which is not freely available for distribution.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 267 d) Share based payment reserve The share based payment reserve is used to record the  value of equity-settled share based payment transactions  with employees.
The amounts recorded in share based  payment reserve are transferred to share premium upon  exercise of stock options and restricted stock unit options  by employees.
e) Foreign currency translation reserve The exchange differences arising from the translation of  financial statements of foreign subsidiaries, differences  arising from translation of long-term inter-company  receivables or payables relating to foreign operations  settlement of which is neither planned nor likely in the  foreseeable future, changes in fair value of the derivative  hedging instruments and gains/losses on translation or  settlement of foreign currency denominated borrowings  designated as hedge of net investment in foreign  operations are recognized in other comprehensive income,  net of taxes and presented within equity in the FCTR.
f) Cash flow hedging reserve Changes in fair value of derivative hedging instruments  designated and effective as a cash flow hedge are  recognized in other comprehensive income (net of taxes),  and presented within equity as cash flow hedging reserve.
g) Other reserves Changes in the fair value of financial instruments  measured at fair value through other comprehensive  income and actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit  plans are recognized in other comprehensive income (net  of taxes), and presented within equity in other reserves.
Other reserves also includes Capital redemption reserve  as at March 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018 amounting to ` Nil,  ` 80 and ` 767, respectively, which is not freely available  for distribution.
h) Dividend A final dividend, including tax thereon, on common stock  is recorded as a liability on the date of approval by the  shareholders.
An interim dividend, including tax thereon,  is recorded as a liability on the date of declaration by the  board of directors.
i) Buyback of equity shares The buyback of equity shares and related transaction  costs are recorded as a reduction of free reserves.
Further, capital redemption reserves is created as an  apportionment from retained earnings.
(vi)  Property, plant and equipment a) Recognition and measurement Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost  less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses,  if any.
Cost includes expenditures directly attributable  to the acquisition of the asset.
General and specific  borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction  of a qualifying asset are capitalized as part of the cost.
b) Depreciation The Company depreciates property, plant and equipment  over the estimated useful life on a straight-line basis  from the date the assets are available for use.
Assets  acquired under finance lease and leasehold improvements  are amortized over the shorter of estimated useful life  of the asset or the related lease term.
Term licenses are  amortized over their respective contract term.
Freehold  land is not depreciated.
The estimated useful life of assets  are reviewed and where appropriate are adjusted, annually.
The estimated useful lives of assets are as follows: Category Useful life   Buildings 28 to 40 years Plant and machinery 5 to 21 years Computer equipment and software 2 to 7 years Furniture, fixtures and equipment 3 to 10 years Vehicles4 to 5 years When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment  have different useful lives, they are accounted for as  separate items (major components) of property, plant and  equipment.
Subsequent expenditure relating to property,  plant and equipment is capitalized only when it is probable  that future economic benefits associated with these  will flow to the Company and the cost of the item can be  measured reliably.
Deposits and advances paid towards the acquisition  of property, plant and equipment outstanding as of  each reporting date and the cost of property, plant and  equipment not available for use before such date are  disclosed under capital work- in-progress.
(vii)   Business combination, Goodwill and Intangible  assets a) Business combination Business combinations are accounted for using the  purchase (acquisition) method.
The cost of an acquisition  is measured as the fair value of the assets transferred,  liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments  issued at the date of exchange by the Company.
Identifiable  assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities  assumed in a business combination are measured initially  at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Transaction costs  incurred in connection with a business acquisition are  expensed as incurred.
The cost of an acquisition also includes the fair value of  any contingent consideration measured as at the date of  acquisition.
Any subsequent changes to the fair value of  contingent consideration classified as liabilities, other  than measurement period adjustments, are recognized  in the consolidated statement of income.
b) Goodwill The excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Company’s  share in the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets,  liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognized as  goodwill.
If the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain  is recognized immediately in the consolidated statement  Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 268 Wipro Limited of income.
Goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated  impairment (if any).
c) Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are measured  at cost of acquisition.
Intangible assets acquired in a  business combination are measured at fair value as at the  date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible  assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortization  and impairment losses, if any.
The amortization of an intangible asset with a finite useful  life reflects the manner in which the economic benefit is  expected to be generated and is included in selling and  marketing expenses in the consolidated statements of  income.
The estimated useful life of amortizable intangibles are  reviewed and where appropriate are adjusted, annually.
The estimated useful lives of the amortizable intangible  assets for the current and comparative periods are as  follows: Category Useful life   Customer-related intangibles 5 to 15 years Marketing related intangibles 3 to 10 years (viii)  Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or  contains, a lease is based on the substance of the  arrangement at the inception date.
The arrangement  is, or contains a lease if, fulfillment of the arrangement  is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets  or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset or  assets, even if that right is not explicitly specified in an  arrangement.
a) Arrangements where the Company is the lessee Leases of property, plant and equipment, where the  Company assumes substantially all the risks and rewards  of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance  leases are capitalized at lower of the fair value of the  leased property and the present value of the minimum  lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned  between the finance charge and the outstanding liability.
The finance charge is allocated to periods during the  lease term at a constant periodic rate of interest on the  remaining balance of the liability.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks  and rewards of ownership are classified as operating  leases.
Payments made under operating leases are  recognized in the consolidated statement of income on a  straight-line basis over the lease term.
b) Arrangements where the Company is the lessor In certain arrangements, the Company recognizes revenue  from the sale of products given under finance leases.
The Company records gross finance lease receivables,  unearned income and the estimated residual value of  the leased equipment on consummation of such leases.
Unearned income represents the excess of the gross  finance lease receivable plus the estimated residual  value over the sales price of the equipment.
The Company  recognizes unearned income as finance income over the  lease term using the effective interest method.
(ix)  Inventories Inventories are valued at lower of cost and net realizable  value, including necessary provision for obsolescence.
Cost is determined using the weighted average method.
(x)  Impairment A) Financial assets The Company applies the expected credit loss model for  recognizing impairment loss on financial assets measured  at amortized cost, debt instruments classified as FVTOCI,  lease receivables, trade receivables and other financial  assets.
Expected credit loss is the difference between  the contractual cash flows and the cash flows that the  entity expects to receive, discounted using the effective  interest rate.
Loss allowances for trade receivables and lease  receivables are measured at an amount equal to lifetime  expected credit loss.
Lifetime expected credit losses are  the expected credit losses that result from all possible  default events over the expected life of a financial  instrument.
Lifetime expected credit loss is computed  based on a provision matrix which takes in to account  risk profiling of customers and historical credit loss  experience adjusted for forward looking information.
For  other financial assets, expected credit loss is measured at  the amount equal to twelve months expected credit loss  unless there has been a significant increase in credit risk  from initial recognition, in which case those are measured  at lifetime expected credit loss.
B) Non-financial assets The Company assesses long-lived assets such as property,  plant and equipment and acquired intangible assets for  impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances  indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group  of assets may not be recoverable.
If any such indication  exists, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of  the asset or group of assets.
The recoverable amount of an  asset or cash generating unit is the higher of its fair value  less cost of disposal (FVLCD) and its value-in-use (VIU).
The  VIU of long-lived assets is calculated using projected future  cash flows.
FVLCD of a cash generating unit is computed  using turnover and earnings multiples.
If the recoverable  amount of the asset or the recoverable amount of the  cash generating unit to which the asset belongs is less  than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced  to its recoverable amount.
The reduction is treated as an  impairment loss and is recognized in the consolidated  statement of income.
If at the reporting date, there is an  indication that a previously assessed impairment loss no  longer exists, the recoverable amount is reassessed and  the impairment losses previously recognized are reversed  such that the asset is recognized at its recoverable amount  but not exceeding written down value which would have  been reported if the impairment losses had not been  recognized initially.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 269 Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually at  the same time and when events occur or changes in  circumstances indicate that the recoverable amount of  the cash generating unit is less than its carrying value.
The  goodwill impairment test is performed at the level of cash- generating unit or groups of cash-generating units which  represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored  for internal management purposes.
An impairment in  respect of goodwill is not reversed.
(xi)  Employee benefits Post-employment and pension plans The Group participates in various employee benefit  plans.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits are  classified as either defined contribution plans or defined  benefit plans.
Under a defined contribution plan, the  Company’s only obligation is to pay a fixed amount with  no obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does  not hold sufficient assets to pay all employee benefits.
The  related actuarial and investment risks are borne by the  employee.
The expenditure for defined contribution plans  is recognized as an expense during the period when the  employee provides service.
Under a defined benefit plan,  it is the Company’s obligation to provide agreed benefits to  the employees.
The related actuarial and investment risks  are borne by the Company.
The present value of the defined  benefit obligations is calculated by an independent  actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains or losses are immediately recognized  in other comprehensive income, net of taxes and  permanently excluded from profit or loss.
Further, the  profit or loss will no longer include an expected return on  plan assets.
Instead net interest recognized in profit or  loss is calculated by applying the discount rate used to  measure the defined benefit obligation to the net defined  benefit liability or asset.
The actual return on the plan  assets above or below the discount rate is recognized as  part of re-measurement of net defined liability or asset  through other comprehensive income, net of taxes.
The Company has the following employee benefit plans: a. Provident fund Employees receive benefits from a provident fund, which  is a defined benefit plan.
The employer and employees  each make periodic contributions to the plan.
A portion of  the contribution is made to the approved provident fund  trust managed by the Company while the remainder of  the contribution is made to the government administered  pension fund.
The contributions to the trust managed by  the Company is accounted for as a defined benefit plan as  the Company is liable for any shortfall in the fund assets  based on the government specified minimum rates of  return.
b.  Superannuation Superannuation plan, a defined contribution scheme is  administered by third party fund managers.
The Company  makes annual contributions based on a specified  percentage of each eligible employee’s salary.
c.  Gratuity In accordance with the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972,  applicable for Indian companies, the Company provides for  a lump sum payment to eligible employees, at retirement  or termination of employment based on the last drawn  salary and years of employment with the Company.
The  gratuity fund is managed by third party fund managers.
The Company’s obligation in respect of the gratuity plan,  which is a defined benefit plan, is provided for based on  actuarial valuation using the projected unit credit method.
The Company recognizes actuarial gains and losses in  other comprehensive income, net of taxes.
d.  Termination benefits Termination benefits are expensed when the Company can  no longer withdraw the offer of those benefits.
e.  Short-term benefits Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on  an undiscounted basis and are recorded as expense as the  related service is provided.
A liability is recognized for the  amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus  or profit-sharing plans, if the Company has a present legal  or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of  past service provided by the employee and the obligation  can be estimated reliably.
f.  Compensated absences The employees of the Company are entitled to compensated  absences.
The employees can carry forward a portion of  the unutilized accumulating compensated absences and  utilize it in future periods or receive cash at retirement  or termination of employment.
The Company records an  obligation for compensated absences in the period in  which the employee renders the services that increases  this entitlement.
The Company measures the expected  cost of compensated absences as the additional amount  that the Company expects to pay as a result of the unused  entitlement that has accumulated at the end of the  reporting period.
The Company recognizes accumulated  compensated absences based on actuarial valuation  using the projected unit credit method.
Non-accumulating  compensated absences are recognized in the period in  which the absences occur.
(xii)  Share based payment transactions Selected employees of the Company receive remuneration  in the form of equity settled instruments, for rendering  services over a defined vesting period.
Equity instruments  granted are measured by reference to the fair value of the  instrument at the date of grant.
In cases, where equity  instruments are granted at a nominal exercise price, the  intrinsic value on the date of grant approximates the fair  value.
The expense is recognized in the consolidated  statement of income with a corresponding increase to  the share based payment reserve, a component of equity.
The equity instruments generally vest in a graded manner  over the vesting period.
The fair value determined at  the grant date is expensed over the vesting period of  the respective tranches of such grants (accelerated  Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 270 Wipro Limited amortization).
The stock compensation expense is  determined based on the Company’s estimate of equity  instruments that will eventually vest.
(xiii)  Provisions Provisions are recognized when the Company has a present  obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event,  it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be  required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate  can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognized as a provision is the best estimate  of the consideration required to settle the present  obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into  account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the  obligation.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to  settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a  third party, the receivable is recognized as an asset, if it is  virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and  the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
Provisions for onerous contracts are recognized when the  expected benefits to be derived by the Company from a  contract are lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting  the future obligations under the contract.
Provisions for  onerous contracts are measured at the present value of  lower of the expected net cost of fulfilling the contract and  the expected cost of terminating the contract.
(xiv) Revenue The Company derives revenue primarily from software  development, maintenance of software/hardware and  related services, business process services, sale of IT and  other products.
a) Services The Company recognizes revenue when the significant  terms of the arrangement are enforceable, services  have been delivered and the collectability is reasonably  assured.
The method for recognizing revenues and costs  depends on the nature of the services rendered: A.
Time and materials contracts Revenues and costs relating to time and materials  contracts are recognized as the related services are  rendered.
B.  Fixed-price contracts Revenues from fixed-price contracts, including systems  development and integration contracts are recognized  using the “percentage-of-completion” method.
Percentage  of completion is determined based on project costs  incurred to date as a percentage of total estimated project  costs required to complete the project.
The cost expended  (or input) method has been used to measure progress  towards completion as there is a direct relationship  between input and productivity.
If the Company does  not have a sufficient basis to measure the progress of  completion or to estimate the total contract revenues and  costs, revenue is recognized only to the extent of contract  cost incurred for which recoverability is probable.
When  total cost estimates exceed revenues in an arrangement,  the estimated losses are recognized in the consolidated  statement of income in the period in which such losses  become probable based on the current contract estimates.
‘Unbilled revenues’ represent cost and earnings in  excess of billings as at the end of the reporting period.
‘Unearned revenues’ represent billing in excess of revenue  recognized.
Advance payments received from customers  for which no services have been rendered are presented  as ‘Advance from customers’ .
C.  Maintenance contracts Revenue from maintenance contracts is recognized ratably  over the period of the contract using the percentage of  completion method.
When services are performed through  an indefinite number of repetitive acts over a specified  period of time, revenue is recognized on a straight-line  basis over the specified period unless some other method  better represents the stage of completion.
In certain projects, a fixed quantum of service or output  units is agreed at a fixed price for a fixed term.
In such  contracts, revenue is recognized with respect to the  actual output achieved till date as a percentage of total  contractual output.
Any residual service unutilized by  the customer is recognized as revenue on completion of  the term.
b) Products Revenue from products are recognized when the significant  risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to  the buyer, continuing managerial involvement usually  associated with ownership and effective control have  ceased, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably,  it is probable that economic benefits associated with  the transaction will flow to the Company and the costs  incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction  can be measured reliably.
c) Multiple element arrangements Revenue from contracts with multiple-element  arrangements are recognized using the guidance in IAS  18, Revenue.
The Company allocates the arrangement  consideration to separately identifiable components  based on their relative fair values or on the residual  method.
Fair values are determined based on sale prices  for the components when it is regularly sold separately,  third-party prices for similar components or cost plus an  appropriate business-specific profit margin related to the  relevant component.
d) Others •	 The 	Company	accounts	for	volume	discounts	and	 pricing incentives to customers by reducing the  amount of revenue recognized at the time of sale.
•	 Revenues 	are	shown	net	of	sales	tax,	value	added	 tax, service tax, goods and sales tax and applicable  discounts and allowances.
Revenue includes excise  duty.
•	 The 	Company 	accrues 	the	estimated 	cost 	of	 warranties at the time when the revenue is recognized.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 271 The accruals are based on the Company’s historical  experience of material usage and service delivery  costs.
•	 Costs that relate directly to a contract and incurred  in securing a contract are recognized as an asset  and amortized over the contract term as reduction  of revenue.
•	 Contract 	expenses	are	recognized	as	expenses	by	 reference to the stage of completion of contract  activity at the end of the reporting period.
(xv)  Finance expenses Finance expenses comprises interest cost on borrowings,  gains or losses arising on re-measurement of financial  assets measured at FVTPL, gains/(losses) on translation  or settlement of foreign currency borrowings and changes  in fair value and gains/(losses) on settlement of related  derivative instruments.
Borrowing costs that are not  directly attributable to a qualifying asset are recognized in  the consolidated statement of income using the effective  interest method.
(xvi)  Finance and other income Finance and other income comprises interest income  on deposits, dividend income and gains/(losses), net on  disposal of investments.
Interest income is recognized  using the effective interest method.
Dividend income  is recognized when the right to receive payment is  established.
(xvii)   Income tax Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
Income  tax expense is recognized in the consolidated statement  of income except to the extent it relates to a business  combination, or items directly recognized in equity or in  other comprehensive income.
a) Current income tax Current income tax for the current and prior periods are  measured at the amount expected to be recovered from  or paid to the taxation authorities based on the taxable  income for the period.
The tax rates and tax laws used  to compute the current tax amounts are those that are  enacted or substantively enacted as at the reporting date  and applicable for the period.
The Company offsets current  tax assets and current tax liabilities, where it has a legally  enforceable right to set off the recognized amounts and  where it intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realize  the asset and liability simultaneously.
b) Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is recognized using the balance  sheet approach.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities  are recognized for deductible and taxable temporary  differences arising between the tax base of assets  and liabilities and their carrying amount in financial  statements, except when the deferred income tax arises  from the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or  liability in a transaction that is not a business combination  and affects neither accounting nor taxable profits or loss  at the time of the transaction.
Deferred income tax assets are recognized to the extent  it is probable that taxable profit will be available against  which the deductible temporary differences and the carry  forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can  be utilized.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognized for all  taxable temporary differences except in respect of taxable  temporary differences that is expected to reverse within  the tax holiday period, taxable temporary differences  associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates  and foreign branches where the timing of the reversal  of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is  probable that the temporary difference will not reverse  in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is  reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent  that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit  will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income  tax asset to be utilized.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured  at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period  when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, based  on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or  substantively enacted at the reporting date.
The Company offsets deferred income tax assets and  liabilities, where it has a legally enforceable right to offset  current tax assets against current tax liabilities, and they  relate to taxes levied by the same taxation authority on  either the same taxable entity, or on different taxable  entities where there is an intention to settle the current  tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets  and liabilities will be realized simultaneously.
(xviii) Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is computed using the weighted  average number of equity shares outstanding during the  period adjusted for treasury shares held.
Diluted earnings  per share is computed using the weighted-average number  of equity and dilutive equivalent shares outstanding  during the period, using the treasury stock method for  options and warrants, except where the results would be  anti-dilutive.
The number of equity shares and potentially dilutive  equity shares are adjusted retrospectively for all periods  presented for any splits and bonus shares issues  including for change effected prior to the approval of  the consolidated financial statements by the Board of  Directors.
(xix) Cash flow statement Cash flow are reported using the indirect method,  whereby profit for the period is adjusted for the effects  of transactions of a non-cash nature, any deferrals or  accruals of past operating cash receipts or payments and  item of income or expenses associated with investing or  financing cash flows.
The cash from operating, investing  and financing activities of the Company are segregated.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 272 Wipro Limited (xx)  Discontinued operations A discontinued operation is a component of the Company’s  business that represents a separate line of business that  has been disposed of or is held for sale, or is a subsidiary  acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
Classification  as a discontinued operation occurs upon the earlier of  disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be  classified as held for sale.
New Accounting standards adopted by the Company: The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of  the consolidated financial statements are consistent  with those followed in the preparation of the Company’s  annual consolidated financial statements for the year  ended March 31, 2017.
IAS 7- Statement of Cash flows The amendments require entities to provide disclosures  about changes in their liabilities arising from financing  activities, including both changes arising from cash flows  and non-cash changes (such as foreign exchange gains or  losses).
On initial application of the amendment, entities  are not required to provide comparative information for  preceding periods.
The effect on adoption of IAS 7 on the  consolidated financial statements is insignificant.
New accounting standards not yet adopted: Certain new standards, amendments to standards and  interpretations are not yet effective for annual periods  beginning after 1 April 2017, and have not been applied in  preparing these consolidated financial statements.
New  standards, amendments to standards and interpretations  that could have potential impact on the consolidated  financial statements of the Company are: IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 supersedes all existing revenue requirements in  IFRS (IAS 11 Construction Contracts, IAS 18 Revenue and  related interpretations).
According to the new standard,  revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of promised  goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects  the consideration to which the entity expects to be  entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
IFRS 15  establishes a five step model that will apply to revenue  earned from a contract with a customer (with limited  exceptions), regardless of the type of revenue transaction  or the industry.
Extensive disclosures will be required,  including disaggregation of total revenue; information  about performance obligation; changes in contract asset  and liability account balances between periods and key  judgments and estimates.
The standard allows for two methods of transition: the  full retrospective approach, under which the standard  will be applied retrospectively to each reported period  presented, or the cumulative catch up approach, where the  cumulative effect of applying the standard retrospectively  is recognized at the date of initial application.
The  standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or  after January 1, 2018.
Early adoption is permitted.
The  Company will adopt this standard using the cumulative  catch up transition method effective April 1, 2018 and  accordingly, the comparative for year ended March 31,  2017 and 2018, will not be retrospectively adjusted.
The  adoption of the new standard is expected to result in a  reduction of approximately ` 2,239 in opening retained  earnings, primarily relating to certain contract costs  because these will not meet the criteria for recognition  as contract fulfillment asset.
IFRIC 22 – Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance  Consideration On December 8, 2016, the IFRS interpretations committee  of the International Accounting Standards Board issued  IFRIC 22, Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance  Consideration, which clarifies that the date of the  transaction for the purpose of determining the exchange  rate to use on initial recognition of the related asset,  expense or income is the date on which an entity initially  recognizes the non-monetary asset or non-monetary  liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance  consideration in a foreign currency.
The effective date for  adoption of IFRIC 22 is annual reporting periods beginning  on or after January 1, 2018, though early adoption is  permitted.
The Company will apply the interpretation  prospectively from the effective date and the effect  on adoption of IFRIC 22 on the consolidated financial  statements is insignificant.
IFRS 16 – Leases On January 13, 2016, the International Accounting  Standards Board issued IFRS 16, Leases.
IFRS 16 will  replace the existing leases Standard, IAS 17 Leases,  and related interpretations.
The standard sets out the  principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation  and disclosure of leases.
IFRS 16 introduces a single  lessee accounting model and requires a lessee to  recognize assets and liabilities for all leases with a term  of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset  is of low value.
The Standard also contains enhanced  disclosure requirements for lessees.
The effective date  for adoption of IFRS 16 is annual periods beginning on or  after January 1, 2019, though early adoption is permitted  for companies applying IFRS 15 - Revenue from Contracts  with Customers.
The Company does not plan to early  adopt IFRS 16 and is currently assessing the impact of  adopting IFRS 16 on the Company’s consolidated financial  statements.
IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty over Income Tax treatments On June 7, 2017, the International Accounting Standards  Board issued IFRIC 23 which clarifies the accounting for  uncertainties in income taxes.
The interpretation is to be  applied to the determination of taxable profit (tax loss), tax  bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates,  when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments  under IAS 12.
It outlines the following: (1) the entity has to  use judgement, to determine whether each tax treatment  should be considered separately or whether some can  be considered together.
The decision should be based  on the approach which provides better predictions of the  resolution of the uncertainty (2) entity has to consider the  Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 273 probability of the relevant taxation authority accepting the  tax treatment and the determination of taxable profit (tax  loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and  tax rates would depend upon the probability.
The effective  date for adoption of IFRIC 23 for annual periods beginning  on or after January 1, 2019, though early adoption is  permitted.
The Company does not plan to early adopt IFRIC  23 and is currently assessing the impact of adopting IFRIC  23 on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
Amendment to IAS 19 - Plan Amendment, Curtailment or  Settlement On 7 February 2018, the International Accounting  Standard Board has issued amendments to IAS 19,  ‘Employee Benefits’ , in connection with accounting for  plan amendments, curtailments and settlements requiring  an entity to determine the current service costs and  the net interest for the period after the remeasurement  using the assumptions used for the remeasurement; and  determine the net interest for the remaining period based  on the remeasured net defined benefit liability or asset.
These amendments are effective for annual reporting  periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, with early  application permitted.
The Company does not plan to early  adopt and is currently assessing the impact of adopting  amendment to IAS 19 on the Company’s consolidated  financial statements.
Amendment to IAS 12 – Income Taxes In December 2017, the International Accounting Standard  Board had issued amendments to IAS 12 – Income Taxes.
The amendments clarify that an entity shall recognize  the income tax consequences of dividends on financial  instruments classified as equity should be recognized  according to where the entity originally recognized those  past transactions or events that generated distributable  profits were recognized.
The effective date of these  amendments is annual periods beginning on or after  January 1, 2019, though earlier adoption is permitted.
The  Company does not plan to early adopt this amendment and  is currently assessing the impact of these amendment on  the consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 274 Wipro Limited 4.
Property, plant and equipment Land Buildings Plant and  machinery* Furniture  fixtures  and  equipment Vehicles Total Gross carrying value: As at April 1, 2016 `  3,695 `  26,089 `  99,580 `  14,115 `  589 ` 144,068 Translation adjustment (15) (69) (1,377) (133) 3 (1,591) Additions/adjustments - 1,133 16,572 2,242 23 19,970 Acquisition through business combinations 134 446 835 77 - 1,492 Disposals/adjustments - (18) (6,643) (553) (183) (7,397) As at March 31, 2017 3,814 27,581 108,967 15,748 432 156,542 Accumulated depreciation/ impairment: As at April 1, 2016 - `  5,344 `  68,161 `  11,318 `  504 `  85,327 Translation adjustment - (39) (816) (75) 2 (928) Depreciation - 1,059 14,910 1,117 28 17,114 Disposals/adjustments - (3) (5,250) (392) (169) (5,814) As at March 31, 2017 - 6,361 77,005 11,968 365 95,699 Capital work-in-progress `  8,951  Net carrying value including Capital   work-in-progress as at March 31, 2017 `  69,794 Gross carrying value: As at April 1, 2017 `  3,814 `  27,581 `  108,967 `  15,748 `  432 ` 156,542 Translation adjustment 28 265 904 188 2 1,387 Additions/adjustments 2 1,197 11,767 1,776 1,003 15,745 Acquisition through business combinations - 13 4 11 1 29 Disposals/adjustments - (190) (7,302) (872) (294) (8,658) Assets reclassified as held for sale (207) (3,721) (27,118) (1,079) (5) (32,130) As at March 31, 2018 `  3,637 `  25,145 `  87,222 `  15,772 `  1,139 ` 132,915 Accumulated depreciation/ impairment: As at April 1, 2017- 6,361 77,005 11,968 365 `  95,699 Translation adjustment - 49 509 104 - 662 Depreciation - 1,023 14,078 1,381 387 16,869 Disposals/adjustments - (70) (6,640) (758) (242) (7,710) Assets reclassified as held for sale (1,539) (19,627) (712) (4) (21,882) As at March 31, 2018 - 5,824 65,325 11,983 506 83,638 Capital work-in-progress `  15,680 Assets reclassified as held for sale (514)  Net carrying value including Capital work- in-progress as at March 31, 2018 `  64,443 *  Including net carrying value of computer equipment and software amounting to ` 19,200 and ` 17,765 as at March  31, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
Interest capitalized by the Company was ` 89 and ` 157 for the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
The  capitalization rate used to determine the amount of borrowing cost capitalized for the year ended March 31, 2017 and  2018 are 2.4% and 1.9%, respectively.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 275 5.
Goodwill and intangible assets The movement in goodwill balance is given below:     Year ended March 31, 2017 2018 Balance at the beginning of the  year `  101,991 `  125,796 Translation adjustment (4,319) 2,970 Acquisition through business  combination 28,124 1,172 Assets reclassified as held for  sale - (12,354) Balance at the end of the year `  125,796 `  117,584 Acquisition through business combinations for the year  ended March 31, 2018, includes goodwill recognized on  four acquisitions.
Also refer Note 6 to the consolidated  financial statements.
The Company is organized by two operating segments: IT  Services and IT Products.
Goodwill as at March 31, 2017  and 2018 has been allocated to the IT Services operating  segment.
Goodwill recognized on business combinations is  allocated to Cash Generating Units (CGUs), within the IT  Services operating segment, which are expected to benefit  from the synergies of the acquisitions.
Goodwill has been allocated to the CGUs as at March 31,  2017 and 2018 as follows: CGUs As at March 31, 2017 2018 Banking Financial Services and  Insurance (BFSI)`  19,826 `  17,475 Healthcare and Life Sciences  (HLS) 48,144 49,085 Consumer (CBU) 17,442 14,776 Energy, Natural Resources and  Utilities (ENU) 16,393 14,863 Manufacturing and Technology  (MNT) 23,086 20,406 Communication (COMM) 905 979 `  125,796 `  117,584 For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is  allocated to a CGU representing the lowest level within  the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal  management purposes, and which is not higher than  the Company’s operating segment.
Goodwill is tested  for impairment at least annually in accordance with the  Company’s procedure for determining the recoverable  value of each CGU.
The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined on the  basis of Fair Value Less Cost of Disposal (FVLCD).
The  FVLCD of the CGU is determined based on the market  capitalization approach, using the turnover and earnings  multiples derived from observable market data.
The fair  value measurement is categorized as a level 2 fair value  based on the inputs in the valuation techniques used.
Based on the above testing, no impairment was identified  as at March 31, 2017 and 2018, as the recoverable value  of the CGUs exceeded the carrying value.
Further, none  of the CGU’s tested for impairment as at March 31, 2017  and 2018, were at risk of impairment.
An analysis of the  calculation’s sensitivity to a change in the key parameters  (turnover and earnings multiples), did not identify any  probable scenarios where the CGU’s recoverable amount  would fall below its carrying amount.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 276 Wipro Limited The movement in intangible assets is given below:   Intangible assets Customer related Marketing related Total Gross carrying value: As at April 1, 2016 `          18,360 `            2,587 ` 20,947 Translation adjustment (546) (314) (860) Acquisition through business combinations 2,714 4,006 6,720 As at March 31, 2017 `          20,528 `            6,279 ` 26,807 Accumulated amortization/impairment: As at April 1, 2016 `            4,164 `               942 ` 5,106 Translation adjustment (7) (68) (75) Amortization and impairment * 5,107 747 5,854 As at March 31, 2017 `            9,264 `            1,621 ` 10,885 Net carrying value as at March 31, 2017 `          11,264 `            4,658 ` 15,922 Gross carrying value: As at April 1, 2017 `          20,528 `            6,279 ` 26,807 Translation adjustment 493 103 596 Acquisition through business combinations 5,565 169 5,734 As at March 31, 2018 `          26,586 `            6,551 ` 33,137 Accumulated amortization/impairment: As at April 1, 2017 `            9,264 `            1,621 ` 10,885 Translation adjustment 14 11 25 Amortization and impairment * 2,985 1,129 4,114 As at March 31, 2018 `          12,263 `            2,761 ` 15,024 Net carrying value as at March 31, 2018 `          14,323 `            3,790 ` 18,113 * Includes impairment charge on certain intangible assets recognized on acquisitions, amounting to `  Nil, `  3,056 and  ` 643 for the year ended March 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
Amortization and impairment expense on intangible  assets is included in selling and marketing expenses in  the consolidated statement of income.
Acquisition through business combinations for the year  ended March 31, 2018 primarily includes intangible assets  recognized on four acquisitions.
Also refer Note 6 to the  consolidated financial statements.
As at March 31, 2018, the estimated remaining amortization  period for intangible assets acquired on acquisition are as  follows: Acquisition Estimated remaining  amortization period Global oil and gas information  technology practice of the  Commercial Business Services 2.25 – 3.25  yearsBusiness Unit of Science  Applications International  Corporation Promax Application Group 4.25 years Opus Capital Markets Consultants LLC 0.75 – 2.75 years ATCO I-Tek 6.50 years Designit AS 0.25 – 2.25 years Cellent AG 2.75 – 4.75 years HealthPlan Services 1 – 5 years Appirio Inc. 2.50 – 8.50 years Other entities 2 – 14.25 years 6. Business combination Summary of acquisitions during the year ended March 31,  2016 is given below: Designit AS On August 6, 2015, the Company obtained control of  Designit AS (“Designit”) by acquiring 100% of its share  capital.
Designit is a Denmark based global strategic  design firm specializing in designing transformative  product-service experiences.
The acquisition strengthens  the Company’s digital offerings, combining engineering  and transformative technology with human centered- design methods.
The acquisition was executed through a share purchase  agreement for a consideration of `  6,501 (EUR 93 million)  which includes a deferred earn-out component of   ` 2,108 (EUR 30 million), which is linked to achievement  of revenues and earnings over a period of 3 years ending  June 30, 2018.
The fair value of the earn-out liability was  estimated by applying the discounted cash flow approach  considering discount rate of 13% and probability adjusted  revenue and earnings estimates.
This earn-out liability was  fair valued at ` 1,287 and recorded as part of purchase  price allocation.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 277 The following table presents the allocation of purchase price: Description Pre-acquisition  carrying amount Fair value  adjustments Purchase price  allocated Net assets `               586 `                    - `               586 Customer related intangibles - 597 597 Brand - 638 638 Non-compete agreement - 103 103 Deferred tax liabilities on intangible assets - (290) (290) Total `               586 `            1,048 `            1,634 Goodwill 4,046 Total purchase price `            5,680 Net assets acquired include ` 359 of cash and cash  equivalents and trade receivables valued at ` 392.
The goodwill of ` 4,046 comprises value of acquired  workforce and expected synergies arising from the  acquisition.
Goodwill is not deductible for income tax  purposes.
During the year ended March 31, 2016, the Company  concluded the fair value adjustments of the assets  acquired and liabilities assumed on acquisition.
Comparatives have not been retrospectively revised as  the amounts are not material.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, an amount of ` 83  was paid to the sellers representing earn-out payments  for the first earn-out period.
Additionally, during the year ended March 31, 2017, as a  result of changes in estimates of revenue and earnings  over the remaining earn-out period, the fair value of  earn-out liability was revalued at ` 293.
The revision of  estimates has also resulted in reduction in the carrying  value of intangibles recognized on acquisition and an  impairment charge has been recorded.
Accordingly, a net  gain of ` 1,032 has been recorded in the consolidated  statement of income.
During the year ended March 31, 2018, an amount of ` 97  was paid to the sellers as final payment for the earn-outs.
Accordingly, a net gain of ` 192 has been recorded in the  consolidated statement of income.
The pro-forma effects of this acquisition on the Company’s  results were not material.
Cellent AG On January 5, 2016, the Company obtained control of  Cellent AG (“Cellent”) by acquiring 100% of its share  capital.
Cellent is an IT consulting and software services  company offering IT solutions and services to customers  in Germany, Switzerland and Austria.
This acquisition  provides Wipro with scale and customer relationships, in  the Manufacturing and Automotive domains in Germany,  Switzerland and Austria region.
The acquisition was executed through a share purchase  agreement for a consideration of ` 5,686 (EUR 78.8 million),  net of ` 114 received during the year ended March 31, 2017  on conclusion of working capital adjustments which has  resulted in reduction of goodwill.
The following table presents the allocation of purchase price: Description Pre-acquisition  carrying amount Fair value  adjustments Purchase price  allocated Net  assets `  846 `         - `     846 Customer related intangibles - 1,001 1,001 Brand - 317 317 Deferred tax liabilities on intangible assets - (391) (391) Total `  846 `    927 `  1,773 Goodwill   3,913 Total purchase price   `  5,686 Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 278 Wipro Limited Net assets acquired include ` 367 of cash and cash  equivalents and trade receivables valued at ` 1,437.
The goodwill of ` 3,913 comprises value of acquired  workforce and expected synergies arising from the  acquisition.
Goodwill is not deductible for income tax  purposes.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company  concluded the fair value adjustments of the assets  acquired and liabilities assumed on acquisition.
Comparatives have not been retrospectively revised as  the amounts are not material.
The pro-forma effects of this acquisition on the Company’s  results were not material.
HealthPlan Services On February 29, 2016, the Company obtained full control  of HPH Holdings Corp. (“Healthplan Services”).
HealthPlan  Services offers market-leading technology platforms and  a fully integrated Business Process as a Service (BPaaS)  solution to Health Insurance companies (Payers) in the  individual, group and ancillary markets.
HealthPlan  Services provides U.S. Payers with a diversified portfolio  of health insurance products delivered through its  proprietary technology platform.
The acquisition was consummated for a consideration of  ` 30,850 (USD 450.9 million), net of ` 219 concluded as  working capital adjustment during the year ended March  31, 2017.
The consideration includes a deferred earn-out  component of ` 1,115 (USD 16.3 million), which is linked  to achievement of revenues and earnings over a period of  3 years ending March 31, 2019.
The fair value of the earn- out liability was estimated by applying the discounted  cash flow approach considering discount rate of 14.1%  and probability adjusted revenue and earnings estimates.
This earn-out liability was fair valued at ` 536 (USD 7.8  million) and recorded as part of preliminary purchase  price allocation.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company  concluded the fair value adjustments of the assets  acquired and liabilities assumed on acquisition.
Comparatives have not been retrospectively revised as  the amounts are not material.
The following table presents the allocation of purchase price: Description Pre-acquisition  carrying amount Fair value  adjustments Purchase price  allocated Net  assets ` 36 ` 1,604 ` 1,640 Technology  platform 1,087 1,888 2,975 Customer related intangibles —  5,791 5,791 Non-compete agreement —  315 315 Deferred tax liabilities on intangible assets —  (3,039) (3,039) Total ` 1,123 `  6,559 7,682 Goodwill   22,590 Total purchase price   ` 30,272 Net assets acquired include ` 47 of cash and cash  equivalents and trade receivables valued at ` 2,472.
The goodwill of ` 22,590 comprises value of acquired  workforce and expected synergies arising from the  acquisition.
Goodwill is not deductible for income tax  purposes.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, uncertainties  around regulatory changes relating to the Affordable  Care Act have led to a significant decline in the revenue  and earnings estimates, resulting in revision of fair value  of earn-out liability to ` 65.
Further, this has resulted in  reduction in the carrying value of certain intangible assets  recognized on acquisition and accordingly an impairment  charge has been recorded.
Consequently, a net loss of   ` 1,351 has been recorded in the consolidated statement  of income.
During the year ended March 31, 2018, an amount of   ` 66 was paid to the sellers representing final earn-out  payments.
If the acquisition had occurred on April 1, 2015,   management estimates that consolidated revenue for  the Company would have been ` 526,671 and the profit  after taxes would have been ` 88,314 for twelve months  ended March 31, 2016.
The pro-forma amounts are not  necessarily indicative of the results that would have  occurred if the acquisition had occurred on date indicated  or that may result in the future.
Summary of material acquisitions during the year ended  March 31, 2017 is given below: Appirio Inc. On November 23, 2016, the Company obtained full control  of Appirio Inc. (“Appirio”).
Appirio is a global services  company that helps customers create next-generation  employee and customer experiences using latest cloud  technology services.
This acquisition will strengthen  Wipro’s cloud application service offerings.
The acquisition  was consummated for a consideration of ` 32,402 (USD  475.7 million).
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 279 During the year, the Company concluded the fair value adjustments of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on  acquisition.
Comparatives have not been retrospectively revised as the amounts are not material.
The following table presents the allocation of purchase price: Description Pre-acquisition  carrying amount Fair value  adjustments Purchase price  allocated Net assets `    526 `     (29) `     497 Technology platform 436 (89) 347 Customer related intangibles —  2,323 2,323 Brand 180 2,968 3,148 Alliance relationship.
—  858 858 Deferred tax liabilities on intangible assets —  (2,791) (2,791) Total ` 1,142 `  3,240 `   4,382 Goodwill   28,032 Total purchase price   ` 32,414  Net assets acquired include ` 85 of cash and cash  equivalents and trade receivables valued at ` 2,363.
The goodwill of ` 28,020 comprises value of acquired  workforce and expected synergies arising from the  acquisition.
Goodwill is not deductible for income tax  purposes.
If the acquisition had occurred on April 1, 2016,   management estimates that consolidated revenue for  the Company would have been ` 559,575 and the profit  after taxes would have been ` 85,424 for twelve months  ended March 31, 2017.
The pro-forma amounts are not  necessarily indicative of the results that would have  occurred if the acquisition had occurred on date indicated  or that may result in the future.
Summary of material acquisitions during the year ended  March 31, 2018 is given below: During the year, the Company has completed four business  combinations (which both individually and in aggregate  are not material) for a total consideration of ` 6,924.
These  transactions include (a) an acquisition of IT service provider  which is focused on Brazilian markets, (b) an acquisition of  a design and business strategy consultancy firm based in  the United States, and (c) acquisition of intangible assets,  assembled workforce and a multi-year service agreement  which qualify as business combinations.
During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Company  concluded the fair value adjustments of the assets  acquired and liabilities assumed on acquisition.
The following table presents the provisional allocation of  purchase price: Description Purchase price  allocated Net assets `                    5 Customer related intangibles 5,565 Other intangible assets 169 Total `            5,739 Goodwill 1,185 Total purchase price `            6,924 The goodwill of ` 1,185 comprises value of acquired  workforce and expected synergies arising from the  acquisition.
The goodwill was allocated among the  reportable operating segments and is partially deductible  for U.S. federal income tax purpose.
Net assets acquired include ` 58 of cash and cash  equivalents and trade receivables valued at ` 215.
The pro-forma effects of these acquisition on the  Company’s results were not material.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 280 Wipro Limited 7.
Investments Investments consist of the followings:   As at March 31, 2017 2018 Financial instruments at FVTPL     Investments in liquid and short-term mutual funds * `        104,675 `          46,438  Others 569 - Financial instruments at FVTOCI  Equity instruments 5,303 5,685  Commercial paper, Certificate of deposits and bonds 145,614 176,234 Financial instruments at amortised cost  Inter corporate and term deposits ** 42,972 28,405  `        299,133 `        256,762 Non-current 7,103 7,668 Current 292,030 249,094 *   Investments in liquid and short-term mutual funds include investments amounting to ` Nil (March 31, 2017: ` 117)  pledged as margin money deposits for entering into currency future contracts.
**   These deposits earn a fixed rate of interest.
Term deposits include deposits in lien with banks amounting to ` 453  (March 31, 2017: ` 308).
Investment in equity accounted investee The Company has no material associates as at March 31,  2018.
The aggregate summarized financial information in  respect of the Company’s immaterial associates that are  accounted for using the equity method is set forth below:   As at March 31, 2017 2018 Carrying amount of the   Company’s interest in associates `    - `  1,206   For the year ended March 31, 2017 2018 Company’s share on statements  of income in associates`    - `     11 During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Company has  increased its investment in Drivestream Inc. from 19.0%  to 43.7%.
Drivestream Inc. is a private entity that is not  listed on any public exchange.
The carrying value of the  investment as at March 31, 2018 was ` 630.
During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Company has  invested ` 576 for 33.3% stake in Denim Group LLC, a  private entity that is not listed on any public exchange.
The carrying value of the investment as at March 31, 2018  was ` 576.
8.
Trade receivables   As at March 31, 2017 2018 Trade receivables `  107,952 `  121,413 Allowance for lifetime expected  credit loss (Refer Note 21)(9,108) (14,570) Assets reclassified as held for  sale - (1,407) `  98,844 `  105,436 Non-current 3,998 4,446 Current 94,846 100,990 The activity in the allowance for lifetime expected credit  loss is given below: As at March 31, 2017 2018 Balance at the beginning of  the year `  8,709 `  9,108 Additions during the year, net 2,427 5,456 Charged against allowance (2,099) (29) Translation adjustment 71 35 Balance at the end of the year `  9,108 `  14,570 9.
Inventories Inventories consist of the following: As at March 31, 2017 2018 Stores and spare parts `  808 `  769 Raw materials and components 1 - Finished goods and traded goods 3,106 2,601  `  3,915 `  3,370 Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 281 10.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents as at March 31, 2016, 2017  and 2018 consists of cash and balances on deposit with  banks.
Cash and cash equivalents consist of the following:   As at March 31, 2016 2017 2018 Cash and bank balances `  63,518 `  27,808 `  23,300 Demand deposits with  banks* 35,531 24,902 21,625  `  99,049 `  52,710 `  44,925 * These deposits can be withdrawn by the Company at  any time without prior notice and without any penalty on  the principal.
Demand deposits with banks include deposits in lien with  banks as at March 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018, amounting to  ` 3, ` Nil and ` Nil, respectively.
Cash and cash equivalents consist of the following for the  purpose of the cash flow statement:   As at March 31, 2016 2017 2018 Cash and cash  equivalents (as above)`  99,049 `  52,710 `  44,925 Bank overdrafts (657) (1,992) (3,999)  `  98,392 `  50,718 `  40,926 11.
Other assets   As at March 31, 2017 2018 Non-current Financial asset Security deposits `  1,636 `  1,197 Other deposits 449 250 Finance lease receivables 2,674 2,739 Others 26 - `  4,785 `  4,186   As at March 31, 2017 2018 Non-Financial asset Prepaid expenses including  rentals for leasehold land and  Deposits`  8,833 `  7,602 Others 3,175 4,468 Assets reclassified as held for  sale - (530) `  12,008 `  11,540 Other non-current assets `  16,793 `  15,726 Current Financial asset Security deposits `  514 `  1,238 Other deposits 148 59 Due from officers and employees 936 697 Finance lease receivables 1,854 2,271 Others 5,177 3,164 `  8,629 `  7,429 Non-Financial asset Prepaid expenses and Deposits`  12,824 `  14,407 Due from officers and employees 1,413 1,175 Advance to suppliers 1,451 1,819 Deferred contract costs 4,270 3,211 Balance with excise, customs  and other authorities 2,153 3,886 Others 11 50 Assets reclassified as held for  sale - (1,381) `  22,122 `  23,167 Other current assets `  30,751 `  30,596 Total `  47,544 `  46,322 Finance lease receivables Finance lease receivables consist of assets that are  leased to customers for a contract term ranging from 1 to  5 years, with lease payments due in monthly or quarterly  installments.
Details of finance lease receivables are  given below:       Minimum lease   payments Present value of minimum  lease payments As at March 31, As at March 31, 2017 2018 2017 2018 Not later than one year `            2,060 `            2,414 `            1,854 `            2,271 Later than one year but not later than five years 2,725 2,890 2,616 2,739 Later than five years - - - - Unguaranteed residual values 62 - 58 - Gross investment in lease 4,847 5,304 4,528 5,010 Less: Unearned finance income (319) (294) - - Present value of minimum lease payment receivables `            4,528 `            5,010 `            4,528 `            5,010 Non-current finance lease receivables 2,674 2,739 Current finance lease receivables 1,854 2,271 Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 282 Wipro Limited 12.
Loans and borrowings Short-term loans and borrowings The Company had short-term borrowings including bank  overdrafts amounting to ` 116,742 and ` 79,598 as at  March 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
The principal source  of Short-term borrowings from banks as of March 31, 2018  primarily consists of lines of credit of approximately   ` 10,000 million, U.S. Dollar (USD) 1,748 million, Canadian  Dollar (CAD) 57 million, EURO 19 million, United Kingdom  Pound sterling (GBP) 43 million, Indonesian Rupiah (IDR)  13,000 million and Saudi Riyal (SAR) 43 million from  bankers for working capital requirements and other  short term needs.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company  has unutilized lines of credit aggregating USD 711 million,  EURO 2 million, GBP 42 million, CAD 27 million, ` 1,003  million, IDR 13,000 million and SAR 39 million.
To utilize  these unused lines of credit, the Company requires  consent of the lender and compliance with certain  financial covenants.
Significant portion of these lines  of credit are revolving credit facilities and floating rate  foreign currency loans, renewable on a periodic basis.
Significant portion of these facilities bear floating rates  of interest, referenced to LIBOR and a spread, determined  based on market conditions.
The Company has non-fund based revolving credit  facilities in various currencies equivalent to ` 51,739 and  ` 44,022 as of March 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively,  towards operational requirements that can be used for  the issuance of letters of credit and bank guarantees.
As  of March 31, 2017 and 2018, an amount of ` 29,716 and   ` 22,476 respectively, was unutilized out of these non-fund  based facilities.
Long-term loans and borrowings   Currency As at March 31, 2017 As at March 31, 2018 Foreign  currency  in millions Indian  Rupee Foreign  currency  in millions Indian  Rupee Interest rate Final   maturity Unsecured external commercial borrowing        U.S.  Dollar 150 9,728 150 9,777 1.94% June 2018  Unsecured term loan U.S. Dollar 2 118 625 40,715 1.90% - 3.81% June 2021  Canadian Dollar (CAD) 85 4,131 72 3,660 1.20% - 3.26% July 2021  Indian Rupee NA 714 NA 366 8.30% - 9.40% December 2021  Australian Dollar (AUD) 2 116 2 92 4.65% January 2022  Great British Pound (GBP) 1 73 ^ 42 2.93% February 2022  Euro 19 1,282 ^ 24 2.98% December 2020  Brazilian Real (BRL) - - 1 12 14.04% May 2019  Saudi Arabian Riyal (SAR) 71 1,229 - - `  17,391 ` 54,688 Obligations under finance leases 8,280 5,442 Liabilities directly associated with assets  held for sale - (1,469) 8,280 3,973 `  25,671 ` 58,661 Non-current portion of long-term loans  and borrowings 19,611 45,268 Current portion of long-term loans and  borrowings 6,060 13,393 ^ Value is less than ` 1.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 283 Changes in financing liabilities arising from cash and non-cash changes: Non-cash changes April 1,  2017  Cash  flow  Assets  taken on  financial  lease  Foreign  exchange  movements  Less: Liabilities  directly associated  with assets held  for sale  March 31,  2018  Borrowings from banks `  120,911 `  (6,661) `        - `    5,439 `               - `   119,689 Bank overdrafts 1,992 2,007 - - - 3,999 External commercial borrowings 9,728 - - 49 - 9,777 Obligations under finance leases 8,280 (3,627) 766 23 (1,469) 3,973 Loans from other than bank 1,501 (695) - 15 - 821 `  142,412 `  (8,976) `  766 `   5,526 `  (1,469) `   138,259 The contracts governing the Company’s unsecured external commercial borrowing contain certain covenants that limit  future borrowings.
The terms of the other secured and unsecured loans and borrowings also contain certain restrictive  covenants primarily requiring the Company to maintain certain financial ratios.
As at March 31, 2017 and 2018, the  Company has met all the covenants under these arrangements.
Obligations under finance leases amounting to ` 8,280 and ` 5,442 as at March 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively, are  secured by underlying property, plant and equipment.
Interest expense was ` 1,916 and ` 3,045 for the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
Finance lease payables consist of liabilities that are taken on lease for a contract term ranging from 1 to 5 years, with  lease payments due in monthly or quarterly installments.
Details of finance lease payables are given below:       Minimum lease   payments Present value of minimum  lease payments As at March 31, As at March 31, 2017 2018 2017 2018 Not later than one year `            3,876 `            3,838 `            3,623 `            3,720 Later than one year but not later than five years 4841 1,784 4,657 1,722 Later than five years - - - - Total minimum lease payments 8,717 5,622 8,280 5,442 Less: Amounts representing interest (437) (180) - - Present value of minimum lease payment payables `            8,280 `            5,442 `            8,280 `            5,442 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale - (1,469) - (1,469) Obligation under finance lease `            8,280 `            3,973 `            8,280 `            3,973 Non-current finance lease payables 4,657 1,722 Current finance lease payables 3,623 2,251 13.
Trade payables and accrued expenses Trade payables and accrued expenses consist of the following:   As at March 31, 2017 2018 Trade payables `  23,452 `  24,406 Accrued expenses 42,034 45,632 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale - (1,909) `  65,486 `  68,129 Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 284 Wipro Limited 14.
Other liabilities and provisions   As at March 31, 2017 2018 Other liabilities Non-current Financial liabilities Deposits and others`    853 `    7 `    853 `    7 Non-Financial liabilities Employee benefits obligations`    4,235 `    1,791 Others 412 2,440 Liabilities directly associated  with assets held for sale - (8) `    4,647 `    4,223 Other non-current liabilities `    5,500 `    4,230 Current Financial liabilities Deposits and others`       342 `    1,050 `       342 `    1,050 Non-Financial liabilities Statutory and other liabilities`    3,353 `    4,263 Employee benefits obligations 5,912 8,537 Advance from customers 2,394 1,901 Others 1,026 1,139   As at March 31, 2017 2018 Liabilities directly associated  with assets held for sale - (277) `    12,685 `    15,563 Other current liabilities `    13,027 `    16,613 Total `    18,527 `    20,843 Provisions Non-current Provision for warranty `              4 `              3 `              4 `              3 Current Provision for warranty `          436 `          290 Others 834 506 `      1,270 `          796 `      1,274 `          799 Provision for warranty represents cost associated with  providing sales support services which are accrued at  the time of recognition of revenues and are expected to  be utilized over a period of 1 to 2 years.
Other provisions  primarily include provisions for indirect tax related  contingencies and litigations.
The timing of cash outflows  in respect of such provision cannot be reasonably  determined.
A summary of activity for provision for warranty and other provisions is as follows:  Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2018 Provision  for  warranty Others Total Provision  for  warranty Others Total Balance at the beginning of the year ` 402 ` 874 ` 1,276 ` 440 ` 834 ` 1,274 Additional provision during the year 631 169 800 317 7 324 Provision used during the year (593) (209) (802) (464) (335) (799) Balance at the end of the year ` 440 ` 834 ` 1,274 ` 293 ` 506 ` 799 Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 285 15.
Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities (carrying value / fair value)   As at March 31, 2017 2018 Assets Cash and cash equivalents `   52,710 `   44,925 Investments Financial instrument at FVTPL 105,244 46,438 Financial instrument at FVTOCI 150,917 181,919 Financial instrument at   Amortized cost 42,972 28,405 Other financial assets Trade receivables 98,844 105,436 Unbilled revenues 45,095 42,486 Other assets 13,414 11,615 Derivative assets 9,853 1,273 `   519,049 `   462,497 Liabilities Trade payables and other  payables Trade payables and accrued  expenses`   65,486 `   68,129 Other liabilities 1,195 1,057 Loans, borrowings and bank  overdrafts 142,412 138,259 Derivative liabilities 2,710 2,217 `   211,803 `   209,662 Offsetting financial assets and liabilities The following table contains information on other financial  assets and trade payables and other liabilities subject to  offsetting: Financial assets Gross  amounts of  recognized  financial  assets Gross amounts  of recognized  financial  liabilities  set off in the  balance sheet Net amounts  of recognized  other financial  assets  presented in  the balance  sheet As at March 31, 2017 162,252 (4,899) 157,353 As at March 31, 2018 165,985 (6,448) 159,537 Financial liabilities Gross  amounts of  recognized  trade  payables  and other  payables Gross amounts  of recognized  financial  liabilities  set off in the  balance sheet Net amounts  of recognized  trade payables  and other  payables  presented in the  balance sheet As at March 31, 2017 71,580 (4,899) 66,681 As at March 31, 2018 75,634 (6,448) 69,186 For the financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting  or similar arrangements, each agreement between the  Company and the counterparty allows for net settlement  of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both  elect to settle on a net basis.
In the absence of such an  election, financial assets and liabilities will be settled on  a gross basis and hence are not offset.
Fair value Financial assets and liabilities include cash and cash  equivalents, trade receivables, unbilled revenues, finance  lease receivables, employee and other advances and  eligible current and non-current assets, long and short- term loans and borrowings, finance lease payables, bank  overdrafts, trade payable, eligible current liabilities and  non-current liabilities.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents, trade  receivables, unbilled revenues, borrowings, trade  payables, other current financial assets and liabilities  approximate their carrying amount largely due to the  short-term nature of these instruments.
The Company’s  long-term debt has been contracted at market rates of  interest.
Accordingly, the carrying value of such long- term debt approximates fair value.
Further, finance lease  receivables that are overdue are periodically evaluated  based on individual credit worthiness of customers.
Based  on this evaluation, the Company records allowance for  estimated losses on these receivables.
As at March 31,  2018 and 2017, the carrying value of such receivables, net  of allowances approximates the fair value.
Investments in liquid and short-term mutual funds, which  are classified as FVTPL are measured using net asset  values at the reporting date multiplied by the quantity  held.
Fair value of investments in commercial papers,  certificate of deposits and bonds classified as FVTOCI is  determined based on the indicative quotes of price and  yields prevailing in the market at the reporting date.
Fair  value of investments in equity instruments classified  as FVTOCI is determined using market and income  approaches.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is  determined based on observable market inputs including  currency spot and forward rates, yield curves, currency  volatility etc.
Fair value hierarchy The table below analyses financial instruments carried at  fair value, by valuation method.
The different levels have  been defined as follows: Level 1 – Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for  identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices included within  Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either  directly (i.e.
as prices) or indirectly (i.e.
derived from  prices).
Level 3 – Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not  based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 286 Wipro Limited The following table presents fair value of hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis: Particulars  As at March 31, 2017 As at March 31, 2018    Fair value measurements  at reporting date   Fair value measurements  at reporting date Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3  Assets           Derivative instruments:   Cash flow hedges 7,307 - 7,307 - 1,139 - 1,139 -   Others 2,546 - 2,120 426 134 - 134 -  Investments:    Investment in liquid and short-term  mutual funds 104,675 104,675 - - 46,438 46,438 - -   Other investments 569 - 569 - - - - -   Investment in equity instruments 5,303 - - 5,303 5,685 - - 5,685    Commercial paper, Certificate of  deposits and bonds145,614 - 145,614 - 176,234 1,951 174,283 - Liabilities  Derivative instruments:   Cash flow hedges (55) - (55) - (1,276) - (1,276) -   Others (2,655) - (2,655) - (941) - (941) -  Contingent consideration (339) - - (339) - - - - The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of the level 2 financial instruments  included in the above table.
Derivative instruments (assets and liabilities): The Company enters into derivative financial instruments with various  counter-parties, primarily banks with investment grade credit ratings.
Derivatives valued using valuation techniques  with market observable inputs are mainly interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts and foreign exchange  option contracts.
The most frequently applied valuation techniques include forward pricing, swap models and Black  Scholes models (for option valuation), using present value calculations.
The models incorporate various inputs including  the credit quality of counterparties, foreign exchange spot and forward rates, interest rate curves and forward rate  curves of the underlying.
As at March 31, 2018, the changes in counterparty credit risk had no material effect on the  hedge effectiveness assessment for derivatives designated in hedge relationships and other financial instruments  recognized at fair value.
Investment in commercial papers, certificate of deposits and bonds: Fair value of these instruments is derived based  on the indicative quotes of price and yields prevailing in the market as at the reporting date.
Details of assets and liabilities considered under Level 3 classification   Investments  in equity  instruments  Derivative  Assets –  Others  Liabilities-  Contingent  consideration  Balance as at April 1, 2016 `           4,907 `              558 `  (2,251) Additions 620 - - Payouts - - 138 Gain/loss recognized in consolidated statement of income - (132) 1,546 Gain/loss recognized in foreign currency translation reserve (41) - 198 Gain/loss recognized in other comprehensive income (183) - - Finance expense recognized in consolidated statement of income - - 30 Balance as at March 31, 2017 `           5,303 `              426 `  (339) Balance as at April 1, 2017 `           5,303 `              426 `  (339) Additions 1,851 - - Payouts - - 164 Transferred to investment in equity accounted investee (357) - - Gain/loss recognized in consolidated statement of income - (426) 167 Gain/loss recognized in foreign currency translation reserve 53 - (32) Gain/loss recognized in other comprehensive income (1,165) - - Finance expense recognized in consolidated statement of income - - 40 Balance as at March 31, 2018 `           5,685 `                  - - Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 287 Description of significant unobservable inputs to valuation: As at March 31, 2018 Items Valuation  technique Significant unobservable  input  Movement  by  Increase  (`) Decrease  (`) Unquoted equity Third party quote Forecast revenues 1.0% 18 (18) investments * As at March 31, 2017 Items Valuation  technique  Significant unobservable  input  Movement  by  Increase  (`) Decrease  (`) Unquoted equity Discounted Long-term growth rate 0.5% 55 (51) investments * cash flow model Discount rate 0.5% (93) 101 Market multiple Revenue multiple 0.5x 179 (186) approach  Derivative Option pricing Volatility of comparable 2.5% 31 (31) assets model companies  Time to liquidation 1 year 60 (69) event  Contingent Probability Estimated revenue 5.0% 56 (56) consideration weighted method achievement  Estimated earnings 1.0% - - achievement  * Carrying value of ` 3,232 and ` 1,545 as at March 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
A one percentage point change in the unobservable inputs used in fair valuation of other Level 3 assets does not have  a significant impact in its value.
Derivative assets and liabilities: The Company is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations on foreign currency assets / liabilities, forecasted cash flows  denominated in foreign currency and net investment in foreign operations.
The Company follows established risk  management policies, including the use of derivatives to hedge foreign currency assets / liabilities, foreign currency  forecasted cash flows and net investment in foreign operations.
The counter parties in these derivative instruments  are primarily banks and the Company considers the risks of non-performance by the counterparty as non-material.
The following table presents the aggregate contracted principal amounts of the Company’s derivative contracts  outstanding: (in million) As at March 31, 2017 2018 Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Designated derivatives instruments Sell :  Forward contracts USD  886 ` 3,627 USD 904 ` 951 € 228 ` 1,166 € 134 ` (531) £ 280 ` 2,475 £ 147 ` (667) AUD  129 ` 154 AUD 77 ` 29  Range forward options contracts USD  130 ` 106 USD 182 ` 5 £ - - £ 13 ` 5 € - - € 10 ` 2  Interest rate swaps USD  - - USD 75 ` (7) Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 288 Wipro Limited (in million) As at March 31, 2017 2018 Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Non-designated derivatives instruments Sell :  Forward contracts USD  889 ` 1,714 USD 939 ` (360) € 83 ` (4) € 58 ` 6 £ 82 ` 79 £ 95 ` (56) AUD  51 ` 3 AUD 77 ` 68 SGD  3 ` (3) SGD 6 ` (1) ZAR  262 ` (17) ZAR 132 ` (16) CAD  41 ` 22 CAD 14 ` 32 SAR  49 ` 11 SAR 62 ^ AED  69 ^ AED 8 ^ PLN  31 ^ PLN 36 ` 12 CHF  - - CHF 6 ` 3 QAR  - - QAR 11 ` (3) TRY  - - TRY 10 ` 8 MXN  - - MXN 61 ` (6) NOK  - - NOK 34 ` 3 OMR  - - OMR 3 ` (1)   Range forward options contracts USD  - - USD 50 ` (6) £ - - £ 20 ` (2) Buy : Forward contracts USD  750 ` (2,616) USD 575 ` (417) JPY  - - JPY 399 ` 6 DKK  - - DKK 9 ` (1) ^ Value is less than 1.
The following table summarizes activity in the cash flow  hedging reserve within equity related to all derivative  instruments classified as cash flow hedges:   As at March 31, 2017 2018 Balance as at the beginning  of the year`    2,367 `    7,325 Deferred cancellation gain/  (loss), net 74 (6) Changes in fair value  of effective portion of  derivatives12,391 (12) Net (gain)/loss reclassified  to consolidated statement  of income on occurrence of  hedged transactions(7,507) (7,450) Gain/(loss) on cash flow  hedging derivatives, net`    4,958 `  (7,468) Balance as at the end of the  year 7,325 (143) Deferred tax thereon (1,419) 29 Balance as at the end of the  year, net of deferred tax`    5,906 `     (114) The related hedge transactions for balance in cash flow  hedging reserves as of March 31, 2018 are expected to  occur and be reclassified to the consolidated statement  of income over a period of two years.
As at March 31, 2017 and 2018, there were no significant  gains or losses on derivative transactions or portions  thereof that have become ineffective as hedges, or  associated with an underlying exposure that did not occur.
Sale of financial assets From time to time, in the normal course of business,  the Company transfers accounts receivables, unbilled  revenues, net investment in finance lease receivables  (financials assets) to banks.
Under the terms of the  arrangements, the Company surrenders control over  the financial assets and transfer is without recourse.
Accordingly, such transfers are recorded as sale of  financial assets.
Gains and losses on sale of financial  assets without recourse are recorded at the time of sale  based on the carrying value of the financial assets and fair  value of servicing liability.
The incremental impact of such  transactions on our cash flow and liquidity for the year  ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018 is not material.
In certain cases, transfer of financial assets may be with  recourse.
Under arrangements with recourse, the Company  Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 289 is obligated to repurchase the uncollected financial  assets, subject to limits specified in the agreement  with the banks.
These are reflected as part of loans and  borrowings in the consolidated statement of financial  position.
Financial risk management Market Risk Market risk is the risk of loss of future earnings, to fair  values or to future cash flows that may result from a  change in the price of a financial instrument.
The value of  a financial instrument may change as a result of changes  in the interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and  other market changes that affect market risk sensitive  instruments.
Market risk is attributable to all market risk  sensitive financial instruments including investments,  foreign currency receivables, payables and loans and  borrowings.
The Company’s exposure to market risk is a function  of investment and borrowing activities and revenue  generating activities in foreign currency.
The objective of  market risk management is to avoid excessive exposure  of the Company’s earnings and equity to losses.
Risk Management Procedures The Company manages market risk through a corporate  treasury department, which evaluates and exercises  independent control over the entire process of market  risk management.
The corporate treasury department  recommends risk management objectives and policies,  which are approved by senior management and Audit  Committee.
The activities of this department include  management of cash resources, implementing hedging  strategies for foreign currency exposures, borrowing  strategies, and ensuring compliance with market risk  limits and policies.
Foreign currency risk The Company operates internationally and a major  portion of its business is transacted in several currencies.
Consequently, the Company is exposed to foreign exchange  risk through receiving payment for sales and services in  the United States and elsewhere, and making purchases  from overseas suppliers in various foreign currencies.
The  exchange rate risk primarily arises from foreign exchange  revenue, receivables, cash balances, forecasted cash  flows, payables and foreign currency loans and borrowings.
A significant portion of the Company’s revenue is in the  U.S. Dollar, the United Kingdom Pound Sterling, the Euro,  the Canadian Dollar and the Australian Dollar, while a large  portion of costs are in Indian rupees.
The exchange rate  between the rupee and these currencies has fluctuated  significantly in recent years and may continue to fluctuate  in the future.
Appreciation of the rupee against these  currencies can adversely affect the Company’s results  of operations.
The Company evaluates exchange rate exposure arising  from these transactions and enters into foreign currency  derivative instruments to mitigate such exposure.
The  Company follows established risk management policies,  including the use of derivatives like foreign exchange  forward/option contracts to hedge forecasted cash flows  denominated in foreign currency.
The Company has designated certain derivative  instruments as cash flow hedges to mitigate the foreign  exchange exposure of forecasted highly probable cash  flows.
The Company has also designated foreign currency  borrowings as hedge against respective net investments  in foreign operations.
As of March 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively, a ` 1 increase/ decrease in the spot exchange rate of the Indian rupee  with the U.S. dollar would result in approximately ` 1,155  (consolidated statement of income ` 139 and other  comprehensive income ` 1,016) and ` 1,500 (consolidated  statement of income ` 414 and other comprehensive  income ` 1,086) respectively, decrease/increase in the fair  value of foreign currency dollar denominated derivative  instruments.
The below table presents foreign currency risk from non-derivative financial instruments as of March 31, 2017 and 2018: As at March 31, 2017 US $ Euro Pound  Sterling  Australian  Dollar  Canadian  Dollar  Other  currencies# Total Trade receivables `   33,388 `   4,663 `   5,078 `   2,547 `   890 `   4,218 `   50,784 Unbilled revenues 15,839 2,801 4,454 2,024 577 2,926 28,621 Cash and cash equivalent 15,752 1,178 571 335 2 675 18,513 Other assets 1,612 1,437 190 1,568 7 360 5,174 Loans and borrowings (58,785) (494) (604) (537) - (509) (60,929) Trade payables, accrued expenses  and other liabilities (22,339) (4,284) (4,605) (1,453) (443) (2,136) (35,260) Net assets/ (liabilities) `  (14,533) `   5,301 `   5,084 `   4,484 `   1,033 `   5,534 `   6,903 Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 290 Wipro Limited As at March 31, 2018  US $ Euro Pound  Sterling  Australian  Dollar  Canadian  Dollar  Other  currencies# Total Trade receivables ` 32,948 ` 7,273 ` 6,585 ` 3,459 ` 990 ` 3,651 ` 54,906 Unbilled revenues 13,893 2,571 5,189 2,094 338 1,609 25,694 Cash and cash equivalent 9,144 3,791 1,685 786 34 2,241 17,681 Other assets 1,879 1,993 285 1,122 1 333 5,613 Loans and borrowings (49,257) (41) (37) (165) - (137) (49,637) Trade payables, accrued expenses  and other liabilities  (23,561) (3,474) (5,958) (1,516) (652) (2,942) (38,103) Net assets/ (liabilities) ` (14,954) ` 12,113 ` 7,749 ` 5,780 ` 711 ` 4,755 ` 16,154 #  Other currencies reflect currencies such as Singapore Dollars, Danish Krone, etc.
As at March 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively, every 1%  increase/decrease of the respective foreign currencies  compared to functional currency of the Company  would impact results by approximately ` 69 and ` 162  respectively.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk primarily arises from floating rate  borrowing, including various revolving and other lines of  credit.
The Company’s investments are primarily in short- term investments, which do not expose it to significant  interest rate risk.
The Company manages its net exposure  to interest rate risk relating to borrowings by entering  into interest rate swap agreements, which allows it to  exchange periodic payments based on a notional amount  and agreed upon fixed and floating interest rates.
Certain  borrowings are also transacted at fixed interest rates.
If  interest rates were to increase by 100 bps from March 31,  2018, additional net annual interest expense on floating  rate borrowing would amount to approximately ` 1,186. Credit risk Credit risk arises from the possibility that customers may  not be able to settle their obligations as agreed.
To manage  this, the Company periodically assesses the financial  reliability of customers, taking into account the financial  condition, current economic trends, analysis of historical  bad debts and aging of accounts receivable.
Individual risk  limits are set accordingly.
No single customer accounted  for more than 10% of the accounts receivable as of March  31, 2017 and 2018 or for revenues for the year ended  March 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018.
There is no significant  concentration of credit risk.
Counterparty risk Counterparty risk encompasses issuer risk on marketable  securities, settlement risk on derivative and money market  contracts and credit risk on cash and time deposits.
Issuer risk is minimized by only buying securities which  are at least AA rated in India based on Indian rating  agencies.
Settlement and credit risk is reduced by the  policy of entering into transactions with counterparties  that are usually banks or financial institutions with  acceptable credit ratings.
Exposure to these risks are  closely monitored and maintained within predetermined  parameters.
There are limits on credit exposure to any  financial institution.
The limits are regularly assessed and  determined based upon credit analysis including financial  statements and capital adequacy ratio reviews.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Company will  not be able to settle or meet its obligations on time or at  a reasonable price.
The Company’s corporate treasury  department is responsible for liquidity and funding as  well as settlement management.
In addition, processes  and policies related to such risks are overseen by senior  management.
Management monitors the Company’s net  liquidity position through rolling forecasts on the basis  of expected cash flows.
As of March 31, 2018, cash and  cash equivalents are held with major banks and financial  institutions.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 291 The table below provides details regarding the remaining contractual maturities of significant financial liabilities at the  reporting date.
The amounts include estimated interest payments and exclude the impact of netting agreements, if any.
As at March 31, 2017 Contractual Cash Flows Carrying  value Less than 1  year 1-2 years 2-4 years 4-7 years Total Loans, borrowings and bank overdrafts ` 142,412 ` 124,243 ` 14,132 ` 5,526 ` 341 ` 144,242 Trade payables and accrued expenses 65,486 65,486 - - - 65,486 Derivative liabilities 2,710 2,708 2 - - 2,710 Other liabilities 1,195 341 810 - 77 1,228       As at March 31, 2018 Contractual Cash Flows Carrying  value Less than 1  year 1-2 years 2-4 years 4-7 years Total Loans, borrowings and bank overdrafts ` 138,259 ` 95,466 ` 18,997 ` 28,190 ` 6 ` 142,659 Trade payables and accrued expenses 68,129 68,129 - - - 68,129 Derivative liabilities 2,217 2,210 7 - - 2,217 Other liabilities 1,057 1,050 7 - - 1,057 The balanced view of liquidity and financial indebtedness  is stated in the table below.
This calculation of the net  cash position is used by the management for external  communication with investors, analysts and rating  agencies:   As at March 31, 2017 2018 Cash and cash equivalents ` 52,710 ` 44,925 Investment 292,030 249,094 Loans and borrowings (142,412) (138,259) ` 202,328 ` 155,760 16.
Foreign currency translation reserve The movement in foreign currency translation reserve  attributable to equity holders of the Company is  summarized below:   As at March 31, 2017 2018 Balance at the beginning of the  year ` 16,116 ` 13,107 Translation difference related to  foreign operations, net(3,285) 3,560 Change in effective portion of  hedges of net investment in  foreign operations276 (49) Total change during the year (3,009) 3,511 Balance at the end of the year ` 13,107 ` 16,618 17.
Income taxes Income tax expenses has been allocated as follows:   Year ended March 31, 2016 2017 2018 Income tax expense as  per the consolidated   statement of income ` 25,366 ` 25,213 ` 22,390 Income tax included in  Other comprehensive  income on:  Unrealized gains/ (losses)  on investment securities 42 594(644) Gains/(losses) on cash  flow hedging derivatives (260) 962 (1,448) Defined benefit plan  actuarial gains/(losses) (224) 43 255 ` 24,924 ` 26,812 ` 20,553 Income tax expenses consists of the following:   Year ended March 31, 2016 2017 2018 Current taxes Domestic ` 20,221 ` 21,089 ` 18,500 Foreign 5,536 5,412 7,834 25,757 26,501 26,334 Deferred taxes (506) (63) 3 Domestic 115 (1,225) (3,947) Foreign (391) (1,288) (3,944) ` 25,366 ` 25,213 ` 22,390 Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 292 Wipro Limited Income tax expenses are net of reversal of provisions  pertaining to earlier periods, amounting to ` 1,337, ` 593  and ` 380 for the year ended March 31, 2016, 2017 and  2018, respectively.
The reconciliation between the provision of income tax  and amounts computed by applying the Indian statutory  income tax rate to profit before taxes is as follows:   Year ended March 31, 2016 2017 2018 Profit before taxes `114,933 `110,356 `102,474 Enacted income tax rate  in India 34.61% 34.61% 34.61% Computed expected tax  expense 39,778 38,194 35,466 Effect of:  Income exempt from tax (12,799) (12,684) (12,878) Basis differences that  will reverse during a tax  holiday period (568) (274) 167 Income taxed at higher/  (lower) rates (1,449) (1,105) (111) Reversal of deferred tax  for past years due to rate  reduction * - - (1,563) Taxes related to prior  years (1,337) (593) (380) Changes in unrecognized  deferred tax assets 87 40 239 Expenses disallowed for  tax purpose 1,752 1,787 1,431 Others, net (98) (152) 19 Income tax expense ` 25,366 ` 25,213 ` 22,390 Effective income tax rate 22.07% 22.85% 21.85% *  The “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, ” was signed into law on  December 22, 2017 (‘US Tax Reforms’) which among  other things, makes significant changes to the rules  applicable to the taxation of corporations, such as  changing the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% rate  effective January 1, 2018.
For the year ended March  2018, the Company took a positive impact of  ` 1,563 on  account of re-statement of deferred tax items pursuant  to US Tax Reforms.
The components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are  as follows: As at March 31, 2017 2018 Carry-forward losses * `   5,513 `   5,694 Accrued expenses and liabilities 3,151 3,107 Allowances for lifetime expected  credit loss2,955 4,499 Minimum alternate tax 1,520 74 Cash flow hedges - 29 13,139 13,403 Property, plant and equipment (4,153) (2,166) Amortizable goodwill (4,057) (1,810) Intangible assets (4,511) (3,190) Interest on bonds and fair value  movement of investments (2,245) (1,712) Cash flow hedges (1,419) - Deferred revenue (183) (273) Others (87) (403) (16,655) (9,554) Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) `  (3,516) `   3,849 Amounts presented in statement  of financial position: Deferred tax assets `  3,098 `  6,908 Deferred tax liabilities `  (6,614) `  (3,059) *   Includes deferred tax asset recognized on carry forward  losses pertaining to business combinations.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 293 Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities Movement during the year ended  March 31, 2016 As at  April 1,  2015 Credit/  (charge) in the  consolidated  statement  of Changes  in equity on  adoption of  IFRS 9 Credit/  (charge)  in the  consolidated  statement of  income Credit/  (charge) in  the Other  comprehensive  income On account  of business  combination As at  March  31, 2016 Carry-forward losses 3,589 - 147 (90) 1,604 5,250 Accrued expenses and liabilities 2,546 - 500 224 - 3,270 Allowances for lifetime expected  credit loss1,859 430 751 (1) - 3,039 Minimum alternate tax 1,844 - (387) - - 1,457 Property, plant and equipment (3,416) - (827) (19) - (4,262) Amortizable goodwill (3,347) - (977) 361 - (3,963) Intangible assets (1,965) - 989 58 (3,747) (4,665) Interest on bonds and fair value  movement of investments(448) - (324) (42) - (814) Cash flow hedges (719) - 1 260 - (458) Deferred revenue (418) - 377 37 - (4) Others 180 - 141 7 - 328 Total (295) 430 391 795 (2,143) (822) Movement during the year ended March  31, 2017 As at  April 1,  2016 Credit/ (charge) in  the consolidated  statement of  income Credit/  (charge) in  the Other  comprehensive   income On account  of business  combination As at  March 31,  2017 Carry-forward losses 5,250 825 (562) - 5,513 Accrued expenses and liabilities 3,270 (44) (75) - 3,151 Allowances for lifetime expected credit  loss 3,039 (77) (7) - 2,955 Minimum alternate tax 1,457 63 - - 1,520 Property, plant and equipment (4,262) (249) 358 - (4,153) Amortizable goodwill (3,963) (401) 307 - (4,057) Intangible assets (4,665) 2,639 279 (2,764) (4,511) Interest on bonds and fair value movement  of investments(814) (837) (594) - (2,245) Cash flow hedges (458) - (961) - (1,419) Deferred revenue (4) (192) 13 - (183) Others 328 (439) 24 - (87) Total (822) 1,288 (1,218) (2,764) (3,516) Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 294 Wipro Limited Movement during the year ended  March 31, 2018 As at  April 1,  2017 Credit/  (charge) in the  consolidated  statement of  income Credit/  (charge) in  the Other  comprehensive  income On account  of business  combination Assets held  for sale As at  March  31, 2018 Carry-forward losses 5,513 133 48 - - 5,694 Accrued expenses and liabilities 3,151 243 (246) - (41) 3,107 Allowances for lifetime expected  credit loss2,955 1,564 2 - (22) 4,499 Minimum alternate tax 1,520 (1,446) - - - 74 Property, plant and equipment (4,153) 912 (75) - 1,150 (2,166) Amortizable goodwill (4,057) 1,522 (53) - 778 (1,810) Intangible assets (4,511) 1,546 (112) (113) - (3,190) Interest on bonds and fair value  movement of investments(2,245) (112) 645 - - (1,712) Cash flow hedges (1,419) - 1,448 - - 29 Deferred revenue (183) (35) (9) - (46) (273) Others (87) (383) (75) - 142 (403) Total (3,516) 3,944 1,573 (113) 1,961 3,849 Deferred taxes on unrealized foreign exchange gain / loss  relating to cash flow hedges, fair value movements in  investments and actuarial gains/losses on defined benefit  plans are recognized in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax liability on the intangible assets identified  and carry forward losses on acquisitions is recorded by  an adjustment to goodwill.
Other than these, the change  in deferred tax assets and liabilities is primarily recorded  in the consolidated statement of income.
In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, the  Company considers the extent to which it is probable  that the deferred tax asset will be realized.
The ultimate  realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the  generation of future taxable profits during the periods in  which those temporary differences and tax loss carry- forwards become deductible.
The Company considers  the expected reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected  future taxable income and tax planning strategies in  making this assessment.
Based on this, the Company  believes that it is probable that the Company will realize  the benefits of these deductible differences.
The amount of  deferred tax asset considered realizable, however, could be  reduced in the near term if the estimates of future taxable  income during the carry-forward period are reduced.
Deferred tax asset amounting to ` 4,238 and ` 3,756  as at March 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively in respect  of unused tax losses have not been recognized by the  Company.
The tax loss carry-forwards of ` 13,581 and   ` 14,510 as at March 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively,  relates to certain subsidiaries on which deferred tax asset  has not been recognized by the Company, because there  is a lack of reasonable certainty that these subsidiaries  may generate future taxable profits.
Approximately, ` 5,371  and ` 6,223 as at March 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively,  of these tax loss carry-forwards is not currently subject  to expiration dates.
The remaining tax loss carry-forwards  of approximately, ` 8,210 and ` 8,287 as at March 31, 2017  and 2018, respectively, expires in various years through  fiscal 2037.
The Company has recognized deferred tax assets of   ` 5,513 and ` 5,287 in respect of carry forward losses of  its various subsidiaries as at March 31, 2017 and 2018.
Management’s projections of future taxable income and  tax planning strategies support the assumption that it is  probable that sufficient taxable income will be available  to utilize these deferred tax assets.
Pursuant to the changes in the Indian income tax laws  in the past year, Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) has been  extended to income in respect of which deduction is  claimed under Section 10A, 10B and 10AA of the Income  Tax Act, 1961; consequently, the Company has calculated  its tax liability for current domestic taxes after considering  MAT.
The excess tax paid under MAT provisions over and  above normal tax liability can be carried forward and set- off against future tax liabilities computed under normal  tax provisions.
The Company was required to pay MAT and  accordingly, a deferred tax asset of ` 1,520 and ` 74 has  been recognized in the statement of consolidated financial  position as of March 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively, which  can be carried forward for a period of fifteen years from  the year of recognition.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 295 A substantial portion of the profits of the Company’s India  operations are exempt from Indian income taxes being  profits attributable to export operations and profits from  units established under the Special Economic Zone Act,  2005 scheme.
Units designated in special economic zones  providing service on or after April 1, 2005 will be eligible  for a deduction of 100 percent of profits or gains derived  from the export of services for the first five years from  commencement of provision of services and 50 percent of  such profits and gains for a further five years.
Certain tax  benefits are also available for a further five years subject  to the unit meeting defined conditions.
Profits from certain  other undertakings are also eligible for preferential tax  treatment.
The tax holiday period being currently available  to the Company expires in various years through fiscal  2030-31.
The expiration period of tax holiday for each  unit within a SEZ is determined based on the number of  years that have lapsed following year of commencement  of production by that unit.
The impact of tax holidays has  resulted in a decrease of current tax expense of ` 12,754,  ` 11,958 and ` 11,635 for the years ended March 31, 2016,  2017 and 2018, respectively, compared to the effective tax  amounts that we estimate we would have been required  to pay if these incentives had not been available.
The per  share effect of these tax incentives for the years ended  March 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018 was ` 2.60, ` 2.46 and   ` 2.45, respectively.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognized for all  taxable temporary differences except in respect of taxable  temporary differences associated with investments  in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of  the temporary difference can be controlled and it is  probable that the temporary difference will not reverse  in the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, deferred income  tax liabilities on cumulative earnings of subsidiaries  amounting to ` 46,905 and ` 51,432 as of March 31, 2017  and 2018, respectively and branch profit tax @ 15% of the  US branch profit have not been recognized.
Further, it is not  practicable to estimate the amount of the unrecognized  deferred tax liabilities for these undistributed earnings.
18.
Dividends, Bonus and Buyback of equity shares The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian rupees.
According to the Companies Act, 2013 any dividend should  be declared out of accumulated distributable profits.
A  Company may, before the declaration of any dividend,  transfer a percentage of its profits for that financial year  as it may consider appropriate to the reserves.
The cash dividends paid per equity share were ` 12, ` 3  and ` 1, during the years ended March 31, 2016, 2017 and  2018, respectively, including an interim dividend of ` 5,  ` 2 and ` 1 for the year ended March 31, 2016, 2017 and  2018, respectively.
The bonus issue in the proportion of 1:1 i.e.
1 (One) bonus  equity share of ` 2 each for every 1 (one) fully paid-up  equity share held (including ADS holders) had been  approved by the shareholders of the Company on June 3,  2017 through Postal Ballot /e-voting.
For this purpose, June  14, 2017, was fixed as the record date.
Consequently, on  June 15, 2017, the Company allotted 2,433,074,327 shares  and ` 4,866 (representing par value of ` 2 per share) has  been transferred from retained earnings to share capital.
During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Company has  concluded the buyback of 343,750,000 equity shares as  approved by the Board of Directors on July 20, 2017.
This  has resulted in a total cash outflow of ` 110,000.
In line with  the requirement of the Companies Act 2013, an amount  of ` 1,656 and ` 108,344 has been utilized from the share  premium account and retained earnings respectively.
Further, capital redemption reserves (included in other  reserves) of ` 687 (representing the nominal value of the  shares bought back) has been created as an apportionment  from retained earnings.
Consequent to such buyback,  share capital has reduced by ` 687.
19.
Additional capital disclosures The key objective of the Company’s capital management is  to ensure that it maintains a stable capital structure with  the focus on total equity to uphold investor, creditor, and  customer confidence and to ensure future development of  its business.
The Company focused on keeping strong total  equity base to ensure independence, security, as well as a  high financial flexibility for potential future borrowings, if  required without impacting the risk profile of the Company.
The Company’s goal is to continue to be able to return  excess liquidity to shareholders by continuing to distribute  annual dividends in future periods.
The amount of future dividends/ buyback of equity shares  will be balanced with efforts to continue to maintain an  adequate liquidity status.
The capital structure as of March 31, 2017 and 2018 was  as follows:  As at March 31, 2017 2018 % Change Equity attributable to  the equity shareholders  of the Company` 520,304 ` 482,936 (7.18)% As percentage of total  capital 79% 78% Current loans and  borrowings 122,801 92,991 Non-current loans and  borrowings 19,611 45,268 Total loans and  borrowings ` 142,412 ` 138,259 (2.92)% As percentage of total  capital 21% 22% Total capital (loans and  borrowings and equity) ` 662,716 ` 621,195 (6.27)% Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 296 Wipro Limited Loans and borrowings represents 21% and 22% of total  capital as of March 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
The  Company is not subjected to any externally imposed  capital requirements.
20.
Revenue     Year ended March 31, 2016 2017 2018 Rendering of services ` 481,369 ` 522,061 ` 524,543 Sales of products 31,071 28,341 20,328 ` 512,440 ` 550,402 ` 544,871 21.
Expenses by nature     Year ended March 31, 2016 2017 2018 Employee  compensation ` 245,534 ` 268,081 ` 272,223 Sub-contracting/  technical fees 67,769 82,747 84,437 Cost of hardware and  software30,096 27,216 18,985 Travel 23,507 20,147 17,399 Facility expenses 16,480 19,297 21,044 Depreciation,  amortization and  impairment14,965 23,107 21,124 Communication 4,825 5,370 5,353 Legal and  professional fees 4,214 4,957 4,690 Rates, taxes and  insurance 2,526 2,261 2,400 Marketing and brand  building 2,292 2,936 3,140 Lifetime expected  credit loss and  provision for deferred  contract cost*2,004 2,427 6,565 Miscellaneous  expenses 5,235 5,836 4,705 Total cost of  revenues, selling  and marketing  expenses and general  and administrative  expenses` 419,447 ` 464,382 ` 462,065 *   Consequent to insolvency of two of our customers,  the Company has recognized provision of ` 4,612 for  impairment of receivables and deferred contract cost.
` 416 and ` 4,196 of these provisions have been included  in cost of revenue and General and administrative  expenses respectively for the year ended March 31,  2018.
22.
Other operating income During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company  has concluded the sale of the EcoEnergy division for a  consideration of ` 4,670.
Net gain from the sale, amounting  to ` 4,082 has been recorded as other operating income.
23.
Finance expense     Year ended March 31, 2016 2017 2018 Interest expense ` 1,206 ` 2,675 ` 3,451 Exchange fluctuation  on foreign currency  borrowings, net 4,172 3,267 2,379 ` 5,378 ` 5,942 ` 5,830 24.
Finance and other income and Foreign exchange  gains/(losses), net     Year ended March 31, 2016 2017 2018 Interest income ` 20,364 ` 18,066 ` 17,806 Dividend income 66 311 609 Net gain from  investments  classified as FVTPL 2,991 3,822 5,410 Net gain from  investments  classified as FVOCI 30 220 174 Finance and other  income ` 23,451 ` 22,419 ` 23,999 Foreign exchange  gains/(losses), net on  financial instrument  measured at FVTPL 920 6,975(107) Other Foreign  exchange gains/ (losses), net 2,947 (3,198) 1,595 Foreign exchange  gains/(losses), net ` 3,867 ` 3,777 ` 1,488 ` 27,318 ` 26,196 ` 25,487 25.
Earnings per equity share A reconciliation of profit for the year and equity shares  used in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per  equity share is set out below: Basic: Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing  the profit attributable to equity shareholders of the  Company by the weighted average number of equity shares  outstanding during the year, excluding equity shares  purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 297   Year ended March 31, 2016 2017 2018 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company ` 89,075 ` 84,895 ` 80,081 Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 4,913,118,800 4,857,081,010 4,750,043,400 Basic earnings per share ` 18.13 ` 17.48 ` 16.86 Diluted: Diluted earnings per share is calculated by  adjusting the weighted average number of equity shares  outstanding during the year for assumed conversion of all  dilutive potential equity shares.
Employee share options  are dilutive potential equity shares for the Company.
The calculation is performed in respect of share options  to determine the number of shares that could have been  acquired at fair value (determined as the average market  price of the Company’s shares during the year).
The number  of shares calculated as above is compared with the number  of shares that would have been issued assuming the  exercise of the share options.
Year ended March 31, 2016 2017 2018 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company `         89,075 `         84,895 `         80,081 Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 4,913,118,800 4,857,081,010 4,750,043,400 Effect of dilutive equivalent share options 10,261,016 14,266,128 8,318,575 Weighted average number of equity shares for diluted earnings  per share 4,923,379,816 4,871,347,138 4,758,361,975 Diluted earnings per share `           18.09 `           17.43 `           16.83 Earnings per share and number of share outstanding  for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017 have been  proportionately adjusted for the bonus issue in the ratio  of 1:1 as approved by the shareholders on June 03, 2017.
26.
Employee stock incentive plans The stock compensation expense recognized for employee  services received during the year ended March 31,  2016, 2017 and 2018 were ` 1,534, ` 1,742 and ` 1,347,  respectively.
Wipro Equity Reward Trust (“WERT”) In 1984, the Company established a controlled trust called  the Wipro Equity Reward Trust (“WERT”).
In the earlier  years, WERT purchased shares of the Company out of  funds borrowed from the Company.
The Company’s Board  Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee  recommends to WERT certain officers and key employees,  to whom WERT issues shares from its holdings at nominal  price subject to vesting conditions.
WERT held 14,829,824,  13,728,607 and 23,097,216 treasury shares as of March  31, 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
Wipro Employee Stock Option Plans and Restricted Stock  Unit Option Plans A summary of the general terms of grants under stock  option plans and restricted stock unit option plans are  as follows: Name of Plan Number of Options  reserved under the plan  Range of  Exercise Price Wipro Employee Stock Option plan 2000 (2000 plan) 560,606,060 ` 171 - 490 Wipro Restricted Stock Unit Plan (WRSUP 2004 plan) 44,848,484 ` 2 Wipro ADS Restricted Stock Unit Plan (WARSUP 2004 plan) 44,848,484 US $ 0.03 Wipro Employee Restricted Stock Unit Plan 2005 (WSRUP 2005 plan) 44,848,484 ` 2 Wipro Employee Restricted Stock Unit Plan 2007 (WSRUP 2007 plan) 37,373,738 ` 2 Wipro Equity Reward Trust Employee Stock Purchase Plan, 2013 29,659,648 ` 2 Below plans are discontinued as at March 31, 2018 Name of Plan Number of Options  reserved under the plan  Range of  Exercise Prices Wipro Employees Stock Option plan 1999 (1999 plan) 50,000,000 ` 171 - 490 Stock Option plan (2000 ADS Plan) 15,000,000 US $ 3 - 7 Employees covered under Stock Option Plans and Restricted Stock Unit (RSU) Option Plans (collectively “stock  option plans”) are granted an option to purchase shares of the Company at the respective exercise prices, subject to  requirements of vesting conditions.
These options generally vest in tranches over a period of three to five years from  the date of grant.
Upon vesting, the employees can acquire one equity share for every option.
The maximum contractual  term for these stock option plans is ten years.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 298 Wipro Limited The activity in these stock option plans and restricted stock unit option plan is summarized below: Year ended March 31, 2016 2017 2018 Particulars Exercise  price Numbers Weighted  Average  Exercise  Price Numbers Weighted  Average  Exercise  Price Numbers Weighted  Average  Exercise  Price Outstanding at the `   480.20 20,181 `   480.20 20,181 `   480.20 20,181 `   480.20 beginning of `   2 6,332,219 `   2 7,254,326 `   2 7,952,083 `   2 the year US $ 0.03 2,576,644 US $ 0.03 3,747,430 US $ 0.03 5,288,783 US $ 0.03 Bonus on outstanding `   480.20 - `   480.20 - `   480.20 - `   480.20 Refer Note 18 `   2 - `   2 - `   2 6,968,406 `   2 US $ 0.03 - US $ 0.03 - US $ 0.03 4,077,070 US $ 0.03 Granted * `   480.20 - `   480.20 - `   480.20 - `   480.20 `   2 2,870,400 `   2 2,398,000 `   2 4,612,400 `   2 US $ 0.03 1,697,700 US $ 0.03 2,379,500 US $ 0.03 3,897,000 US $ 0.03 Exercised `   480.20 - `   480.20 - `   480.20 (20,181) `   480.20 `   2 (1,329,376) `   2 (1,113,775) `   2 (5,325,217) `   2 US $ 0.03 (340,876) US $ 0.03 (174,717) US $ 0.03 (2,565,976) US $ 0.03 Forfeited and `   480.20 - `   480.20 - `   480.20 - `   480.20 Expired `   2 (618,917) `   2 (586,468) `   2 (663,675) `   2 US $ 0.03 (186,038) US $ 0.03 (663,430) US $ 0.03 (497,823) US $ 0.03 Outstanding at the `   480.20 20,181 `   480.20 20,181 `   480.20 - `   480.20 end of the year `   2 7,254,326 `   2 7,952,083 `   2 13,543,997 `   2 US $ 0.03 3,747,430 US $ 0.03 5,288,783 US $ 0.03 10,199,054 US $ 0.03 Exercisable at the `   480.20 20,181 `   480.20 20,181 `   480.20 - `   480.20 end of the year `   2 1,204,405 `   2 698,320 `   2 1,875,994 `   2 US $ 0.03 256,753 US $ 0.03 141,342 US $ 0.03 789,962 US $ 0.03 The following table summarizes information about outstanding stock options and restricted stock unit option plan: Year ended March 31, 2016 2017 2018 Exercise  price Numbers Weighted  Average  Remaining  life  (months) Weighted  Average  Exercise  Price Numbers Weighted  Average  Remaining  life  (months) Weighted  Average  Exercise  Price Numbers Weighted  Average  Remaining  life  (months) Weighted  Average  Exercise  Price `   480.20 20,181 - `   480.20 20,181 - `   480.20 - - `   480.20 `   2 7,254,326 23 `   2 7,952,083 19 `   2 13,543,997 27 `   2 US $ 0.03 3,747,430 24 US $ 0.03 5,288,783 24 US $ 0.03 10,199,054 28 US $ 0.03 The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during the year ended March 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018  was ` 699.96, ` 569.52 and ` 337.74 for each option, respectively.
The weighted average share price of options exercised  during the year ended March 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018 was ` 608.62, ` 536.80 and ` 303.44 for each option, respectively.
* Includes Nil, 79,000 and 1,097,600 Performance based stock options (RSU) granted during the year ended March 31,  2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
Nil, 188,000 and 1,113,600 Performance based stock options (ADS) granted during  the year ended March 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
Performance based stock options (RSU) were issued under  Wipro Employee Restricted Stock Unit plan 2007 (WSRUP 2007 plan) and Performance based stock options (ADS) were  issued under Wipro ADS Restricted Stock Unit Plan (WARSUP 2004 plan).
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 299 27.
Employee benefits a) Employee costs includes     Year ended March 31, 2016 2017 2018 Salaries and bonus ` 237,130 ` 258,207 ` 261,981 Employee benefits  plans  Gratuity and other  defined benefit plans 885 1,095 1,532 Defined contribution  plans 5,985 7,037 7,363 Share based  compensation 1,534 1,742 1,347 ` 245,534 ` 268,081 ` 272,223 The employee benefit cost is recognized in the following  line items in the consolidated statement of income:     Year ended March 31, 2016 2017 2018 Cost of revenues ` 207,747 ` 226,595 ` 228,937 Selling and marketing  expenses 23,663 26,051 28,070 General and  administrative  expenses 14,124 15,435 15,216 ` 245,534 ` 268,081 ` 272,223 Defined benefit plan actuarial (gains)/ losses recognized  in other comprehensive income include:     Year ended March 31, 2016 2017 2018 Re-measurement of  net defined benefit  liability/(asset) Return on plan  assets excluding  interest income` 30 ` (189) ` (18) Actuarial loss/ (gain)  arising from financial  assumptions180 363 (296) Actuarial loss/  (gain) arising from  demographic  assumptions2 (73) (54) Actuarial loss/  (gain) arising  from experience  adjustments798 (313) (454) ` 1,010 ` (212) ` (822) b) Defined benefit plans Defined benefit plans include gratuity for employees  drawing salary in Indian rupees and certain benefits plans  in foreign jurisdictions Amount recognized in the consolidated statement of  income in respect of defined benefit plans is as follows:   Year ended March 31, 2016 2017 2018 Current service cost ` 915 ` 1,130 ` 1,525 Net interest on net  defined benefit  liability/(asset)(30) (35) 7 Net gratuity cost/ (benefit) 885 1,095 1,532 Actual return on plan  assets` 351 ` 692 ` 501 Change in present value of defined benefit obligation is  summarized below:   As at March 31,  2017 2018  Defined benefit obligation at the  beginning of the year` 6,656 ` 8,270 Acquisitions 751 38 Current service cost 1,130 1,525 Interest on obligation 464 490 Benefits paid (708) (865) Remeasurement loss/(gains)  Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from  financial assumptions363 (296) Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from  demographic assumptions(73) (54) Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from  experience adjustments(313) (454) Defined benefit obligation at the  end of the year` 8,270 ` 8,654 Change in plan assets is summarized below:    As at March 31,  2017 2018  Fair value of plan assets at the  beginning of the year` 6,488 ` 7,919 Acquisitions 561 28 Expected return on plan assets 499 483 Employer contributions 186 59 Benefits paid (4) - Remeasurement (loss)/gains Return on plan assets  excluding interest income189 18 Fair value of plan assets at the  end of the year` 7,919 ` 8,507 Present value of unfunded  obligation (351) (147) Recognized asset/(liability) (351) (147) Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 300 Wipro Limited As at March 31, 2017 and 2018, plan assets were primarily  invested in insurer managed funds The Company has established an income tax approved  irrevocable trust fund to which it regularly contributes  to finance the liabilities of the gratuity plan.
The fund’s  investments are managed by certain insurance companies  as per the mandate provided to them by the trustees  and the asset allocation is within the permissible limits  prescribed in the insurance regulations.
The principal assumptions used for the purpose of  actuarial valuation of these defined benefit plans are as  follows: As at March 31,  2017 2018  Discount rate 5.91% 6.30% Expected return on plan assets 5.91% 6.30% Expected rate of salary increase 6.90% 6.89% Duration of defined benefit  obligations 8 years 8 years The expected return on plan assets is based on expectation  of the average long-term rate of return expected on  investments of the fund during the estimated term of the  obligations.
The discount rate is primarily based on the prevailing  market yields of government securities for the estimated  term of the obligations.
The estimates of future salary  increases considered takes into account the inflation,  seniority, promotion and other relevant factors.
Attrition  rate considered is the management’s estimate, based on  previous years’ employee turnover of the Company.
The expected future contribution and estimated future  benefit payments from the fund are as follows:  Expected contribution to the fund during the  year ending March 31, 2019` 1,162 Estimated benefit payments from the fund  for the year ending March 31: 2019 ` 1,338 2020 1,062 2021 1,059 2022 1,065 2023 1,053 Thereafter 5,454 Total ` 11,031 The expected benefits are based on the same assumptions  used to measure the Company’s benefit obligations as of  March 31, 2018.
Sensitivity for significant actuarial assumptions is  computed to show the movement in defined benefit  obligation by 0.5 percentage.
As of March 31, 2018, every 0.5 percentage point increase/ (decrease) in discount rate will result in (decrease)/ increase of defined benefit obligation by approximately   ` (320) and ` 341, respectively (March 31, 2017: ` (187)  and ` 207, respectively).
As of March 31, 2018 every 0.5 percentage point increase/ (decrease) in expected rate of salary will result in increase/ (decrease) of defined benefit obligation by approximately  ` 184 and ` (173), respectively (March 31, 2017: ` 176 and  ` (169), respectively).
c) Provident fund: The details of fund and plan assets are given below:   As at March 31,  2017 2018  Fair value of plan assets ` 40,059 ` 46,016 Present value of defined benefit  obligation (40,059) (46,016) Net (shortfall)/ excess `             - `             - The plan assets have been primarily invested in government  securities and corporate bonds.
The principal assumptions used in determining the  present value obligation of interest guarantee under the  deterministic approach are as follows:    As at March 31,  2017 2018  Discount rate for the term of the  obligation 6.90% 7.35% Average remaining  tenure of  investment portfolio6 years 7 years Guaranteed rate of return 8.65% 8.55% Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 301 28.
Related party relationship and transactions List of subsidiaries and associates as of March 31, 2018 are provided in the table below: Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Country of  Incorporation Wipro LLC USA Wipro Gallagher Solutions, Inc. USA Opus Capital Markets  Consultants LLC USA Wipro Promax Analytics  Solutions LLCUSA Infocrossing, Inc. USA Wipro Insurance Solutions LLC Wipro Data Centre and Cloud  Services, Inc. Wipro IT Services, Inc. USA USA USA HPH Holdings Corp. (A) Appirio, Inc. (A) USA USA Cooper Software, Inc. USA WiproOverseasITServices Pvt.
Ltd India Wipro Japan KK Japan Wipro Shanghai Limited China Wipro Trademarks Holding  Limited India Wipro Travel Services Limited India  Wipro Holdings UK Limited U.K. Wipro Information TechnologyAustria  GmbH Austria Wipro Technologies Austria  GmbH Austria Wipro Digital Aps Denmark Designit A/S (A) Denmark Wipro Europe Limited U.K. Wipro UK Limited U.K. Wipro Financial Services UK Limited U.K. Wipro Cyprus Private Limited Cyprus Wipro Doha LLC  # Qatar Wipro Technologies S.A DE C.V Mexico WiproBPOPhilippinesLTD.Inc.
Philippines Wipro Holdings Hungary  Korlátolt Felelősségű Társaság Wipro Holdings Investment   Korlátolt Felelősségű Társaság Hungary Hungary Wipro Technologies SA Argentina Wipro Information TechnologyEgypt  SAE Egypt Wipro Arabia Co. Limited * SaudiArabia Women’s Business Park  Technologies Limited * Saudi Arabia Wipro Poland Sp.
Z.o.o Poland WiproITServicesPoland Sp.zo.o Poland Wipro Technologies Australia Pty  Ltd Australia Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 302 Wipro Limited Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Country of  Incorporation Wipro Corporate Technologies  Ghana Limited Wipro Technologies South Africa  (Proprietary) Limited Wipro Technologies Nigeria  Limited Ghana South Africa Nigeria Wipro IT Service Ukraine LLC Wipro Information  TechnologyNetherlands BV.
Ukraine Netherlands Wipro Portugal S.A. (A) Portugal Wipro Technologies Limited,  Russia Russia Wipro Technology Chile SPA Chile Wipro Solutions Canada Limited Canada Wipro Information Technology  Kazakhstan LLP Kazakhstan Wipro Technologies W.T.
Sociedad Anonima Costa Rica Wipro Outsourcing Services  (Ireland) LimitedIreland Wipro Technologies VZ, C.A.
Venezuela Wipro Technologies Peru S.A.C InfoSERVER S.A. Wipro do Brasil Technologia  Ltda (A) Peru Brazil Brazil Wipro Technologies SRL Romania PT WT Indonesia Indonesia Wipro (Thailand) Co Limited Thailand Wipro Bahrain Limited WLL Bahrain Wipro Gulf LLC Sultanate of  Oman Rainbow Software LLC Iraq Cellent GmbH Germany Cellent Mittelstandsberatung  GmbH Germany Cellent Gmbh (A) Austria Wipro Networks Pte Limited Singapore Wipro (Dalian) Limited China  Wipro Technologies SDN  BHD Malaysia Wipro Chengdu Limited China Wipro Airport IT Services  Limited * India Appirio India Cloud Solutions  Private Limited India Wipro IT Services Bangladesh  Limited Bangladesh *   All the above direct subsidiaries are 100% held by the Company except that the Company holds 66.67% of the equity  securities of Wipro Arabia Co. Limited and 74% of the equity securities of Wipro Airport IT Services Limited and 55%  of the equity securities of Women’s Business Park Technologies Limited are held by Wipro Arabia Co. Limited.
#    51% of equity securities of Wipro Doha LLC are held by a local shareholder.
However, the beneficial interest in these  holdings is with the Company.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 303      The Company controls ‘The Wipro SA Broad Based Ownership Scheme Trust’ , ‘Wipro SA Broad Based Ownership  Scheme SPV (RF) (PTY) LTD incorporated in South Africa.
(A)    Step Subsidiary details of Wipro Portugal S.A, Wipro do Brasil Technologia Ltda, Digital A/s, Cellent GmbH, HPH  Holdings Corp. and Appirio, Inc. are as follows: Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Country of  Incorporation Wipro Portugal S.A. Portugal  Wipro Technologies Gmbh Germany  New Logic Technologies SARL France Wipro do Brasil Technologia Ltda Wipro Do Brasil Sistemetas  De[P]Informatica Ltd Brazil Brazil Designit A/S Denmark  DesignitDenmarkA/S Denmark  DesignitMunich GmbH Germany  Designit Oslo A/S Norway  DesignitSwedenAB Sweden  Designit T.L.V Ltd. Israel  Designit Tokyo Lt.d Japan  Denextep Spain Digital, S.L Spain Designit Colombia S A S Designit Peru SAC Colombia Peru Cellent GmbH Frontworx  Informationstechnologie  GmbH Austria Austria HPH Holdings Corp.  HealthPlan Services Insurance   Agency, Inc. HealthPlan Services, Inc. USA USA USA Appirio, Inc.  Appirio, K.K  Topcoder, Inc.  Appirio Ltd  Appirio Singapore Pte Ltd Appirio GmbH Apprio Ltd (UK) USA Japan USA Ireland Germany U.K. Singapore As of March 31, 2018, the Company held 43.7% interest in Drivestream Inc and 33.3% interest in Demin Group LLC,  accounted for using the equity method.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 304 Wipro Limited The list of controlled trusts are: Name of entity Country of incorporation Wipro Equity Reward Trust India  Wipro Inc.
Benefit Trust India  Wipro Foundation India The other related parties are: Name of the related parties Nature Azim Premji Foundation Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji Foundation for Development Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji education trust Entity controlled by Director Hasham Traders Entity controlled by Director Prazim Traders Entity controlled by Director Zash Traders Entity controlled by Director Hasham Investment and Trading Co. Pvt.
Ltd Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiatives Pvt.
Ltd Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji Trust Entity controlled by Director Wipro Enterprises (P)Limited Entity controlled by Director Wipro GE Healthcare Private Limited Entity controlled by Director Key management personnel Azim H. Premji  Executive Chairman and Managing Director T K Kurien  Executive Vice Chairman (6) Abidali Z. Neemuchwala  Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director (4) Dr.Ashok Ganguly  Non-Executive Director Narayanan Vaghul  Non-Executive Director Dr.Jagdish N Sheth  Non-Executive Director (7) William Arthur Owens  Non-Executive Director M.K.
Sharma  Non-Executive Director Vyomesh Joshi  Non-Executive Director (3) Ireena Vittal  Non-Executive Director Rishad Azim Premji  Executive Director and Chief Strategy Officer (1) Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal  Chief Financial Officer (2) Dr. Patrick J. Ennis  Non-Executive Director (5) Patrick Dupuis  Non-Executive Director (5) (1)  Effective May 1, 2015  (2)  Effective April 1, 2015  (3)  Up to July19, 2016.
(4)  Effective February 1, 2016  (5)  Effective April 1, 2016  (6)  Up to January 31, 2017 (7)  Up to July 18, 2016.
Relatives of key management personnel: - Yasmeen H. Premji - Tariq Azim Premji Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 305 The Company has the following related party transactions: Transaction / balances Entities controlled by Directors Key Management Personnel 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Sales of goods and services 240 114 136 - - - Assets purchased 231 106 290 - - - Dividend 20,559 5,087 3,171 1,147 287 191 Buyback of shares - 19,638 63,745 - 2 ^  Rental Income 36 43 42 - - - Rent Paid 22 8 7 6 6 6 Others 43 93 31 - - - Key management personnel * Remuneration and short-term benefits - - - 273 231 248 Other benefits - - - 135 156 130 Balance as at the year end Receivables 137 76 39 - - - Payables 225 22 57 37 27 55 Further investment in associates during the year ` Nil and ` 261 as at March 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
^ Value is less than ` 1 *   Post employment benefit comprising compensated absences is not disclosed as this are determined for the Company  as a whole.
Benefits includes the prorated value of Restricted Stock Units (“RSU’s”) granted to the personnel, which  vest over a period of time.
Other benefits include share based compensation ` 126, ` 148 and ` 124 as at March 31,  2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
29.
Commitments and contingencies Operating leases: The Company has taken office, vehicles  and IT equipment under cancellable and non-cancellable  operating lease agreements that are renewable on a  periodic basis at the option of both the lessor and the  lessee.
The operating lease agreements extend up to a  maximum of fifteen years from their respective dates of  inception and some of these lease agreements have price  escalation clause.
Rental payments under such leases  were ` 5,184 and ` 5,953 and ` 6,236 for the year ended  March 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
Details of contractual payments under non-cancelable  leases are given below:   As at March 31,  2017 2018  Not later than one year ` 5,040 ` 6,186 Later than one year but not later  five years 12,976 12,470 Later than five years 2,760 2,354 ` 20,776 ` 21,010 Capital commitments: As at March 31, 2017 and 2018, the  Company had committed to spend approximately ` 12,238  and ` 13,091 respectively, under agreements to purchase/  construct property and equipment.
These amounts are net  of capital advances paid in respect of these purchases.
Guarantees: As at March 31, 2017 and 2018, performance  and financial guarantees provided by banks on behalf of  the Company to the Indian Government, customers and  certain other agencies amount to approximately ` 22,023  and ` 21,546, respectively, as part of the bank line of credit.
Contingencies and lawsuits: The Company is subject to  legal proceedings and claims (including tax assessment  orders/ penalty notices) which have arisen in the ordinary  course of its business.
Some of the claims involve complex  issues and it is not possible to make a reasonable estimate  of the expected financial effect, if any, that will result from  ultimate resolution of such proceedings.
However, the  resolution of these legal proceedings is not likely to have  a material and adverse effect on the results of operations  or the financial position of the Company.
The significant  of such matters are discussed below.
In March 2004, the Company received a tax demand for  year ended March 31, 2001 arising primarily on account of  denial of deduction under section 10A of the Income Tax  Act, 1961 (Act) in respect of profit earned by the Company’s  undertaking in Software Technology Park at Bengaluru.
The  same issue was repeated in the successive assessments  for the years ended March 31, 2002 to March 31, 2011 and  the aggregate demand is ` 47,583 (including interest of `  13,832).
The appeals filed against the said demand before  the Appellate authorities have been allowed in favor of  the Company by the second appellate authority for the  years up to March 31, 2008.
Further appeals have been  filed by the Income tax authorities before the Honorable  High Court.
The Honorable High Court has heard and  disposed-off majority of the issues in favor of the Company  up to years ended March 31, 2004.
Department has filed a  Special Leave Petition (SLP) before the Supreme Court of  India for the year ended March 31, 2001 to March 31, 2004.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 306 Wipro Limited On similar issues for years up to March 31, 2000, the  Honorable High Court of Karnataka has upheld the claim  of the Company under section 10A of the Act.
For the year  ended March 31, 2009, the appeals are pending before  Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (Tribunal).
For years ended  March 31, 2010 and March 31, 2011 the Dispute Resolution  Panel (DRP) allowed the claim of the Company under  section 10A of the Act.
The Income tax authorities have  filed an appeal before the Tribunal.
The Company received the draft assessment order for the  year ended March 31, 2012 in March 2016 with a proposed  demand of ` 4,241 (including interest of ` 1,376).
Based  on the DRP’s direction, allowing majority of the issues in  favor of the Company, the assessing officer has passed the  final order with ` Nil demand.
However, on similar issue  for earlier years, the Income Tax authorities have appealed  before the Tribunal.
For year ended March 31, 2013 the Company received the  final assessment order in November 2017 with a proposed  demand of ` 3,286 (including interest of ` 1,166), arising  primarily on account of section 10AA issues with respect  to exclusion from Export Turnover.
The Company has filed  an appeal before Honorable ITAT, Bengaluru within the  prescribed timelines.
For year ended March 31, 2014 the Company received the  draft assessment order in January 2018 with a proposed  demand of ` 8,701 (including interest of ` 2,700), arising  primarily on account of section 10AA issues with respect  to exclusion from Export Turnover.
The Company has filed  the appeal before DRP .
Income tax claims against the Company (excluding  interest) amounting to ` 55,942 and ` 64,643 have not  been acknowledged as debt as at March 31, 2017 and  2018, respectively.
Interest, if these claims sustain on  ultimate resolution, amounted to ` 36,797 as at March 31,  2018.
These matters are pending before various Appellate  Authorities and the management expects its position will  likely be upheld on ultimate resolution and will not have  a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial  position and results of operations.
The contingent liability in respect of disputed demands  for excise duty, custom duty, sales tax and other matters  against the Company (excluding interest) amounting to  ` 2,585 and ` 5,826 are not acknowledged as debt as at  March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018, respectively.
Interest,  if these claims sustain on ultimate resolution amounted  to ` 1,919 as at March 31, 2018.
However, the resolution of  these legal proceedings is not likely to have a material and  adverse effect on the results of operations or the financial  position of the Company.
In December 2017, National Grid filed a legal claim against  the Company in U.S. District Court of the Eastern District  of New York seeking damages amounting to $140 (` 9,124)  plus additional costs related to an ERP implementation  project that was completed in 2014.
The Company expects  to defend itself against the claim and believes that the  claim will not sustain.
30.
Segment information The Company is organized by the following operating  segments: IT Services and IT Products.
IT Services: The IT Services segment primarily consists of  IT Service offerings to customers organized by industry  verticals.
Effective April 1, 2016, The Company realigned  its industry verticals.
The Communication Service Provider  business unit was regrouped from the former Global Media  and Telecom (GMT) industry vertical into a new industry  vertical named “Communications” .
The Media business  unit from the former GMT industry vertical has been  realigned with the former Retail, Consumer, Transport  and Government (RCTG) industry vertical which has been  renamed as “Consumer Business Unit” industry vertical.
Further, the Network Equipment Provider business unit  of the former GMT industry vertical has been realigned  with the Manufacturing industry vertical to form the  “Manufacturing and Technology” industry vertical.
The revised industry verticals are as follows: Banking,  Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI), Healthcare and  Lifesciences (HLS), Consumer Business unit (CBU), Energy,  Natural Resources & Utilities (ENU), Manufacturing  & Technology (MNT) and Communications (COMM).
IT  Services segment also includes Others which comprises  dividend income relating to strategic investments, which  are presented within “Finance and other Income” in the  consolidated statement of income.
Key service offerings  to customers includes software application development  and maintenance, research and development services  for hardware and software design, business application  services, analytics, consulting, infrastructure outsourcing  services and business process services.
Comparative information has been restated to give effect  to the above changes.
IT Products: The Company is a value added reseller  of desktops, servers, notebooks, storage products,  networking solutions and packaged software for leading  international brands.
In certain total outsourcing contracts  of the IT Services segment, the Company delivers hardware,  software products and other related deliverables.
Revenue  relating to the above items is reported as revenue from the  sale of IT Products.
The Chairman and Managing Director of the Company has  been identified as the Chief Operating Decision Maker  (CODM) as defined by IFRS 8, “Operating Segments.
” The  Chairman of the Company evaluates the segments based  on their revenue growth and operating income.
Assets and liabilities used in the Company’s business  are not identified to any of the operating segments, as  these are used interchangeably between segments.
Management believes that it is currently not practicable  to provide segment disclosures relating to total assets and  liabilities since a meaningful segregation of the available  data is onerous.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Annual Report 2017-18 307 Information on reportable segment for the year ended March 31, 2016 is as follows: IT Services IT  Products Reconciling  Items Total BFSI HLS CBU ENU MNT COMM Total Revenue 128,147 58,358 79,514 70,866 113,422 37,009 487,316 29,722 (731) 516,307 Segment Result 27,902 12,009 13,590 13,475 24,223 5,990 97,189 (1,007) (386) 95,796 Unallocated 1,064 - - 1,064 Segment Result Total 98,253 (1,007) (386) 96,860 Finance expense (5,378) Finance and other  income 23,451 Profit before tax 114,933 Income tax expense (25,366) Profit for the year 89,567 Depreciation and  amortization 14,965 Information on reportable segment for the year ended March 31, 2017 is as follows: IT Services IT  Products Reconciling  Items Total BFSI HLS CBU ENU MNT COMM Total Revenue 135,967 82,242 83,417 68,883 119,175 38,756 528,440 25,922 (183) 554,179 Other operating income - - - - - - 4,082 - - 4,082 Segment Result 24,939 9,479 14,493 14,421 23,453 6,149 92,934 (1,680) (506) 90,748 Unallocated (951) - - (951) Segment Result Total 96,065 (1,680) (506) 93,879 Finance expense (5,942) Finance and other  income 22,419 Profit before tax 110,356 Income tax expense (25,213) Profit for the year 85,143 Depreciation and  amortization 23,107 Information on reportable segment for the year ended March 31, 2018 is as follows: IT Services IT  Products Reconciling  Items Total BFSI HLS CBU ENU MNT COMM Total Revenue 148,062 74,177 83,762 68,427 120,272 33,710 528,410 17,998 (49) 546,359 Segment Result 24,626 9,620 13,060 8,060 21,742 3,158 80,266 362 319 80,947 Unallocated 3,347 - - 3,347 Segment Result Total 83,613 362 319 84,294 Finance expense (5,830) Finance and other  income 23,999 Share of profit/(loss) of  equity accounted  investee 11 Profit before tax 102,474 Income tax expense (22,390) Profit for the year 80,084 Depreciation and  amortization 21,124 Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 308 Wipro Limited The Company has four geographic segments: India,  Americas, Europe and Rest of the world.
Revenues from the  geographic segments based on domicile of the customer  are as follows:   Year ended March 31, 2016 2017 2018 India ` 51,371 ` 46,555 ` 43,099 Americas * 258,615 290,719 283,515 Europe 126,417 133,909 138,597 Rest of the world 79,904 82,996 81,148 ` 516,307 ` 554,179 ` 546,359 *  Substantially related to operations in the United States  of America.
No customer individually accounted for more than 10%  of the revenues during the year ended March 31, 2016,  2017 and 2018.
Management believes that it is currently not practicable  to provide disclosure of geographical location wise  assets, since the meaningful segregation of the available  information is onerous.
Notes: a)  “Reconciling items” includes elimination of inter- segment transactions and other corporate activities.
b)  Revenue from sale of traded cloud based licenses is  reported as part of IT Services revenues.
c)  For the purpose of segment reporting, the Company  has included the impact of “foreign exchange gains /  (losses), net” in revenues (which is reported as a part  of operating profit in the consolidated statement of  income).
d)  For evaluating performance of the individual  operating segments, stock compensation expense is  allocated on the basis of straight line amortization.
The differential impact of accelerated amortization  of stock compensation expense over stock  compensation expense allocated to the individual  operating segments is reported in reconciling items.
e)  The Company generally offers multi-year payment  terms in certain total outsourcing contracts.
These  payment terms primarily relate to IT hardware,  software and certain transformation services in  outsourcing contracts.
The finance income on  deferred consideration earned under these contracts  is included in the revenue of the respective segment  and is eliminated under reconciling items.
f)  Segment results for ENU and COMM industry vertical  for year ended March 31, 2018 is after considering  the impact of provision by ` 3,175 and ` 1,437 for  impairment of receivables and deferred contract  costs (Refer Note 21).
g)  Segment results of HLS industry vertical for the year  ended March 31, 2017 and 2018, is after considering  the impact of impairment charge recorded on certain  intangible assets recognized on acquisition (Refer  Note 5).
h)  Net gain from sale of EcoEnergy division amounting  to ` 4,082 is included as part of IT Services segment  result for the year ended March 31, 2017. i)  Operating income of segments is after recognition of  stock compensation expense arising from the grant  of options:   Year ended March 31, 2016 2017 2018 IT Services ` 1,424 ` 1,550 ` 1,402 IT Products 2 4 3 Reconciling items 108 188 (58) ` 1,534 ` 1,742 ` 1,347 31.
Bank balance Details of balance with banks as of March 31, 2018 are  as follows: In  Current  Account In  Deposit  Account Total Citi Bank ` 12,144 ` 1,007 ` 13,151 HSBC 4,907 3,323 8,230 Deutsche Bank - 4,500 4,500 Yes Bank 53 4,216 4,269 ANZ Bank 232 3,845 4,077 HDFC Bank 517 2,150 2,667 Saudi British Bank 100 1,651 1,751 Wells Fargo Bank 1,400 - 1,400 Standard Chartered Bank 706 - 706 ICICI Bank 12 602 614 Silicon Valley Bank 331 - 331 IOB - 292 292 Unicredit Bank Austria AG 192 - 192 Bank of Montreal 192 - 192 BNP Paribas 156 - 156 Kreissparkasse 135 - 135 RABO Bank 66 - 66 State Bank of India 65 - 65 Bradesco S.A 56 3 59 Funds in Transit 1,134 - 1,134 Other 902 36 938 Total ` 23,300 ` 21,625 ` 44,925 32.
Assets held for sale During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Company has  signed a definitive agreement to divest its hosted data  center services business to Ensono Holdings, LLC and its  affiliates (Ensono Group).
The sale is expected to conclude  during the quarter ended June 30, 2018.
Further on April 5, 2018, the Company has reduced its  equity holding from 74% to 11% in Wipro Airport IT Services  Limited.
These disposal groups do not constitute a major  component of the Company and hence are not classified  as discontinued operations.
The assets and liabilities associated with these  transactions are classified as assets held for sale and  liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale  amounting to ` 27,201 and ` 6,212 respectively.
Foreign  currency translation reserve includes ` 2,907 directly  associated with assets held for sale.
309 Annual Report 2017-18      Business Responsibility Report Section A: General Information about the Company 1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company  L32102KA1945PLC020800.
2.
Name of the Company  Wipro Limited 3.
Registered address  Doddakannelli, Sarjapur Road  Bengaluru - 560 035  Karnataka, India 4.
Website  www.wipro.com 5.
E-mail id  sustain.report@wipro.com  6.
Financial Year reported  April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018 (FY 2017-18) 7.
Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in (industrial  activity code-wise)  IT Software, Services and related activities  NIC Code-620 8.
List three key products/services that the Company  manufactures/provides (as in balance sheet)  Please refer pages from 19 to 22 of this Annual Report 9.
Total number of locations where business activity  is undertaken by the Company  i.
Number of International Locations (Provide  details of major 5)   162 locations (including data centers)    Please refer complete list of locations available  on the Company’s website at www.wipro.com.
ii.
Number of National Locations   55 locations    Please refer complete list of locations available  on the Company’s website at www.wipro.com.
10.
Markets served by the Company – Local/State/  National/International/   Please refer to “Geography Wise Performance” on  page 29 of this Annual Report.
Section B: Financial Details of the Company 1.
Paid up Capital   As at March 31, 2018, the paid up equity share capital  of the Company stood at 9,04,75,68,982 consisting of  4,52,37,84,491 equity shares of ` 2 each.
2.
Total Turnover   For the financial year 2017-18, the total turnover of  the Company on a consolidated basis was ` 5,44,871  million.
3.
Total profit after taxes   For the financial year 2017-18, the net profit of the  Company on a consolidated basis was ` 80,031  million.
4.
Total Spending on Corporate Social Responsibility  (CSR) as percentage of profit after tax   Please refer to Corporate Social Responsibility  Report for the year on pages from 78 to 81 of this  Annual Report.
5.
List of activities in which expenditure in 4 above  has been incurred:-   Please refer to Corporate Social Responsibility  Report for the year on pages from 78 to 81 of this  Annual Report.
Wipro Limited 310 Section C: Other Details 1.
Does the Company have any Subsidiary Company/  Companies?
The Company has 91 subsidiaries as on March 31,  2018.
Please refer the complete list on pages from  173 to 176 of this Annual Report.
2.
Do the Subsidiary Company/Companies participate  in the BR Initiatives of the parent company?
If  yes, then indicate the number of such subsidiary  company(s).
As the BR Initiatives of the Company are run at global  level, all subsidiaries participate in BR Initiatives.
3.
Do any other entity/entities (e. g. suppliers,  distributors etc.)
that the Company does business  with, participate in the BR initiatives of the  Company?
If yes, then indicate the percentage of  such entity/ entities?
[Less than 30%, 30-60%,  More than 60%]  Less than 30%.
Section D: BR Information 1.
Details of Director responsible for BR  a)  Details of the Director responsible for  implementation of the BR policy/policies    The “Board Governance, Nomination and  Compensation Committee” is responsible for the  implementation of the CSR policy.
Please refer  pages from 107 to 108 of this Annual Report.
b) Details of the BR head DIN (if applicable) Not applicable Name Anurag Behar Designation Chief Sustainability Officer  Telephone No.
080 28440011 Email id anurag.behar@wipro.com 2.
Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/policies  (Reply in Y/N)   a) Do you have a policy /policies for: 	 	 •	 	Principle 	1:	Yes.
Wipro	has	a	policy	on	 Ethics, Transparency and Accountability.
Our Code of Business Conduct (COBC) is  applicable to our customers, suppliers,  partners, competitors, employees and other  stakeholders and is available at https:// www.wipro.com/content/dam/nexus/en/ investor/corporate-governance/policies- and-guidelines/ethical-guidelines/code- of-business-conduct-and-ethics.pdf.
• 		 	Principle	2:	Yes.
Our	Policy	on	Ecological	 Sustainability is available at https:// www.wipro.com/content/dam/nexus/ en/sustainability/pdf/ecological- sustainability-policy.pdf.
•		 	Principle	3:	Yes.
Wipro’s	COBC	and	policy	 on Health and Safety is available at  https://www.wipro.com/content/dam/ nexus/en/sustainability/pdf/health-and- safety-policy.pdf.
• 		 	Principle	4:	Yes.
Policy	on	Corporate	Social	 Responsibility is available at http://wipro.
org/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/policy- on-corporate-social-responsibility-2015.
pdf.
• 		 	Principle	5:	Yes.
Wipro’s	COBC	addresses	 principles of Human Rights as per the  principles of the UN Global Compact and  is available at https://www.wipro.com/ content/dam/nexus/en/sustainability/ pdf/Human-Rights-Policy.pdf.
• 		 	Principle	6:	Yes.
Our	Policy	on	Ecological	 Sustainability.
• 		 	Principle	7:	There	is	no	distinct	policy	on	 public advocacy.
However, refer to human  capital (page 33 to 38), natural capital  (page 47) and social capital (page 40 to  46) for our engagements through various  organizations on material issues.
• 		 	Principle	8:	Wipro	does	not	have	a	separate	 policy.
However these aspects are covered  in the COBC, the Ecological Sustainability  Commitment and policy on Corporate  Social Responsibility.
• 		 Principle 	9:	Yes.
Wipro’s	COBC	covers	this.
b)   Has the policy being formulated in consultation  with the relevant stakeholders?
Yes, for all principles.
c)   Does the policy conform to any national/  international standards?
If yes, specify?
(50  words) 	 	 •	 Principle 	1:	Yes.
Wipro’s	COBC	subscribes	 to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of  USA.
Our financial reporting, Internal  Controls and Procedures and Disclosure  are in compliance with Generally   Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)  and International Financial Reporting  Standards (IFRS).
311 Annual Report 2017-18 	 	 •	 Principle 	2:	Yes.
Wipro	has	been	following	 the ISO 14001 Standard and Guidelines for  our Environmental Management System.
For designing of our Green Buildings,  we have adhered to the international  Leadership in Energy and Environmental  Design (LEED) standard.
•	 	Principle	3:	Yes.
We	are	certified	against	 OHSAS 18001 Standard across our key  locations.
• 		 	Principle	 4:	 Yes,	 This	 report	 is	 assured	 against Global Reporting Initiative  (GRI), IIRC guidelines and TCFD  recommendations.
• 		 	Principle	5:	Yes.
We	subscribe	to	the	UN	 Global Compact principles.
•	 	Principle	 6:	 Yes.
Our	 Environmental	 Management System is based on the ISO  14001 Standard and the Green Buildings  complies with the international LEED  standard.
• 		 Principle 	7:	Not	Applicable 	 	 • 		 	Principle	 8:	 Yes.
We	 subscribe	 to	 the	 UN Global Compact principles.
We also  disclose details of our programs and key  outcomes as part of UNGC Communication  on Progress.
• 		 	Principle	9:	Yes.
We	subscribe	to	the	UN	 Global Compact principles with respect to  this principle.
d)  Has the policy being approved by the Board?
If yes, has it been signed by MD/owner/CEO/  appropriate Board Director?
• 		 	Principle	1:	Yes.
The	COBC	is	approved	by	 our Board of Directors and endorsed by  our Chairman.
• 		 	Principle	2:	Yes.
The	Policy	on	Ecological	 Sustainability is approved by the Board  of Directors and signed by Mr. Abidali Z  Neemuchwala,	 Chief	 Executive	 Officer	 and	Executive	Director.
• 		 	Principle	3:	Yes.
The	COBC	is	approved	by	 the Board.
The Policy on Health and Safety  has been signed by Mr. Saurabh Govil,  President-Human Resources.
• 		 	Principle	4:	Yes.
The	COBC	is	approved	by	 our Board of Directors and endorsed by  our Chairman.
• 		 	Principle	5:	Yes.
The	COBC	is	approved	by	 our Board of Directors and endorsed by  our Chairman.
• 		 	Principle	6:	Yes.
The	COBC	is	approved	by	 our Board of Directors and endorsed by  our Chairman.
The Policy on Ecological  Sustainability is signed by Mr. Abidali Z  Neemuchwala,	 Chief	 Executive	 Officer	 and	Executive	Director.
• 		 Principle 	7:	Not	Applicable.
• 		 	Principle	8:	Yes.
The	Policy	on	Corporate	 Social Responsibility is approved by the  Board.
• 		 	Principle	9:	Yes.
The	COBC	is	approved	by	 our Board of Directors and endorsed by  our Chairman.
The Policy on Ecological  Sustainability is approved by the Board  and signed by Mr. Abidali Z Neemuchwala,  Chief	 Executive	 Officer	 and	 Executive	 Director.
e)  Does the Company have a specified committee  of the Board/Director/Official to oversee the  implementation of the policy?
The “Board Governance, Nomination and  Compensation Committee” oversees the  implementation of policies and initiatives  related to CSR.
https://www.wipro.com/ content/dam/nexus/en/sustainability/ pdf/policy-on-corporate-social- responsibility-2015.pdf.
f)   Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed  online.
COBC-    https://www.wipro.com/content/dam/nexus/ en/investor/corporate-governance/policies- and-guidelines/ethical-guidelines/code-of- business-conduct-and-ethics.pdf.
Policy on Health and Safety-    https://www.wipro.com/content/dam/nexus/ en/sustainability/pdf/health-and-safety-policy.
pdf.
Policy on Ecological Sustainability-    https://www.wipro.com/content/dam/nexus/ en/sustainability/pdf/ecological-sustainability- policy.pdf.
Wipro Limited 312   Policy on Corporate Social Responsibility-    http://wipro.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/ policy-on-corporate-social-responsibility-2015.
pdf.
Policy on Human Rights-    https://www.wipro.com/content/dam/nexus/ en/sustainability/pdf/Human-Rights-Policy.
pdf.
GRI Report 2016-17   http://wiprosustainabilityreport.com/16-17/.
g)  Has the policy been formally communicated to  all relevant internal and external stakeholders?
Yes, the policies have been formally  communicated	 to	 internal	 and	 external	 stakeholders.
They are available online for all  stakeholders to refer to in the above mentioned  links.
h)  Does the Company have in-house structure to  implement the policy/policies?
Yes, for all principles, although Wipro does not  have a policy on public policy and advocacy, the  sustainability organisation and government  relations group oversees the public policy  initiatives.
i)  Does the Company have a grievance redressal  mechanism related to the policy/policies to  address stakeholders’ grievances related to  the policy/policies?
Yes, for all principles.
A	 24x7	 multi-lingual	 online and hotline ombuds process is in place  to address grievances from stakeholders  across the organization.
Analyst and Investors provide regular  feedback through media, interviews and  ratings.
Employees have multiple channels for  grievance redressal.
Suppliers can provide feedback either through  the ombuds process, helpline, helpdesk or  forums like the Annual Supplier Meet.
Customers have multiple channels for  raising grievances–account managers, client  engagement managers, the customer advocacy  group and through independently administered  satisfaction surveys.
There are ongoing,  project based and annual feedbacks from our  Customers.
j)   Has the Company carried out independent  audit/evaluation of the working of this policy  by an internal or external agency    This report is assured against BRR, Global  Reporting Initiative (GRI) standard and IIRC  guidelines by independent assurance provider  DNV GL.
Refer to pages from 316 to 318 of the  Annual Report for Assurance Statement.
Internal	 Audit	 Function:	 The	 internal	 audit	 function carries out an audit of processes and  practices across functions of the organization  using the Code of Conduct as the guideline.
3.
Governance related to BR   Indicate the frequency with which the Board of  Directors, Committee of the Board or CEO to assess  the BR performance of the Company .
Within 3  months, 3-6 months, Annually, More than 1 year.
Quarterly.
Does the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability  Report?
What is the hyperlink for viewing this  report?
How frequently it is published?
Wipro’s Annual Report includes an articulation on  the 9 NVG principles.
We also publish an annual  Sustainability Report.
https://www.wipro.com/sustainability.
Section E: Principle-wise performance   Principle 1  1.1   Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery  and corruption cover only the Company?
COBC extends to the Group/Joint Ventures/  Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/Others?
Yes, 	COBC	extends	to	all.
1.2   How many stakeholder complaints have been  received in the past financial year and what  percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the  management?
If so, provide the details thereof,  in about 50 words or so.
Please refer page 25 of this Annual Report.
Principle 2  2.1   List up to 3 of your products or services  whose design has incorporated social  or environmental concerns, risks and/or  opportunities.
Our work in the space of IT services and  consulting includes cloud based services,  313 Annual Report 2017-18 managed services, Internet of things,  infrastructure services and digital offerings,  all of which fundamentally are premised on  improving resource efficiency and reducing  environmental footprint.
We work in the  domains of health care and life sciences,  government services, banking, transportation,  energy and natural resources, helping enhance  provisioning of services across all sections of  the society.
2.2   For each such product, provide the following  details in respect of resource use (energy, water,  raw material etc.)
per unit of product (optional):  Reduction during sourcing/ production/ distribution achieved since the previous year  throughout the value chain, Reduction during  usage by consumers (energy, water) that has  been achieved since the previous year?
1)   Wipro offers environment centric solutions  to energy, utilities and natural resources  industries with focus on environment,  health and safety.
These integrated  solutions are designed to help customers  meet legal and regulatory requirements,  reduce carbon footprints and hazardous  emissions, efficiently manage water  and waste, improve occupational Health  Safety, process and asset safety, and  reduce	 risks	 to	 employees,	 proximate	 communities and environment.
2)   The natural capital valuation study  (page 47) and the green initiatives in ICT  hardware procurement cover initiatives  across the value chain.
2.3   Does the Company have procedures in  place for sustainable sourcing (including  transportation)?
If yes, what percentage of  your inputs was sourced sustainably?
Also,  provide the details thereof, in about 50 words  or so.
Green Procurement program for ICT Hardware  and Electronic End of Life as part of which we  sourced more than 52,000 EPEAT registered  electronic products in FY 2017-18.
Please refer pages from 41 to 42 of this Annual  Report.
2.4   Has the Company taken any steps to procure  goods and services from local & small  producers, including communities surrounding  their place of work?
If yes, what steps have  been taken to improve their capacity and  capability of local and small vendors?
Local	Procurement:	Wipro	encourages	sourcing	 from the local economy.
Local sourcing reduces  costs, provides local employment benefits and  reduced environmental footprint in sourcing.
Please refer pages from 41 to 42 of this Annual  Report.
2.5   Does the Company have a mechanism to  recycle products and waste?
If yes what is  the percentage of recycling of products and  waste (separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%).
Also,  provide the details thereof, in about 50 words  or so.
Please refer page 54 of this Annual Report.
Principle 3  3.1  Please indicate the Total number of employees.
Please refer page 4 of this Annual Report.
3.2   Please indicate the Total number of employees  hired on temporary/contractual/casual basis.
Please refer page 4 of this Annual Report.
3.3   Please indicate the Number of permanent  women employees.
Please refer page 4 of this Annual Report.
3.4    Please indicate the Number of permanent  employees with disabilities   Please refer page 4 of this Annual Report.
3.5   Do you have an employee association that is  recognized by management?
Please refer page 38 of this Annual Report.
3.6   What percentage of your permanent employees  are members of this recognized employee  association?
Please refer to page 38 of this Annual report.
3.7   Please indicate the number of complaints  relating to child labor, forced labor, involuntary  labor, sexual harassment, in the last financial  year, and those that are pending, as on the end  of the financial year.
Please refer page 25 of this Annual Report.
Also refer to http://wiprosustainabilityreport.
com/17-18/AR-supportings/the_ombuds.
3.8   What percentage of your under mentioned  employees were given safety & skill up- gradation training in the last year?
1.
Permanent Employees   2.
Permanent Women Employees Wipro Limited 314   3.
Casual/Temporary/Contractual Employees   4.
Employees with Disabilities    Safety training is provided to 100% of the  employees.
For information on skill up-gradation training,  please refer pages from 34 to 35 of this Annual  Report.
Principle 4  4.1   Has the Company mapped its internal and  external stakeholders?
Yes.
4.2   Out of the above, has the Company identified  the disadvantaged, vulnerable & marginalized  stakeholders?
Please refer to page 40 to 41 of this report.
4.3  Are there any special initiatives undertaken by  the Company to engage with the disadvantaged,  vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders?
If so, provide the details thereof, in about 50  words or so.
Please refer page 45 of this Annual Report.
Principle 5  5.1   Does the policy of the Company on human  rights cover only the Company or extend to the  Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/ NGOs/Others?
Human	Rights	policy	extends	to	the	Group/Joint	 Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs	etc.
5.2   How many stakeholder complaints have been  received in the past financial year, and what  percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the  management?
None.
Principle 6  6.1   Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover only  the Company or extends to the Group/Joint  Ventures/ Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/others.
Yes.
6.2   Does the Company have strategies/initiatives  to address global environmental issues such  as, climate change, global warming, etc?
Yes/No.
If yes, please give hyperlink for the  webpage, etc.
Yes.
Please refer to page 49 of this report.
https://www.wipro.com/annual-reports.
6.3   Does the Company identify and assess  potential environmental risks?
Yes.
6.4   Does the Company have any project related  to Clean Development Mechanism?
If so,  provide the details thereof, in about 50 words  or so.
Also, if yes, whether any environmental  compliance report has been filed?
No.
6.5  Has the Company undertaken any other  initiatives on–clean technology, energy  efficiency, renewable energy, etc?
Yes/No.
If  yes, please give hyperlink for the web page, etc.
Yes.
Please refer to page 49 of this report.
https://www.wipro.com/annual-reports.
6.6   Are the emissions/waste generated by the  Company within the permissible limits given  by CPCB/SPCB for the financial year being  reported?
Yes.
6.7   Number of show cause/legal notices received  from CPCB/SPCB which are pending (i.e., not  resolved to satisfaction) as on end of Financial  Year.
None.
Principle 7  7.1   Is your Company a member of any trade and  chamber or association?
If yes, name only  those major ones that your business deals  with.
We are members of industry and business  forums in countries where we have significant  operations.
NASSCOM (National Association  of Software and Service Companies), U.S.  Chamber of Commerce and OFII (Organization  for International Investments) are the top three  by financial contribution.
7.2   Have you advocated/lobbied through the  above associations for the advancement or  improvement of public good?
Yes/No.
If yes,  specify the broad areas (Governance and  Administration, Economic Reforms, Inclusive  Development Policies, Energy Security,  Water, Food Security, Sustainable Business  Principles, Others).
Yes.
Through Industry forums and networks  in India, we work on a range of issues related  to sustainability and community aspects  315 Annual Report 2017-18 - including energy, water, green buildings,  biodiversity, waste management among others.
We also support industries position for free  movement of labor.
Principle 8  8.1   Does the Company have specified programs/  initiatives/projects in pursuit of the policy  related to Principle 8?
If yes, provide the  details thereof.
Please refer pages 45 of this Annual Report.
8.2   Are the programs/projects undertaken through  an in-house team/own foundation/external NGO/ government structures/any other organization?
Wipro partners with non governmental  organizations working on the areas of our  focus.
8.3   Have you done any impact assessment of your  initiative?
Yes.
8.4   What is your Company’s direct contribution to  community development projects- Amount in  INR and the details of the projects undertaken.
Please refer pages 4, 45 and 46 of this Annual  Report.
8.5   Have you taken steps to ensure that this  community development initiative is  successfully adopted by the community?
Please explain in 50 words or so.
The nature of the programs supported by Wipro  ensures successful adoption by communities.
Also, Wipro works with organizations which  has a good connect and presence in the local  communities.
For more details, please refer pages 45 and 46  of this Annual Report.
Principle 9  9.1   What percentage of customer complaints/ consumer cases are pending as on the end of  financial year?
None.
9.2   Does the Company display product information  on the product label, over and above what is  mandated as per local laws?
Yes/No/N.A./ Remarks (additional information).
Not Applicable.
9.3   Is there any case filed by any stakeholder  against the Company regarding unfair trade  practices, irresponsible advertising and/or  anti-competitive behavior during the last five  years and pending as on end of financial year?
If so, provide the details thereof, in about 50  words or so.
Not Applicable.
9.4   Did your Company carry out any consumer  survey/consumer satisfaction trends?
Please refer pages from 40 to 41 of this Annual  Report.
Wipro Limited 316 Scope and Approach DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited has  been commissioned by the management of Wipro Limited  (‘Wipro’ or ‘the Company’ , Corporate Identity Number  L32102KA1945PLC020800) to carry out an independent  assurance engagement on the non-financial - qualitative  and quantitative information (sustainability performance)  in its Annual Report 2017-18 (‘the Report’) in printed  format and references to the Company’s website, for the  financial year ending 31st  March, 2018.
The sustainability performance is presented based on an  internal	materiality	determination	exercise	carried	out	 by the Company covering Wipro’s operations in India and  other geo locations, and considering the key requirements  of: -   The International Integrated Reporting Council’s  (IIRC’s) <IR> Framework; -   The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability  Reporting Standards 2016 (‘GRI Standards’) -   the principles of the National Voluntary Guidelines  (NVG)	and	Securities	and	Exchange	Board	of	India’s	 (SEBI’s) requirements with respect to Business  Responsibility	Reporting	(BRR)	vide	circular	No.
CIR/ CFD/DIL/8/2012	dated	August	13,	2012.
The Report brings out the scope and boundaries of  sustainability performance disclosures in the Section  ‘Overview of Integrated Report’ for the identified capitals  i.e.
Financial, Intellectual, Human, Social and Relationship,  and Natural - hereafter referred to as ‘Capitals’ .
We performed a limited level of assurance based on our  assurance methodology VeriSustain TM(1) , which is based  on	our	professional	experience,	international	assurance	 best practices including International Standard on  Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000) Revised *  and  GRI Guidelines.
Our assurance engagement was planned  and	carried	out	during	April	2018	–	June	2018.
The intended user of this Assurance Statement is the  Management of Wipro.
We disclaim any liability or  responsibility to a third party for decisions, whether  investment or otherwise, based on this Assurance  Statement.
Responsibilities of the Management of Wipro and of the  Assurance Providers The Management of Wipro has the sole responsibility  for the preparation of the Report and are responsible  for all information disclosed in the Report as well as the  processes for collecting, analysing and reporting the  information presented in both the printed and web-based  versions of the Report.
Wipro is also responsible for the  maintenance and integrity of its website.
In performing this  assurance work, our responsibility is to the Management;  however,this statement represents our independent  opinion and is intended to inform the outcome of the  assurance to the stakeholders of the Company.
We provide a range of other services to Wipro, none of  which in our opinion, constitute a conflict of interest with  this assurance work.
Our assurance engagements are  based on the assumption that the data and information  provided by the client to us as part of our review have  been provided in good faith.
We were not involved in the  preparation of any statements or data included in the  Report	except	for	this	Assurance	Statement.
We	expressly	 disclaim any liability or co-responsibility for any decision  a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance  Statement.
Basis of our Opinion We planned and performed our work to obtain the  evidence considered necessary to provide a basis for  our assurance opinion, and as part of the assurance,a  multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance  specialists performed work at Wipro’s Corporate Office  and sample operations and supply chain partners in India.
(1)  The VeriSustain protocol is available on www.dnvgl.com *   Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information.
Independent Assurance Statement 317 Annual Report 2017-18 We	undertook	the	following	activities: •	 	Review	of	Wipro’s	approach	to	identification	of	key	 capitals, the processes of stakeholder engagement  and materiality determination, and its outcome as  brought out in this Report.
We did not have any direct  engagement	with	external	stakeholders; •	 	Interviews	with	selected	senior	managers	responsible	 for management of sustainability issues and review  of selected evidence to support issues disclosed  in the Report.
We were free to choose interviewees  and interviewed those with overall responsibility to  deliver the Company’s sustainability objectives; •	 	Site	visits	to	sample	locations	of	the	Company:	(i)	 Electronic City (EC) -1, -2, and -3, Bengaluru; (ii)  Chennai Development Centre (CDC) -2 and -5; (iii)  Wipro - Airoli, Mumbai, and Pune Development  Centre (PDC) -2, to review processes and systems  for preparing site level sustainability data and  implementation of sustainability strategy.
We were  free to choose sites for conducting assessments; •	 	Review	of	supporting	evidence	for	key	claims	and	 data in the Report; •	 	Review 	 of	 the 	 processes 	 for	 gathering 	 and	 consolidating the performance data related to the  chosen GRI Standards; •	 	Verification	of	the	data	consolidation	of	reported	 performance	disclosures	in	context	to	the	Principle	 of Completeness as per VeriSustain for a limited  level of verification; An independent review of Wipro’s  reporting against its Business Responsibility Report  for the year 2017-18 covering requirements under  Section ‘a’ to ‘e’ .
During the assurance process, we did not come across  limitations to the scope of the agreed assurance  engagement.
The reported data on economic performance,  expenditure	towards	Corporate	Social	Responsibility	(CSR) and other financial data are based on audited financial  statements issued by the Company’s statutory auditors.
Opinion On the basis of the verification undertaken, nothing  has come to our attention to suggest that the Report  does not properly describe the following sustainability  disclosures, i.e.
disclosure requirements as set out by  SEBI for Business Responsibility Reporting and the <IR>  framework	including	the	following	GRI	Standards: −  GRI	201:	Economic	Performance	2016	–	201-1,	201-2,	 201-3, 201-4; −	 GRI	204:	Procurement	Practices	2016	–	204-1; −	 GRI	205:	Anti-corruption	2016	–	205-1,	205-2,	205-3; −	 	GRI	302:	Energy	2016	–	302-1,	302-2,	302-3,	302-4,	 302-5; −	 GRI	303:	Water	2016	–	303-1,	303-2,	303-3; −	 	GRI	305:	Emissions	2016	–	305-1,	305-2,	305-3,	305- 4, 305-4, 305-5, 305-6, 305-7; −	 	GRI	306:	Effluents	and	Waste	2016	–	306-1,	306-2,	 306-3; −	 GRI	307:	Environmental	Compliance	2016	–	307-1; −	 	GRI	308:	Supplier	Environmental	Assessment	2016	 – 308-1, 308-2; −	 GRI	401:	Employment	2016	–	401-1,	401-2; −	 	GRI	403:	Occupational	Health	and	Safety	2016	–	403- 1, 403-2, 403-4; −	 GRI	406:	Non-discrimination	2016	–	406-1; −	 	GRI	407:	Freedom	of	Association 	and	Collective 	 Bargaining – 407-1; −	 GRI	413:	Local	Communities	2016	–	413-1,	413-2; −	 GRI	414:	Supplier	Social	Assessment	2016	–	414-1 ; −	 GRI	418:	Customer	Privacy	2016	–	418-1; −	 GRI	419:	Socioeconomic	Compliance	2016	–	419-1.
Observations Without affecting our assurance opinion, we provide  the following observations against the principles of  Verisustain:	 Materiality The process of determining the issues that is most relevant  to an organization and its stakeholders.
The Report brings out identified material topics on the  basis	of	an	internal	materiality	determination	exercise,	as	 well as through benchmarking with peers, sustainability  rating agencies and applicable sustainability reporting  frameworks.
The Company also considers key concerns  arising from its stakeholder engagement processes to  be	key	inputs	for	its	materiality	determination	exercise.
Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the  Report does not meet the requirements related to the  Principle of Materiality.
Wipro Limited 318 Stakeholder Inclusiveness The participation of stakeholders in developing and  achieving an accountable and strategic response to  Sustainability.
Wipro has formal and informal processes in place for  stakeholder engagement, and responses to key concerns  are brought out in the Report through descriptions of  appropriate strategies.
Nothing has come to our attention  to suggest that the Report does not meet the requirements  related to the Principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness.
Responsiveness The extent to which an organization responds to stakeholder  issues.
The Report brings out Wipro’s feedback and responses on  key	concerns,	expectations	and	issues	raised	by	its	key	 stakeholders through its policies, strategies, management  systems and governance mechanisms that the Company  has established.
Further, the Report brings out responses  to issues and topics identified as material, including plans  towards value creation across identified Capitals in a  coherent manner.
On the basis of review of the Report,  nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the  responses related to identified material topics are not  adequately represented in the Report.
Reliability The accuracy and comparability of information presented  in the report, as well as the quality of underlying data  management systems.
The majority of data and information verified at Corporate  Office and at sample locations visited by us were  found to be fairly accurate and reliable.
Some of the  data inaccuracies identified during the verification  process were found to be attributable to transcription,  interpretation and aggregation errors and the errors have  been corrected.
It is suggested that Wipro may implement  appropriate tools for sustainability data management with  a process of change management and internal reviews  and validation to further strengthen the reliability of its  performance disclosures.
Completeness How much of all the information that has been identified  as material to the organisation and its stakeholders is  reported?
The Report brings out Wipro’s Economic, Environmental  and Social performance through topics it has identified  as material, and uses appropriate GRI Standards to  disclose its performance on these topics.
Further the  business models and value creation strategies across  Wipro’s identified Capitals are adequately brought out  within the Report in line with key requirements of the <IR>  framework.
On the basis of review of the Report,nothing  has come to our attention to suggest that the Report does  not meet the Principle of Completeness with respect to  scope, boundary and time.
Neutrality The extent to which a report provides a balanced account of  an organization’s performance, delivered in a neutral tone.
The disclosures related to sustainability performance and  issues are presented in a neutral tone, in terms of content  and presentation, along with key concerns and challenges  faced during the period.
DNV GL Business Assurance India(Private) Limitedis part of DNV GL – Business Assurance, a global provider of certification, verification, assessment  and training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance.
www.dnvgl.com For DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited Vadakepatth Nandkumar Lead Verifier Head – Regional Sustainability Services DNV GL Business Assurance India Private  Limited, India.
Kiran Radhakrishnan Verifier DNV GL Business Assurance India Private  Limited, India.
Prasun Kundu Assurance Reviewer  DNV GL Business Assurance India Private  Limited, India.
14 th 	June,	2018,		Bengaluru,	India.
319 Annual Report 2017-18 Abbreviations from Annual Report FY15-16 Sl.
No Abbreviation Expansion 1 A&D Aerospace &Defence 2 AAS As A Service 3 ADM Application Development & Maintenance 4 ADR American Depository Receipt 5 AI Artificial Intelligence 6 APAC Asia Pacific 7 ASEAN Association of Southeast Asian Nations 8 BBBEE Broad-Based Black Economic  Empowerment 9 BCMS Business Continuity Management System 10 BCSD Business Council for Sustainable  Development 11 BFSI Banking, Financial Services & Insurance 12 BI Business Intelligence 13 BPaaS Business Process as a Service  14 BPO Business Process Outsourcing 15 BPS Business Process Services 16 BPS Basis Point 17 BSE Bombay	Stock	Exchange 18 C(S)PCB Central(State) Pollution Control Board 19 CAG Customer Advocacy Group 20 CAGR Compounded Annual Growth Rate 21 CBU Consumer Business Unit 22 CDLI Carbon	Disclosure	Leadership	Index	 23 CEM Client Engagement Manager 24 CEO Chief	Executive	Officer 25 CEP Continuous Engagement Program 26 CFO Chief Financial Officer 27 CGU Cash Generating Units 28 CII Confederation of Indian Industry 29 CIN Corporate Identification Number 30 CMSP Communication & Service Provider 31 COBC Code of Business Conduct  32 COSO Company of Sponsoring Trade way  Organisation 33 CSAT Customer Satisfaction 34 CSPs Communication Service Providers 35 CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Sl.
No Abbreviation Expansion 36 CTI Computer Telephony Interface 37 CTO Chief Technology Officer 38 CXO Chief	Executive’s	Office 39 D&I Diversity & Inclusion 40 DIN Director Identification Number 41 DJSI Dow	Jones	Sustainability	Index 42 E-City Electronic City 43 ENU Energy, Natural Resources and Utilities 44 EPI Energy Performance Indicator 45 EPS Earning Per Share 46 ESD Enterprise and Supplier Development 47 ESG Environmental, Social and Governance 48 ESOP Employee Stock Option 49 ETRM Energy Trading and Risk Management 50 FAR Floor Area 51 FCTR Foreign Currency Translation Reserve 52 FICCI Federation of Indian Chambers of  Commerce and Industry 53 FII Financial Institutional Investor 54 FPP Fixed	Price	Projects 55 GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 56 GHG Green House Gases 57 GIS Global Infrastructure Services 58 GMT Global Media and Telecom  59 GRI Global Reporting Initiative 60 GTM Go-To-Market 61 HLS Healthcare and Life Sciences  62 HoDs Heads of the Departments 63 HPS Health Plan Services  64 HSSE Health, Safety, Security and Environment  65 HUF Hindu Undivided Family 66 IAAS Infrastructure as a Service 67 IAS International Accounting Standard 68 IASB International Accounting Standards Board 69 IBBI Biodiversity Initiative  70 ICM International Care Ministries  71 IFRIC IFRS Interpretations Committee Glossary Wipro Limited 320 Sl.
No Abbreviation Expansion 72 IFRS International Financial Reporting  Standards 73 IIM Indian Institute of Management 74 IIRC International Integrated Reporting  Council 75 IoE Internet of Everything 76 IoT Internet of Things 77 IP Intellectual Property 78 ISSG Integrated Services and Solutions Group 79 IT Information Technology 80 IT-BPM Information Technology- Business  Process Management 81 ITES Information Technology Enabled Services 82 IUCN International Union of Conservation  Networks  83 JAC Joint	Audit	Consortium 84 KMP Key Managerial Personnel 85 KSWN Karnataka State Water Network 86 LAN Local Area Network 87 LATAM Latin America 88 LED Light Emitting Diode 89 LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental  Designs 90 LIBOR London Inter Bank Offered Rate 91 LT V Life time value  92 M2M Machine to Machine 93 MCA Ministry of Corporate Affairs 94 MFG Manufacturing and Technology 95 ML Machine Learning 96 	 	 97 MTLCs Mission10X Technology Learning centers 98 NASSCOM National Association of Software and  Services Companies 99 NBFC Non Banking Financial Company 100 NCC Natural Capital Coalition  101 NGCE Next	Gen	Customer	Experience 102 NIPP NASSCOM Industry Partner Program 103 NRI Non-resident Indian 104 NSE National	Stock	Exchange 105 NUI Natural User Interface 106 NVGs National Voluntary Guidelines 107 NYSE New	York	Stock	Exchange 108 OCP Operational Control Procedures 109 OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer 110 OWC Organic Waste Converters Sl.
No Abbreviation Expansion 111 PaaS Platform as a Service 112 PES Product Engineering Services Group 113 PGWM Participatory Ground Water Mapping  Program 114 POC Proof of Concepts 115 PSCI Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative 116 PwD Persons with Disability 117 RBAG Red Bison Advisory Group 118 RCTG Retail, Consumer, Transport and  Government  119 REC Renewable Energy Certificate 120 RMA Revolution in Military Affairs 121 RPA Robotic process automation 122 RPT Related Party Transactions 123 RSU Restricted Stock Unit 124 SaaS Software as a Service 125 SAIC Science Applications International  Corporation  126 SD Skills Development 127 SDX Software Defined Everything 128 SEBI Securities	and	Exchange	Board	of	India 129 SEC Securities	and	Exchange	Commission,	USA 130 SED Socio-Economic Development 131 SEF Science Education Fellowship 132 SERII Solar Energy Research Institute for India  and the United States 133 SEZ Special Economic Zones 134 SI System Integrator 135 STP Sewage Treatment Plants 136 T&D Transmission and Distribution 137 T&M Time and Material 138 UNPRI UN Principle of Responsible Investing 139 USSEF United States Science Education  Fellowship 140 VoC Voice of Customer 141 WASE Wipro	Academy	of	Software	Excellence 142 WATIS Wipro Applying Thought in Schools 143 WEP Women’s Empowerment Principles 144 WiSTA Wipro Software Technology Academy 145 WOW Women of Wipro 146 WRI World Resource Institute 147 WTD Whole Time Director 148 WTT Well To Tank 149 WWF World Wildlife Fund MRE Median Remuneration of Employees Certain statements in this annual report concerning our future growth prospects are forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks,  and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in such forward-looking statements.
The risks and uncertainties  relating to these statements include, but are not limited to, risks and uncertainties regarding fluctuations in our earnings, revenue and profits, our  ability to generate and manage growth, intense competition in IT services, our ability to maintain our cost advantage, wage increases in India, our  ability to attract and retain highly skilled professionals, time and cost overruns on fixed-price, fixed time-frame contracts, client concentration,  restrictions on immigration, our ability to manage our international operations, reduced demand for technology in our key focus areas, disruptions in  telecommunication networks, our ability to successfully complete and integrate potential acquisitions, liability for damages on our service contracts,  the success of the companies in which we make strategic investments, withdrawal of fiscal governmental incentives, political instability, war, legal  restrictions on raising capital or acquiring companies outside India, unauthorized use of our intellectual property, and general economic conditions  affecting our business and industry.
Additional risks that could affect our future operating results are more fully described in our filings with the United  States Securities and Exchange Commission.
These filings are available at www.sec.gov.
We may, from time to time, make additional written and oral  forward-looking statements, including statements contained in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and our reports to  shareholders.
We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made from time to time by us or on our behalf.
Index Overview of the report     01 About Wipro     02 Be Transformed 03 Key performance highlights   04                 Sustainability highlights   06                 Chairman’s letter to the stakeholders    08 CEO’s letter to the stakeholders  10 Board of Directors    12  Management discussion and analysis 14 Industry Overview   14 Business Overview   14 Business Strategy    15 Business Model    19 Good Governance and Management Practices  23 Capitals and Value Creation   25 Financial Capital   26 Human Capital   33 Intellectual Capital   39 Social and Relationship Capital  40 Natural Capital   47 Board’s Report              56 Corporate Governance Report   101 Financial Statements  Standalone Financial Statements  under Ind AS  120 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS      183  Consolidated Financial Statements  under IFRS  254 Business Responsibility Report  309 Glossary   319 Board of Directors Azim H Premji – Chairman Abidali Z Neemuchwala Rishad Premji Narayanan Vaghul Dr. Ashok S Ganguly William Arthur Owens M K Sharma Ireena Vittal Dr. Patrick J Ennis Patrick Dupuis  Chief Financial Officer Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal Statutory Auditors Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Auditors- IFRS Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Company Secretary M Sanaulla Khan Depository for American Depository Shares J.P .
Morgan Chase Bank N.A.
Registrar and Share Transfer Agents Karvy Computershare Pvt.
Ltd.
Registered & Corporate Office Wipro Limited Doddakannelli, Sarjapur Road Bengaluru – 560 035, India Ph: +91 (80) 28440011 Fax: +91 (80) 28440054 Website: wipro.com      Corporate information        Be Transformed                    Annual Report                             2017-18 Wipro Limited  Doddakannelli, Sarjapur Road, Bengaluru - 560035, India CIN: L32102KA1945PLC020800 | Email: info@wipro.com wipro.com